Is being able to talk evidence that you can breathe? Asthma guidelines (the victim was asthmatic) say you might talk a little even if you can't breathe enough: 

For what it's worth, Fundamentalism seems to be centred in the USA. Ad Hominem isn't an argument, however it doesn't surprise me that the "dissenting view" which is cited in the OP comes from the USA. I'm surprised that a person takes this sermon as very authoritative, given that it starts with "By the authority invested in my own mind, etc." A lot of that sermon seems to be his own opinion of or summary from the many things he has read. I won't debate its every statement in detail. The only or most reliable source in the sermon that he quotes is paragraph 37 of Humanis Generis (the next one after the paragraph 36 which I quoted above), saying, 

My personal opinion (or 'take-away') on this subject is that a difference of that magnitude is too small to be noticeable in real life (or "too small to be interesting" as is stated above). That very-high-IQ men are much more common-place than very-high-IQ women Ibid has some support for that theory: 

Because you say, "I thought marijuana was legal in some Arab countries", therefore I assume you're asking about the contemporary world: 

I can't define "creationism", but the Catholic Church's teachings include more than a merely "literal" interpretation of the Bible: for example, there's the historical text (different languages and versions); the literal meaning of the text; and the spiritual meaning of the text. Some of it is "allegorical". The Church would want people to understand it with what may casually be called 'a grain of salt', or more formally, "the Holy Spirit", as well as the "Magisterium". I wouldn't extract quotes from the following references, because quoting sentences and phrases out of context might not give a true view of Catholic teaching; but if you want to see how well I paraphrased it in my previous paragraph above, I invite you to read: 

For the non-Old-French speakers, would you care to hazard a more appropriate translation? At the IMO slight risk of using a False friend in the following translation: 

If such a study counts as a "course" that shows that there has been at least one such course. Googling suggests to me that the current formal "state of the art" is (mostly, merely) to ask medical schools to clarify their "conflict of interest" guidelines: $URL$ 

εὐτυχεῖ was, apparently, also used in the sense of "fare thee well" in the close of letters, and on grave-stones. 

I suspect the figures which you quote are as reported. The "weighting" is to try to account for people who don't answer the survey -- page 13 says, 

What is the correlation between this type of "reaction time" test and "general intelligence"? If there is such a correlation, should that imply that elite sports-players (e.g. of sports which require good reaction time, such as cricket, squash, baseball, boxing, etc.) tend to be abnormally able to succeed in endeavours such as academia, which may be presumed to correlate with "intelligence"? 

A purpose (the reason why they advertise hand-washing here, as a public safety measure) is to reduce the spread of epidemics: e.g. of influenza. So it's not that it will make you measurably healthier each day, but it might keep you from getting sick. 

Has the natural ecological cycle spread synthetic chemicals to all corners of the planet? Insects are low on the food chain. So you get articles like Significance of the Food Chain in DDT Accumulation by Fish which say, 

This shows that some wild forest is still being harvested for paper, and implies that there are other/alternative sources of paper. 

A mere $2000 (equivalent to 5 year's income) might arguably/plausibly be enough to give everyone food security, and therefore other security: less desperation/need for theft and war. A problem though is that: 

The one reference to the effect alleged in the OP (i.e. of spelling being influenced by authors) is the following paragraph: 

The total assets of the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is said to be $32bn total. Compare that with $175bn/year over perhaps 20 years: it amounts to $3500bn, or 100 times of the amount of money in the Gates Foundation -- which already has a budget comparable to the UN WHO. This seems to me more evidence is $175bn/year is a relatively large amount of money. $3500bn divided by 1.4bn people is in fact the $2000/person or the "5 times an annual income in savings" which I guessed might seem enough for food security. 

Hand-washing to avoid the flu, by the way, presumably doesn't have to be with antibacterial soap: the flu is a virus. Daycares (children) are a slightly unusual situation: children put their hands in their mouths (and eyes and noses, and on the ground, and everywhere else) more than adults do, they have immature immune systems, and they're in a (crowded) institutional setting (not entirely unlike a hospital), e.g. they're sharing toys. 

But perhaps that's not proof that the numbers are 'off the scale' then, but rather it's because there are no census numbers for that date-range ("at age 20"), because it's while the war is actually happening. 

It gives several reasons why performance of Bt cotton was disappointing in some regions. Counterfeit seeds 

Perhaps. The statement is vague: for example it says, "the church has probably lifted more people out of poverty" without defining what the 'poverty line' is. Without defining a poverty line you can't say, "That person used to be poor but is no longer poor." It's difficult to attribute credit, too: for example if a person receives education in a Church-sponsored school, does that count as the Church "lifting them out of poverty"? A very crude measure of estimating relative sizes of "civic institution" is to look at thir budgets. 

A reasonable human could presumably provide a better/clearer translation than this, but IMO it's clear that the "camps" or "concentration camps" that he's "calling for" are not Nazi-style death camps: rather, they're United Nations-style refugee camps (or perhaps internment camps of the style used by the "Allies" in WW2). As for how it was understood by its audience, consider the following comment with 51 likes (again, translated into English by my browser): 

So (this article continues) Marie Antoinette was quickly associated with this "great princess", after the book was published in 1789. However the book was published posthumously but written in 1765 .. 1770, when Marie Antoinette was only 10 years old and not yet married. There's no other document of that era which shows that Marie Antoinette held such a tenet. The first text which tied Marie Antoinette to the famous quote was the work of the journalist Alphonse Karr in 1853, who published an article in a satirical review titled The Wasps. The story was subsequently rare, until it was popularized in 1931 in a work for children by Erich Kästner, which was translated into 25 languages and is still published to this day. 

"Complete" is presumably a matter of degree: perhaps it is relatively complete and is presumably not absolutely complete. To illustrate what I mean by "a matter of degree": 

Mandela was captured in 1962 and imprisoned until 1990. While he was in prison, he did not "reject violence": 

The five laws (from five States) listed in this section of Wikipedia all pertain (only) to use of gestation crates. There's a compendium of all State laws listed here (which I haven't read, but which you could if you want details about any specific State). The sidebar of this USDA Animal Welfare page lists the Federal laws, which are: 

I take from that that there are different degrees/understandings/explanations of "monotheism", and therefore that "who were the first to believe in monotheism?" might be debatable or unclear. For example someone might say "Zoroastrians" or "Hindus" to which someone else might reply, "no that wasn't true monotheism". 

In my opinion, probably not, for example because he seems to be developing it via trial and error and an FDA list of nutrients -- the article Soylent Month Three is dated April 25, 2013 (i.e. recently) and starts with, 

But I find it implausible that he had any personal control over tactical or strategic decisions taken by people such as Oliver Tambo, during the period of the lethal bombings of 1983 through 1988: 

Laws on the farm There are no Federal laws regarding animal cruelty on farms. Here are two relevant quotes: From the Humane Society of the United States: 

Yes he said it (assuming that the translation from the Hindi, and Project Gutenberg, can be trusted). The quote can be found early in "Chapter VI - CONTAGIOUS DISEASES: SMALL-POX" of: A GUIDE TO HEALTH BY MAHATMA GANDHI Translated from the Hindi BY A. RAMA IYER, M.A. Published in Madras in 1921 and republished as a Project Gutenberg EBook. The exact quotes (copy and pasted from Project Gutenberg) are, 

This paper from 2012 is titled "Maintaining an effective, independent nuclear deterrent", and this page of it says, 

The printers wanted to simplify spelling, but were opposed by conservative forces. Academicians wanted to keep the old orthography because of (IMO) snobbery. Nevertheless the printers' new orthography eventually prevailed. 

Is there evidence to suggest that breast milk is also now similarly contaminated? In most women around the world? Worldwide trends in DDT levels in human breast milk (whose abstract is here) shows DDT being detected in "Other Regions" which include Papua New Guinea and Kenya; as well as in diverse other countries, in North America, Latin America, Eastern and Western Europe, the Middle East, and Asia, 

If you want to concentrate on legal reasons, marriage has evolved over millennia. I would argue that the key and immediate reason is property: real estate, money, and labour. There's evidence for my theory, for example: 

In fact the whole paper might be a red herring, in that according to footnote 8 on page 29, the document references the following for its 2030 projections: 

For a second opinion, this paper (from NASA's web site) claims that you need a filter which attenuates visible and infrared light: Observing the Eclipse Eye Safety And Solar Eclipses B. Ralph Chou, MSc, OD Associate Professor, School of Optometry, University of Waterloo 

The reason why the OP posted was, "Since I could not find the source of this statement", and the OP only wants to know whether the policy exists. Here's a quote from a more recent article, published by the New York Times: 

Googling suggested to me that the exceptions listed (e.g. Afghanistan) have their own laws against cannabis. The Wikipedia page Legality of cannabis by country shows: 

The TV show The Nature of Things on CBC this week talked about man's (homo sapiens) evolutionary adaptations, which make us long-distance runners (able to run down animals until they have to stop from heat exhaustion - suggested we ought to be called 'homo cursor', "running man", instead). Part of that show mentioned the first Ethiopian who won an Olympic gold medal for running: barefoot. The show then took us to modern Ethiopia. The people who do well (as runners) there come from similar backgrounds: really really poor (and, motivated). The fact that children of poor farmers don't wear shoes was asserted to be one of the reasons why they're stronger runners as adults. If nature (e.g. 'black' or 'white' skin) might be a part of it, so might nurture. Also this program wasn't talking about "the average": it was talking about athletes, and elite athletes at that. This doesn't answer your question, which is explicitly about the average: but maybe that's the wrong question. "White men can't jump" might be more of a statement about elite athletes (e.g. the NBA) than about the average. 

The latter procedure doesn't do anything to specifically kill the fetus, therefore it can result in "live birth". At 20 weeks the fetus weighs 10 oz (300 g) and is 7" (18 cm) long. Week Twenty: The halfway point 

It depends how you define 'super-human'. If you mean 'abnormal' or 'super-normal', then yes. It is well-known that 'high impact' exercises increase, for example, bone density: which makes the bones stronger i.e. less prone to fracture. Examples of 'high impact' training for a martial artist include and kicking things (e.g, hitting 'punching bags'). 

It's possible that no further specific details are forthcoming: for example, arrest records and police reports (unlike evidence presented in court) might not be available to the general pubic. The Preface to the report says, 

The first image doesn't have the 9GAG logo; and "Coca Cola" is mispelled. That ad agency currently features a different Pepsi ad (showing that the agency has Pepsi as a client). 

Experimentation would be dangerous/unethical so the theory is all there is. Assuming (based on common sense) that the metabolic differences work against and not in favour of swimming in crude oil as opposed to water, the 6..12 kg of negative buoyancy would not be compensated for by any increased metabolic capacity. 

It then goes on to give its opinion on each of the various ways in which soy is said to be potentially bad for you: