The Mayans were also meticulous record keepers and their homeland, the Yucatan, suffers a high rate of hurricane landfalls. There are two problems, however. One is that the Spanish conquistadors and the priests they brought with them were extremely meticulous about hunting down and destroying Mesoamerican writings. The other issue is that those writings were inextricably interwoven with the bizarre religion of the Mayans. The Popol Vuh, written by the Dominican priest Francisco Ximénez around the turn of the 18th century, records some aspects of Mayan mythologies. The translations are a bit challenging. The Popol Vuh describes the ball court (which was very important to the Mayans), describes many of the Mayan deities, describes the Mayan creation story. One translation of this creation story follows. 

These inevitable events will all happen well before our Sun becomes a red giant (which is another inevitable event). All of the other calamities presented in the opening post are only possibilities. Unless something intervenes to move the Earth away from the Sun and add CO2 to the atmosphere, the end of life as we know it is an inevitability that will happen long before the Sun turns into a red giant. That something that staves off the end of life as we know it a billion or so years from now will be the doing of our children's children's ... children, if humanity ever lives that long. 

References Abram, N. et al., "Evolution of the Southern Annular Mode during the past millennium," Nature Clim. Change, (2014) Meehl, G. et al., "Externally forced and internally generated decadal climate variability associated with the interdecadal pacific oscillation,"J. Climate 26 (2013), 7298–7310. Shepherd, A. et al., "A Reconciled Estimate of Ice-Sheet Mass Balance," Science 338.6111 (2012): 1183-1189. Rignot, E. et al., "Ice-Shelf Melting Around Antarctica," Science 341.6143 (2013): 266-270. William, K. "Abrupt mid-twentieth-century decline in Antarctic sea-ice extent from whaling records," Nature 389.6646 (1997): 57-60. Zhang, J., "Increasing Antarctic sea ice under warming atmospheric and oceanic conditions," J. Climate, 20 (2007), 2515-2529. Zhang, J., "Modeling the Impact of Wind Intensification on Antarctic Sea Ice Volume," J. Climate, 27 (2014), 202–214. 

Note that at the equator, available insolation achieves local maxima at the two equinoxes and local minima at the two solstices. The reason is that the Sun is directly overhead at local noon on the equinoxes but is 23.5 degrees from vertical at local noon on the solstices. Sunlight has to travel through more air at the solstices than at the equinoxes. The slight variations in insolation at the equator are easily overcome by climate. Equatorial regions tend to have wet seasons and dry seasons. When these occur depends much more on wind patterns than it does on aphelion / perihelion. 

Yes, it's true (in the northern hemisphere). The small eccentricity of the Earth's orbit is not anywhere close to a key driver in the seasons. The key driver of the seasons is the Earth's obliquity. In the northern hemisphere, the axial tilt of Earth's rotation axis has the northern half of the Earth facing a bit toward the Sun in June/July/August and away from the Sun in December/January/February. The opposite is true in the southern hemisphere. Eccentricity would be a driver of the seasons if the Earth's rotation and orbital axes were much closer in line with one another than they are. If that were the case, summer and winter would be world-wide phenomena. As it stands, when its summertime in the northern hemisphere its wintertime in the southern hemisphere, and vice versa. Somewhat paradoxically, even though the Earth is closest to the Sun in early January and furthest from the Sun in early July, the Earth as a whole is cooler during December/January/February than it is during June/July/August. The reason is the uneven distribution of land and ocean between the northern and southern hemispheres. In 13000 years, northern hemisphere summers will occur near perihelion passage and winters near aphelion passage. Those will be brutal times! Fortunately, I won't be around to see them. 

Jeremy Shakun, et al., "Global warming preceded by increasing carbon dioxide concentrations during the last deglaciation," Nature 484.7392 (2012): 49-54. 

One needs breathable air, drinkable water, and food to survive. Food as we know it was nonexistent prior to the Ediacaran, which began about 635 million years ago. Life was exceedingly primitive (single celled) prior to that. Breathable air is a more significant challenge. A breathable atmosphere means sufficient oxygen and not too much carbon dioxide. Oxygen levels rose to above half it's current amount in the atmosphere about 850 million years ago, but carbon dioxide didn't fall below 5000 ppm until about 450 million years ago, when it dropped precipitously and caused an ice age and an extinction event. Extinction events would be something to avoid, so about 440 million years ago. 

The giant impact hypothesis was not formulated to address the issue of how the Earth acquired its waters. At the time the giant impact hypothesis was formulated, the dominant theory for how the Earth acquired its waters was impacts by comets and wet asteroids during the late heavy bombardment. The giant impact hypothesis was instead formulated to address the issue of how the Earth acquired its very large moon. 

Quoting from John Russell's response to this article, "This is arrant nonsense!" Russell concludes with 

That 71% of the Earth's surface is covered by oceans is completely irrelevant to the issue of fresh groundwater depletion. Salty groundwater is useless for drinking or irrigating crops. The issue at hand is the depletion of those underground reserves of fresh water. This depletion can result from natural or human causes. The Sahara is an example of natural depletion. The Sahara was significantly wetter than it is now several thousands of years ago. Rains over the course of a few thousand years created a number of underground reservoirs of fresh water in the Sahara. Rain stopped falling on the Sahara about 7000 years ago. The few remaining oases in the Sahara are places where groundwater still comes close to the surface as a result of that roughly 3000 year long wet spell. Humans can also cause groundwater depletion. It takes several centuries for rainfall to percolate down to the water table. The replenishment of aquifers is very slow. This is balanced by a very slow trickle from a natural spring here, another one there. The end result is a more or less steady state where the slow replenishment balances the slow outflow. It's very easy to disrupt that balance. Climate change (both natural and anthropogenic) can change the replenishment rate, while artificial wells can drastically increase the depletion rate. 

Bartoli, G., et al. (2005). "Final closure of Panama and the onset of northern hemisphere glaciation." Earth and Planetary Science Letters, 237.1: 33-44. Blakey, Ron. cpgeosystems.com/paleomaps.html (website) Cane, Mark A., and Peter Molnar (2001). "Closing of the Indonesian seaway as a precursor to east African aridification around 3–4 million years ago." Nature 411.6834: 157-162. Lunt, Daniel J., et al. (2008). "Late Pliocene Greenland glaciation controlled by a decline in atmospheric CO2 levels." Nature 454.7208: 1102-1105. Molnar, Peter (2008). "Closing of the Central American Seaway and the Ice Age: A critical review." Paleoceanography 23.2. Nie, Junsheng, et al. (2014). "Pacific freshening drives Pliocene cooling and Asian monsoon intensification." Scientific Reports 4. Smith, Alan G., and Kevin T. Pickering (2003). "Oceanic gateways as a critical factor to initiate icehouse Earth." Journal of the Geological Society 160.3: 337-340. 

Good question! Geochemists and geophysicists agree to disagree, sometimes quite strongly. There are also disagreements within each group as well as between the two groups. It's not just uranium. There are four isotopes whose half-lives are long enough that they can be primordial and whose half-lives are not so long that they don't produce much heat. These four isotopes are