Before embarking on specifics, a word of advice: learn to love plateaus. When beginning climbing, we make drastic improvements seemingly every time we go out. As we improve, gains become more and more difficult. There will still be jumps in ability, but they will become more and more sporadic. Learn to love climbing for the movement and adventure, for the striving towards mastery. With that being said, here are the things that I would focus on: 

There are jackets out there similar to what you're asking for---you do need to poke around for them a bit. Most jackets made for hiking and climbing tend to be cut from one material in order to have a more versatile piece. For a very use specific jacket, such pieces can be awesome though! Keywords that you'll want to look for are "body mapping" or "composite construction" or "hybrid." For example, here's a picture of the Arcteryx ProCline jacket. The large panel in the back is made from a softshell material, while the rest is made with "Gore fabric technology." (Image from arcteryx.com) 

As discussed in other answers, the easiest option would be to just have a custom rope and then everything works as you would expect. In a similar pro-climber vein, don't discount using rigging from the camera crew or stashing gear / fixed ropes. Note that these options incur a penalty in terms of either cost, weight of ropes to carry to the crag, or the added weight of a tag line (which can be quite significant on hard routes). More common (sometimes even required at sport crags for mere mortals) is to lower off using intermediate anchors. In the video of Ethan Pringle on Jumbo Love, you can clearly pick out intermediate anchors (e.g. at the 15:27 mark next to his right foot), so option 1 or 2 below would likely be the method of choice. Note that we're fully into the land of non-beginner rope work and shenanigans. Engage brain and receive training before doing anything that follows With all of the options to be discussed, the climber should take steps to make sure that they do not drop the rope! Just as with cleaning a sport anchor, there are many ways to achieve this. A workflow would be something like.... Option 1 

That you find being on the edge of cliff scary is in fact a good, healthy response! It means that you are the product of millions of years of evolution, wherein people who had a complete disregard for the edge of cliffs tended to not live long enough to reproduce. The idea of teaching someone how to move in the mountains via the "sink-or-swim" philosophy is reckless and damaging. Since you have acknowledged that your fear seems overwhelming, the goal is to train your brain and body to perform under these circumstances. Anxiety occurs when we perceive a situation to be too difficult / dangerous for our abilities. That you were able to follow someone else up that section shows that you are physically capable of doing the movements, but your brain hasn't fully internalized that you are capable of doing them. See if you can't determine what specific aspects of the situation pushed you into anxiety and fear. Then try to train by replicating similar experiences in low-risk environments. For example, you might take short scrambly hikes with low consequences for a slip, or easy hikes with exposure. As you gain confidence, gradually move to more difficult and intimidating terrain, always remembering that playing near the edge of cliffs is, in fact, dangerous. For example, if you watch a video of Alex Honnold soloing a climb, you could jump to saying that he has a deathwish and is just reckless. However, the correct answer is that he has spent years and years honing his ability to climb and deal with the stress of not having a rope, becoming highly attuned to what he is and is not capable of doing. 

Depending on the specifics of the terrain, one game that can help break up the "monotony" of walking for kids is to play a variant of "the floor is hot lava." Make a game of trying to go down the trail by only stepping on rocks and not dirt. Naturally terrain dependent, but gives kids a way of having something to focus on. It is particularly useful for getting kids that last mile back to the trailhead or camp. As a caveat, not that they will use more physical energy to travel like this (as well as a marginally increased chance of a slip). As such, if kids are lagging due to being physically tired, it's probably not the best choice. However, if they're lagging due to being bored of walking, it can be a great way to gamify a hike and use some different muscles. 

When I was in central Alaska, courtesy of Uncle Sam, we wore vapor barrier boots. They are great for extremely low temperatures, but of you are heavily exerting in milder weather* (down to -23C/-10F range), your socks would get downright soggy. Some soldiers did put anti-perspirant on their feet to help with cold and trench foot symptoms. If plastic mountaineering boots don't breathe, anti-perspirant could be helpful. 

Just run. Alligators (and crocodiles) are cold blooded and as a result don't have a lot of stamina. Warm blooded animals can maintain high energy output for longer periods. If you want to aim for something other than 'away from the alligator', go for high ground. That will lessen your chance of ending up in the water where the gator has a better chance of catching you. 

I have driven my F(ront)WD Hyundai Santa Fe on plenty of logging roads in northern New Hampshire. It is quite possible to get around safely. I even know someone who owns an off-road Toyota Corolla. If you are looking at roads that get graded on a somewhat regular basis, you should be able to drive ok. Stay alert on watch for rocks protruding up and for dips. There may even be small wash outs. If you unsure about the spot ahead, slow down, maybe even get out and scout it on foot. If you aren't confident that your vehicle can handle a section of road, be extra cautious. Getting a tow truck to your location will take way longer than in town. Don't ask how I know ;--) Look for gravel. Think twice (or more) about dirt roads, especially if it has rained or there is rain in the forecast. Gravel holds up well, mud will suck your tires in. If you end up on a narrow section, keep an eye out for places to pull over if you need to either turn around or make room for an approaching vehicle. What kind of activity draws you to unpaved roads? I am an off trail hiker, so if I can't drive in as far as I planned, I am just starting the hike early. 

My compass has become increasingly untrustworthy. Over the past couple years I had noticed that it often pointed pretty close to magnetic South, but it corrected after a light tap. In two recent trips to the woods this compass has been wildly inaccurate. This compass is stored by hanging from my rear-view mirror. Could various electrical devices like the radio and the fan motor degrade the needle? 

In places where the contour lines are closer together, the slope is steeper. Where the lines are further apart, the slope is gentler. In a spot where you see several lines merge together, that is a sheer drop-off. Avoid those, obviously. Look for nesting Vs on the map. These are ridges, or possibly ravines. Water (blue) bisecting the V will tell you it is a valley. Through practice, I can pretty distinguish a ravine from a ridge in a few seconds. Sorry, I can’t describe a technique for that. * Perhaps I am recommending spending time poring over contour maps ;—) Be aware of the scale of the map and the level of elevation change for the map. In America, the USGS topographical maps generally go with 20’ per contour line. Some use 6m, but the style is distinct. We also have some maps with 40’ contours done in the same style as the 20’. Read carefully. My brain is trained to see that style of map and see 20’ contours. I have gotten myself into some difficulty expecting the terrain to be not so bad, but finding it quite steep in 3-D. Also, realize that because of the nature of maps, there can be an awful lot of terrain variety hiding between two contour lines. The scree slopes you mentioned will be quite irregular. * Having thought this over, if you are planning an off-trail hike, definitely spend some time studying the contour maps. I would suggest enough time to be familiar with the major features of the locale, including possible departure routes.