Obviously, make sure you have permissions to execute and that your includes the directory where it is installed. (You could obviously pipe to and leave the alone, but if things get nontrivial, you want to avoid littering the with hard-coded paths to every binary. Like in the shell, Procmail's default lists a number of standard system-wide locations like etc.) The flag causes Procmail to regard this as a secondary destination, so every message will also be written to the default inbox (or maybe a in the user's home directory, these days). Once you are confident your doesn't lose mail (test for disk full, out of memory, etc) you can take out the and maybe eventually run it straight out of the Postfix and get rid of Procmail and the Unix user account in favor of a virtual user. Technically, Postfix is your MTA and MSA; it knows how to use Procmail (or Maildrop, or a bunch of other alternatives) as the MDA. In order to have an MX record, you need an MTA on the host which the MX points to. A correctly configured Postfix just needs to be told which domain name(s) it should accept inbound traffic for (basically and , but should othewise be ready to serve as the primary MX If you are unfamiliar with a lot of this territory, you should probably avoid running your own mail server at all. E.g. Amazon SES allows you to easily run a script of yours on every incoming message without having to worry about the quite significant administrative burden and tall learning curve of stable, secure email service. 

I have some disks attached to a PERC H800. Since it unfortunately does not have a proper passthrough/JBOD mode, each physical disk is mapped to a 1-disk RAID 0 virtual disk. My question is- can those disks can be moved to being directly connected to a SAS controller without destroying the data on the disk? 

The PERC 710P supports both SAS and SATA disks. I have a single RAID1 set and would like to add a RAID5 set built out of SATA disks for archival use, but I cannot confirm that a configuration like that is possible. Citations requested if possible. 

If I administrate an on-site WSUS instance, I am responsible for releasing updates to domain-joined PCs according to some policy guidelines. Is there some sort of metadata or technique I can use to assess the impact to end users before deciding when to release an update. The specific scenario I am trying to address is the occurrence of apparently smaller updates that require restarts and take an absurd amount of time to complete. On several occasions I have seen PCs that attempt to 'shut down and apply updates' from the Start Menu at 5 PM and sit for over a half hour while they grind away at the hard drive. These are modern, fast machines with SSDs and 8Gb or more of ram. My only theory is that these updates must be scanning the whole disk for some reason. If these updates are flagged in some way, I would like to hold them back until a planned downtime day. Are there any other options beyond applying them individually and timing them with a stopwatch? 

PHP seems to be running okay, but I don't like the look of that message. What does this message mean, and what should I do? (I don't want to upgrade to 5.3 as some client sites still use deprecated in PHP 5.3 functions.) 

Everything works fine transferring the records between the nameservers and keeping them in sync. But my question is: The registrar of my domain example.com allows me to choose 4 nameservers only. Do I just pick the first 4 for company A, or do I need to include 1 or more of company B's slave nameservers too? 

Is the bad interpreter the problem? Is this causing phpize to fail? Or are these two separate problems? 

With the described configuration, I have a SQL Agent Job that includes a Powershell step. That step throws an error when it gets to the line $app = start-process -passthru $program $program_args saying - "The error information returned by PowerShell is: 'The term 'start-process' is not recognized as the name of a cmdlet, function, script file, or operable program. Check the spelling of the name, or if a path was included, verify that the path is correct and try again. '. Process Exit Code -1. The step failed." The lines preceding this seem to work ok. I suspect that the Powershell host that is running the script is crippled regarding that function but I am not able to verify this anywhere. 

I was investigating a bunch of spam domains, and none of them have an SOA record. I have never seen this before -- I didn't even know it was possible. How can DNS work without an SOA record? If it isn't strictly necessary, what are the implications of omitting it? I don't particularly want to add links to spam sites but an example domain is "vance miller kitchens uk dot co dot uk". 

Quite likely the user does not have permission to write to . If you really insist on having central logging of all deliveries, you might want to rig some sort of arrangement to run Procmail under or the local equivalent. 

If is a maildir folder, lose the colon after the and adjust the folder name to the correct syntax (maildir folders don't require locking). simply forwards without zipping. It's not hard to look up how to also zip but I won't develop this further as I imagine this isn't really what you want or need, as explained above. 

to and whilst it adds new files, it doesn't delete the old ones. Any ideas? Edit The first three lines of the cron out.txt are: 

I'm learning about DNS and have a very basic, generic question about DNS but I can't find an answer anywhere. I have DNS for a few domains set up as follows: - master records with DNS company A - slave records with DNS company B Company A's nameservers are: 

I don't have IM or GS listed. I expect that my versions of PHP and MySQL are similar enough to work, but how do I get my server set up to work with this client's site as well? 

I want to use rsync to synchronise my home folder with a "backup" copy on another drive on an Ubuntu 11.10 machine. And I want it to happen every 15 minutes. If I manually run: 

I have a Dell NX3000- which is a Windows Server 2008 based unit. It has an additional cabinet full of drives attached, as well. I have spare licenses for Windows Server 2012 Standard that could be applied to this unit to turn it into a smb 3.0 server. Obviously, this is not a supported configuration from Dell but are there any known issues on this hardware series that would prevent this? 

As suggested, the PROPER way would be to change the name back temporarily, run the STSADM tools and change the name to the desired one. The reason the name change prevents the instance from starting is that there are several places in the registry that refer to the location of the Central Admin and Content Databases. Specifically, HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Shared Tools\Web Server Extensions\14.0\Secure\ConfigDB, allthough there are others. If you search for the old name with a backslash and the word sharepoint(server\sharepoint), you should find them. STSADM can't make changes to the Config DB unless those references are right. Between those two things, you sholud be able to get it running with re-installing.