Mix the water in with lots of crushed ice - or even just use crushed ice to start with rather than water. I prefer this approach over just freezing the bottle outright because I find it easier to get the water out when I want to. Other than that, I'd try wrapping cloth and then foil round the bottle (shiny side on the outside) which should help to keep at least some of the heat out. You could also freeze / chill both the cloth and the foil before you wrap them round - that'll provide that extra bit of chill as well. 

Carabiners are obviously essential in certain circumstances, such as with any type of climbing / rappelling. But are they a good tool to have generally as well, and if so what might be some example uses other than the obvious? They're generally small and lightweight, so was wondering if they had any uses I hadn't yet considered. 

Normal detergent should be able to break down the poisonous oils in question, it shouldn't require any specialist stuff to remove them. Just be sure of a few things: 

If you're after a certain, one-off dead set answer then you might want to try looking up departments / experts in this area in academia and then send them a polite email saying you'd be very grateful of their help. I'm sure many would be willing to answer since as experts in their field it'd probably take 2 seconds to work out (and many people I know in academia in various fields are willing and open to respond to questions like this.) A quick search brought up this page which links to Cornell University - you may want to give them a try. 

If you find yourself in this situation, then there's a few steps you can take - firstly try to extinguish the fire as quickly as possible by pouring as much water as you can on the flames, and stamping out any embers that build up as quickly as you (safely) can. Urinating on the fire would also not be out of the question here, especially if your water source is scarce. If it looks like the fire is spreading quickly in one direction, and it doesn't look like you can stop it outright, then move on a bit in that direction and work to clear any flammable material out of the fire's path. When the fire then reaches that point, this may give you a better angle to tackle it again. If things reach this point however, you should delegate someone to phone the emergency services. Work in two main teams if you can, one group moving (firstly) children / people to safety, then ideally your belongings to safety - and the second working to extinguish the fire via the methods above. The group moving things to safety can join the first group in extinguishing the fire when their task is complete. It's also worth remembering the practical side of things in how you address people can make all the difference. Delegate swiftly, efficiently and firmly, give people instructions by name and don't, however tempting it is, start yelling out "WHO THE HECK LET THIS FIRE GO OUT OF CONTROL" (or words to that effect.) Sure thing, someone screwed up if things have got to this level, but you can deal with that later - you're putting lives at risk if you start dishing out blame at this point. However, it's worth remembering that the above is a real, real last resort and is in no way a sure fire guide (no pun intended) to safely putting out a blaze. It usually goes without saying in all cases, but especially here - prevention is several orders of magnitude better than cure. Preparation is key: 

tl;dr You should be aware of the steps for how to deal with an out of control fire, but if the proper precautions are taken, you should very rarely or never need to resort to them. Prevention is 100x better than cure in this case. 

I often carry around a couple of reusable hand warmers when hiking or just around the outdoors when it's cold. They don't take up much space, they're easy to reuse (just boil) and they provide a fair bit of heat for a while. However, try as I might I can't find any equivalent reusable packs that work the other way - i.e. they set of a reaction that draws in heat and makes them cold for a while, and then (I'd expect) you could put them in the freezer for a while to reverse the process. I wouldn't really use them for hands, but they could come in useful for cooling you down generally - placing at the back of your neck for instance. Do such things exist? Technically I don't see why it's not possible but I haven't seen any around at all. EDIT: After a bit of looking around I stumbled across these - perhaps they do exist after all! Has anyone used them? It looks like they're geared more towards medicine than general use but if the effect's the same that's fine by me. 

Sure, you could get cheap stuff for doing odd tasks where it doesn't matter, and save the proper paracord for where it matters, but this is a lot of hassle and IMO the price point doesn't make it worth faffing around trying to save a few pence here and there when you've got a decent solution that can do the job already. 

I often find a "soft" pencil, say 2B does the job much better than HB. Don't go too soft because then it'll be easy to turn into a smudgy mess, but as a general rule I find a pencil a bit softer than the norm works rather well. Alternatively, if you prefer pen then breathing on a Biro to warm it before writing can often help get it going much more easily, especially in cooler weather. 

I'll echo the most prominent theme in the related question, which is that above all else comfort is the most important consideration in any backpack. The worst backpack is one that ends up causing you pain after a few hours when you have to put up with it for the entire week - so trying on as many as you can is important. If you're at all in doubt after a few hours, then it's not good - that effect will multiple out many times over a week. Padding, strap size and placement, etc. will all factor into this comfort aspect, but it's difficult to advise just based on this since it's different for everyone. Some people require large amounts of padding, for others it's not an issue, some people (me) require straps that can usually be adjusted heavily, some don't really need it, etc. In terms of other features, they're really, as far as I'm concerned, not much of an issue, with a couple of exceptions - that being waterproofing and durability. One of the worst feelings ever is arriving at camp after a rainy day and finding all your stuff soaked, and this can happen if the material leaks, or sprouts a hole somewhere (which will then clearly cause it to leak.) Lots of extra pockets, map holders, compass points, phone holders etc. are all a bit gimmicky to me and are things I rarely use - the above aspects are much more important. 

In short, it sounds like the boots will unfortunately never be a great fit, but I wouldn't discard them just yet - there's still a few things you can try to see if they can become acceptable. To add to the (good) comment below, it's also worth mentioning more expensive isn't necessarily better. One of my favourite pairs of hiking shoes cost £20 in the sale, lasted me years and were incredibly comfortable. if you try cheaper pairs, you may be pleasantly surprised! 

When talking about fresh, dry clothes then it's not true. More layers definitely equals warmer! As pointed out in the comments if you really go to extremes then more layers doesn't necessarily equal warmer, but to get to that point you have to really cram yourself in the bag so there's no insulating air between the layers. You could also make yourself so warm you sweat which would make your clothes damp and cool you down again, but if you just wear warm enough clothes to be comfortable, not sweltering (which is surely what you want anyway!) then you shouldn't have an issue. Where this saying may come into effect (I've heard it branded around before as well) is when you wear clothes to bed that you've already been wearing so they may be damp, or clothes that are next to damp clothes in your rucksack (somewhat surprisingly regular for the more novice hikers!) and so on with similar situations. In those cases, it's probably best to sleep without than put on damp clothes. Yes, in certain contrived / specialised / odd cases this may be true. But on all practical levels my experiences, and the experiences of those I know suggest that it's a myth with dry clothes and only comes into play with damp clothes, which most seasoned campers (and many other people too) know tend to easily cool you down anyway! There's no paradox.