The first thing, you should actually verify that you do have a cassette, ond not a freewheel. Sheldon Brown's site is good here, providing photos etc.. My answer will assume that you are actually running with a cassette. The outside of a wheel is called a rim. The centre is called a hub. On your bike, bolted on to the side of the hub is something called a freehub body. This part holds the cassette in place (and provides the freewheel mechanism). The thing is, different manufacturers use different patterns to keep the csassette in place, so if you're buying a new wheel you need to make sure you buy one with the correct freehub body, or be prepared to fit one yourself (added faff, more tools). So that's why we can't fully answer your question. However, what we can say is that 700x23 is enough to define the size of new wheel you'll need. This is actually the tyre size, but the two are pretty much interchangeable in terms of defining wheel size. Also, you need to make sure that you get something compaztible with your 7-speed cassette. In terms of actually swappuing the wheel out, new wheels generally come with freehub bodies ready to ride, but don't come with cassettes. So your problem basically becomes one of getting the cassette off the old wheel to use on the new. To get the cassette off, you'll need something called a lockring removal tool, which is basically a keyed nut, but again these vary with cassette manufacturer, aqmongst other things. Park Tools, among others, offer a good selection here.Then you'll need a spanner, 1" iirc, and lastly something - a vise or a chain whip - to keep the freewheel still while you unscrew everything. You'll use the same lockring tool/spanner to tighten it all up again. It really is a 2-minute job, but without the correct tools is quite impossible. 

What is your main ambition here? Is it primarily weight loss? If so, then it sounds like you're doing pretty well on your existing bike. (I'm not necessarily saying "don't get a new bike", I'm more saying "don't get one until you're sure of what you want".) Or building up the stamina to be able to ride all day? Again, your current bike will do. Or are you looking at riding faster/further? Well, maybe you've got an argument in that case for getting a new bike. But again, the type of bike to buy should probably be driven by the type of riding you intend doing. You say you ride on roads, so possibly at face value a road bike would suit. But on the other hand, a hybrid would open up more terrains to you, if that would appeal. Or the length of your rides? Can you ever see yourself going on multi-day tours? If not, then again a road bike may suit, but if so maybe you should consider a bike that could more easily carry luggage? I don't necessarily mean a hybrid here, check out touring bikes perhaps? As regards comfort, a lot of bike manufacturers (not sure about Trek) make two flavours of road bike, in terms of the geometry of the frames. The first flavour will be your out-and-out racer. These bikes will be built for performance over comfort. The second flavour places more emphasis on being able to ride all day, the geometry is a little more relaxed and the ride a little more comfortable. It may be worth researching this aspect. But most definitely there are choices even within the "road bike" genre. Lastly a word of encouragement to keep going. I was in roughly your situation a few years ago, and got back into cycling to lose weight. Totally love it and my biggest regret is that I ever stopped cycling (in my late teens) in the first place. (When I got to the point you're at now, btw, for me it was a no-brainer - I wanted tarmac and speed and went down the road bike route - and in fact just last weekend I did my first century ride.) But there's no better feeling than watching yourself go down the clothes sizes. And you've got 8 years advantage over me. Well done and good luck! 

I think it depends largely on conditions. I like to wear Bollé glasses and treated myself to a pair last summer. They do lots of variations so before purchasing the glasses I did a bit of research. They published a really useful paper outlining the appropriateness of different colour lenses under different light conditions, Very useful. A couple of other things: 

There's only really a few options in terms of bags. At the top level, you can have something that fits onto the bike (a pannier), or something that fits onto you. For many people, panniers are a convenient solution and can clip/unclip from the bike in a few seconds. But you need a bike rack, and not all types of bike support this. Looking at things that would fit onto you, I can think of three. First, as you say, there is the backpack. Personally, I don't like them because I don't like having things on my back when I'm cycling, but it's just a preference thing. The second option is some kind of courier bag, which would also go across your back. for example 

Aside from that, you're proposing quite a large change - I think I shortened mine by about an inch. I don't suggest there's any great technical issue here, but just be aware that a small change in length can make a big difference in terms of the feel of the bike. The only other thing to point out (caught me!) is that any computer you might have mounted to the stem....it might all get a bit cramped. But don't let that change your mind if the shorter stem works, its just that you might end up buying a new computer mount as well. 

Bedding in simply happens as you use the bike, or more accurately, as you use the brakes, just like the bedding in process for the brakes on a car, where you get warned to to do any sudden braking within the first x miles. It's about depositing a layer of brake pad onto the rotor. Once this has happened, braking will be more consistent. 

looking at your bike, which I basically see as a alu-105 setup (albeit a good setup, Felts are lovely bikes), I can suggest a few things but right away I'll say I don't think there is a "magic bullet". In no particular order: 

In short, your body will tell you the answer to this. But what I can say is that I had a problem with one of my knees, right where you say, for a couple of years all told. I cycled all the while, and did nothing about it for a long time (put it down to getting old). However I eventually went to see a physio and was very happy with the results - she prescribed a bunch of exercises to keep the muscles loose. Result was that the pain was relieved and that I didn't need to stop cycling at all. Still comes back from time to time but I know how to deal with it now. I know physio can be expensive but in my experience it was very worthwhile - and it only took two visits. I ended up feeling a bit of a fool for waiting so long to make an appointment. And let's face it 10 miles is not a lot. I'm making a slight assumption about your fitness here, but you shouldn't be feeling anything after that kind of distance. 

From your link, your bike has Tekro HDC Hydraulic brakes. If you do a google search, there is a video (made by Tekro by the looks of things) which talks about how to replace pads on these brakes. I suggest you watch this video. If you understand it, and feel comfortable doing what it suggests, take the pads out and examine them. Don't buy any replacements just yet - fingers crossed, simply taking the pads out and putting them back in might solve your problem. Also read up on the pistons, try to get an idea how they actually cause the brake to work, and satisfy yourself that all is well. If you're not comfortable with any or all of this, take the bike to your local shop. My first encounter with hydraulic brakes, I ummed and erred for ages because it was something new to me, when I finally found the courage it was quite a straightforward job - I did it in front of the laptop watching one of these vids, pausing it frequently so as lot to let them get too far ahead. 

When I read your question I had a vague recollection of reading something not so long ago about this. Have a look at this article from a UK newspaper (check out also the related articles on the page): Cow Attacks So you are absolutely right to be cautious - people have been killed by cows. Personally, I live in a rural area (the New Forest in southern UK - ponies, cattle, donkeys and even pigs roam pretty much freely) and have done a bit of walking myself. I've never seen what you might call aggression, but cows can get boisterous especially, for example, if they think you're bringing them food. Bearing in mind that a cow could weigh several hundred kilos or more, if one were to bump into you, even if not particularly intentionally, you'd certainly know about it. The article is right in that when we see them at a distance we think nothing of it, but meet them close up - they are enormous and you can quite easily imagine how people get trampled and crushed. Now, as regards what you should do, I think you probably need to play every scenario by ear, but most of the time they won't be interested in you so as long as you proceed with caution and give them as wide a berth as possible you should be fine. Don't necessarily expect them to move for you, it'll probably be you who needs to take action to avoid them, but you should be fine. 

There are only really two things. First, as you identify, there is the issue of gradients. If you think that difference goes away if you just "man up", good luck with that. Even if you had the leg power (most of us don't, we'd end up pushing the bike and likely mashing our knees in the process), it would be very difficult to select one gearing that would be suitable for all gradients. The second thing is maintenance. Single speeds are a bit easier to maintain because there is no derailleur arrangement. Get your chainline right and you're basically down to fixing punctures. So if you're not into diy, or money will be tight as regards keeping the bike on the road, then that could be a factor. But you still have tyres, brakes and less frequently bottom brackets and chainrings to worry about, just like a road bike. I think your reasoning about theft is likely wrong, or at the very least governed by geography. I can imagine certain places where it is ultra-cool to ride a fixie, and therefore they would be in strong demand. For example, London, Tokyo, probably other cities too. I mean, these things are largely fashion accessories. Also I think buying a bike because it is less likely to get stolen is a recipe for disaster (especially when it gets stolen). I think you're right in terms of your price analysis though. In the "new" market, a budget of £400 will not buy a good road bike. You might have a chance of finding something if you're wanting a flip-flop, although my flip-flop (a nothing-special Charge Plug) retailed new at around £600 iirc. Secondhand gives you more scope, of course (I got mine off eBay), but you need to know what you're looking for. You mention mountain bikes in the title, but not really in the question. The pros/cons of these are pretty much the same as the pros/cons for road bikes, in this context at any rate.