I am trying to learn about the maxium lean angle of a road bike. I'm looking for measurements and comparisons. 

Are there Overshoes designed to last on Platform Pedals with pins? How long would a "normal" overshoe last on platform pedals before it shreds? Sofar I've been doing fine with some plastic and scotch tape but the appearance is atrocious. 

Would a deep section front wheel improve stability and control in descends? Yes. Deep section wheels are heavier. The heavier the wheel, the higher it's angular momentum at a given speed. Higher torque means the wheel will take more force to turn, therefore leaning into the curve will require more force. Leaning into curves will be smoother and less jerkier which even improves traction. It's the same physical principle that makes Diabolos work. Would the benefits outweigh the potential danger of side winds? No. A Deep section wheel might weigh 10-20% more. The forces they experience in crosswinds however are multiples of what shallow wheels experience. 

For the record, my chain looks a lot filthier. I hate cleaning bikes beyond anything. I don't clean my training bike very often, because it's only got cheap compenents and I do not care much if they don't last very long. All that filth has to come from someplace so I was wondering if someone could specifically suggest from where, how and from what direction all that filth emigrates onto my chain and why it chooses to stay there. And then maybe I, or anybody else, can come up with a genius idea of how to stop the filth from making it's way onto my chain in the first place so nobody will ever have to clean it again. Something like this maybe. You get the idea. 

It is important to clean and lubricate the entire drivetrain, as you'll be striving to adhere to the First Law: Ye Shall Make No Sound as you make your adjustments. Proceed as follows: 

It obviously depends on what you plan to do with your bike, but provided you're willing to get your hands dirty the answer is a definite Yes. I have been riding my modified Tdf-100 (9-speed SORA with 7speed MTB cassette) for 10.000+ km, and I'd feel pretty confident saying that with a little bit of patience and careful indexing you'll have a perfectly functional bike, although maybe not competition worthy due to slightly sub-optimal shifting reliability and braking power. That said, as most of the other answers point out, you have to make sure of the following key points before you even start: 

By trial and error you should be able to get to the stage where the centre sprocket and the closest four work smoothly with minimum racketing. The deviation between clicks and sprockets for the highest and lowest gear might be large enough for them to require TWO clicks (or a full lever swing) to get to, hence the need to allow a little extra slack on the maximum limiting screw (so that you may reach the click with the lever, then let the derailleur settle in position by clicking down once). Extra trick: If and only if you're really not satisfied with the results of the above procedure, you can index your centre sprocket (Step 3) one click up, and have a "ghost gear" click below the hardest to release enough cable to reach the smallest sprocket. The low limit screw should then be as tight to the perfectly aligned position as you can get it. This will allow you a bit more room for manoeuvre but can get quite complicated since you won't be able to rely on the small-sprocket=cable-fully-extended equation. It may all be a bit awkward at first if you're used to perfectly indexed gears but I take if you were that picky you wouldn't even be asking this in the first place. You'll get to know your ride and the way it shifts, and the half-pull and two-up-one-down will become second nature soon enough. I hope this makes sense, I may have assumed prior knowledge in an attempt to keep it linear. Please comment if you need clarifications. Enjoy the hacking! 

What is the total weight a Tdf rider carries up the hill apart from his own bodyweight? The bike is around 7kg, maybe a bottle with some water.. What about helmet, clothes, shoes etc? 

If a bike with a deep front wheel or a front diskwheel were to receive crosswinds with a 90 degree yaw angle handling would not be affected since the pressure would be equally distributed among the entire wheel. So why does the wheel turn at lower yaw angles? This front "wheel" seems to be designed to handle optimally in crosswinds at normal yaw angles. Maybe one day somebody can make adjustments to the fork to reproduce the same effect. 

In most cases lifting your front wheel alone should be enough (even with a road bike). It is safer and faster than a full bunny-hop. If you need to lift the rear wheel as well do it in quick succession: Lift your front wheel, than immediately shift weight forward which will send the rear wheel into the air. Then move your weight backwards and pull up with your arms again to lift the front wheel. It is easier than bunny-hopping and you can jump over as many rails as you want from any angle. But you will not really need this technique unless you're on a roadbike approaching a track at 20 degrees. 

I ask this out of mere curiosity. People are talking about getting punctures as if it were something obvious to get. I've ridden well over 100 000km in my life and I've never gotten a puncture. But I did, but only because I tend to let the rear tire wear out until it simply blows up. Roads in switzerland are a charm. There is no such thing as a pothole here. Nails, glass, debris... it just doesn't exist. But everyone else around is carrying spare tubes and a pump on the bike. I know I don't. 

Set your limit screws with no cable on (push and pull the derailleur by hand) so that both limit positions are about 1mm wide of the corresponding sprockets (i.e. left of the large one and right of the small one). Put the lever in hardest gear thus releasing all cable, pre-tension it and clamp it into the derailleur. If you can index your gears normally from here then RIGHT ON, skip the rest of this boring answer, sit back and enjoy this blissful moment of the-universe-sorting-itself-out-for-your-happiness. Otherwise.. Index your preferred chain position: you can choose the perfect chain line (or maybe the sprocket you think you'll be riding on the most?). The more different the spacing is from the lever clicks, the more important that you choose a mid-range sprocket as your indexing centre, so as to minimise the maximum misalignment your jockey arm will have to endure. Click the lever into the desired position, and adjust the cable tensioner (or have a friend hold the derailleur in position as you unclamp the cable to make small adjustments) until the "indexing centre sprocket" turns smoothly and silently. Proceed to make small adjustments until you can smoothly shift up to softest, down to hardest, and back to your centre sprocket. 

You will then have to work around the mismatched lever/cassette indexing. There are two main aspects to consider: 

You can fit the lever shifters to your bar (duh..) You can brake effectively with the available pull: from a quick image search it seems that Miyata1000s do mount cantilever brakes, which require a relatively long pull distance. You should first of all true your wheel (I haven't had time to watch the whole thing with audio but the guy seems to be using a method I personally found to be very effective). You may then proceed to adjust the cable tension by shortening the cantilever "beam" so that your brake pads rest as close as possible to the wheel, in order to reduce the required pull to a minimum. You should then be able to clamp the rim hard even with a relatively short pull lever.