Does a SQL Server Job always run on the server or will it run in the context of the local machine, similar to a DTS package run from Enterprise Manager on the user's machine? For TSQL, Agent uses its own login (Windows authentication), and then uses EXECUTE AS LOGIN = 'n' command to simulate you. For other job step types, Agent uses Proxy and Credentials. You can trace this using Profiler, and even run a jobstep having WAIRFOR and check using sp_who etc. Unless job owner is sysadmin, where no impersonation is performed (Agent will be "himself"). You can "trace" this ouputting result from whoami.exe (or similar utility) to an output file. Refer to SQL Server Agent jobs and user contexts by Tibor Karaszi for more details. I will need more info to your question to answer the 2nd part (with the exact error message). 

You can read more on SQL Server Database Snapshots Note: If this is not what you want, then I will delete this answer .. which I wrote assuming stuff. 

It is related to Full text catalog. You can find out more info using e.g. from Pro Full-Text Search 2008 book, Below will give you the Number of Full-Text Index Population Batches in progress 

Server side trace does not have a limit of 1GB. I have 5GB trace files created in my environment every hour. 

SQL Server 2016 will log the message by default when Instant file Initialization is enabled ... Obviously, you can use xp_cmdshell or tsql way. Good PFE blog reading : How and Why to Enable Instant File Initialization 

This is a classic senario that we experienced with out datawarehouse. We already had timestamp column, but still to process new records from the last time the query ran was difficult just like you are currently facing. What we did was - we added 3 columns - , and columns to our main table where the data was loaded for further processing. = All the data that gets loaded is defaulted to 1. Meaning that the data is latest. = Will be set to 1 for the data that is already read and processed by our ETL job. The new data will be having a default of 0. = This is another flag that is useful just in-case if you want to process all the records for the entire day. Just our requirement. Your case might be different. Note: Above is just a simple example of how a sort of similar issue like you mentioned was addresses. Obviously there were many factors and business requirements that lead us to introduce such extra fields. Also, you can use Calendar Table and Date/Time Functions to supplement what I mentioned above. On the top of above, I would suggest to look into Data Loading Performance Guide to get benefit when the data is loaded and the Isolation level (especially RCSI) of the database as if the data is being continuously loaded then there would be blocking issues. Test it, balance it and then implement it !! 

Note: Express edition of the same sql server version is supported. Edit: based on the comment from @Raidri Technically it is possible to have a witness with a higher version of sql server than the 2 partners, but it is highly recommend and supported that all servers have the same VERSION of sql server running - edition can be different. 

If this is the case then, you will end up breaking your log chain and a point in time recovery would not be possible. Either use TDP (part of IBM's TSM) or a regular SQL job to back-up Transaction logs. Also, I would suggest you to simulate a recovery scenario on a test server with either TDP or using SQL Native backups (Full backup, differential (if any) and then subsequent log backups) to ensure that in an unfortunate situation of disaster, you would be able to recover your databases. Note: Full backup wont break the log chain. 

From my experience, its worth to invest in Redgate's Schema and data compare tools as they have commandline options and they integrate well with Powershell as well. 

WHY ??? what you are asking is : Give me all the students name with max grade. That is logically also incorrect as you cannot get that (if you think about it for a sec.) Instead of that, you should ask - for each student, what is the max grade - which will logically translate into sql as : 

Yes, you can restore the backup of Standard edition to web edition. Just make sure to use if the file locations are different between the servers. See the comparison matrix for more details. 

Complementing @WEI_DBA's answer, I find it highly useful if you have a script that generates exact command to run. sp_RestoreGene is incredibly useful in situation that you are in (provided you have good restore-able backup files). 

Script out the replication and look for sp_addpublication --- @sync_method=N'character' If the sync_method is “character” and you add a column to the publication, it will generate a message and ask to reinitialize subscription(s). Change the sync_method to “native”. 

This is pretty old build and lot of fixes have been put into newer SPs. You should patch your server with SP4 atleast - 11.00.7001. 

As a side note, its more important to test your restore strategy as a backup is ONLY GOOD if it can be restored without any issues. Enabling Instant File Initialization will considerably cut down the restore time. Be careful when you are striping your backups as there are chances that a stripe might get corrupted or might become missing (deleted) due to machine or human error :-) References : 

Even though this is a pretty old thread, Microsoft has officially published the list of Trace Flags that can be used when running SQL Server 2012 and up for high performance workloads : KB - 2964518 - Recommended updates and configuration options for SQL Server 2012 and SQL Server 2014 with high-performance workloads. Its highly advisable to do a thorough testing when enabling trace flags to avoid any surprises.