Can she? Surely, she can try to do that. It raises some related questions: Is it likely that she will try? We can't really answer that specifically, since we don't really know her. I think it's pretty safe to state that this would be really odd and highly unusual behavior and not something anyone would expect a former boss to do, no matter how much they didn't like you. But let's just assume she tries, in order to play this out for you and help you think through it. If she does try, will she actually get ahold of your new boss? Organizations don't generally publish their org chart. Does she know your boss's name? Probably not. Phone-answering receptionists at the front desk won't generally direct a call that doesn't have a clear purpose or a specific named person in mind. "Can you tell me who So-and-so reports to?" will almost certainly not receive an answer from the receptionist - or at best might be directed to HR, who definitely won't give an answer. Even a generic attempt at "let me talk to the CEO!" will likely be well screened, and denied once they determine her nefarious intent. But let's just handwave and brush that all aside, and assume the worst: If she actually gets ahold of someone in a position of power and tells them bad things about you, what will happen? I see two potential outcomes: 

I can't address legality but I don't think it's good practice for you, as an individual, acting independently of your employer, to notify your employer's clients. It's really up to the employer to decide the method, content, and timing of that message. The relationship is theirs, not yours; especially now that you're leaving. They have to maintain the relationship once you're gone, not you. The transition is their business, not yours. They very were may want the email to come from you, but it shouldn't have come from you without their consent, and without including some sort of reference to the transition (ie "so-and-so is copied on this message and will be handling your relationship). Even if you did not explicitly give them personal contact info or solicit their business at your new employer, it's pretty easy to see "hey I'm leaving!" and take it as a reason for them to follow up with you with respect to your new employer - especially since there wasn't an explicit hand off to someone else at your old employer to handle the account. You've left it totally open ended, which is going to be problematic for your old employer. Their clients are now in doubt and don't have a clear plan for going forwards. All that said, I've had situations where I developed close, personal friendships with clients, and I spoke with them about changes in employment directly. However, that was done through "friendship" channels (meeting them for dinner, a personal call to a personal phone number after the work day was over, etc), not through professional channels (email from my work account, phone call during the work day from my work phone). If you don't know these clients well enough to be contacting them via personal channels after hours, you don't know them well enough to inform them of your departure without your employer's consent. 

When you've made a mistake and it was bad enough that you're worried it will impact your future chances at getting hired, there are several things you can do to help mitigate the damage: 

Practically, in order to make decisions about your github account as a sales tool, we first must ask: what is an employer looking for when they hire a developer? Then, we must ask: Does my github portfolio help show off those qualities? If the answer is yes, include it. If the answer is no, either don't include it, or modify it to better fit that perspective. I think you gave some hints as to the answers when you said, 

that's just going to create even more uncomfortable questions - or it's going to leave them with the impression that it's just you, who can't get along with others well, and the company wasn't at fault. 

Really, this is two questions: how can you ask? And, Will you get THE answer? It is reasonable to ask for the salary range they have budgeted for the position, as part of the hiring process, before an offer is formally extended. However, it is not likely that you will receive the exact number they are planning to offer you - mostly because they may not have a specific, exact number in mind yet. In terms of how - it's common in interviews for the interviewer to give the candidate a chance to ask questions. At that point, you can mention, 

If your number fell into the first bucket, they wouldn't have scheduled the interview. So, by default, you now know that there's a very high chance that you're basically going to be offered less than their maximum number, even if the offer is within your desired range. To put it another way: You may get the number you want, but it probably won't be the highest possible number you could have gotten from them. There's lots of good advice on the internet and on this very site about negotiating during the hiring process. Most people recommend giving a generic answer to questions like "what is your desired salary" in order to avoid being short-changed. You should read up before you continue your job hunt. It may be too late to salvage this offer, but you will be better off in the future if you're prepared before you start the negotiation versus coming and asking for help after you're halfway through it. Here are some questions on this site you should look at. None of these are exact duplicates of your question but they all have some relevance. Taking an hour to read and prepare for negotiation can make a huge difference, it may be one of the most valuable hours of your process in terms of return on investment. Is it advisable to negotiate salary during job offer even after answering the salary expectation question? Does the first person to mention a number in a salary negotiation lose? How to negotiate salary when range is unknown How to negotiate salary with an extremely unprofessional in-house recruiter? How to negotiate a job offer effectively during and after an interview How to counter questions about expected salary? [duplicate] How to respond to a direct ask of salary earned and expectations? How to negotiate a better salary in a job offer when the recruiter says that he or she does not want to create a salary imbalance within the company? 

If you are specifically asking to deal with the literal situation in your title, "How to tell a coworker what to do?" then it really just boils down to doing legwork as others have indicated (make sure your mandate from your boss is clear, making sure the other employee understands that, etc.) and then addressing the specific problems in the work she is producing. But I don't think that's the most effective approach. If you're really asking, "what do I do when someone else isn't doing their fair share of the work?" Or, "How do I change a coworker's work ethic?" then I would suggest you turn the question around and focus on yourself. Changing other people is hard. You state that your coworker is lazy. If you try to "fix" that, as a peer, even with a supervisor's approval, you're right - it's just going to make everything awkward. And you're probably not going to make her any less lazy. Why does this person's laziness bother you? Do you have a clear understanding of what your workload is? Does your boss understand your performance? Are you satisfied with your own career development and the results of your own effort? If a coworker's bad habits are causing problems for you, you need to address those problems yourself, with your boss. Make sure you're addressing your own problem, not your coworker's problem. When you go to your boss, "my coworker is lazy" is a very different problem from "I have too much on my plate, can you help me understand my priorities?" You've made it known to your boss that your coworker doesn't pull their weight. "My supervisor wants me to deal with it" sounds to me more like your supervisor wants you to stop complaining about your coworker, rather than a specific mandate that your supervisor wants you to fix your coworker. To get back to your question: 

Open source is great because it gets you access to a wide types of participation on a wide range of subjects. Want to test? Fix bugs? Develop New features? Try a new language? Manage a project? Start a new project, from scratch? Write documentation? It's all possible. And as you're finding, it can be overwhelming to know how to participate, because you don't have a boss telling you what to do - instead, you essentially have a long list of opportunities and you need to pick where/how to start. Most open source projects are hosted on a public repository, ie github. Most projects include instructions on how to contribute (although sometimes they're not obvious) or at least names/contact info for people involved in the project. Most people who participate in Open Source are doing so because they want to foster the community of Open Source contributors, so they're often more than happy to help newbies. Find some (active!) projects you're interested in, contact those already active, and ask the best way to get involved. Likely, as a newcomer, you'll be directed to work on bugs from an issues log, so pick those that look easiest to you. As a newcomer, it's sometimes hard to get real experience on a project that has no one else working on it, so if a project doesn't seem to be getting attention, look for something else. Before you contribute, it may be useful to watch a project for a few days/weeks to get an idea for the cadence and habits of those working on it. When others check code in, look at specifically what they did and use it as a learning tool. Consider this as much an exercise in learning to work on a team, and learning to contribute to a group, as it is an exercise in writing code. Which leads me to your comment: 

How will current staff train on the new language? How will language choice affect future hiring decisions? You are an intern - there's an implication that you will be leaving soon. What will they do when their "expert" is gone? Presumably there will be a transition period, during which some software exists in each of the two languages, and effort will be invested into the conversion, versus specific features or functions in the software. Will that require extra staffing? 

There are a lot of potential/related questions here and it's unclear exactly which one you're trying to ask. 

After your edit, it sounds like you have a written offer that includes many details one would expect (pay, start date, etc.) It sounds like you have a specific outstanding question for your employer: 

Yes, many recruiters at large corporations have pro LinkedIn accounts that let them spam potential candidates. They may not even know or care who the specific individuals are, and they certainly won't think badly of you if you don't respond. They're likely not keeping a scorecard on who didn't reply. That said, we don't know if that's the case here, and personally, I don't think it matters since as I mentioned above, I see this situation as an opportunity, not a problem. I will preface my answer to your question with some questions: What is your strategy for engagement with this potential employer? Do you know how they recruit? Do you know how they find, filter, and evaluate candidates? Where do they post jobs? Do they participate in career fairs or other recruiting events? So, finally, Yes: you should respond to this message with a brief mention of why you're not going to pursue the current opportunity, but you also need to consider making this message a part of a larger strategy: