To answer this question I'll have to make some simplifications and assumptions, because the real kinematics are rather sophisticated. We'll calculate the Potential Energy, which is the amount of energy required to move a mass up a certain height against the gravitational pull: E-potential (in Joule) = mass (kg) * gravitational acceleration (m/s2) * height(m) which equates to: 93 * 9.8 * 12.2 = 11,119.08 Joule. While this seems a lot, 1 kcal = 4186 Joule, so you'll this would only cost 2.6 kcal. Power (Watt) = Energy (Joule) / Time (seconds) So taking the 12,000 J / 30 seconds = 370 Watt Other points to take into consideration: 

The way muscles are put to work is more electrical than chemical. Yes, the electrical 'twitches' give off chemicals, it's not like you could drink a magic potion to get them where they need to be. Even worse, you wouldn't be able to dosage them, which would probably result in a tremor/rigor mortis kind of reaction. How it works? 

Sarge has a point that if they aren't causing injuries, then it might be fine to wear them. But while the forces when walking compared to running are much lower, you typically wear the shoes much longer (10-14 hours/day vs 0.5-1 hour/day). The reason you replace running shoes is often because the midsole (and probably outersole) are permanently damaged. The damage in this cause means the little air bubbles in the material are ruptured and they loose their stability. Worse, the damage might be asymmetrical, because the material wasn't 100% uniform to begin with (they might look the same, but they probably aren't). This means that during every step you take on damaged shoes, means you subject yourself potential asymmetrical loads, which can lead to injuries. This also goes for your regular shoes, though these tend to be made from different (hopefully tougher) materials. Though with the trend of people wearing running shoes as their regular shoes means they probably wear them for much longer than conventional wisdom would advise. So your choice is: do you want to risk getting starting symptoms of injuries so you can wear these shoes a bit longer? To answer that question, its a good idea to look back and see if you're susceptible for injuries and if so, what helped prevent them. If you're walking pattern is very symmetrical and you hardly ever have injuries, go for it, chances are you won't get injured. If you're like me and get injured every year, don't risk it, because its not worth it. 

Theoretically you can loose weight with doing just one exercise. However, if you want to loose more weight, you have to raise the number of calories you've burned. You can do this by exercising under higher loads or working out longer. But fitness machines often fail at mimicking the natural increase in loads: on an elliptical trainer, when you increase the loads going 'round' get's harder everywhere. I've made a small model of the forces during an elliptical workout, when you increase the load from the light to the dark blue arrow, the forces get proportionally higher everywhere. 

So as you can see, it's not as simple as just looking at how 'fit' you've become to judge what your BMR will do. However, assuming you've lost some weight, reduced your fat level, aren't on a starvation diet and have acquired more lean tissue, you'll probably have a net increase in BMR. If you look at the calculations: 

I haven't seen any scientific proof as to whether you should or shouldn't work out straight out of bed. While you might be a little stiff at first, simply strolling for five minutes should be more than enough to get everything going. Sitting indoors for one hour won't nearly stress your body as much as just walking a little bit. So as long as you start the workout a little relaxed, there's probably nothing bad that could happen to you. As for pulling a muscle or straining your back: listen to your body! If it's start complaining, slow down and take it easy, nobody said you should be pushing yourself and there's zero benefit to getting injured. I agree with @Eelvex that making sure you drank something before you go (or taking something with you) is important, because you probably didn't drink anything for the past 6-8 hours. For the rest, you're body will adjust itself quickly enough when you start walking. I have no experience with weight lifting in the morning, but I reckon the same applies there: start with something light to get the blood flow going and increase the loads from there 

However, I've never done an assessment workout and I wonder how I should dosage my running speed, as I don't have any idea how fast I would be running in my red zone. Here's an example of my latest workout, to give you an idea of how heart rate and pace. Obviously these zones aren't necessarily correct, so I may have been slacking all this time! 

You may be wondering, doesn't it matter how fast I'm running up the stairs? Well given the energy to elevate your body stays constant, so we have to at least use that amount of energy. For this we would calculate the Kinetic Energy: E-kinetic (in Joule) = 0.5 * mass (kg) * velocity (m/s) * velocity (m/s) given that we know the required energy we can estimate the velocity in meter per second. We take the total amount of energy (11,119) and divide it by 30 seconds to get the amount of potential energy / second = ~370 J. Then we take the square root of the energy per second divided by 0.5 * mass, which gives us 2.82 meter per second. This equates to ~10 km/h, which is quite the pace. Off course you could run up the stairs faster, but this is just a calculation based on how much energy would be required to go up. You'd also need to take into account that moving horizontally for a given distance costs you energy. But as I said, I've been making a lot of simplifications and only calculate the required speed and power. Though as you can see, running up a flight of stairs equates to about 370 Watt, which is a very respectable workout. But obviously, this is only maintained for 30 seconds and I doubt you'd be able to keep it up for long stretches of time. 

Sport socks can make a world of difference, especially during longer workouts or if you have sweaty feet. They help reduce the moisture and friction, which becomes more important the longer you run. In diabetics, they sometimes add patches of low friction material to the insoles, because this reduces the shear forces on high risk areas. Good sport socks do the same, they allow your foot to slip a little bit relative to the insole, which greatly reduces the friction and thus reduces the chance of blisters. Regular cotton socks tend to get wet after about 20-30 minute workouts and don't transfer the moisture away from your foot sole. Therefore, any negative effect from the moisture, like increasing friction, get's worse over time. Furthermore, wet cotton socks can loose their shape and start to wrinkle or bunch up. After several wash-wear cycles, cotton socks have been noted to become abrasive, which can potentially be irritating on the skin. Proper socks are also known to improve the fitting of a shoe, because they're generally thicker in some important areas, whereas regular socks are more homogeneous in their composition. So I'd advice anyone who has to do some serious running for longer stretches of time to wear sport socks. 

This highly depends on your current fitness and perhaps prior running experience. Unless you're overweight/obese or have very poor fitness, running for 30 minutes shouldn't be a problem. If you can walk 30 minutes, you can jog/run for 30 minutes. The catch is, however, that you might not run very fast. The only 'real' difference between walking and running is that during running, only one foot is in contact with the ground at all times. So you could even do that at walking speeds, but it won't be very comfortable. Anyhow, taking a 10 minute break sounds like a really bad idea, unless you're in such bad shape that you really can't continue. In that case, I'd recommend seeing a doctor and getting some medical assistance. In all other cases, pick a training program that will get you in shape to run 5 km, for example C25K. These programs make you run and walk alternatingly, so rather than taking a break, you simply start walking to catch a breath. You do these work outs 3 times a week, every week they slightly increase the duration of the running interval, while shortening the walking interval. This way you should be able to run non-stop for 5 km after about 10 weeks. The most important factor to being able to complete this program is picking the right pace to run at. If you go too fast, you'll feel discomfort or might not even make the full running interval. So try to run at a pace where you could still hold up a conversation. This might be very slow, but that's not the point. The point is to get you in to shape so you can run in 10 weeks, not run fast right now. Also remember that if you feel discomfort while running, you can always go back to walking. Nobody is going to punish you, so don't punish yourself. Good luck with the program and see you in 10 weeks! 

I've heard some conflicting opinions about minimal shoes and how to use them. My own idea would be to slowly introduce them into my training program, so I don't get any overuse injuries due to using different muscles when running with these shoes. Currently I'm still at the beginning of a marathon training program, which means I run 5 times a week of which three are 'short' 30-min relaxed runs and the other two a long run and a threshold training. Since I've got both the Vibram and the Saucony shoes, I can shift more gradual. I can also wear them during the day, given I don't have to comply to any dress code, which means I don't necessarily have to get used to them through running alone. So now I'm wondering what would be the best way to get started with minimal running shoes? 

Here's some nice images from under my feet when walking I started running again 2 months ago and focused on building it up slowly and not running too much (max 3 x 5km per week). I hoped this would prevent it from recurring and built up sufficient strength, but this morning I started feeling one of my shins again. So now I'm looking for exercises I can do (at home) to strengthen my ankles! It's also fine if its whole leg exercises, but my main focus is on increasing my ankle strength. 

So no, you don't have to do anything else but running, however if you want to loose more weight: run more! Be careful for working out too often, too hard or too long, it might get you injured. Instead, focus on building up a better fitness and in a couple of months you'll be able to run longer and more often, that's when you really start to loose weight. So just be patient! 

First off, Ryans tip about doing calf raises in my own experience seems to reduce the risk of getting cramps. The easiest way to do these is by going to one of the benches around the pool near a wall and simply step up them with one leg. Repeat this 20x per leg should be a nice start of warming up your calves. Then I highly recommend this post on Swim Smooth about the kick technique during free style swimming. Basically the craps are because of poor technique, you're forcing your leg in a stretched position while kicking, probably because you're bending your knee too much. The easiest way to remedy this is to try not using your legs at all, for example by using a plank or something else between your legs and simply drag you legs along motionless. From there on you can start working on your technique. The most important thing to learn is kick from the hip, which means you keep your legs extended and pretty relaxed and try to kick starting in your hip joint and move your entire leg without bending the knee. Also don't try to make powerful kicks, because if you don't have the muscle coordination yet, it will probably induce the cramps. Instead either try to make small rapid kicks or just kick 'lazily': left arm vs right leg, right arm vs left leg, rinse and repeat. See how it goes and be sure to let us know how you progress!