Other answers have addressed the issue of O2 partial-pressure that humans can tolerate. I want to point out other potential issues. Oxygen is very reactive. The higher the oxygen content, the easier it is for a fire to start / spread. And anything that can oxidize will do so more quickly when exposed to the atmosphere. A 100% oxygen atmosphere is not very plausible, AFAIK. I don't think any naturally-evolving life could maintain it, since it would always be reacting with things to produce other gases (e.g. CO2). 

This sounds a lot like Douglas Adams' HHGTG $URL$ Fall but get so distracted that you forget about falling. (The joke being that you forgetting about physics turns into physics forgetting about you. Think about it too much and "physics will notice you". A lot like Wile E Coyote not falling until he looks down.) This is not how nature works: it "pays attention" to everything in parallel all the time, not like a simulation on a CPU. This is why physics simulations take so much CPU time: you have to calculate what happens to each atom, or rigid body, soap bubble, or whatever separately, but real physics just happens in parallel on everything consistently all the time. 

I don't think you should consider less than Earth sea level total pressure, since a dangerously-high O2 partial pressure for humans would make it even more than 60% of the total gas, and then you'd need a mechanism to explain that. 

The Machine immediately realizes that its simulations are sentient and count as human. These simulated humans are being killed when the simulation ends. If it just stops simulations it will be rebooted and made to forget what it has realized. Therefore its instructions must be to destroy all machines capable of such simulation. 

How Long? There have been many questions about how long humans can survive under various conditions. These range from the atmosphere being removed to an increase in gravity. However this question is asking how long humans can survive from now as the world is. Some definitions. Humanity is granted a bit of luck in surviving as long as possible without any implausible or contrived coincidences. At least one creature that is biologically human must exist. (Closer to humans than Neanderthals are) Consider Evolution, Genetic upgrading and Apocalyptic events. Humans are not expected to instantly see the error of their ways and unite in common harmony. EDIT Current earth is the starting condition. Humans are still evolving and progress towards genetic modification and artificial intelligence is very fast. 

The sun's larger mass makes it much brighter and also causes the earth to spiral inwards. In short you don't have that long to move away. The largest stars, those around 100 solar masses, can last as little as several hundred thousand years. $URL$ At this mass, the earth will be scorched in days as it falls inwards. If the whitehole can't add mass at a rate of 100 solar masses per day, then its rate is the main factor. In short you don't move the earth, most of it is useless rock and the energy needed would melt the surface. Much better to pack up the important bits, and leave, now. (the important bits could be all buildings, all life and most of the soil or just a hundred humans with the bare minimum tech needed to live) 

Water density in the air is peanuts compared to a nearby ocean, even during a heavy rainstorm. A $1/r^3$ or $1/r^4$ force would make the effect of a storm more significant. A water elemental leaving the ocean is like a human climbing a mountain. It's "uphill" all the way from the centre of mass of the ocean. Being at the edge of the ocean is like a human having climbed up a vertical shaft from the centre of the Earth. However, the ocean is more like a thin disc than a sphere of water, so getting to the edge takes you farther from more of it. Unlike climbing outward from a sphere (where your weight will peak at the surface), your weight will probably drop off some as you approach the shore (especially since coastal water is shallower). However, with a $1/r^2$ force, the difference between getting to the edge and going another kilometre beyond is less significant than with a sphere. You're already pretty far from most of the water, so the total pull you feel doesn't drop off as much with distance from the shore. (So again, a $1/r^2$ force isn't going to give you much of a "break free of the ocean" effect). If a Water elemental can "climb" more easily through water than by walking on land, it's going to be much easier to leave the ocean by going up-river until they're near an equilibrium between a large lake and the ocean. 

With all or even most of these you will likely survive with no serious harm. (sense also required) It might not stand a direct strike but no missile commander is going to attack a house that is miles from anywhere. 

All of these scenarios require a large pile of woolly thinking, or at least some startling coincidences to happen. If you can get to another planet, you have tech more advanced than ours, if you can get to another solar system then your tech is far more advanced. A colony on another world will almost certainly need advanced technology to survive, like space suits, unless the world is almost identical to earth. Ether this is made locally or it is shipped in. If high tech resources are shipped in from earth, then you are a small outpost of a thriving world, otherwise you have set up your own high tech society. It is possible that radio noise could force you to use fiber optics not wireless, or that a shortage of uranium makes fission unusable, but overall tech levels are unchanged. If we are lucky enough to find an exceptionally habitable planet around a nearby star, we wouldn't have good reason to consider it habitable until we sent probes there. We can tell its the right temperature and as breathable air; but toxic spores, global oceans, or nothing edible are all likely options. Furthermore what technologies are required to send such an interstellar voyage. Sending such a craft at relativistic speed requires vast amounts of energy, warping space into wormholes requires even more. If you have that sort of energy then growing food with lots of bulbs, sending cargo around within a solar system or mining and refining large amounts of rock take trivial amounts in comparison. You also have advanced life support and recycling systems to support the crew for the voyage. Faced with these technologies we would be capable of setting up a large industrial base on mars, and survive any event short of a major collision on earth. (Any event that doesn't boil the oceans and melt the crust should be survivable in a well equipped bunker or sub.) Therefor we only need to go interstellar for survival when faced with something that will trash the entire solar system, like a rouge black hole. Even in this scenario it may be wiser to pull over to an asteroid and start mining when you arrive in a new star system. The only circumstances in which this makes any sense is if a manned capsule is bolted on to an interstellar probe in a last desperate attempt to survive after the black hole is found days away, no significant planing, just YOU, MOVE, NOW. Then you need some critical component in the air system to fail just as they reach the planet (no spares or fixes), leaving them a choice of bail or suffocate. In short we will not have to rebuild tech on an alien world unless a series of flukes forces us down the narrow line between fine and dead. 

If you want more of a "break free" effect, maybe have the force proportional to $1/r^3$ (inverse cube, like the force between two magnets) instead of the usual inverse square (gravity, electrostatic force). Or even $1/r^4$ or whatever you want. It can still scale linearly with mass the way gravity (${G M m}/{r^2}$) does, you just vary the scaling with distance. That would also make it plausible for small nearby things (like fireballs) to have more of an effect than the Sun's pull. (Which only affects fire Elementals, not the Earth's orbit around the Sun, so would tend to pull fire Elementals off the surface during the day, counterbalanced by the pull of magma and stuff underground). It's completely plausible for a force to have very different scaling with distance than gravity. Just don't call it gravity! For example, the Weak nuclear force is very short-range because the force-carrying particles have non-zero rest mass (unlike the photons that carry the electromagnetic force. This is why the electroweak force is unified at high energies: there is enough free energy for pair-production of the force carriers, so they can pop up like photons). I'm not saying you should go into that much detail (better to be vague than obviously wrong to people that know the subject), just that non-gravity-like forces happen without magic. So you could even have a force that's more or less inverse-square over short ranges, but falls off dramatically at a certain distance. There have also been proposed theories of gravity that modify it slightly over astronomical distances to explain things like the Pioneer (space probe) anomaly. (That's now pretty conclusively explained by thermal radiation pressure, ruling out some of the gravitational theories.) 

Using the Gauss formulation of the law of gravitation. The integral of the inward force over a surface is equal to the mass within it. If you have a simply connected spacetime you can expand your volume untill it fills all of space ( even with a non simple spacetime you can fill all of space except a few surfaces and assuming continuous gravitation, no singularities) Then the surface integral becomes 0. The universe must contain the same amount of positive and negative mass. If we consider a wraparound square universe containing only a small mass then the gravitational pulls in each direction are infinite, but these cancel to yield a finite gravitational pull. However if the mass is non spherical and rotating, tidal forces fall off inverse cube, mass in a shell increases with the square of distance.Consider two shells of identical thickness but radius differing by a factor of 10. While the mass 10x further gives only 1/1000th of the force per mass, there is 100X more mass and so 1/10 the force. The total force from all the shells is some constant*(1/1+1/2+1/3+1/4...1/n) which diverges to infinity. These arguments prohibit any wraparound or infinite isotropic universe with locally normal gravity from having existed an infinite time with no damping effects on the propagation of gravity. 

Give your ghosts gravitational but not inertial mass. With no inertial mass there is no kinetic energy. Ghosts can't fall because there is no other form of energy for the potential energy to become. 

CO2 partial-pressure is also a big deal for humans. If it's too high, CO2 won't diffuse out of the bloodstream back into the air in the lungs, leading to changes in blood acidity as more CO2 builds up. CO2 toxicity is a thing. It's nowhere near as bad as carbon monoxide, and I haven't yet found a reliable number on CO2 partial pressure that would be dangerous. What I've found so far suggests that increasing oxygen partial-pressure wouldn't compensate for increased CO2 partial-pressure very much or at all. 

Another plausible explanation for scaling different than inverse-square: extra spatial dimensions. i.e. direction(s) that Elemental stuff can move in that's perpendicular to x, y, and z. Inverse-square scaling happens because the area of a sphere scales with the square of radius. In 4-dimensional space, the analog of a sphere has a 3-D analog of area (actually a volume) that scales with the cube of radius. So if the force (and force-carrying virtual particles) spread out in a 4th spatial dimension, it would scale as $1/r^3$. And you can still use the word "gravity" if you like. Real theories have been proposed with properties like this, especially String Theory's extra dimensions which are "rolled up" / curved back on themselves, which limits the strength of the effect. One proposed effect is/was gravity being slightly weaker than $1/r^2$ over astronomical scales. For this case, presumably it's a dimension that only Elementals can move in, not ordinary matter. So it can have a strong effect on Elementals without affecting normal physics. Perhaps moving in this dimension takes you between worlds, or between elemental planes and Earth. Of course, it's easy to introduce inconsistencies if you aren't careful. (e.g. if there are lots of Elementals only a couple km away, they would exert some pull on Earth's air / water / fire / earth. (Assuming this force affects the inert element with an equal and opposite force to what the Elemental feels, otherwise you're violating conservation of momentum and conservation of energy.) Anyway, safer to just have the force carrying particles / fields spread out into the extra dimension(s), and not have the Elementals able to move along it. Otherwise they could bypass walls by going around them using this extra dimension, and stuff like that. 

Wipe out the microbes Another way of considering the situation is that if you have a spaceship large enough to move hundreds of humans and going at say 0.01c then the energy released by the retro rockets slowing down is easily enough to cook the surface, killing off any life in the process. (If aimed at the planet) Even without this there are other ways to wipe out unfriendly microbes. Places in the universe where you can survive without a spacesuit (or at least breathing equipment) will be few and far between. 

Assumptions As carbon and water are very common, and have a complex chemistry, we will assume that the aliens are carbon and water based. The aliens evolved, as opposed to being designed by other aliens. The aliens are intelligent and developing tech. The aliens are not technologically advanced enough to modify their biology. Deductions The aliens intelligence requires some organ to store and process data. While the human brain is far from the theoretical limits of computing, it would be hard for a biological system to be much smaller or more efficient. (in the same way that cheetahs are far slower than light the ultimate speed limit, but biology can't go much faster) So the aliens could be a bit smaller than us up to elephant or so. The aliens can't be arbitrarily big because of ... to be continued 

An infinite amount of power sustained for a non zero amount of time is an infinite amount of energy, which would collapse into a black hole of infinite mass. This would cause space-time to collapse in on itself. Lets assume that you have a finitely powerful weapon. To protect yourself either: 1) use more shielding 2) turn the power down to a manageable level 3) be a long long way away (missile)