One way to give the council leverage is to have an alternative claimant to the throne. For instance, like in the wars of the roses, or during the early years of Elizabeth's reign. The alternative is living somewhere safe, where the King can't touch him/her and the only reason he stays King is because the majority of the Barons (who make up the council) support his claim instead of the alternative's. This means that if the King steps too far out of line, the Barons can always switch allegiances, depose the King and bring over the alternative. If the King is already looking over his shoulder due to high taxes, and poor foreign policy, then you have a situation where he can't afford to start a war. You can tie things up neatly by actually putting the alternative claimant in the neighbouring country that the King wants to attack. If relations are poor, the neighbouring King has plenty of reason to want to offer the claimant asylum and maybe marry them to some daughter he has lying around. It would also offer the King extra incentive to want to attack the neighbour, since he could then get rid of the claimant and cement his hold on the throne. 

For us, the existence of their world is a great surprise, but they have been observing us for a long time, using their magic. Most people don't care about our pathetic little attempts to emulate proper magic with our so called "technology", and focus on more interesting alternate realities to spy on. However, a small sect of religious zealots is obsessed with our reality and think that magic has corrupted their world. They have learned our languages and consider them superior to their own. You can even make this the mechanism by which your hero is transported over. They have been searching for centuries for a way to bring someone over from our world to serve as a savior who will rid their world of the corrupting effect of magic. It also sets up a nice conflict if they're basically a bunch of terrorist maniacs, and your hero has no intention of co-operating. 

The most tricky thing is to get rid of the animals that are the most like humans, ie. big mammals. After that, it becomes easier to discriminate. step 1, big mammals Design a deadly strain of Pertussis that is transferable between species, but is still vulnerable to the standard DTP vaccine. Since most humans will be vacinated, the loss of human life will be negligable, but the animals should go very quickly. In order to hit as many species, the trick can be repeated with other diseases that most humans are vaccinated for. step 2, big non-mammals Since a cross-species virus is plenty challenging, the best we can probably hope for is to get rid of all mammals. Luckily, for anything that is too dissimilar from a human for our cross species virus to work, we can simply tailor a virus to that species or kingdom: if our pertussis won't jump to the lizards, the lizard virus won't jump to the humans either. step 3, insects Animals below a certain size (mosquitoes, beetles) will be impossible to eradicate by virus. Luckily, we can use size as a discriminator: we spray the planet with DDT. Sure, this will give most humans cancer, but they'll live. The smaller animals won't be able to metabolize the poison and will die. Just find the maximum level of DDT that can be introduced without immediately killing humans. After this, anything that's still alive should have its ecosystem so thoroughly disrupted that they will struggle to cope. 

War with North Korea, IS or Iran The government will be too slow to react. They will need at least a day to figure out for themselves what has happened and by that time, the footage will be all over the internet. Eventually they will just send in the military to control the site and muscle everybody out. After a day or two of saying that the investigation is under way and we shouldn't draw conclusions prematurely, the president will finally hold a press conference and declare that the evidence is clear: this was an ICBM with a nuclear warhead, launched from one of the countries above (whichever one is most probable at the moment, least popular, and most likely to cause a lengthy quagmire). The president declares war immediately, and gets some quick "coalition of the willing" on board to get a semblance of international support. The war is then used as an excuse to "temporarily" limit internet activity and unnecessary free speech. In the state of national emergency, the CIA can slowly go about their business of sanitizing and massaging the record of information. Various sites claiming to possess evidence that the war was started under false pretences will be shut down because they were discovered to be run by enemy spies. These efforts will escalate the US into a more totalitarian state, but the uncertainty will be effective enough to make everybody think that the UFO theory is too fantastical to be true. Any national and international enemies created along the way can easily be silenced using the technology gathered from the crashed spacecraft. 

The House Vegetarian Activities Committee Many answers have been given, most of them pretty practical and uninvasive (considering). But practical and uninvasive is not what governments are going for with these kinds of laws. Sure you can instute mandatory public meat eating, but that's like making a communist salute the flag. They'll eat the meatloaf to escape detection, but inside they're still deeply, morally corrupt. The question is not whether they're behaving like vegetarians, but whether they are thinking like vegetarians. What we need to do, is get at at the heart of the matter. Root out these vegetarians. Investigate every inch of their lives, until the weight of evidence can be used to force them to admit their wicked ideals. Then, force them to give up all their vegetarian comrades, that they met at their surreptitious soy buffets, and keep going until every last seitan shyster is in chains. Yes, we may have to relax some of those civil liberties that the intellectuals are so keen on, but when it's those civil liberties that the Vegetarians are using to erode the moral fiber of our proud carnivorous nation, I say that's a risk worth taking. 

In the early days of the Manhattan project, there was a brief scare, based on some calculations by Edward Teller, that an atomic bomb would ignite the atmosphere. They later redid the calculations and concluded that the probability was very small (something like one in three million). What if we lived in the universe where that improbable event happened, and the Trinity test ignited the atmosphere in the way that Teller predicted? 

Blue Reserves Hold out a little bit longer. Say until three generations of Reds have lived in the formerly Blue land. Then start start publicly re-evalutating your past actions: yes, the invasion was wrong, those were more barbaric times. And both sides did terrible things. And now, both sides have lived here for generations: the land belongs to everybody. Of course we can't just let the Blue into the government as is: they live in slums. They're terrorists. They're uneducated. They don't understand the complex business of government. Tell you what: we'll set up a series of scholarships for promising Blue youths, to go to the finest schools in the land, and be educated about our system and our values. Of course, we realize that the blue way of life, the blue traditions and values are under threat. So we make a deal: we'll create reserves for them. Pieces of land, that they can do with as they please, where they can live in their traditional ways, with none of our modern Red technologies. We'll purposely choose Blue traditionalists and ludditesas leader of these reserves. They'll get fertile lands, but no commercial, industrial or intellectual value, nothing close to any major city. The idea is to create small, isolated communities of technologically backwards people to buy off our guilt. Small communities that young people can't wait to leave to integrate into the Red society. Before long, the invasion will be a bad thing that happened in the past. Something to remember, but not something you can blame the current government for. And they have reserves now, to preserve their way of life. And if they don't want to live there, they're welcome in the cities. They'll get the same chances as everybody else. Of course, if you want to make a promotion, it's not a good idea to rub your Blue religion in people's faces. It just makes them uncomfortable. You might even consider converting, if you really want to climb the ladder. 

I would suggest that the tail would be well armored. So well, indeed, that it might use up the 12kg weight budget. If any is left over, it should probably be used to attach a shield. This lets you put an additional layer of armor about a meter away from your back, which should be handy to block arrows. If the top of the shield is sharpened and strengthened, the warrior can, if necessary swing the tail over his head as an emergency melee weapon. If the opponent doesn't have a tail, the battle is suddenly no longer symmetrical. If the warrior is fighting multiple people at once, from different directions, he can incorporate a swing with the tail into a quick turn, to keep everybody at a distance. I can't think of many animals that use their tails defensively (the Ankylosaurus is the only one that comes to mind). This is probably because a the more mobile it is, the more vulnerable it is. 

I'm going to assume that you have access to water. If not, I don't think you'll make it a year anyway. If you do, you can build a water clock: 

Make a bowl out of clay, metal or wood with some extra weight (you have a whole planet at your disposal, I'm sure you can find something) and poke a hole in the bottom. Do a few runs, counting mississippis to see how long the bow takes to become submerged. This is your smallest unit of time, which you can convert to seconds. Just spend a couple of days watching the bowl and emptying it each time it becomes submerged, and you can figure out how long a day is. 

I imagine these kinds of Dyson spheres very close to the star. This means that if you could use one cubic km of matter for each square km of the sphere, about six earths would be enough to cover the sun. You wouldn't have to travel interstellar distances to get 6 earths of mass. You can also use a geometric progression to help you out. If one square km section of sphere gets you enough energy over say, 20 years, to collect 2 cubic kms of matter from somewhere in the solar system and fashion them into two more sections of sphere, you could have the whole sphere finished in 800 years. Also, the nice thing about a Dyson sphere is that you can leave bits of it open. For instance, with half a Dyson sphere, you can cover only the far side of the sun and capture vast amounts of energy without changing our own blue skies. 

If we assume, as mentioned in other answers that things like the industrial revolution would still have progressed in more of less the same way, although perhaps a bit slower, we might make it to the start of the 20th century in more or less the same way. However once the first World War kicks off, we run into some serious trouble. As much as we hate to admit it in Europe, the American support was a major influence in beating back the Germans (and then once more). The resources supplied by an entire continent beyond the reach of the Germans played major part in lasting out the war of attrition. Nevertheless, the allied forces might have been able to bring Germany to its knees with a longer war. But what if Nazism (or something similar) would still have arisen? I'm no historian, but I don't think WW2 could have been won without a steady supply chain from the America's. England would have been starved in no time, which would possibly have stopped Russia from switching sides. I'm sure the Nazis would have ruined things for themselves eventually, since they weren't actually that good at running a country, but from that point on the landscape would definitely have looked very different. From that point on there's any number of "what if the Nazis had won" scenarios to choose from. 

It's very simple: you just need an accurate accelerometer. This is known as an inertial navigation system. Acceleration is measurable without external reference points. Just make sure to measure your starting speed $v_0$ accurately when you're still navigating out of the solar system, before you turn on the warp drive. From then, you just look at the accelerometer, and compute your new speed from the measured acceleration: for every second of acceleration at $a\;ms^{-2}$, you add $a$ to $v_0$. If you're accelerating in complicated ways, you'll need one accelerometer per axis. If you get close to a planet you'll need to correct for the planet's gravity, but then you have an external reference, so you can recalibrate. 

If you use laser propulsion to get them to 0.6c, odds are that's the only realistic technology for the job. If you have a better system that works halfway between the sun and Alpha Centauri on whatever power you brought with you, then why not use that to accelerate you as well? I propose a symmetric solution. Take a small craft (the shuttle) that contains everything your settlers need to build their colony. Figure out what's needed to accelerate that to 0.6c by laser propulsion. Take the whole package (shuttle + laser), and make that your spaceship. Presumably, the majority of mass will be taken up by the laser. Build one big-ass laser in the solar system (perhaps powered by a partial Dyson sphere) and accelerate the whole thing to 0.6c. Once it gets half way, use the onboard laser to decelerate the shuttle. The rest of the craft travels in to space at 0.6c forever (no doubt bearing a plaque with naked people on it). To make things a little more economical, the first trip might just contain a load of robots and a second laser to be put into orbit around Alpha Centauri. After that's in place, you can send supplies and people back and forth more economically: using one laser to accelerate, and one to decelerate, 

Since the poor souls in this universe were very unlucky, we can allow them some luck in the little time they have to save themselves: being in the right time at the right place, and so on. The odds are obviously against humanity, so they might catch a little break here and there, but we assume only one spectacular coincidence. EDIT: I'm going to slightly move the goalposts here (with apologies to the authors of the existing answers), because we're getting into discussions about the nuclear physics, which I had hoped to avoid. So let's add the following: the test causes a very, very slightly self sustaining nuclear reaction. Technically, this would increase exponentially, but the rate is so slow that the result looks more like the world being on fire than the world blowing up. Can some quick-thinking American get word to some quick thinking Indian, ahead of the wavefront of the fire? Is there somewhere people with advanced warning can seal themselves off with a supply of oxygen and some plants? There's no need to make the point that survival is very unlikely, but given a little luck, is there a way that we could just pull through, or at least cling on for a few more weeks. EDIT2: To be even more blunt: this question is not about physics, it is about logistics. The Trinity test just gives us a convenient point in time (ie. level of technology), and a basic mechanism to work off to set the parameters. The question is, if the atmosphere were on fire, would there be some way of surviving. How would we get the message out of America? How much time would people in Europe and Asia have? What structures existing in 1945 would allow one to survive until the atmosphere had burnt up. If you're in India, and you get word that the world will be in flames in an hour, what actions should you take?