Yes, they do degrade over time. Unfortunately, various brands and different storage conditions yield different results, so I'm not able to give an estimation of how long can you safely store a tube. How ever, I can recommend the conditions that appeared to give best results. The tubes I could use after long time of storage without problems where those that I kept in my room, which being in a tropical country, had temperatures of 15°-25° Celsius. They where obviously far from paints, solvents or oils, where taken out of bags and kept on a small plastic basket. Those that came in a cardboard box, where kept in the box. Also, at buy time, they where dark gray and with a subtle shine. Negative results where obtained with tubes that where kept outside the house, in a dusty environment and subjected to humidity but not direct sunlight. (And there were paints, oils and solvents nearby, though not in an enclosed storage) Also, tubes that had dull surface and where very dark (i.e. black) at buy time where the ones that failed shortly after installed, almost regardless of whether they where used immediately or after a time stored. Due to this, I suspect that they where already chemically damaged (And today I'm reluctant to use/buy a tube that looks this way). Another observation is that Tubes I stored inside of plastic bags where found stuck to themselves and with a sticky or gooey surface after a year or so. Upon inflation (outside a tire) those tubes that where badly stored shown one or more of the following tale signs: - They stretch irregularly, with bulges, instead of uniform diameter. - Crackled surface. - Irregular surface (different color and/or texture in certain spots). - Apparent punctures, i.e. what visually appeared to be holes but did not leak when water tested. 

As far as My experience gets on mountain biking, cheap steel is more resistant than cheap aluminum, with expensive parts the story changes a lot because many different alloys are used by different manufacturers or even the same manufacturer changes the formula among models. The advantage of steel anyway is that it can be safely unbent as long as the deformation is not too dramatic. However, in my case, most of the bent chainrings come from hitting objects on rough trails, except one time that it was due to one of the chainring bolts comming off. I have been kind of a masher myself, but I have never bent a chainring due to pedaling force (I have broken a couple cheap freewheels due to this instead). So I think some other factor may be affecting your problem. A couple of them are: 

It all comes down to tolerances and cost/benefit. On a highly engineered vehicle or machine, parts are subjected to tremendous forces, very near to the maximum point of resistance a piece can withstand. Tolerances are very tight in many aspects. Forces, temperatures, etc. For those machines, cost of replacement of parts, or repair due to damage from neglected maintenance (or catastrophic failure, for that matters) is high enough to justify the needed research to determine optimum procedures and supplies (lubricants, cleaners, catalysts, specific tools). But in bicycles, which are a fairly simple mechanism, many of the components are far from material and design limits, specially for non competitive riders, there are very loose tolerances. So, the whole industry doesn't need to be that specific about procedures, the cost/benefit relationship simply does not justify the research. On the other hand, the simplicity of the bicycle, and its ubiquitous-ness makes it both possible and necessary that there are so many alternatives for maintenance. I mean, there is the top competitive rider in a fully sponsored team, and the humble commuter who lives in a sub-developed region, far away from any bike shop or even a hardware store or gas station. From that follows that there exist the specific, "optimum" lubricant for an 4 hour race stage, but there is also a rider who has been lubricating the same chain with, grease from some animal for ten years (Exaggerating just for the sake of the argument). And they both have used the best that they could and they both may swear that it works. From that point on, all "objectivity" decays, because you'll find riders all over a spectrum not even limited by this two examples. But this is not a phenomenon exclusive to cycling. Consider for example how many debates exist in automotive industry. Compare how tight standards are in motoring respect to cycling (in general). Now compare aviation to motoring. Space transport to aviation... 

I know the question is about road bikes, but I submit some of my experience as MTB rider hoping to trow a little light on the subject. As a mountain biker who has used a variety of components ranging from lower end cheap products to middle range stuff, I have noticed some differences in wheels, but especially in technical trails, rock gardens and the like. In the case of mountain biking, wheel rigidity helps maneuverability, and the rider gets a more precise feeling and at least, the sensation of a faster bike reaction to rider's input. A more rigid wheel assembly also gives the rider a lot better feedback about the bike's interaction with the terrain. In mountain biking, wheel flex has the effect of fading the smallest vibrations produced in the tire-ground interface. This effect is further amplified trough suspension components, so it gets more difficult to "feel" when a tire is about to skid or to determine if you can get faster over the current ground type. Such kind of assembly can also introduce estrange vibrations thus causing incorrect feedback. (I used a wheelset that constantly gave me the false sensation of rolling on a flat tire, even if the tire was properly or overinflated) As for pedaling, I noticed a little side to side flex when climbing the steepest sections. Another aspect of it, is that a flexing wheel, specially a cheap one, is more prone to material fatigue and failure. Wheel flex is a result of the quality in the materials used and the labor qualifications while assembling, so even high end materials can be turned into a under performing wheel by inexpert or lousy labor. A properly assembled wheel will perform correctly and also will need to be trued less often. (For example, a guy once assembled a XC wheel set for me, using aluminum rims and 36 common steel spokes, which I abused with downhill use, including 3+ feet drops and very long loose rock sections, and they only had needed to be trued once after 3 years of use, and I really could tell whether they needed it because the bike uses V-brakes!) As for road bikes, I have little experience, but I guess most of this still applies. 

I have yet another option that uses GoogleMaps or Google Earth in the route designing phase, but another app in the Android. I Use Wikiloc for that (Just search the term "Wikiloc"). Wikiloc is a service for tracking sport routes and shraring them. You install the app in your phone for tracking and navigating. You can upload the routes that you record or keep them localy. If you want to import a route that was designed in other application, like Google Earth, just save the path as a .gpx file and copy it to your Android's device storage, then use your device's file browser to open the file. If Wikiloc is the default app for opening GPX files, it will automatically import the track, and allow you to follow it later. I have used it for mountain biking, and it has allowed me to follow routes traced by somebody else. I just have to import them into my phone. Remember tracks are saved with a tag that indicates the sport on wich the route was recorded. In your case you would use "Cycling Transport" (There are also "Cycling" meant for Road Cycling and "Mountain Biking"). Once you have your account and trace (or upload?) your first route, Wikiloc will send a notification to your email when other people post routes that that are close to yours, and that is why I recommend it. You can also browse their website for routes previously uploaded. Besides Wikiloc I use another app called Endomondo to keep a record of my rides and commutes. It is also sports based but oriented to training, so it saves a history that you can review later to analyze your performance or simply have an online registry of how much you have ridden, walked, ran, etc. A couple of times I have copied a path from Endomondo to Wikiloc by using the method described above, I just export a gpx file from the Endomondo's web site and open it with Wikiloc. (If done from the phone, use a browser, I haven't yet foud a way of exporting the gpx from within the app). Links: $URL$ $URL$ 

If a nipple came off, what happened to the loose spoke? Have you been riding with one spoke missing? If that is the case, then you have to get that fixed some time, and for that you will have to remove the tire ans the rim strip, getting access to the holes through which the nipples are installed in the first place. You then replace the nipple with a new one as you install the replacement spoke. (If it came of there is a huge possibility either the spoke or nipple threads where damaged in the incident). If you got the spoke replaced already, then the nipple must have been removed at the time, if not, well, the only doable thing would be precisely remove the tire and rimstrip just to take the nipple out. Simply consider that the nipple's head is bigger than any hole in the outside wall of the rim (the one that is visible even with the tire installed) , except for the valve hole, so there is no way of taking it out without removing at least the valve, (and there is not a single technique known to me to remove a valve that does not need removing also the tire), so I would save the mental exercise and just take the tire off. 

It most likely is a freewheel failure. If your bike has 7 or less cogs in the rear it almost surely is a freewheel. If it has 8 it may be freewheel or freehub. 9 or more cogs almost always a freehub. The failure shown in the video may be caused by 2 things: 

I agree with previous answers, cross the leg behind you. But, if there is a reason for which you prefer to do it crossing the leg in front of you, in the final dismount movement, I recommend to hop out of the saddle and land with both feet on the ground more or less at the same time but with one in front of the other (Preferably the one that crossed from the other side should be in front). This maneuver should allow you to quickly star the run or walk prior to the complete stop. 

Photo of a freewheel showing the ratcheting mechanism components In the first case dropping penetrating oil into the ratcheting mechanism may free the pawls, but it is not guaranteed. The correct solution is to open the ratchet, clean it thoroughly and re build it using fresh lube. Opening a freewheel is a delicate thing, requieres either special tools or the ability to "hack" common tools without damaging the freewheel. Normally a freewheel has a lot of loose balls and tiny parts, and reassembly requires mechanic skill. In the second case, it may be better to swap the freewheel, because they usually are very affordable. To remove a freewheel a special tool is required, a tool that normally only bike mechanics and bike shops have. The tool has splines that fit inside the center part of the freewheel and allow to spin it backwards. The tool should not be expensive though. Consider that to properly diagnose which is causing the failure, the freewheel must be opened anyway. In some bike shops the wage they charge for "repairing" a freewheel may be higher than the price of a new one. The same concepts apply to a freehub, since the ratcheting mechanism is very similar. However, changing a freehub is more expensive because the whole wheel has to be disassembled and re-laced. What is the difference between a freewheel and a freehub? The location of the ratcheting mechanism. Freewheels contain a ratcheting mechanism inside the cogs, and are just screwed into the hub. This link shows an image of a freewheel removed from the hub Notice the threads in the hub and the rear of the freewheel and also the splines in the freewheel. These splines are for the removal tool. Cassettes on the contrary are a single unit with no mechanism, the ratchet instead is placed in the hub. When the hub has a ratcheting mechanism it is called a freehub. In this case the cassette slides into splines in one side of the hub and held in place by a lockring. Photo of a cassette removed from the hub Notice the splines that transmit movement from the cogs to the "freebody", the part of the freehub that can spin backwards. Following the next link for a very complete guide: Park Tools' guide to removal and installation of freewheels and cassettes 

This happens to be my particular area of expertise! ;) I have built several bikes buying part by part achieving competitive machines at much as half the price of the competitor! But let's start by not misleading anyone, there is no such thing as a free meal, everything needs a compromise. In my case, I sacrificed looks, trends and time to finally obtain my sweet rides, but it has totally worth it. First, you have to define a strategy, so, decide why you want a custom built bike. In this case you have stated that you have budget limitations, but for someone else it could be performance, medical or physiological reasons, vanity, etc... Since your motivation is budget (the same as mine) you have to decide what compromises you are willing to make. Here are my tips: 

After making sure your handlebar is properly centered in the stem clamp and it is not bent (from a crash for example) locate the bike over the lines of a straight and well installed tiled floor. Use the crossed pattern as a guide: Align the front wheel with lengthwise lines and compare the handlebar ends with a crossed line. As the Handlebar halves are longer than most stems, any misalignment would be magnified at the ends, thus making it easier to "see" the error and correct it. To further increase the "precision" of this technique, use only one eye, and try to align that eye with the vertical plane of the front wheel, that means shifting your head an approximately inch to one side. 

Indeed It should work. The other answers address chainline correction options for the rear end, but I know at least two for the front side: Usually two big rings in a triple, or the two rings of a double would be fixed by a single set of bolts. That means the chainring bolts are long enough to hold 2 chainrings. When going to hold only one, it may happen that the bolts are too long, so you may need spacers to fill up the gap. These spacers can be used to fine tune the chainline in the front side. Also, if the bottom bracket is the old cup and bearing style, the cups can be adjusted to provide a few millimeters of adjustment. Shimano sealed BB's can be shifted side to side by adding Bottom Bracket spacers, which should be really cheap. I will mention a third one, although the OP clearly states that wants a lean budget approach, chainline can also be altered by swapping the bottom bracket cartridge or axle. (Can be done low budget if using secondhand parts).