When the animals are not seen to have been killed for oneself When someone is not told by other people that an animal has been killed for himself When one does not suspect an animal has been killed for oneself 

Is this the result of engaging in particular sexual behavior such as (frequent) casual sex, infidelity, etc? How can someone take rebirth as or become a gay/lesbian when s/he is not in the first place? 

If one is having sexual relationship with minor (protected by parents) and parents disapprove the relationship, that is breaching of the third precept. What if an adult child having a (sexual) relationship with someone without the consent of their parents, of course everyone has their rights, but the question is is this breaking the third precept? 

It is said that merit transfer is a later development. We reap what we sow, it is not possible for the merit to be transferred. Is it true any recipient will not be able to receive any merit that is done and transferred by someone? 

How are we supposed to respond to forced conversion, is the choice completely personal or did Buddha ever talk about this i.e. conversion or death? If someone chooses death over conversion to other religion, would that be the same as killing oneself or not maintaining loving kindness toward oneself and others? 

What are the differences/similarities in the concept of faith as used in Buddhism and Christianity? Faith is an English word. It is defined in Oxford Dictionaries: Definition of faith in English: 1 Complete trust or confidence in someone or something. 2 Strong belief in the doctrines of a religion, based on spiritual conviction rather than proof. 2.1[count noun]A particular religion. ‘the Christian faith’ 2.2[count noun]A strongly held belief. Definitions 2, 2.1 and 2.2 are applicable to faith in Christianity. These definitions are not applicable to Buddhism because there is no God in Buddhism. This gets further complicated by the fact that there are numerous Buddhist traditions. Dhamma of Lord Buddha (Sammasambudda), 'four noble truths' (Cattari Ariyasaccani), from which all Buddhist traditions have been developed after the Parinibbana (extinction without remainder), does not entertain faith or beliefs in any form. Dhamma is without beliefs. 

Is it possible to use meditation to gain Self control? I would like to define the words meditation and 'Self control' before answering the question. Definition of meditate is: Focus one’s mind for a period of time, in silence or with the aid of chanting, for religious or spiritual purposes or as a method of relaxation [Oxford Dictionaries] Self-control: The ability to control oneself, in particular one’s emotions and desires, especially in difficult situations [Oxford Dictionaries] According to the above definition meditation and self-control are not related. So my answer to the question is no. 

Buddhism is about having in-body experiences not out-of-body experiences. Psychedelics distort one's experience/perspective of reality and Buddhism is about experiencing reality for what it really is. Thus psychedelic drugs are the opposite of the dharma path and not used by monks or nuns. 

Being mindful means being awake to the present moment. When you are sleeping and/or dreaming you are not awake nor are you awake to the present moment. I do not think that there are any monks that are mindful when sleeping. 

For me personally, things really changed once I joined a sangha. I view the joining of a sangha (Taking Refuge in the sangha) as the moment I became a Zen Buddhist. 

I am 32 and I live in Florida. Florida is full of older people and they outnumber us 20s and 30s year olds. As for Buddhism, the ratio stays pretty consistent to the overall demographic. In my sangha of over one hundred, and I maybe one of three people under 40 years old. Our local university often sends students to experience the sangha for extra credit, but they rarely stay past the assignment. However I have started a wake up sangha for people in their 20s and 30s (www.wkup.org) here in Fort Myers, and the wake up sanghas do seem to be growing. 

What, precisely, is kamma/karma? There is no answer to the above question: Kamma is not in the Oxford Dictionaries. Thus its meaning is dependent on the user. Karma is defined in the Oxford Dictionary, thus: Definition of karma in English: karma 1[mass noun] (in Hinduism and Buddhism) the sum of a person's actions in this and previous states of existence, viewed as deciding their fate in future existences. Wikipedia defines it as follows: Karma (Sanskrit: कर्म; IPA: [ˈkərmə] ( listen); Pali: kamma) means action, work or deed;[1] it also refers to the spiritual principle of cause and effect where intent and actions of an individual (cause) influence the future of that individual (effect).[2] Good intent and good deed contribute to good karma and future happiness, while bad intent and bad deed contribute to bad karma and future suffering.[3][4] Karma is closely associated with the idea of rebirth in many schools of Asian religions.[5] In these schools, karma in the present affects one's future in the current life, as well as the nature and quality of future lives - one's saṃsāra.[6] With origins in ancient India, karma is a key concept in Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism,[7] and Taoism.[8]. There is no precise definition for Karma. The word Kamma is not found in the Nikaya Texts of Theravada; however, it is found in compounds. A word kammaṃ is found in the Nikaya texts. The words cetanāhaṃ bhikkave kammaṃ vadāmi is an example of usage. The meaning of the word is not understood is clear from the discussion. 

This weekend I will be attending my first retreat with Zen monks. It is at a camp ground and I will be camping in a tent for the weekend. Does anyone have any advice on attending a retreat for the first time? Is there anything I should expect, or bring that I might not think of? Any advice or experiences with retreats and facing monks for the first time will be appreciated. May you be happy. Bowing to you. 

When you are chanting you are breathing differently then when you are not. When you are chanting your body is vibrating differently then when you are not. It makes reasonable sense that the differences in breathing and vibrating could cause "tingling feelings" in your body that would not be there when breathing normally. This is a very normal event. 

Yes the sensation is a normal condition. It is just muscle/nerve spasms. They may be happening throughout the day but go largely unnoticed. They are also at level of neuron firings so you typically will not be able to see them physically. During meditation you are probably more aware of the tiny changes in your body. One thing I notice during meditation is how loud my stomach has been this last week. The more you become aware of them the more intense they will probably appear to manifest. Unless it is a medical condition such as a hemifacial spasm they will typically go away on their own. 

Four great elements : what is the other 2 elements? In the Nikaya Texts, there is a term called 'Cattari Mahabhutani'(four Mahabhuta). These Mahabhutani consitute Rupa. (See Sammaditthi Sutta). A being (human being is an instance) is defined in terms of six Dhatus. It is Cattari Mahabhutani and Akasa and Vinnana Dhatus (Caddhaturo Ayam Puriso) (See for example Bhahudhatukasuttam.) However, there are no meaningful translations of these Suttas in any language. These Suttas could be understood only by Lord Buddha's direct disciples, who listened to Lord Buddha in person. This non-understanding is the reason for the existence numerous Buddhist traditions and sects. 

"Are there any body who achieved Nibbana currently (in the current world). If so give one or two names, please". The easiest answer to the above question is to say 'Not known'. However, please consider the following. The name Lord Buddha (Bhagava Buddho) gave to his teaching is Dhamma-Vinaya. Dhamma cannot be understood because it is based on: Dukkha Ariyasacca. Dukkha (dukkham) cannot be translated into English. See the following quote from the entry, Dukkha in the PED. B. (nt.; but pl. also dukkhā, e. g. S i.23; Sn 728; Dh 202, 203, 221. Spelling dukha (after sukha) at Dh 83, 203). There is no word in English covering the same ground as Dukkha does in Pali. Our modern words are too specialised, too limited, and usually too strong. Sukha & dukkha are ease and dis-ease (but we use disease in another sense); or wealth and ilth from well & ill (but we have now lost ilth); or wellbeing and ill-ness (but illness means something else in English). We are forced, therefore, in translation to use half synonyms, no one of which is exact. Dukkha is equally mental & physical. Pain is too predominantly physical, sorrow too exclusively mental, but in some connections they have to be used in default of any more exact rendering. Discomfort, suffering, ill, and trouble can occasionally be used in certain connections. Misery, distress, agony, affliction and woe are never right. They are all much too strong & are only mental (see Mrs. Rh. D. Bud. Psy. 83 -- 86, quoting Ledi Sadaw). Ariyasacca is usually given the English Equivalent 'Noble Truth'. The term 'noble truth' is not in Oxford Dictionaries. That means it is not an English word. No one understands the Dukkha Ariyasacca, therefore they cannot understand Nibbana. Therefore the question is meaningless. 

Science is really the Scientific Method. The Scientific Method is: Observations Hypotheses Predictions Experiments Analysis As a Zen Buddhist, specifically Vietnamese Engaged Buddhism here is what I see. Most all of the studies (book, dharma talks, dharma sharing, sutra) have the elements listed above. A typical dharma talk (whether oral or written into a book) discusses observations. These observations lead to "insight" or a hypothesis/predictions about the true nature of reality/the mind/etc. Every dharma talk I have ever heard in zen has always asked us to take these insights and test them. Apply them in your life and see the outcome for yourself. I am not just told theories but asked to practice them. This is the Experiments phase. Then I am always asked to examine the practice to see the fruits of my effort. This is Analysis. So basically I find that Zen Buddhism follows the scientific method quite perfectly. Thus I would say any Zen text could be considered a scientific text by the standards of the scientific method. Now of course you are asking for a single book that "none Buddhist can read to understand that philosophy better". As a Zen Buddhist, this is pretty all-encompassing of Zen Buddhism: The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching by Thich Nhat Hanh. I read this book with non-buddhist weekly, as well as read this book with monastics. The approach in this book follows the methods I described above and is written in a way that is very approachable regardless of your skill level in the practice. Here is the Table of Contents of the Book so you can see what is all covered. Part One The Four Noble Truths Chapter One Entering the Heart of the Buddha Chapter Two The First Dharma Talk Chapter Three The Four Noble Truths Chapter Four Understanding the Buddha's Teachings Chapter FiveIs Everything Suffering? Chapter Six Stopping, Calming, Resting, Healing Chapter Seven Touching Our Suffering Chapter Eight Realizing Well-Being Part Two The Noble Eightfold Path Chapter Nine Right View Chapter Ten Right Thinking Chapter Eleven Right Mindfulness Chapter Twelve Right Speech Chapter Thirteen Right Action Chapter Fourteen Right Diligence Chapter Fifteen Right Concentration Chapter Sixteen Right Livelihood Part Three Other Basic Buddhist Teachings Chapter Seventeen The Two Truths Chapter Eighteen The Three Dharma Seals Chapter Nineteen The Three Doors of Liberation Chapter Twenty The Three Bodies of Buddha Chapter Twenty-One The Three Jewels Chapter Twenty-Two The Four Immeasurable Minds Chapter Twenty-Three The Five Aggregates Chapter Twenty-Four The Five Powers Chapter Twenty-Five The Six Paramitas Chapter Twenty-Six The Seven Factors ofAwakening Chapter Twenty-Seven The Twelve Links of Interdependent Co-Arising Chapter Twenty-Eight Touching the Buddha Within 

What is Sat-Dharma? Sat-Dharma is most probably a Sanskrit word. I am not sure what it means because I use the Theravada canon. In the Theravada canon there is a word saddhamma. Most probably that is what the question refers to. The meaning of Saddhamma is: Dhamma of Sappurisa. A Sappurisa is a person who has two qualities called Hiri and Ottappa. There are no English equivalents for these two words. Rough equivalents are: (1) Hiri: shame shyness. Hiri prevents one from transgressing social norms, family traditions etc: (2) Ottappa is fear of wrong-doing. An Asappurisa is a person who has no Hiri and Ottappa. Above explanations are based on the sayings attributed to the Lord Buddha (Bhagava Buddho) in the Theravada canon. 

"What are the “Qualities of the Buddha”?" Qualities of 'Bhagava Araham Sammasambuddho' is infinite and cannot be known by any human being. Please see Sampasadaniya Sutta of Digha Nikaya. The expression "qualities of the Buddha" belong to English Buddhism. Oxford Dictionaries define the 'the Buddha' as a historical figure that lived about 25 centuries ago-his birth date or the date of death is unknown. However, the Tipitaka published by the Pali Text Society refer to a Bhagava Araham Sammasambuddho, in the Sutta and Vinaya Pitakas. Most of the words in the two Pitakas are utterences of Bhagava; the word means a spiritual teacher. Human beings who have no clue to even the physical form of Bhagava, what would they know about his mind?