Because of a specific bus Schedule, I can either arrive at work at 7h25 or 8h55. Leaving work is a bit more flexible. I do not want to work until 5pm on an average day, so I'm usually aiming for a 7h30-15h30 work day. Very few people actually show up that early, most people seem to like 9-5 more. I personally never call meetings before 9h30 in the morning, because some members of my team would not be there on time. That just seems logical. On the other hand, the "optional" hours at the end of the day (after 3h30pm) don't seem off limits. Many people call meetings during those hours. I guess it's easier to ask someone to stay a bit later today, than it is to figure out how to reach them before they come in to make them get to the office earlier. I'm pretty sure nobody is trying to be inconvenient here. There are meetings at almost any hour of the day. One specific person probably figures "well, 15h30-16h30 is the most convenient, and X won't mind staying a bit later today, he'll have less work to do the rest of the week!". That makes sense. I wouldn't mind every now and then. But in my position, I happen to have to attend meetings with many different groups of people, and of course different meeting organisers. The accumulation of those really screw up my Schedule. Of course, I could just invite some of those people to 7h30am meetings, in a passive-agressive way, but that's really not something I'd be comfortable with doing. There's also the same problem with people who seem to notice when I'm about to leave the office, and choose that specific time to come see me and ask questions about work (that could have been asked earlier or could wait until tomorrow without creating problems), or just to discuss work-related things, which also force me to stay later, while of course the same never happens to them in the morning. So the Question is: How can I politely make people understand that if they aren't willing or able to get to work earlier for some tasks, they shouldn't expect me to stay later for those same tasks? Of course, feel free to tell me if I'm the one being unreasonable. I don't think I am, but I could be wrong. 

If someone has just got his diploma, usually his resume will contain very few actual work experience in his field. Most student jobs are not in your field of work, so they are barely relevant to a resume. The only purpose of putting them there is to show you do work, not to show off any relevant skills (except interpersonal skills or generic skills like being reliable). So when you leave university to look for your full-time job, your education on your resume is significant. How significant is the time you needed to complete your studies? For example, if you studied in a program that usually takes 6 semesters (3 years), and you failed a few classes, you might have taken 4 years instead of 3. If you were working part-time during school, you might have done fewer classes per semester, and thus needed 4 or 5 years to complete it. On the other hand, if you took extra classes and summer classes, and ended up doing it in only 2 years, this is also a big difference. I always put the dates (just the years) of everything I did on my resume. If I add the dates I was in university, will it be a red flag to have done it faster or slower than expected? I could imagine en employer being cautious of someone who needed 2 extra years to get his diploma, but I could also imagine an employer seeing this as proof that this person doesn't give up or something. The same goes for shorter duration, I could see it going both ways. So how significant is the duration on your resume, and specifically is shorter always good or bad? What about longer? Should you leave out the dates completely in some cases to avoid hurting your case? 

You are probably not covered by workers compensation. So if you are injured on the job you will be SOL. There is no paper trail of your wages. Thus you have no proof that you have been paid at all (or even the correct amount) for your labor (and/or that the correct deductions have been made). You are now screwed by any situation that requires you to show proof of income and/or taxes. When your employer ditches you, you would not be able to collect any sort of unemployment benefit. If you continue to work under the table it could reflect badly on how future employers perceive your integrity. At the end of the year you will be responsible for paying all the taxes that were not with-held from your wages. Unless you are very strict with your budgeting you will find it hard to come up with the needed cash at tax time next year. You are also not paying into Social Security, so you can nix that when it comes time to retire. 

My best option (and probably not something you can do) is to remote desktop into various windows systems from my Mac even though they are physically next to me. 

Basically I would want to know about the stability of the workplace and whether working at a client's site adds inconvenience that you don't know about. EG the company office may be 5 minutes from your home, but it would suck if the client is 2 hours away and you have eat that extra commute time yourself. 

While the non-compete may be a standard clause, that does not mean it is necessarily valid or enforceable. Take a read of Non-compete clause and see if your locale is mentioned with regards to validity1 I am unfortunate to live in a locale where they are enforceable. But the last time I had to sign one I talked the company down from 1 year as a part of the negotiations. Personally I disagree with them and the durations they try for, but sometimes you have to just go with it. 

Given that no-one with authority has taken you off this task I would continue to work on it. However there seems to be a couple of things that we don't know 

Suspicious is one thing, proof is an altogether different thing. I am not condoning vandalism, but unless you have proof that it was done at work then involving HR is the wrong thing to do as it establishes a baseline of 

Yes it is fair to ask for more money if you are going to be inconvenienced by the move. It is also fair for your boss to say no to any increase. There are many online resources that can estimate the cost of living in a particular city. You should do a comparison between here and there and come up with a fair difference in $$ that you would worse off in moving. In that way you can say to your boss "Look boss, by making this move I would effectively taking a pay cut of $$ compared to where I am now". This will give you hard numbers with which to negotiate with your boss and will sound a lot better than "Hey boss, I just want more $$". Also you haven't mentioned you company paying expenses for you to move. This is also something that you should be talking to your boss about. The only caveat is that it sounds like you are still living at home, in which case (if you are living at home) your boss could counter with how you have already been $$ better off in free rent etc. Personally I don't believe that this is a fair argument, but I am not sure how you would counter it. 

The worst they can say is no. However you can predict what their answer will be based on several factors. For one, and probably most importantly, if they still have a position open. And secondly, going to largely depend on how you left the company. If you put in your two weeks, and left on good notice, then it's going to come down really to whether or not they have a position open. When you quit a job, always make sure you don't burn any bridges. That means giving them a two weeks notice, and never telling them that you dislike them or anything. However, for future employers don't tell them that you were "frustrated" with your last job. Instead, just say you left to pursue new opportunities. Remember, don't ever say anything bad about your last company. 

I honestly don't think it is relevant to list Undergrad degrees when you have a master. I would just list the masters. The part about you pursuing a phd is quite important because it would tell a employer that you plan to pursue it and potentially limit your work schedule and/or work at different hours. 

I recently quit from my first job out of college. I been there nearly a decade. I do miss the place and sometimes feel a bit of "emptiness" when I think back on it. I miss the people and the place a little. Then I think about why I quit there. I think about the things I do dislike and realize I made a wise choice. I think when you depart, you sort of only remember the good things. That's natural to do. I remember a lot of good things about my previous employer. But then I remember the bad things that made me want to leave and I know I made a wise choice for the better. I recall a research done. I looked up information like you did on quitting and I recall reading a research that some folks talk really, really bad about their employer and quit on those grounds. Then shortly after they realize they made a terrible mistake and the last job was actually really good. I think what these research fail to see is that people quit a job to a new job without researching the new job. They just jumped on the chance for a new job since they were angry with their current employer. I would say so long as you don't do that, you should be okay. The feeling generally goes away after a few months or so, at least for me. 

Maybe some things aren't meant to be a "learning" opportunity. Rather it is what it is and there is nothing to be "learned" from it. It sounds like your manager is telling you to take the "chillax" approach to things. So the IT department can't handle your request. That sounds great. Just tell that to whoever requested it. Just say, "Hey, I just submitted something to IT and they're saying I have to give a reason to fit the goal of the company. Here's what I said..." Then just chillax. Your part of it is done. I would say bureaucratic nonsense is hardly a "learning experience" because everywhere is different. I suppose you could "learn" something by it. First, don't expect anything immediately and think of it like oiling a really jammed up gear. Just slowly drip oil in it, and eventually it'll loosen up. Might take a long time, sure, but the most important thing is not to get frustrated by it. Just slowly keep at it, and slowly things will start moving. It sounds like your boss is cluing you in that things aren't suppose to move fast just yet so you shouldn't worry too much. He didn't say you were doing a bad job, just complaining about it too much because you want things done too soon when it isn't suppose to.