Have your parter attach an ATC with a carabiner to the belay loop in her harness (if your partner is otherwise engaged, you can tie the ATC and carabiner to a rock or tree with some webbing). Push one end of the rope through the ATC in the way you'd use it to belay (through the top of the ATC, around the carabiner, and back out through the ATC). Pull the full rope length through the system. 

I don't usually care too much about making a pee stop if I'm hiking (I just don't mind). In the last couple of years, however, I've taken on running and have since ran a marathon and a handful of half-marathons (and a one-minute pee break is a lot when you're trying to beat your own record). Pro-advice for hydration usually falls under two big categories: 

We have a new puppy and can't wait to take him to TGO. Since he's still growing he'll grow out of any harness that fits at the moment. I'm considering tying a harness out of webbing, but all instructions I've found so far require D rings, stitching and cutting. But aside from my current needs I'd really like to know how to tie a makeshift hoist harness for my dog in case I ever need it. How can I tie a one-piece harness out of webbing? Some tidbits: 

One other fixed cost, transportation to/from the trail: For me, that means 2 one-way flights at ~$400/each. 

For me, the cons kill quilts - I like zipping into my mummy bag and not having to worry about lying perfectly still :) I think in summer trips, they are a pretty awesome idea... I always end up half out of my mummy bag anyways, no matter how light it is, so why not? 

I've been surprised by how durable tent floors are. I've never used footprints, and I have a silnylon-floored tent (i.e. not very durable material) that has lasted hundreds of nights and still doesn't have any holes or thin spots. So really, I would call it wasted money and weight in your pack to carry a footprint. If you forsee using the tent in "fast pack" configuration, i.e. no tent body, then consider getting the footprint just for that. 

You can do this and leave it on until the end of your trip. Ideally, you don't want to get the setup wet for the first day. If it's pouring out, cover the whole mess with one layer of duct tape. I'm honestly not sure why it works, but I have fixed some horribly nasty blisters with this method and walked for 100s of kilometers afterwards. One particular happened on the Pacific Crest Trail, walking across a desert section, I wore a large circular area off my heel. When I eventually limped to a halt in the first bit of shade I found, this stuff together got me moving again with zero pain. Without fiddling with it, I was able to walk for days afterwards, 30+km per day. 

Several years ago I sprained my ankle. I was lead-climbing a route that was a bit over my technical skills. I was in an overhanging segment above and sideways to my last bolt. I fell, swung, got tangled with the belay rope, started spinning, and hit my foot against the rock. I stopped climbing and started recovery. At this point I became careful about all my physical activities. A month later I embarrassingly fell on even floor in a supermarket and hurt my ankle further. At this point I became a bit fearful. Six months later while trekking I stepped on a loose rock, fell, and hurt myself even further. At this point I became panicked and maybe close to depressed. 

And that's good advice to stay hydrated, but offers little insight into optimizing urination stops. My races so far have taught me quite a bit about how my hydration works. I stress that it's my hydration because I've seen that it works differently for different people, so YMMV. Nonetheless, these are a few tips that may work for you. Many of these tips are often recommended by some professional trainers and long-time athletes: 

May I also add when tying down a tarp, unless it is one of those heavy old canvass tarps, I have always felt most people are doing it wrong. Allow me to explain... When you tie from the ringlets in a high wind (and I don't mean tornado, just decent gusts) you risk the ringlets just ripping loose from the tarp altogether. What I suggest 550 paracord is cheap and strong. Run a length of rope through a ringlet, across the tarp and then threaded through the ringlet across from it. I create a sort of rib cage with the rope across the tarp threaded through the ringlets and then tied down. This way the tarp goes all the way to the ground (long tarp not square) and the loops of the rope are connected to a small handful of metal tent stakes I keep with me. This prevents rips and tears and makes your cover much stronger, and less noisy in the wind. Also, if I may: When tying off a ridgeline such as in the photo I see one more mistake. Notice the rope is wrapped forever around each tree in an attempt to keep it taught and strong? Problem is there is a single strand of rope. Best method is to run several strand across between the two trees for your ridgeline, use less to tie it on either side. You don't need a ton of rope wrapped around each tree, just a couple of good knots. Running several strands across rather than just one is what will strengthen the ridgeline, this is basic engineering. This also has the added advantage of more hang points and side by side which is great for running some bug netting around you inside and underneath your tarp. 

Granted... mountaineering is not really my thing, but I'm still curious: Why would belay devices like the Verso and Reverso useless in this scenario? 

You should run There's a good video from MinutePhysics that explains it all: $URL$ The short(er) version is that the amount of water you "run into" depends only on the distance, which is equal whether you run or walk. But the water falling on top of your head depends on how long you stay in the rain, and you can minimize it by running faster. Also, like Ben Crowell said, the usual motivation for staying dry is to maintain our body temperature. In which case, running is also a better choice since we generate more body heat. 

The one way I know to remove the twists from a climbing rope, requires for the rope not to be hanging nor in use in any way. The procedure is quite simple but may require help from your partner: 

If the GPS is mostly off (i.e. you're only rarely using your GPS app), I think you will get ~2 days of battery life. To get that much battery life, you'd need to do these things: 

I was hoping someone else would offer a more scientific answer, but here's my take on it. You shouldn't need almost any ventilation around the top edge of your wind screen... A few small gaps, or even just a handful of punched holes above the level of your stove should be enough. At the base of your windscreen though, you need a lot of holes to draw air in with. I'm sorry I can't provide specifics, but if you have a windscreen that is failing now, start by adding a few holes at the bottom and retest. Then add a few around the middle/top (~1" above the bottom edge of your pot). Retest until satisfied :)