-> A lot of people want this but work is work, be carefull to dream of a more exiting work and in the end only find something worse. Now lets talk about changing a carreer : what do you want to do? Are there job in this field? If there are job, its is were you live or you will need to relocate? The salary would be good? Don't forget you will start as an inexperienced person so the salary could be low. Talking about it with the coach is a good idea. Having an other opinion will surely help you. Depending on the country some assiociation exist for this topic and you can contact them for free. 

Your coworker chain smoke so one can assume he is addicted and by just asking him directly to stop you will have no result. You can be more subtile in the approch and offer him some mint sweet in order for him to have a better breath. After you propose him several times he should takes the hint. After he took the hint maybe you can talk about it with him in a open/informal discussion, maybe you can suggest him to use e-cigarettes ( that would solve the smelling issue whitout the need of adressing his addinction to nicotine). AFTER having talked about it with your coworker and if there is no result, You should talk about it with your manager, it is his responsability to deal with this kind of issue. First ask your other coworkers in your office if they feel the same way ( the guy smelling smoke has a negative impact on the office), after ask for a formal meeting with your boss. If your boss don't do anything you can ask HR. You should also look up the law of your country. If your coworker smell so much cigarette maybe it can be considered as passive smoking and it is regulated by law ( in some countries). 

If all the above fail, you can try the following ( but there is risk to get bad reputation/ blame/ fired). - change set temperature all the time so it will force your boss to adress the issue. - come to work in short pant and short shirt ( but it should be all the male to do it, not only you). Regarding the law, of course it depend on the contry, but there is usually only a limit of the "acceptable for health" temperature like 35 degree celcius in the office, there is no "confortable". In all the discussion and meeting you should ONLY talk about the AC issue, don't talk about other things ( like you boss being only good toward woman) otherwise it would like you want to get revenge on your boss and not solve this issue. 

It is not your task to manage a coworker, it the the manager's job. So, do your job and if the coworker should help you and doesn't; you need to report him to the management. Yes, "need to report". Because this coworker jeopardize the good fonctionning of the company. If your question is about how to deal personally ( at your level) with the coworker, you should ask "How to deal with lazy cowroker". 

Feedback is normal in the workplace especially when you are new in order for you to adapt to your boss and coworkers ways of working. A rule of thumb for validation could be : 

In a perfect world the salary history is not needed ( only the market average for this position compared to your set of skills is). But for must HR/headhunter it is very important and it is part of the process : they need to communicate the number internally to the department manager. Most of the HR won't give your application to the departement manager until they know what is salary ( because the manager need to know if they have enough money to pay you). If you refuse to answer ( saying it is confidential) it will for sure hurt (maybe a little -delay- maybe a lot - stop the interview process-) your application. One solution to avoid the "confidential" answer or to reveal your exact salary ( which could hurt the salary expectation) is to give a package revenue range : Dear XXX My current package is around 150k-200k (including salary, benefits, bonus that may fluctuate). Note : Never reply directly to the question saying "it is confidential", "i can only give a range, it is acceptable?" . Because it means your email will need another emails to clarify until the HR got what she wants. It is better to give directly the package range. 

Regarding jobs you are not qualified: Yes, you should apply. Usually in a job description there would be a lot of requirement but it doesn't mean that if you don't have all this skills they won't hire you. IMO a good rule is : if you have 60% (or more) of the skills you should apply. Regarding jobs you are not interested: Why are you not interested? Because of the skills required? The level of the position? Because the company is too big( or too small)? I suggest to apply to every jobs that seems in your reach. A job description is not everything, meeting the people you will work with ( especially your boss that if your are young can become a mentor) is also very important. 

A lot of people get hired after an intership ( because it is a (almost)free trial for the company and for you a way to show your potention). So doing an internship for something you dislike will be a non sense. Best of luck. 

About the AC: The same issue happened in Scandinavia 2 or 3 years ago: Male coworker complain they were sweating because of hot temperature and the obligation to wear uniform long pant whereas they wanted to wear short pant. Female coworker were at this time allowed to wear dress. Management refused to listen to the male coworker stating that the long pant was part of the job. Male coworker decided to wear skirt to protest. Management couldn't forbid them to wear the dress otherwise they could be subject to court claim about gender inequality. So in the end the mangement changed the rules and male can now wear short pants. The example is kind of extreme and should only be used when ALL negociations fails. What you and you male coworker do need to do ( in order of importance) : 

When asked about your salary, you can say : I am sorry but this part is confidential in my contract due to special benefit so i can't disclose this information. But i can tell you, dear recruter, that i am expecting XXX USD/ year. 

How can I defuse this situation and re-establish my authority as their manager, while staying true to self-organizing and team empowerment principles of agile? Since when are you the manager of this team? I don't think a team will rebel against the direct manager for a desagreement over only 1 topic. The issue might be more severe than just the agile method. This is something critical for a manager and you need to adress it, it should be your number one priority for the next weeks. Your n+1, n+2 are on leave for several month? maybe it influenced your team to rebel. What is the financial status of your company ? ( if it is bad, employees might think you are doing a bad job and can do better without you). what to do : - organise a meeting with all the team : "scrum master told me you want to fire me, what is going on?". (it is very important you adress the topic to everybody since they all know it and if affects the daily work). -identify the real issue (only this agile method or you have some issue with the team before?). -once you know the real issue, you need to investigate : who is right? you or your employees? -identify who is the leader of this rebellion ( there is always an employee that is defying the autorities more than the others). If you think he is out of line you need to take disciplinary action.