One caveat is that for more accurate calculations, it's important to remember that for strongly oblate planets, the radial variation of the gravity field does not vary strictly as $1/r^2$ but will deviate significantly at shorter distances, and so the period will not scale precisely as $a^{3/2}.$ For a spherically symmetric body, no matter what the radial profile you can put all of the mass at the center point instead of integrating throughout the sphere, as long as you are outside of it. This is called the Shell Theorem first proven by Sir Isaac Newton. But the oblate figure is only cylindrically symmetric, not spherically symmetric, so you actually do have to integrate the force from every point within the planet. Most of this will already be captured in the $J_2$ term, and so I've just asked Equation for orbital period around oblate bodies, based on J2? 

The answer by @comprehensible nicely states that whatever the effect might be, it is related to your camera. Of course the moon's light has a spectrum all the time, just like the sun, but we don't see it until we look through some dispersive material or object. I thought I would just add a little back-up information as well. I took your photo and rotated, cropped, and flipped it left-right on my laptop, then made 1D plots of the three color channels (R, G, B) normalized to local (R+G+B) by projecting down to the new x-axis. Note that this is very unscientifically done, but it's still interesting. If the dispersion were diffraction, then moving away from the moon you'd expect to see the order B, G, R, B... since diffraction peaks are at larger angles for longer wavelengths. It would repeat if there were multiple orders. Of course this is messy geometry and the source (the moon) is very wide, so this is only guessing. Surprisingly, this is the order that appears! So it's possible that there is some periodic pattern somewhere on the lens or in the camera. Since the characteristic size of one cycle is of the order of the diameter of the moon or about 0.01 radian, if there scratches or streaks on the lens the period owould be of the order of 100 wavelengths. There is an obvious periodicity in the camera's CCD (assuming it's not a film camera) but then the ray tracing would be more complicated (multiple reflections) and this simple analysis wouldn't work. This is just speculation, and thin film interferece can also produce color effects also, and non-uniform thickness (like a soap bubble) can make color gradients as well. Also note, our perception of color is a complex subject, and while our eye and brain together try to reconstruct a rich color behavior, the simple up and down wiggles of the intensity in the three color channels of your camera's sensor is all that is actually in the photo. The color modulation is quite strong, so I am guessing that whatever is producing the 1 directional flair is also the thing that has the periodicity. Why don't you try a similar experiment and point at strongly overexposed LEDs or maybe street lights (Sodium or Mercury vapor) and see if you get a clearer effect. This would be just for fun. This is just an artifact of your camera and has nothing to do with the moon. 

One thing to double check is if you can see stars easily at night from the same location. If there are city lights nearby, combined with humidity or dust you can have a bright sky due to terrestrial effects. Another thing to consider is the time needed for dark adaptation. If you walk from a brightly lit room out under a dark sky, you can't see many stars right away. There needs to be time for your eyes to adapt to the dark. If you were looking at the screen of a camera or phone or another light source, that would further slow down the adaptation process. The astrometric data for the 1919 eclipse test of General Relativity was done with a telescope, not the naked eye. Stars are unresolved, which means that no matter what magnification, they are still small points of light who's size (visual or on film) is determined by other effects, like diffraction, aberrations and focus as well as the resolution of the retina or the film. In short, they stay small. However, sky brightness is reduced by magnification squared. If you expand a patch of sky by 10X then each point is 100 times dimmer. Both of these are offset by the increase in light from the larger aperture of the telescope, but its mostly the sky brightness that decreases with magnification. The interesting stars were the ones closest to the Sun, because they would have the largest deflection, which was really small, only of the order of one second of arc. There the problem was the brightness of the solar corona, more than the sky. If you look closely at the photographic negative below, you can see pairs of faint horizontal lines. In the middle of each pair is the position of a star to be observed. Even with the telescope and extended photographic exposure, the images are faint. 

Advantages of the Gregorian include the option of putting a field stop at the primary focus, helpful when viewing near bright, interfering sources of light, and providing an upright, non-inverted image. In either the convex/Cassegrain-type or concave/Gregorian type of system, the curved secondary mirror provides several important advantages, including: 

The excellent YouTube video Transiting Exoplanet Survey Satellite (TESS) nicely explains how TESS operates and will slowly tile the celestial sphere. below: From see TESS Operations. Click for full size. 

So I understand that this is a false color image, and the image at 4.6-micron is overlaid using red. So I should really ask: why is Comet C/2014 Q2 (Lovejoy) (and probably many) comet actually bright at 4.6 microns "...owing to a combination of gas and dust in the comet's coma." Is the gas fluorescing and the dust scattering? Or is this thermal radiation from the dust? The explanation in quotes doesn't really explain why "the red color is caused by the strong signal (around) 4.6-micron wavelength (is) owing to a combination of gas and dust in the comet's coma." 

X-ray navigation XNAV is being look at as a source of navigational data for spacecraft in deep space that does not require measurements and telemetry from a deep space facility on Earth. While a spacecraft could not easily receive radio pulses from a pulsar without a very large antenna to overcome the thermal noise in the receiver's front-end, a suitable X-ray detector could potentially build up timing data from several pulsars. Since a spacecraft is usually moving without thrust under gravitational forces from known bodies, an instantaneous fix is not needed and data could be collected for several minutes or even longer. While radio pulses from pulsars are generally periodic, there are transient phenomena that can be related to infall of ionized material interracting with the magnetic field causing bumps and wiggles of individual radio pulses, which may have a bearing on X-ray time structure as well. And so I am speculating that these transient deviations in a Pulsar's otherwise regular behavior would be of relevance to technology development for both deep space exploration and business development. However, while intermittent download of data from spacecraft could be considered Transient GHz Emissions, it would not be considered Astrophysical. NOTE: The variability is in the production of electromagnetic radiation in a pulsar's incredibly intense magnetic field (radio) and at the surface (X-ray) produced during the infall of matter along the field lines towards the magnetic poles. The underlying rotation of the neutron star and it's field are still quite regular. 

The data there list a series of HST WFC3 measurements of a variety of KBO objects of potential interest as the next target for [New Horizons][], including 20 measurements tracking the motion of 2014 MU69 of on between and . The measurements alternate between 348 seconds using filter F606W, and 373 seconds using filter F814W, and both using the aperture UVIS2. The tabulated system throughputs for the aperture/filter combinations are plotted below. Clearly two color measurements are made and the "redness" is established based on green-red vs NIR brightness. In the last slide shown above (#6 from the press release slides a "redness" scale is devised, with 2014 MU69 falling roughly half-way between Pluto and Mars! 

Question: Where can I see - or even download - a fairly high resolution (~0.1 nm) solar spectrum at zero air mass - in other words from space without absorption and other features from the Earth's atmosphere? Of particular interest is the near infrared around 750-780nm. Is the "A" Fraunhofer line due to absorption by oxygen in the Sun's atmosphere, or in Earth's? The background discussion below shows some examples, but these are not directly from scientific sources and I have a hunch they are from observations on Earth's surface below the atmosphere. Background: Studies of photosynthesis on Earth using spectrometers in satellites measure solar flux induced fluorescence from foliage during the day, taking advantage of certain bands in the solar spectrum that are relatively "dark". GOME-2 For example, the Fraunhofer line labeled "A" below is produced by absorption by oxygen, but it is not clear to me if it is the oxygen in the Suns atmosphere or the Earth's atmosphere that's producing this line. The images below are spectra of sunlight with various instruments of widely different resolutions, and because the absorption is narrow, the apparent depth is a function of resolution rather than reality. 

When I was young (I won't tell you when) I saw one of the four Galilean moons of Jupiter suddenly disappear while watching through a small refractor. It wasn't a coincidence, I'd seen the prediction in some announcements in Sky and Telescope and it happened like clockwork. The orbital plane of the Galilean moons had rotated so that it included the Sun, and the moons were Eclipsing each other, or so I remember. Will this happen again? If so, when will they start, and where can I find predictions of individual eclipses? 

For this question, I think a good working definition of co-orbital configuration would be two bodies orbiting around a third much larger body in a 1:1 resonance and where neither mass is negligible. In other words, you can't really say that either one is at the other's $L_3$ because they are interacting with each other more as equals. I found this article in the New Scientist in my first on-line search, but it has a retraction at the top. Just for example, here is a theoretical analysis of stability in an ArXiv preprint on the subject: Dynamics of two planets in co-orbital motion. With the caveats above (which I think are fairly standard for the term "co-orbital planet") have any been discovered? edit: Have any new candidates been at least identified or proposed? 

The Earth's axis precesses around the ecliptic pole due to gravitational interaction between the Earth's tilted equatorial bulge and (mostly) the Sun. There is also a faster and much smaller amplitude nutation. 

Has the merger of neutron star binaries been necessary to explain abundances of the heavy elements such as gold and platinum, or is this just an anecdotal item? How important are binary neutron stars for the abundances of heavy elements such as gold? Is there a particular or notable paper I can read on this? I have already read this answer but I'm looking for a better explanation of the need for this kind of merger to explain abundances. I'm pretty sure there is nothing in any observed gamma ray events that shows spectral lines of gold or any identifiable heavy element (due to the incredible doppler broadening), so the connection must actually come from simulations. 

I originally wrote "...farthest distance from Earth..." but changed to "observer" in case the occultation was observed from a space telescope. It may not matter much but I didn't want to over-constrain or burden the answer. Right now we're awaiting the results of an attempt to observe the occultation of a roughly 13th magnitude star by a roughly 40 km diameter object in the Kuiper Belt; 2014 MU69. I'm hoping to be able to look up the star's name direct. On it was about 43.294 AU from the Sun, and 42.435 AU from Earth using the JPL Horizons ephemeris I'm wondering, if the occultation was observed, is this the farthest distance from which a solar system body would have been seen to occult a star? 

There's a slight difference, since the Roadster's orbit continues to be refined, and the paper is about evolution over long timescales. However, I think what you really want to know are the times of closest approach when (at least) one orbit is significantly eccentric, and those will not be periodic or come at regular intervals. 

Here is a 25-Feb-2018 screen shot of a map of the Solar System with New Horizon's current position plotted. You can read more about New Horizons at: 

I've asked a question about active sky surveys that might intercept a 2% of 4π patch of sky in the next six months and potentially record this dim (+22 to +26 magnitude) object. I've added a bounty with about one more day on the grace period, the only thing helpful was a comment that suggested I ask for a "database of surveys". Are there any pages that list at least major active surveys? That would be a start at least. 

So for spacecraft in farther Earth's orbits it may be possible to augment or replace GPS or GNSS in general, and for deep space, there is currently no way to autonomously navigate today, so it will be the first. 

What (actually) is precipitable water vapor, and is there a "non-precipitable" component also? Why not just call it "water vapor"? How is it actually measured? It seems to be monitored by radiometers, but I don't understand how that can be used. 

The recently released map of galactic neutral hydrogen density and velocity is really beautiful. The work has been relased by the HI4PI collaboration (HI = neutral hydrogen, $4\pi$ = complete spherical coverage). My question is fairly simple. Looking at the image near the galactic plane, why do I see near the center a green bump on the left and a blue bump on the right, then near the edges of the image a much stronger blue bump on the left and a green bump on the right. In other words, there is a major and a minor peak in the positive radial velocity gas, and a major and a minor peak in the negative radial velocity gas. Does this have some simple geometrical explanation? 

above: Gaia's Imaging system, including mirrors 4, 5 and 6, prisms, diffraction gratings, and CCD array, from here, credit: EADS Astrium. 

above x2: Top: Distance data from JPL's Horizons plotted using Python from here. Bottom: Estimated apparent magnitude using distances from Horizons plus math shown in the text of this answer. Your milage may vary, but probably within +/-2 magnitudes of "official" predictions when they come out.