I think the point is that in logic we don't care about the actual truth or falsity of propositions in the real world, only about the validity of the arguments (whether the move from one proposition to another preserves truth). An argument is strong if the conclusion follows from the premises, regardless their truth value. If you give one or two of "these four examples" referred to (p.46) I might confirm that it is what they mean. 

Truth depends on the meaning of sentences. However the meaning of sentences such as "I am hungry" or "it is raining" depends on the time and place where the sentences are uttered and on the locutor of the sentences. Other sentences could have their meaning depend on the intention of the locutor: "the fridge is empty" could have a different meaning if the intention is to have dinner or to clean the fridge. More generally a sentence has meaning only in context. These aspects are addressed by pragmatics in the philosophy of language. Time is not the only contextual element, and even if it were, it doesn't have to be a discrete instant ("it is raining" must refer to an extended period to be meaningful). Contexts are rather complex entities. For these reasons I don't think applying dirac functions or similar mathematical tools is relevant. Either you consider the sentence and its truth value depends on many aspects, not only instantaneous time, or you consider the proposition (the meaning-bearer associated with the sentence, which could be expressed by specifying all contextual elements) and then a truth value is sufficient. 

You did not find any answer to this question in the literature precisely because it does not concern space-time only, but metaphysical knowledge in general. Philosophers who discuss the fundamental nature of space-time generally assume that metaphysics is open to rational inquiry, while philosophers who think it's not simply don't discuss this specific issue. As for the general debate on metaphysical knowledge: there has always been, throughout history, anti-metaphysical movements: skeptics, quietists, and notably empiricists. Hume's empiricism was anti-metaphysics. Carnap's logical empiricism too. A general argument against metaphysics is underdetermination: if experience cannot tell us which metaphysical package is true because all observable consequences are the same, then how would we know? However the lesson from 20th century and the collapse of logical empiricism is that the problem concerns not only metaphysics but scientific knowledge too. There is no science without metaphysical assumptions, and there is a continuity between metaphysics and fundamental scientific principles. Yet it seems that we can gain scientific knowledge based on other rational principles than experience alone: parsimony, fruitfulness, unification, explanatory power... From then (the 70's) philosophers started doing metaphysics again. There has been crtiticism of this new analytic metaphysics, sometimes dubbed "neo-scholastic" and there are proponents of naturalized metaphysics (you can read Ladyman's "everything must go" on the subject). These authors say that metaphysics should be read from scientific theories and have a role of unifying diverse branches of science and our everyday experience and perhaps common sense intuitions into a coherent picture of the world, and nothing else. It shouldn't be an autonomous discipline that would try to domesticate science. So there are at least two approaches to metaphysical knowledge: either metaphysics as an autonomous rational inquiry, or naturalized metaphysics as an induction from scientific theories (just as science works by induction on experiments). Metaphysics can also be seen as guiding future scientific inquiry (it seems that it was the case in the past, where Einstein had a relationalist conception of space-time when he developed his theory. Boltzman's atomism is another example. However contemporary scientists are much less philosophically educated). Concerning space-time, the point is that precisely physics informs the debates. With relativity theory it is more difficult to defend space substantialism and presentism than before (see the hole argument for example). The success of one theory or the other seem to pull in one metaphysical direction or the other. This seems to show that at least naturalized metaphysics is possible. Concerning our conscious experience: the debate between physicalism, dual aspect theories or neutral monism is pure metaphysics today but maybe neuroscience informed by the philosophy of mind will pull toward one direction or the other? 

The first two are the most often used in contemporary literature. The third is controversial because some would say that abstract objects, such as numbers, are mind-independent too. According to these criteria, the electromagnetic field is concrete: it exists in space and time, enter causal relations, is construed as mind-independent and it is a particular. If now we turn to what philosophers understand by "physical", there are two main approaches: 

Maybe an example will help you: redness is such that necessarily, anything that is red is also colourful. So redness contains colourfulness. Necessarily means that you cannot conceive of something having the first without also having the second. 

Per my understanding, process reliabilism (and externalism more generally) is a form of foundationalism. The question for the foundationalist is: how are our most basic beliefs justified if not by other beliefs? Externalists' answer is that their justification is external to the subject, and process reliabilism is one possible way to implement this idea. Note that if the reliability of belief-forming processes was interpreted as a belief itself (e.g. one believes in the reliability of one's senses) then we'd fall back on a form of (internal) coherentism. However process reliabilism is generally assumed to be a form of externalism, the idea being that we generally trust our senses by default, without forming explicit beliefs on their reliability (although one can acquire beliefs about their lack of reliability in specific situations, such as optical illusions). 

The trick to translate "exactly one thing X" is to say that there's some x that X, and that every thing that X is equal to x. The trick to translate "exactly two things X" is to say that there are some x and y that X, that they are different, and that every thing that X equals either x or y. "Some" is translated by the existential quantifier. "Every"by the universal quantifier. Then all you have to do is attribute predicates to other words such as "circle" "larger" etc. 

You can improve your skills in language parsing by learning a few logical equivalences, without bothering with complex deductions. Here are a few useful rules (I provide examples to illustrate). I use: -> for the conditional, & for conjunction ("and"), v for disjunction ("or"), <-> for equivalent, ~ for negation, (x) for universal quantification, (Ex) for existential quantification. Contraposition 

The second half is saying that for some object x, the relation P is never instantiated with x as the first term (there are no y and z such that Pxyz). To refute the claim just make sure that P applies to all possible objects as first terms. Here P is instantiated for both 0 and 1 as first terms so the model indeed refutes the claim. You can view the negation as applying to both existentials combined (it's not true that there exists a y and a z such that...). 

You can use an "obtain" predicate but it sounds very much like Meinong's distinction between being and existence, and it's not a very popular solution. Predicates are used to denote properties but it is doubtful that existence (or "obtaining") is a property as such. See this article for alternatives: $URL$ 

Russell is saying that there can be no purely logical inference from the existence of some events to the existence of others. You must assume, beyond logical rules, a law connecting these two groups of events. To take an example inspired by your comments on another answer, let p be the proposition that there are some events (for example, that it is raining) and q be the proposition that there are other events (that the floor is wet). If you want to produce a valid argument (a justified inference) from p to q, you need an additional premise "p implies q" (if it's raining, then the floor is wet). This additional premise is what Russell calls "characteristics of the world which are not logically necessary". Indeed, it's not a matter of pure logic that when it's raining the floor is wet. You could imagine a possible world where the floor is never wet when it's raining for whatever reason, perhaps because the laws of physics are different there, and this possible world does not contradict logic (even though it is not our world). As for the technical vocabulary, "necessary" is often analysed as "true in all possible worlds", so your intuitive grasp of logical necessity is correct, but more precisely, something is logically necessary if you cannot conceive a possible world that is logically consistent where that something is false, or, to say it more mundanely, a logical necessity "cannot be false, as a matter of pure logic". An example of logical necessity is the law of non contradiction: "either it is raining or it is not" (at a particular time and place). Laws of nature are not logical necessities, but physical necessities because we can conceive logically possible worlds where they do not hold. Hope this makes sense. 

All birds are green, My dog is a bird Therefore my dog is green This is a valid argument because the conclusion follows from the premises. Yet the premises are false. 

In conclusion I think that your suggestion raises too much questions to be conclusive. The only way we could know if Gödel's result would apply is to construct the kind of ethical system you're talking about, if possible. 

This is related to Agrippa's trilemma which is a traditional problem in epistemology. The trilemma goes like this: every piece of knowledge needs to be justified by another piece of knowledge. If knowledge is possible at all: 

A field in continuus space-time. That would require an infinite memory. Edit (precision following comments): that would require arrays with real-numbers as indexes, which cannot exist on a digital architecture. 

To complete Cort Amon's answer, I would say that there is a difference between reproducing physical phenomena and computing them. Even if all physical systems can be reproduced using some physical material (say you reproduce the structure of a living cell from similar molecular components), that doesn't mean you can compute them. You only make physical copies of physical systems. Imagine that the only way to reproduce consciousness is creating a physical brain made out of similar organic components (neurons, ...) rather than implementing a software on a turing machine. Then strong AI would be impossible: computers are made out of transistors, not neurons, and you won't ever get the same result on a silicon computer, or any turing machine, even though dualism is false. Note that contemporary physics is not computable, or only using strong approximations (and even then you only get probabilities). Also note that cloning a physical system is physically impossible (cf. the no cloning theorem) so even reproduction could be impossible... Edit: here are some reasons why contemporary physics is not computable: 

Panpsychism is the position according to which all material things have consciousness. So the answer to your question depends on what kind of possibility you're thinking of. If logical or conceptual possibility, then yes it's possible (panpsychism is not incoherent). If you mean metaphysically, or physically, or naturally possible, then this is an open question. It might depend on what we mean exactly by consciousness (cognitive/representational abilities? Qualitative experience?) and also by "living" (autonomous subsistance? Self replication? Lineage with biological organisms on earth?). In any case there is no consensus on the question. 

There's no consensus on this, but different answers that correspond to different doctrines. In "the scientific image", van Fraassen actually casts the distinction between empiricism and scientific realism in terms of different positions about the aim of science. For an empiricist, this is to produce empirically adequate theories: theories that could ideally account for all observable phenomena in the universe, whether they are true or not. For a realist, this is to produce true or approximately true theories: theories that not only account for observable phenomena, but also correctly describe the world as it exists independently of us, including unobservable entities. We're not talking about the aim of particular scientists here, nor about the aim of teams of scientists, but about the aim of science as a collective human enterprise. Since scientists can differ in their particular intentions, according to van Fraassen, we should look at scientific practice in general to determine what the aim of science is. He proposes some kind of reconstruction of scientific rationality on the basis of the observation of scientific practice. And since what is the most widely shared attitude among different scientists is the willing to confront their hypotheses to experience, he concludes that the aim of science, as a collective enterprise, is to produce empirically adequate theories: theories that "save the phenomena". As for the explanatory role, this is certainly an important feature of theories, and here again realists and empiricists will disagree: empiricists will tend to view the explanatory power of theories as a byproduct of their empirical adequacy, as you seem to do here, while realists often view it as a justification for our theories truth (the ability of theories to produce good explanations is an indicator of their truth) and will also claim that the truth of our theories explains their empirical adequacy, which is some kind of "meta-explanation". So explanations are more important for realists, whereas empiricists can have a pragmatic approach towards them. But in any case they do not constitute the aim of science, rather, for empiricists, a byproduct, or, for realists, an heuristic to achieve its true aim, which is to produce true or approximately true theories. 

Yes this is correct. A modal statement "it is possible that P" has a truth value that need not be that of P, because the latter depends on whether P obtains in the actual world, whereas the former depends on whether P obtains in at least one possible world. Note though that possible world semantics is just a way to analyse modal statements. One must distinguish the semantics (a mathematical construction that represents what a statement is talking about) and the syntax (the form and construction rules of statements). Modal statements usually don't refer to specific worlds, they only contain "possible" and "necessary" operators, so I would have framed the question differently without mentioning specific worlds. For example, your contradiction example could be "it is possible that P and it is necessary that not-p", which is contradictory. There are indeed proofs in modal logic. You can either use deduction proofs using the axioms of modal logic (there are different axioms associated with different systems, but a common base) or natural deduction rules. Truth tables are the semantics of non-modal logic. Since the semantics of modal logic is different, you cannot use them: you need a possible world semantics. Your two examples are as you say: the first is a logical truth and the second a logical contradiction. You don't even need to interpret the modal operator to know that, and you could have constructed contradictions that are specific to modal logic (such as <>p <=> []~p or p^[]~p) Finally, modal statements have a truth value as a matter of logic, but it is more contentious whether or not they have a truth value as a matter of metaphysics (whether they correspond to something in the world). This depends on the kind of modality involved (nomological necessity, metaphysical necessity...), and some authors deny that they have truth values: they would be a mere way of talking.