I like and recommend following the advice above, but I wanted to add a bit more information to this. Resources for you People most often perform World building to support some other activity - most often either writing a story or building a game. In either case, someone has already gone through the effort of collecting scads of science and reference materials to aid you in your efforts. Try these resources: 

(emphasis mine) If a star barely survived a supernova explosion then no planet would be able to withstand that blast (unless it was sufficiently far away). 

High g's are terribly uncomfortable and dangerous for people not medically cleared John Stapp rocket sled 

Rather than a single value, we probably need to measure the temperature in 3 locations: equator, pole, and 1/2 way in-between. We'd need to account for a range of possible temperatures too, so we'll want values for 

Concept Or for another perspective is based upon The Millennial Project: Colonizing the Galaxy in Eight Easy Steps - specifically the section on a space colony (I believe it is Step 4). Consider the much of the terrestrial radiation shielding comes from its thick atmosphere. If you wished to have an extraterrestrial habitat with the same level of radiation shielding, then it would need about the same amount of radiation shielding. You can create such radiation protection out of gases if you don't mind it being hundreds of miles thick. However, you could build it just 32 feet thick if you use water instead. So imagine a giant hollow water drop. The water serves many essential purposes with radiation shielding being one of them. Interestingly, the water is transparent so it will transmit light for any gardens you wish to grow inside your water drop. Your hollow water drop will require membranes (hopefully self-sealing) on both the outer and inner surfaces to keep the water where you want it. Scaling When I ran through the calculations to find a body whose self-gravitation would completely compensate for an interior membrane pressure of 1 atmosphere, I got something ridiculous like r = 32,000 km. This would be about the size and mass of Uranus. Clearly most of the space of such a large body would be unusable (either that or I made an error in my calculations). So it'd be better if you instead scaled the thing so that the center was still habitable. Unfortunately, the integration requires me to do too much work so let's hope someone else will do it for us. My guess is that it could be as large as 200 - 400 km in diameter. 

The standard material to use for low thermal expansion is Invar Typical TCOE is about 1 ppm/deg K compared to aluminum's 22 ppm, so a shift of 50 C will change such a meter stick by about .005 mm. At the temperature range specified, there are not many candidates which will do better. In principle, a composite ruler made out an 86 cm invar portion and a 14 cm cubic zirconium tungstate section could produce an overall thermal coefficient very close to zero, but at present CZT is only produced in a powder. The obvious approach is not to depend on the material to maintain stability. A ruler with a built-in laser measurement system could be constructed which would use correcting mechanisms such as PZT stacks to produce a stability well under 1 micron. 

The ways of bureaucracies can be exceedingly strange, but at present I doubt that the FAA would have any pre-disaster jurisdiction in terms of regulation. Our green scaly friend is not a machine, flying or otherwise. She is, after all, a non-sentient animal, and as such would be treated like a wild animal. Birds which nest in airports, after all, are not sued or arrested. If she were ridden in controlled airspace, I suspect the pilot would be charged with interfering with flight or endangerment, or something like that. Pretty much the same as would occur if you were to release a large weather balloon near an airport runway. EDIT - Since the question has been modified to ask how a non-sentient dragon flown by a pilot could get certified, I'd say only with difficulty. The problem that jumps out at me is the question of control. Can the pilot guarantee that the dragon will not decide that a passing bird looks tasty and go after it? If the dragon sees another dragon nearby, will it attack its rival? If it's mating season and a possible mate is spotted, will the dragon go looking for love in all the wrong places? Until the pilot can guarantee that none of this can happen, I don't see how permission would be given. It would be roughly equivalent to allowing a mechanical aircraft to operate with a class of autopilot which is known to be unreliable. 

This means that if local pirates do manage to get a ship with the advanced STL engine, then they're likely to kill themselves when they use it without the proper expertise. It also means they won't be able to use the technology in a missile or other lesser ordinance unless they're willing to use the entire ship as the missile. Something that fits the bill Something like the VASIMIR concept powered by a nuclear reactor meets these criteria. 

The most spectacular reactions occur between elements on the lower left and upper right of the periodic table. This means the most energetic reaction should be between Francium and Fluorine $Fr + F \rightarrow FrF +$ a light show. Unfortunately Francium is so rare, there's only about 30 g of it available through the entire mass of the Earth. Since its half-life is 22 minutes, by the time you found your second atom, your first would have already decayed. About the best you can do is to react Cesium with Fluorine. I found a YouTube video of this: $Cs + F \rightarrow CsF +$ a light show. $URL$ 

Imagine a setting in which small caches of learning materials were stored in such a way to survive and be recovered. A very knowledgeable person stumbling upon such a cache, might be able to use that recovered knowledge to improve his life. Of course the written language in such materials would diverge widely from what was in common use. The application of the knowledge in those books would also diverge widely from what was in common use. Imagine a person inventing simple electrical and mechanical devices. In some ways this would appear to be identical to the learned wizards of fantasy settings. Having to learn an ancient language, recovering lost wisdom, controlling vast and mysterious powers that can potentially kill the careless. Yup, sounds like wizardry to me. And like wizardry in a fantasy setting some will fear, avoid, and/or persecute the "magic wielders" while others will try to bend those powers to their own needs/wants/wishes. Putting it another way, people will still be people. As such there will be good people, bad people, and the majority who are somewhere in between the two. 

Extinction event, yes. "Shroud the world", no. At least not as you think. Methane sources are largely of two types: permafrost and oceanic. Permafrost methane, estimated at ~400 GTc, is obviously susceptible to a short-term catastrophic feedback cycle. Oceanic reserves are larger (500 to 2500 GTc) but the thermal inertia of the oceans/rock strata is obviously much greater, so any really widespread methane release would be much slower. Permafrost methane is nearly 50% of the total atmospheric carbon (800 GTc) and since it has a much greater warming effect, ~ 80 to 100 times that of CO2 for decade timespans, releasing it all in a short time would be very, very bad. However, the density of methane is about 0.4 that of CO2, so such a release would have a maximum concentration of 0.1% (2.5 x 400 ppm). Flammable concentrations of methane are in the 5 to 15% range, so global explosions are not an issue, and methane becomes a breathing issue at even higher concentrations (~25%), when it would drop the oxygen content to below about 16%. For breathing considerations, methane can be considered inert, and does not affect respiration the way CO2 does. Runaway permafrost emission is a tricky business, since ice has a very high specific heat, which makes it difficult to heat the entire several hundred meters of permafrost depth quickly. Counteracting this methane release is the fact that methane does degrade to CO2 over a time span of a decade or so, so a release on a longer time scale will produce a cap on peak methane levels (and the greenhouse warming which it would produce). The long-term effect of releasing permafrost methane is an increase of CO2 levels by 50%, to 600 ppmv. However, during the interim, greenhouse warming would presumably greatly increase the water vapor levels, and THAT is the bad news. Water vapor is a much more powerful greenhouse gas than methane, although it also can precipitate easily, which tends to regulate the amount in the atmosphere. So the gas which would shroud the world would be water vapor. 

As stated in Samuel's answer: over a single human lifespan, there will be no change to the star positions measurable by human perceptions. Our instruments and data recording devices will be able to measure the change but that will be of primary interest to scientists and not generally known to the population as a whole. It will be boring to the common person. No star collisions are expected from the Milky Way with Andromeda merger. Stars flying through each other's solar systems would be possible but exceedingly unlikely. You are far more likely to have exciting sky stuff happening in a closed globular cluster. If you still want to use the merger as a "historical setting" and in your story humans have not made it to the stars. You might make a series of solar system close approaches caused by the merger to make the human diaspora possible. With computer simulation, the colonists could predict with some reasonable reliability the trajectory of the stars passing by (will get flung into intergalactic space, which will get flung into the core, and which will remain in the galaxy's habitable area - too close to the center and planets get cooked by supernovae - too far from the center and there's not enough heavier elements to sustain life). 

Thrusters / RCS Spin stabilization (this doesn't help you change orientation but it helps the spacecraft maintain a desired orientation). Momentum wheels (these are not gyroscopes) Control moment gyros (these are not moment wheels) Solar sails (and/or magnetic sails and/or Solar wind sails) Gravity-gradient stabilization (only appropriate when in orbit) Magnetic torquers (only appropriate when in a relatively strong magnetic field - this is not a magsail) Pure passive attitude control (gravity-gradient is one such passive attitude control, but there are others). Off center of mass thrusting (gimbal mounted engine or exhaust vane directed thrust) 

How about inverting your basic premise: "human belief in something can make it happen"? So, within the vicinity of your magic-wielding teens, guns don't work because the bullets travel so fast that they are invisible. And if it can't be seen, it can't be so. Swords work, axes work, arrows work (sort of) armor is impenetrable because it looks impenetrable - but bullets and explosions simply don't register. This will have other implications, and require careful handling. Tanks, for instance, can still crush people, even if they can't shoot them. 

For the dozen or so unmanned space missions I've been involved with, payload density usually ran about the same as water. That does not include boosters. So, as a first cut, you need to figure out the volume of your spacecraft, then multiply by 1000 kg/cubic meter. It's pretty clear that this estimate is not off by an order of magnitude, although the density may be somewhat less. Consider surface ships, which by their nature have densities less than water. Manned space vehicles have much heavier walls (pressure containment) but large voids internally. Also keep in mind that density will probably decrease with increasing size, just as it does with ships. Hull thickness remains fairly constant with size, but hull area only goes up with the square of vehicle dimension. 

It's certainly possible, as long as you allow the width of the river and/or the speed of the river to vary appropriately. Let's say the deep portion is 10 feet deep and 10 yards across. Then the area across the river is 300 square feet. Since water is incompressible, the flow through any area of the river must be constant. So, if the river widens out to 100 yards, the depth must be 1 foot deep for the same flow rate. And anything in between will do. For instance, if the river is running at 1 mph at your shallows, for a narrow section, say, 5 yards across and 5 feet deep (area is 75 square feet) the flow rate must be 4 mph. So you can mix fast, narrow and deep as you like, as long as you keep the overall flow rate the same. 

In one biology class I was asked to envision the history of the Earth for the last many millions of years as a raging battleground between the grasses on one side and the trees on the other. The trees had been advancing steadily on the grasses slowly pruning them back (ha!). Until the grasses enlisted the aid of humans. Now humans are the grasses front line soldiers. We annihilate entire armies of trees - felling them like dead wood, stacking up, and then burning their remains. For our services, humans demand a blood sacrifice from the grasses - we eat their progeny (the grains). 

o.m.'s conclusions are correct (if you like my answer you should up vote his too). Theoretically Yes. Realistically Possibly. Plugging in realistic efficiencies shows that certain sized craft could do this in theory. However, solar power isn't very potent and we don't have a good mechanism for turning solar power into propulsive power. So although physics doesn't forbid it, we don't have anything engineered that could do it now. Assumptions, Constraints, and other trivia I'm not deriving much of this from first principals, I'm starting with my basic background and education. If you need the justification for some of these, please read the references. 

Probably, Yes, & No Probably Meaning, some sort of cellular manipulation, genetic engineering, or other biological magic could probably do this. Yes If it was done, the chloroplasts would generate energy for the being in which they resided and through the same mechanisms that they generate energy for plants (e.g. they'd produce sugars). No Unfortunately, the amount of energy chloroplasts produce is pitifully small compared to what we need. Consider that it takes a corn plant, roughly the dimensions of a human being, 2-3 summer months to produce 1-3 corn cobs. How much energy do these corn cobs possess in terms of keeping a human active, a couple of hours? Or looked at another way, it takes a minimum of an acre of intensive plant farming to generate enough energy to keep a human alive. A human body has roughly $ 1.7 m^2 $ of surface area, only 1/2 ($ 0.85 m^2 $) pointed in one horizontal direction or another. However, due to our body orientation, the Sun mostly shines down on our heads which presents a much smaller surface area available for absorbing energy (estimated at $ 0.25 m^2 $). Meanwhile an acre of crops covers about $ 4050 m^2 $. By that comparison, the chloroplasts might produce 0.06 % of what a human body needs for survival. There is a reason that plants aren't mobile. They don't produce enough energy to move.