Well we can infer a couple of things regarding Russian cryptography in the early 20th century (the inter-war period.) The Austro-Hungarians were able to break the Russians version of a Viginere Cipher (A poly-alphabetic substitution cipher) during the First World War to great effect. What Wikipedia does tell us about Russia's level of encryption sophistication during World War One is that they were at least capable of developing poly-alphabetic ciphers. 

It was less necessary. After all, what pressing reason would the Russians have for adopting trench warfare? They remained on the offensive, strategically speaking, for the duration of their involvement in the war. Simply remaining on the defensive in the East would've suited the Central Powers war aims perfectly - that is to say the Germans were seeking a decision in the West before turning to the East to fight the Russians. The Russians had a strategic imperative to attack in the East in order to prosecute a two-front war (which is ultimately what cost the Central Powers the war). Not attacking would've played into their hands. Their alliance with the French also obligated them to take the offensive. It's also important to note that in the Galician Campaign, the number of trains that were able to available to the Russian to transport materiel to the theatre 

Recorded history begins in the late fourth millenium with the invention of writing in Mesopotamia and Egypt. At the time, kings already existed. So "the first king ever" is from far back in prehistory. There are no records from whenever that was, and so it's impossible to know exactly what happened. In the particular case of the Near East, kings were often considered gods, sons of gods, or became gods after they died. Just one example (from the Sumerian king list): 

Some of these sources are quoted in this article about hair in Jewish sources by Miriam Samuel (Hebrew). While these sources mostly point to short hair for adults, it should also be noted that while women's dress was forbidden to Jewish men (based on Deuteronomy 22:5), there is no discussion of long hair in this context in rabbinic sources, which might also show that it wasn't entirely unusual for men to have long hair. However, an explicit statement on the subject can be found in the writings of Paul the Apostle (I Corinthians 11:14-15), who views short hair as natural for a man and long hair as natural for a woman (however, while Paul was in Jerusalem for some time, he was from Tarsus and didn't stay in Judea). One possible contemporary picture of a Judean is one bust identified, probably incorrectly, as that of Josephus, who was born in Judah and later moved to Rome. Even if Josephus is depicted, it's unclear whether the hairstyle reflects a Judean fashion, or if it was changed to match his later Roman neighbors, but the hairstyle does in fact have a close haircut with no bangs. (I left this paragraph here because it appeared it a previous version of the answer, but the source linked to above claims the identification with Josephus is baseless.) 

So what we know that the schemas in Soviet Russia at the time would be some variants of both poly-alphabetic (e.g Viginere Ciphers) and mono-alphabetic substitution ciphers; as well as codewords which are not ciphers per se, but are forms of encryption. However it is also important to realise that historically commanders may have used simpler ciphers or codes at the local level in order to avoid transmitting in the clear. Whilst the Soviets may have possessed more sophisticated ciphers than a simple Caesar shift (a monoalphabetic substitution ) - they may not have had time, inclination or expertise to encrypt a message fully. Encrypting a message poorly can result in the breaking of an entire cryptographic system - by exposing the underlying logic used to cipher the message. It was quite common in World War One for soldiers to send a message in the clear rather than encrypt them if they did not have the time to do so. 

I wrote a paper related this topic, for peer review. Basically, the general story (maybe "propaganda") of state ritual sacrifice was that those sacrificed were becoming god-like, and so were elevated to the holiest status achievable - perhaps (in a distant way) like suicide bombers today. The Aztecs saw that representing yourself as one of these Divine Powers was a 'holy' thing - but only those representing the 'big 4' divinities had the national stage, and even then the selection process was something of a random lot. No one charged toward it. Being chosen for one of the lesser Divine Powers was probably even less attractive, to the individual. Whether this was a way to 'clear out undesirables' is not yet clear. Certainly, it is known that these people (ixiptla) were drugged. The way that songs were written, and evolved over time, about these ixiptla, we can infer that people took this practices as vital, if not serious, part of the cycle of life. In my paper, I present evidence that the upper classes saw the sacrificial practice as a way to glean necessary insights about the future of the civilization. A mix of augury and science. 

Was Jesus unique? If he was this would then lead to the conclusion that in fact there were no other messianic apocalypse preachers such as himself. We however, know that in fact, if such "messiahs" were indeed very common. Palestine in the first century CE was in fact awash with messianic apocalypse cults. There were were in fact many of these sects existing at the time. That Christianity arose in such a period is indeed no surprise. Carrier describes it eloquently as " yet another messiah cult in the midst of a fad for such cults." Josephus records at least four such other messianic cults and how widely popular they are: "The Samaritan gathered followers and said he would reveal the lost relics of the Temple on Mount Gezirim", which strongly implies that the Samaritans believed in the imminent arrival of a Messiah at this time. "Thuedas gathered followers and claimed he would part the Jordan - another act of obvious messianic significance", Joshua (the original "Jesus") also miraculously parted the Jordan before his conquest of Israel. Josephus also mentions "The Egyptian" who preached from the Mountain of Olives and claimed he would topple the walls of Jerusalem (another allusion to the Joshua symbolism). Preaching from the Mount of Olives also held messianic symbolism. Another 'imposter' mentioned by Josephus (code for : false messiah) gathered followers and promised them salvation if they followed him into the wilderness - a strong reference to Moses and teh Temptation in Exodus. John the Baptist could also be considered yet another messianic figure - who preached the arrival of the Messiah (and by extension, the end times that such a figure would herald). Acts also makes reference to Simon Magus, who is depicted as a messianic pretender. The Dead Sea Scrolls attest to several such cults existing at the time, especially in Qumran where the keepers of the scroll were already expecting the imminent end of the world. Philo of Alexandria also wrote a text adapting the apocalyptic expectations of the time. The Gospels also assume that messianic fervour was so high at the time that many people expected Elijah to walk among them. The reason for this was because of religious scholars, studying of the book of Daniel had come up with a timetable that predicted that the coming of the Messiah would occur sometime in the first century CE. Many of these texts were also used by other cults at the time. That Christianity survived to propagate is really only indicative of natural selection. That it pushed all the right buttons and mixed all the right elements as well as dodging all the bullets is simply a matter of probabilities. It is not a question of uniqueness. By the same token the Arthur myth also widely shaped British culture, but nobody seriously asserts that he was a real historical figure. Make no mistake, 1 CE Palestine was simply awash with these kinds of cults, and and some of the surviving sources that attest to them are Josephus and the Dead Sea Scrolls. The answer to your initial question of was a possible Jesus unique in either the content or context of his life. Absolutely not. The surviving sources (Josephus and the Dead Sea Scrolls) strong imply that this kind of cult was in fact, very commonplace and very popular within the historical context. Most of this is documented in Richard Carriers "On the Historicity of Jesus Or Why We Might Have Reason To Doubt", which collates many sources and examines the historicity and mythicism arguments in detail. $URL$ 

The Mesoamerican Ballgame was played in more-ancient times than the Grecian games (1600 BCE) - but there is not a strong opinion about whether it was played as an inter-nation event in such ancient times. Certainly, for the Aztecs, the ballgame had a ritual significance, also we know that their conduct of ritual was a political stage that hierarchically organized tributes. Those tributes often involved people, that were ultimately used for human sacrifice – and such sacrifice did sometimes occur after these sporting events. 

It is right to understand that this book is a book of title. Internal Affairs First, your assertions that this belongs in a museum are very-evidently part of your friction with those relatives regarding documentation or movement of the book. Many families treat these relics with intense protection, and would consider any outside personnel purely as consultants in the preservation of their family's relics. To such a mindset, transferring such document to another person, even as a service, is maybe what we can call a 'secular form of sacrilege'. If you are uncomfortable with that or cannot grok it, you will not be able to ally with you relatives in any significant way on this matter. In some societies, noble title grants a birthright to land, political interaction, or other affairs. I do know know Spain's noble system well enough to say more. For people that value their family's history with this kind of 'hallowed' conscience, the suggestion that such a relic be appraised for monetary value is just plain insulting. One could ask the question "You would peddle your birthright for a meal?" Preservation I cannot say yes/no if relinquishing this documentation of title to a museum would forfeit your family's title within the royal system of Spain. Preservation of this relic is absolutely critical. If you family has no money to preserve the document, and they have no care for their noble rights, then turning the document over to a museum is a [small] gift to the nation of Spain, as it preserves the history. Preserving History is, itself, an 'act of noble stature'. But preserving the document within the family is the more respectable thing to do. You are correct that a preservationist should come in to inspect the relic and evaluate: 

It's important to consider that the Japanese like pretty much everyone else apart from a few German generals and Fuller considered the tank to be an infantry support weapon. Tanks weren't really deployed en masse primarily due to the difficulties of terrain. The tropical rainforests didn't really lend itself to large scale wars of movement. However that's not to say that the Pacific theatre was entirely absent of large scale tank deployments and a war of movement. For example in the Malayan campaign, the Japanese deployed around 200 tanks against the Allies. This campaign displayed a lot of operational emphasis on speed. $URL$ What's also interesting to note is that the Japanese were able to conduct encircling movements not by land but by sea. In the initial invasion the Japanese did focus on small scale envelopments and combined arms tactics: 

Carbohydrates were the basis for nutrition stores (silos), which were not possible with meats and fruits/vegetables due to availability. Such storage allows longer forays (time spent doing an activity rather than gathering/preparing food); which probably enabled more scouting/exploration, conquest, design / 'science'. People today do not need to eat so much grain / carbs. Our nutrition only expanded since agriculture. So we cannot say that we had better nutrition back then. I suppose you could try to argue that, per capita, nutrition was better. This argument would require proving that fewer meats, fruits and vegetables exist per-capita today than in pre-agricultural times. If you cannot show that, then the situation is purely that we have more options for nutrition today (and possibly worse choices) 

Technology also played a part. Warplanners on both sides made faulty assumptions that led to miscalculation when the war started. For example: 

The Russians also viewed the Balkan states as a buffer against Austrian influence. This is why they supported Serbia in the weeks leading up to the outbreak of World War One. The Tsars had also long held designs on Constantinople and the Bosphorus, which would further serve as a bulwark against incursions from powers like Britain, whom was its greatest geopolitical rival. The Russians also slowly dismembered Ottoman control of South-Eastern Europe as part of their aims to reducing the Ottoman Empire to that of a petty vassal state. Thus we can conclude that Russian Balkans policy was driven by a goal of territorial expansionism and imperial ambition. This is a policy that continues to this day. 

(shared letters highlighted in bold) Since they likely shared the same formula as an opening, the newer inscription can be used together with the older stele to supply the end of Mesha's father's name (assuming it too was written by Mesha); putting them together gives his name as kmšyt. This reading is accepted by Douglas Green, "I Undertook Great Works": The Ideology of Domestic Achievements in West Semitic Royal Inscriptions p. 99 and Shmuel Ahituv, Collected Inscriptions from Israel and Transjordan Kingdoms from First Temple Times p. 362 (Hebrew) p. 362, as well as in K. C. Hanson's website here. 

Mesha's father's name was most likely כמשית kmšyt. The missing letters in Mesha's father's name were supplied only by various conjectures. M. Clermont-Ganneau, in a publication from 1887 ("La stèle de Mésa: examen critique du texte" p. 18), quotes different readings: כמשנדב kmšndb, כמשגד kmšgd, כמשמלכ kmšmlk (a name meaning "Chemosh is king," not "King Chemosh"). However, they were all supported by names from Assyrian and Ammonite documents that quoted those names or similar names, or by pure guesses. The first epigraphic evidence came from the El-Kerak inscription, discovered in 1958, which starts: 

The ritual calendar(s) are quite detailed, with minor differences between cultures. The Maya were no special case in the following list, because the ritual calendar was more-or-less driven by the imperialism of the Aztec empire. Simply, the 'corners of the year' (solstices and equinoxes) were the major ritual times because the sacrifices governed the prosperous / abundant transition of the seasons. Omens were another large governor of sacrifices: 

Great answers have been given regarding the general lack of warfare between Mesoamerican peoples, and North American peoples. 

Has a person elected to the US Presidency ever held a government position in a nation besides the United States? I think any government-related role would be an interesting answer. I think the focus here is the role acts as a representative of the country, or to officially influence sovereign matters. I do not think the role must have been voted by the people of that nation.