Any other answer does not fit into IT businesses. Obviously I am not talking about life-changing things here. If your boss asks you to renew the paint job in your office, you might just be a bit more rebellious. But anything remotely involving your expertise as a software developer, and this absolutely includes reviewing CVs and consulting (by the way, what you call "consulting" here is just "talking with people about stuff you know pretty well". It is not "real" consulting in the fashion that you sit down with a team of consultants to work out grand schemes of how to improve a business or whatever.). This answer is not sarcastic, by the way. If the request is absolutely outlandish, then X, Y and Z will be expensive enough for the boss to decide himself that you are the wrong person. You still were open for it. That is what counts. Also, your boss may not even be aware about X, Y and Z. By telling him, you help him, and the company as a whole. He will, likely, not forget that, and come to you for advice again and again. What now Think constructively about what X, Y and Z are needed right now to make the plan of your boss work. If your boss is, in your humble opinion, not able to handle such a project, then X will need to be "hire a project lead". If you truly feel unable to review CVs (I could not imagine why, but just to assume...), then Y could be "I need to visit a training course about People Management". If the fact that the guy will be hired by the other company bothers you so much, then make it objectively clear why that is so (for example to protect your company's rights on the software), then Z could be "hire that guy in your company, and then outsource him to the other company". I hope you see what those X, Y and Z do. If you manage to convince your boss that those X, Y and Z are necessary, then he will do the calculations. If at the end of the day it is too expensive for him, he will decide against. If he does decide to invest, then you have reached your original goal, and improved the company. (And obviously these X, Y and Z are just examples; adapt the process to your full situation.) If there are no X, Y and Z Oh. And if you do not find any X, Y and Z, then the answer is 

Companies are supposed to use the exact job title, but software engineers--particularly in high-demand categories--are difficult to find. If the hiring team was having a hard time sourcing enough good candidates for the position, they could have reframed the title in the ad to attract more candidates; it's usually more difficult to rewrite a job req and so it's sometimes left alone. In addition, the recruiting software can constrain the choice of title (although it shouldn't). Or sometimes companies will advertise a single generic ad for software developers as a kind of fishing expedition, then redefine the actual position to fit the actual hire. And, finally, in larger companies tech employee titles go with particular pay grades, and their performance evaluations are based on meeting all the criteria of that grade level. Sometimes a hiring manager finds a more junior candidate that s/he really likes and wants to hire, but doesn't think they have the experience to meet all the evaluation criteria. So the manager will scale down the position to give the employee some growing room and prevent them from getting a bad performance review in their first couple of years. Not saying that your situation is any of the above, but it's worth clarifying with your manager and/or HR. I'm not sure I agree that titles are meaningless; words like "senior" and "lead" and "associate" can make a big difference on a resume, especially when you work for big corporations. (If we were talking about titles like "Supreme God of Cloud Elasticity" I'd say yeah, who cares...but we're not.) If your offer letter does indeed say "Software Engineer" and not "Associate Software Engineer," then check the contract/employment agreements that you signed. They should have the same title. If they do, go straight to HR. Either there's been a mistake, or HR has rebuilt its job classifications. Happened to me once, and for a very brief time I was a Purchasing Manager (something I know diddly squat about). If both titles don't match, check with your manager AND HR to find out what happened. You need to discover if there was an error that should be corrected (and if that error comes with back pay but I'll bet it doesn't). If HR says that "software engineer" was simply the generic term, not the specific job classification, while the one on the employment agreement is the "real" title, shift tactics. (One of which is that you should always check such things before you sign an employment agreement; they're a lot harder to fix once you're an employee.) First, what is the title of the position above yours? It might not be Software Engineer, so check. Then ask if the two years of excellent work you've done since your hire now qualify you for that level (in other words, promotion). If your manager tells you that it doesn't, ask what else you need to do to reach that level. Then decide what to do with whatever you hear. Unless there's a specific grade-level issue, most managers I've known are pretty good about working to give you the title you want. Hopefully that's the case here. 

Sweet and short: if that employee quits, your company is done for. Pay him what he wishes, if it is reasonable, and if you can, add a bit more. If you really must avoid increasing his salary (which will have a cumulative effect) give him a significant bonus payment (which can be significantly higher than a raise would be because it is not cumulative). If you actually have no spare money to pay more, then you are about bankrupt anyway, aren't you? 

Problems occur and are resolved between line managers and project managers: PMs have the responsibility to care first about the success of their project (at the cost of workers). LMs have the responsibility to care first about the well-being of their workers (at the cost of projects). These guys need to work out how to resolve these problems, and will do so. The workers themselves do not need to bother themselves with that quagmire; they escalate problems to their LMs and are protected by them. Ideally, obviously. 

I interpret this such that you told her your absolute minimum salary. Now, there are three facets to this: 

They are, though, able to offer the chance to put "team leader" on your resume. As a senior developer you already had responsibility to get your software right, and I'd say that kind of responsibility should be much heavier than that of an internal team lead. It's not like you are tasked with building a new team from scratch while meeting budget and time deadlines, with your own neck on the line all the time. At least you should probably make sure it's not going to be like that. You have all the arguments on your side; obviously the team is in a bad way right now, so your management cannot punish you if it doesn't work out. Make sure they know and agree to that. 

Note: this answers the quoted question, specifically. It does not pretend to solve all problems of any company ever. It used to include something about KPIs, but that aspect was rather off-topic and removed later (hence the many comments related to KPIs...). 

Two things concern me. First is the way you characterize your coworker. Your question implies that she does have a performance problem ("underperforming coworker"), but your narrative seems undecided. Second, I think you're mixing up two very important issues: 

You need to separate your personal and professional relationships with this co-worker for a moment and ask yourself a fundamental question: Can your co-worker do her job adequately on her own, without your help? You mention that she "keeps coming back" to you for help, and also that the manager has explicitly told the group to stop helping her. And your manager physically separated you after a production error. Typically, a big, embarrassing team error is when a manager would foster increased communications/ collaboration between team members by bringing them closer. The fact that he did the exact opposite makes me wonder if he blamed the mistakes on too much personal interaction. So...I think what you've got either way is a very clumsy manager who needs a lot of coaching (or to become an individual contributor). More important, HR needs to get to the bottom of your co-worker's performance to really understand how to proceed. If she really is underperforming and coming to you for help because she can't do her job, your manager is right, however badly he's making the point. She needs to make her own mistakes and either be coached until she can perform on her own or moved out of the role. If she can't do the job, you're not helping her by masking the problem and you might even be contributing to her eventual termination. If a good manager can figure out where she's lacking, s/he can add some coaching/training or even switch her role to make her successful...once the problem is diagnosed. The co-worker has to be working on her own for that to happen. And remember, you're probably also not helping your own performance, because you also have a job to do and you can't do it if you're doing hers. If your co-worker is NOT underperforming, then the manager's actions need to stop and HIS performance needs examination. So...start with an honest look at what your co-worker is doing and how it affects your work, and then let your good sense (and morals) take it from there. 

No, you do not need to make small talk. Doing small talk is not an attribute that only differs between introverts and extroverts. For example, an extremely goal-oriented extrovert might also not appreciate small talk because they simply view it as a waste of time. I know plenty of very enjoyable people who make no small talk whatsoever. It is 100% fine to keep your private life 100% to yourself. It's nobodys business. This is not the issue, for sure. It is absolutely unneccessary (from a point of view of introversion/extroversion) to hang around with people all the time, to go to after-work-parties and such. Sure, as shown by other questions here there might be some cultures where that might prevent you from rising arbitrarily high in companies, but that does not seem to be your goal anyways; if it is, then you probably have to work a bit harder to move up, based on your technical merits. 

There are two aspects to this: 1) It does not matter what you wear. What matters is that you are sincere and believable. If you are known for outstanding clothing all year out, it would be weird if you now come in a cowboy hat. If, on the other hand, it is noticable all year that you are only just achieving the usual dress code (from below), then by all means downgrade to your normal level. Being clothed uncomfortably is the worst that can happen to you. If that means you will not stoop to polos, then so be it. 2) You can downdress without lowering your level. For example, instead of just some junky polo, pick a very expensive and stylish cashmere pullover. Instead of foregoing your usual dress shirt, pick a white one with highly polished black buttons. Grab the brown Oxfords instead of the black ones. And so on. Oh, and the 3rd point, mentioned by someone else already, but let me confirm it: 3) If you worry about anyone's approval, look to your boss and your peers; not your team. Presumably it was not you who created that new rule. That means you and your team are automatically on the same side of the fence, anyways.