If the dogs somehow have access to swathes of land that humans can't enter (radiation-/poison-immunity), and are thereby unextinctable by a non21st century tech society (no targeted diseases or drones) there might be an ongoing problem (no secure zone to multiply, and humans will exterminate them in a few years) . If that is the case, and the dogs just keep coming, those people will have a problem. Fences that reliably keep dogs out are too high and well dug in to be economical for the kind of acrage the society will need for crops. For villages (just the living portion) they can be built and maintained, though. Depending on the manner of world-destruction, there should be plenty of great fence-material around: steel cables, steel mesh, aluminium cladding, steel posts, plastic palets, etc. There is a lot of material around that will require almost no upkeep, and is indestructible by dogs. Build some watchtowers and panic cages (with lances on tap) on the fields, and the danger should be minimal. Aluminium panic cages can even be carried by trading caravans - spend the night in those, and if the dogs attack in the day, get into them and start stabbing - the cost will soon outweigh the benfit for the dogs. But again, if the dogs are a real scare and have no hideout, they're extinct before they can go 'woof'. Humans are just nasty that way. 

The island was (after the initial discovery in the mists of time) never unknown, it was just ignored. There are a lot of uninhabited, uninhabitable islands all over the seas, and they garner little to no interest save frome cartographers. If it is unknown, every Jane Shmoe that stumbles upon it (reading radar data from satellites, looking at aerial surveillance, boating by) will look at the incontrovertible evidence of an island before her eyes, then look at the charts, and begin writing a memo about it, because 'I found an island, Yay!'. So the island was (fraudulently/erroneously) mischarted and marked as inhospitable (no potable water, no flat terrain, no accessible coastal features,...), useless (no anchoring possible, geological features denote no economically viable mineral deposits,...) and dangerous (bays are full of rocks, frequent severe weather warnings). Now the island is seen a thousand times, and dismissed a thousand times. Scientists will not be deterred, though, if the island suddenly gets interesting by whatever means (satellite data implies deposits of coolnewfaddium / data from genetic analysis of neighboring coastal species can only be explained by those species having lived right there / the booster stages of SpaceX would ideally touch down in that exact spot - can't we build a platform there?). The island being known implies it belongs to some nation, so if that would be a snag for the plot, just have it smack in the middle of a disputed border. Not the 'i want it'-kind, but the kind where having the border there would incur responsibility for something unwanted (refugees, spill, SAR-responsibility, ...) so the two or more nations that could have a claim can't be bothered to set boot on the island lest the others use that as precedent. The sheer size might make it interesting for something (dumping, research station) so there probably needs to be some ongoing effort by the shadowy oranisation (SO) in regards to making it seem like the last place one would like to be - 

For various values of "dryad" this is entirely possible. Look into agrobacterium tumefaciens for inspiration. Those bacteria alter the DNA of their host plant to create a tumorous growth. Look into gall wasps for an example of induced growth that has to do with growth vectors/plant hormones and possibly RNA/DNA viruses - this growth is much more structured than that effected by agrobacterium. So inducing a plant to grow some new organ, that is fed and protected by the plant, while inside a new dryad ripens - absolutely possible. It would need some genetic vector (see the bacterium, but also many viruses), some chemical coaxing (which could easily be done by an entity as big as a hand) and the plant would be clay, waiting to be shaped. 

If the island does not happen to be situated above a geological feature that can be exploited (volcano, water reactive(but still dry) minerals, steep and deep cliff), they'll just have to start digging: The island is 44km², so at an average height of 100m, that's 4.4km³ that need to be removed to make the water just lap over the whole thing. That volume can be removed in about 5 years, if copious slave labor is available, which i bet is the case... $URL$ 

You don't need a submarine, remote dredging will work. Assuming that a chain to the ocean floor will work (and fail) like a space elevator is wrong. If the individual segments are buoyant, you can have the cake and eat it too. The tensile strength of the segments then only needs to cope with the dynamic stresses, and you can minimize those by moving real slow. Whatever heavy elements you have, or gain, can be used in streamlined impactors (add explosives and propulsion as needed) that race to the bottom and mix things up to better dredge them. If you can spare some tech, the chain segments can be made to control their own buoyancy, if not, you will need to print them from organics to fit into some specific slot on the pressure\ density\depth scheme of things. You then place them there by means of the one variable buoyancy- device that you have, or if you're extra cheap, by attaching salt crystals designed to dissolve in the needed time. Depending on you budget and the specifics of your topside dwelling, the dredging mechanism may vary. If there are sizeable currents, this idea goes the space- elevator way to the farm upstate... 

Garden soil might be deep and soft enough to drive a gladius-style sword deep enough (to the hilt) with one stroke. Depending on the characters rope craft (and whether the char is only holding a safety line or actually hoisting the friend) it might be possible to tie the rope one- handed to the hilt. The sword would need to go in at an angle. Garden soil is usually absent at the edge of cliffs, so maybe the char has a dirk (sturdy short dagger) to wedge into a crack, or maybe tie the rope to the char's belt for added comedy/drama while fighting? 

No way. The positive answer(er)s all fail to take into account a) how exceedingly small a molecule is, b) how many molecules there are in a body (and how much they interact with one another) c) how a chain has to weather the sum of all forces acting on it and d) that a force acting perpendicularly on a chain can not simply be colinearized as is, but will lead to a colinear force many times the former magnitude. Have a breaking strength of 1TP like one answer gave for graphene: One Pascal is one Newton of force (100 grams in earth gravity) on one square meter. So 1TP means 10^12 Newtons per square meter! Yay! But consider the cross section of a molecule: Let's be generous and set it to 2nmx2nm - thats (2*10^-9)^2. So the breaking force for that single molecule is: 4*10^-6 Newtons ... the force gravity exerts on four tenths of a milligram of mass. You could lift four fruitflies with that! (Yay?) Any molecule encountered by the "whip" on it's way through flesh will need to be acted upon by a force - shear intermolecular-bonds, shove it out of the way, resist adhesive forces... and at any one time, the whip traversing something as small as the human finger would encounter (lowballing) 10^5 molecules - so any of those molecules could be acted upon by (in the mean) 4*10^-11 Newtons - that's just about ten times the force needed to break a hydrogen bond (weakest bond there is $URL$ and just a fourth of the force need to break a noncovalent bond. And we haven't even begun figuring in the multiplicators coming into play because the "whip" has these forces acting perpendicular to itself. The "whip" will drift towards its target, strike with undetectable force, and then break at the first tug. Possibly there is a papercut along the way. 

If you go with the difference of two light rays, it might work. You need one light-ray that gets evenly split into two. A big quartz will do that and even preserve the IR that you'll later need (no glass optics, they'll absorb the IR; quartz and mirrors all the way!). Then you need to funnel both rays towards a target, on different paths. They get focussed onto bimetal strips, that bend equally and thereby balance some mechanism. Nightfall or cloudcover will not trigger the trap as the bimetal strips get evenly relaxed, but both events will deactivate it, so you'll need some mechanism that only allows or encourages access on cloudless days (Map only readable in sunlight (UV-active inks?). When one ray gets interrupted, the corresponding bimetal strip will relax, unbalancing the mechanism, and triggering something. Depending on the smallness of the bimetall relative to the heating power of the rays, the trap is more or less fast. Depending on the intricacies that your ancient trapsmiths were capable of, the mechanism may even be able to re-balance in the face of very slow unbalancing (for instance because one ray-path or mirror slowly builds up dust over the years) - look into the way car-breaks self-calibrate to adjust for different wear on the discs. For the unbalancing mechanism, i thought about a sort of spoon filled with mercury or very fine sand - the spoon is balanced on a point halfway. The bimetal-strips act on the left and right side of the spoon handle end, respectively, so as long as they equally tense and relax, the spoon-cup just goes up and down a little. If they are unbalanced, the spoon will be "twisted", and the mercury can drop onto some real trigger.