The reason why this might sound odd to the ordinary English speaker's ear is that we don't usuaually talk about such metaphysical possibilites, but about the facts in our actual world. The necessity and the and the possibility operator then relate to alternative worlds to our believe, i.e. our epistemic state. In the world which I am currently believing to be true, my hair is not green, but it could be that I am mistaken and the world in which I am living actually turns out to be one in which my hair is green. In my head, these are different states of affairs, but it still all is within the scope of our real world, and the evaluation of necessity and possibility only relate to the correctness of my believes. The philosophers, on the other hand, don't speak of epistemic, but rather about metaphysical states; the epistemic facts all hold true in our actual world, and the alternatives take place in worlds which are actually different from the one we are currently living in. 

I don't see why this should be an adverb phrase. Of course, the construction is highly conventionalised, probably even lexicalised and no longer productive (you probably couldn't say My car uses to malfuction a lot), but syntactically, this is a perfectly valid past tense verb which takes a verb in bare infinitive as an argument (this is why * used to malfunctioned or * used to malfunctioning is ungrammatical). If it were an adverb phrase, what would be the finite verb in the sentence then? There needs to be one, and certainly this is used (to), due to its inflection, due to its syntactic position which is the usual default position for finite verbs and due to there not being any other possibilty to find a finite verb in the sentence, without which it would definitely be ungrammatical. What would your arguments in favour of it being an adverb phrase be? I don't see any similarity with an AP here; used to isn't anything that modifies a averb, but is a verb itself; also, I know of no case where an AP could take a verb complex in bare infinitive as an argument (which used to does), in general adjunctions can not have any arguments (that malfunction is an obligatory argument of used to gets clear when we remove it and get an ungrammatical sentence: * My car used to); and most importantly, an adverb phrase would be merged into the syntax tree by adjunction, i.e. it would be an optional constituent which just modifies some other constituent (in case of adverbs, this is mostly the verbal phrase) but can easily be left out without this changing the grammaticality of the sentence (My car used to malfunction vs. * My car malfuction a lot). This may hold true for a lot, but in the use of used to, this is definitely not the case, this is not just some adjunction that merely modifies its core constituents, but an a core contituent itself, namely the VP. So I really don't think used to could in any way be analysed as an adverb phrase, and I don't see the problem of it being analysed as a finite verb, only because its use is in some way restricted and more or less lexicalised. Update: I must revise my claim that used to is not productive: I use to play tennis on modays is perfectly fine, and the fact that the full inflection paradigm is possible and regular (I use to, you use to, he uses to, ..., I used to, you used to, ...) I would see as another argument that used to is a totally normal finite verb, just in this context to some degree lexicalised/conventionalised and usually used in past tense. Update 2: The native speakers here have convinced me that my grammaticality judgement about present tense is probably wrong ;) So this doesn't seem to count as an argument for used to being a fully productive verb; but still, the other factors I mentioned are sufficient evidence in my opinion. 

All the words could be "groups" on their own, their native language forms a group next to as, native language is a group and the whole phrase is one as well, but you will find no pair of brackets that contains exactly as their native: It is not a constituent, this combination of words is not a separable phrase. You'd need to include the noun language as well or narrow it down, saying e.g. that as is a preposition. 

The general X bar scheme is, although heavily motivated by English - or at least Indo-European languages - thought to be applicable to any natural language. How well that works depends highly on what other restrictions you impose on your phrase structure (strict right/left linear and/or binary branching for example makes a lot of things not possible), but the basics of X bar theory are not more than a handful of rules determining how consitutent trees are built up, without making any claims about, e.g., available syntactic categories, morphological features or c-command relations. So, yes, basic X bar scheme is definitely applicable and practically applied to languages other than English. 

3) Isomorphism as a "biunique mapping between form and meaning", to come back to Kurylowicz, taking the definition form here2: p. 18. "Form" is here to be understood as "phonic aspects" and "meaning" as "semantic aspects", to use the wording from the comment. Isomoprhism in this sense would mean a 1:1 correlation between form and meaning and is, for example, violated by homonymy (one form, several meanings) and synonymy (several forms, one meaning) on the lexical level as well as structural ambiguity (one surface form, several possible interpretations) and paraphrase (different surface forms, one meaning) on the syntactic level. 

To summarize, syntax is basically a sub-discipline of grammar that deals with the structure of more complex expressions, while grammar is the cover-term for every aspect of the system of rules that tell our intuition which structures are well-formed and what they mean, including word-level (morphology) and sound-level (phonology), possibly also meaning-level. 

seem is a raising verb, try is an equi/control verb ('equi verb' and 'contol verb' are usually used synonymously). Equi verbs have a semantic subject: It is part of the meaning of to try that there is someone who is trying, which is Mary in this case. The verb try selects Mary as an argument, more specifically, as the subject argument. This subject starts of as the subject of the embedded clause and is raised up to the subject of the matrix clause, if you believe in a transformational syntax. The same does not hold for raising verbs: There isnt's any actual seemer, someone who fills a thematic role in the seeming event. If anything, a grammatical subject in a sentene with seem as the main verb would be realized by it (as in It seems that Mary is here), but then it is clear that this it is just a filler for something that would otherwise be empty, because there is no semantic subject; just like in It is raining, when it is not an actual subject that is raining; rain is a zero-place verb. The it in both senetences is merely a phonetic filler that needs to be there because English doesn't want the subject position to be emtpy, but there are cases where this pseudo-subject isn't an actual subject. The verb seem doesn't have any more theta role to assign, because there isn't a "seemer" - contrary to the verb try, which does assign the theta role of agent (namely the one who is trying). And since Mary is not selected as an argument of seem, it can not be generated as a subject in SpecVP. It's simply the semantics of the two verbs that make them behave syntactically different. Also note the difference between subject-oriented and object-oriented raising and equi verbs. seem and try are both subject-oriented: The filler element takes the position of the subject in the matrix clause. The example you gave with believe is an object-oriented raising verb. The reason why you chose the passive sentence is that Mary is actually the object of the outer sentence: Having started as the subject of the embedded clause (Mary is here), it is raised to the object position of the matrix clause (John believes [Mary] to be here). But Mary is not semantically selected by the verb believe - the verb doesn't assign any theta role that Mary now fills; Mary isn't "the believed" or something it's just there due to the syntactic operation of raisin. With this behavirous, believe is an object-oriented raising verb. An example an object-oriented equi verb is persuade, as in Peter persuaded Mary to be here: Mary starts as the subject of the embedded clause and is raised to the object of the matrix clause. However, it is also selected by the verb: Mary is the one who is being persuaded; she fills an argument position that is semantically required by the verb - there is someone who is being persuaded, and this role is satisfied by the now raised Mary. This makes persuade an object-oriented equi verb. All these behave synactically differently, but the main distinction is simply whether or not the NP in question fills a theta role that is semantically required by the verb.