Without knowing the specifics of your "contract/school expectations" there's no real way to comment on the "ethics" of your actions. You have concluded that your job is to deliver a project on whatever terms you choose. You have also concluded that you don't need to show up "on time". But if that were truly the case, there wouldn't be any time at which you could conclude that you were late. So I suspect you know the real answer. You have missed an opportunity to fully understand the expectations of your client, and to deliver them exceptionally well. That's unfortunate. Your client is giving you a great learning situation, and it doesn't sound as if you are making the most of it. If you are graded on "ethics" you may be in trouble. Even if not, you have missed a chance to demonstrate professionality - to others, but more importantly to yourself. Talk with your client. And talk with your school adviser. Clarify and fully understand their real expectations. Promise to deliver fully from now on. You will be better for it. 

In general, you simply need to do your job. If you job is reviewing the work of others on your team (perhaps through a formal code review), then you need to review it, present your findings, and live with the consequences. If your job is not to review the work of others, then you need to let it go. Often, there are many roads leading to "good enough" in the software world. While your colleague's approach may be different than yours (and may or may not be "wrong"), the approach he chooses may be outside your control. If so, let it go and move on with whatever work is really your job. The exception here is if someone is making a critical mistake that will potentially harm others physically, or financially. In that case, you should consider being the whistleblower, talking with the manager, and accepting the consequences (ostracism from your colleagues, etc). If you take that route, make sure you are right in your conclusion, and make sure that the risk of remaining silent is too high. 

Just respond in a polite way. "Sorry, Mr. Coworker. When reading through this email, it seems that you feel as if I asked you X. I think there may be some confusion, as I don't recall doing that." 

I'll assume you are in the US, and don't have any sort of signed contract or live in a jurisdiction having specific laws about this, and aren't in a union with specific rules about this. In general, the company can back out at any point, and so can you. You could even arrive the first day, and they could say "Sorry, this job is no longer available." They won't need to give you any further reason. I could imagine that company conditions change and they no longer need your services. I could imagine that new data about you comes to light, and they decide they no longer want you. That said, for all intents and purposes, this pretty much never happens. Once you reach that stage - unless the offer is contingent on some other action (like a successful background check that hasn't yet been completed, for example), or unless something far out of the ordinary happens - you should be good to go. The closest I have seen is what happened at a former company. An individual was hired right out of college, with a starting date 2 months out. In the interim 2 months, layoffs occurred and all unfilled positions were closed, but the individual was never notified. He showed up for work as planned on the first day and only then learned what had happened. In this case, the company did the right thing by bringing him aboard anyway. They made a position for him in a different group. Eventually, he made it into the position he had originally hoped for. Anything can happen - even after an offer is accepted. But usually there's nothing to worry about at that stage. 

You have an extra hour on your hands and you have already decided that you will stay at work that hour. Here's what I think of the options, ranked in order of perceived professionalism: 

I've been a hiring manager in a technical role for many, many years. I hire technical people, in roles where creativity isn't the primary attribute I am seeking. When I review a resume/CV, I care about 

You already told them your current salary. Clearly they are still interested and know that your likely new salary will fit within their budget. This is a good sign for you. And the fact that the HR person said that he/she will "work with the VP on meeting those expectations" is terrific! In my experience, the signs are all there that they want you and are willing to negotiate on salary. Now is your chance to respond with a number at the high end of what you are willing to settle for. In your example, where you would like to receive 105-110k, I would say something like "I am seeking a salary in the 110k range". A 10% increase over your last salary isn't unreasonable to ask for, and isn't far from what you know to be current employees' salaries. I don't think setting the bar this high would automatically put you out of the running, although that is always a possibility. The VP can always come back with a counter-offer and you could settle for whatever would make you comfortable, given the totality of the package and the opportunity. It's also possible that their budget won't go above your current salary and they are trying to find out if they can get you for 100k. In reality, you won't know how high they are willing to go for you. But this could give you a reasonable chance to find out. Good luck! 

It's always better to approach your boss with a solution, rather than just a problem, when you can. If you do some research ahead of time, you can add to your discussion by saying something like "... and here's a course I found that would fit into my work schedule and really help me be even more productive." When people on my team come to me with a problem, along with a proposed solution, not only does it make it far more easier to approve the expense, but I gain a sense of "ownership" from the individual. I get a sense that he/she really cares and really wants to succeed, as opposed to just complaining about a problem. 

It might be different for your workplace, if you have a contract, if you are unionized, etc - check your HR documents, and perhaps consult with your HR department. You could appeal to your boss for fairness, although I suspect it is likely your boss had a hand in making it come out this way. 

There is no way for anyone outside your company to judge your boss's expectations or your assumptions. I will say that, if your boss is the decision maker here, then clearly your assumptions are incorrect, since they don't seem to match his expectations. An offshore team can be tasked with doing anything. It may not be simple, it may not be cheap, it may not be quick, it may not be the most effective or efficient way to accomplish an objective - but you can hire an offshore team to do anything. Gaining a common understanding among all parties would be a primary task, if I were running the project. It sounds as if that hasn't (yet) happened. 

You should explain the situation to your new employer, and ask if a change is still doable. If you had already been granted an extension to August 10, an additional 7 days is unlikely to matter much. Reassure your employer that you still want and are excited about the job, but this is an important unexpected family situation. If you sense much reluctance on the part of your boss, and it isn't critical that you change your schedule that you might decide to meet your work commitment. That's something you'll have to decide on the fly. Talk with them as soon as possible, so both they and you can prepare accordingly. 

If you are afraid that they will take it the wrong way, then don't mention it. Having worked in a few myself, I find that fintech companies tend to be very security-sensitive, so your intuition on that is likely well-founded. Knowing their API may be a plus, but it's likely a small one anyway. If you didn't already know the API and were hired, it wouldn't take long to learn it, right? Talk about how much you like their app, but leave the "reverse engineered it" part out. 

In my opinion, it's perfectly reasonable for you to say "The boss wanted me to tell you..." or "The boss said..." Did your boss tell you to lie, and say that it comes from you? If so, there are other problems to deal with here. 

I can't speak for MNCs or CMM Level 5 companies, but I know he will be far less preferred by every company I have ever worked for. 

I recommend never using personal pronouns anywhere in a resume. While it's perfectly reasonable to use "I" and "me" in a cover letter, your resume is different. If you started using "I", you would have to include it so many times that it would become annoying to the reader. In the US it is generally recommended that personal pronouns be completely omitted. Your second example appears more appropriate. A quick Google search for "using personal pronouns in resume" shows similar thoughts. 

It's okay to turn down a promotion, particularly when it takes you away from the type of work you really want to do. Been there, done that. There will be a few issues, that you'll need to be aware of and to handle. Expect the company to be concerned, and to ask why you are declining. They feel you are capable of this higher-level job, and feel you will help the company by accepting it. Turning it down may mean that they have to go elsewhere to fill the role. You want to try to reassure the company that you still like the company, like the career path you are on, and like your current job. You may end up working for the person the company ends up hiring. It might be awkward when this person inevitably learns that you were the first choice. Try to stay positive, and not wonder (or worse, express publicly) how you would handle situations if you had accepted the promotion. Consider what kind of career path you will have within this company when you turn down the promotion. In some cases, you will be at the top of your path already, with no room to grow without leaving. Overall, it's okay. You may want to have a long career discussion with your boss when you decline. In my case, that's exactly what I did. It worked out fine for me. 

There are ways. If you toss your resume out to the public and it contains contact information, it's not possible to stop people from responding in any way they choose. However, there are a few things you can do that might diminish the flood a bit. When you get an email with a completely off-base proposal, don't "respond with nothing but [your] resume". Sending your resume back to someone who already read your resume clearly isn't sending the message you desire. Next time, either send a note back saying "I'm not interested, thanks.", or "I'm only interested in X, thanks anyway.", or don't reply at all. I'm not in the habit of posting my resume online. If I did, I would include only a single email, specifically designed for responses to this resume, rather than using my personal email address. That way I could more easily filter the responses. I can respond or not respond, without filling up my personal inbox. If you get a response from a recruiter who you feel is sub-par due to not comprehending what you have written in your resume, you can simply block further emails from them. 

I agree that it doesn't seem enough. You might include what you are doing on each of the three proposed days, so that you boss doesn't think you are just avoiding him/her. And you should include other days and times that would work better for you. 

You can always say no. But if that's a good thing for your continued employment depends on your employer, your local labor laws, and your potential willingness to sue your employer. 

You need to be a bit careful here. When I read your proposed scenario, the first thing that jumped to mind was "Chris is going to retire soon to please her husband and mom." If your manager reaches a similar conclusion, he may not give you addition money or benefits, but may instead start preparing for your departure. That could mean no more promotions, and no more choice projects. If I were your manager, I'd probably ask why a few more dollars or another week off would make your husband and mom happy enough for you to stay. A retired husband that wants to travel a lot, and a mom in another state that wants more visits probably means an additional week or a few $k won't make enough of a difference to matter. Managers who suspect their employee will leave soon anyway may not be motivated to negotiate for additional benefits on your behalf. If you choose to have such a conversation with your manager, you probably should leave the pressure from your husband and mom out of it. And only toss down a written offer if you are prepared to take that offer should your request be denied. Anything else puts you in a very awkward situation. You may wish to have a long chat with your husband (and perhaps your mom) first, to figure out between you what you really want out of your life - both inside and outside of work. Perhaps it's time for you to retire. Or perhaps you would be better off requesting a reduced, part-time schedule. That could allow you the time off for travel and family visits that would make everyone in your life outside work happier. 

As a manager, this makes complete sense to me. That's what I would do in a similar situation. And if I sensed that you were slacking off in your day-to-day work while awaiting your new job, I'd fire you. (I'm not saying that you are slacking off, just what I would do if you started acting less than professional.) I invest a lot of time, energy, and political capital in my team. I wouldn't want to waste it on a "short-timer". This is why it's important to never reveal that you are looking elsewhere until you actually give your formal notice. 

Virtually any company has an HR package the spells out the details for how you can take vacation/leave time. Check it. My guess is that you'll find language that tells you that your leave must be coordinated with your manager. That's usually done so the company can balance time off and not leave a team short-handed. If that's the case, then Yes - your manager has the right to control when you can spend your leave. 

Based on what you have written, you do have quite a lot to prove. Two trimesters of sub-par performance. The first trimester because you were "always dog-tired". New parents can expect to be tired for a long, long time. (I always tell new parents that the first 18 years are the hardest!) The second trimester because you were "dealing with lot of stress because I suddenly became a single mom". I assume you'll continue to be a single mom, and that the stress will continue. Now you want to be granted permission to work from home. If you are planning to work your third trimester, you might need to hit a home run. Show your employer that you can excel at work despite being tired and despite the stress of becoming a single mom. Complete all your tasks beyond expectations, ask for more work. Don't leave early, make up for any time you must take off, be a model employee and someone they can start to trust. Talk with your union rep and with HR - now. Explain what you would like to do after your maternity leave has expired, and ask how the agency handles telecommuters. Ask what rights you have, and what the process is for applying for work-from-home status. Then follow that process faithfully. It will certainly be easier to gain permission if your agency has others who already have this permission, and if you have recently become a model employee. If you aren't sure, ask around and see if others work from home, and if so, did they start working from home immediately after a maternity leave. In a union shop, precedence is very important. Finally, arrange things at home so that your childcare is handled without needing your involvement. Make sure the nanny is hired and ready to go. Make sure your father is ready and capable of handling everything while you work. Make sure you have backup care in case the nanny or your father is sick. Basically - show your employer that you aren't just staying home to take care of the baby with one hand while you work with the other. Then, hope for the best.