It certainly is not smart to say things like "I'm really bad at -activity-". That puts you in a bad light and you won't show much confidence saying it. People don't like people with too much confidence (cockiness), but they also don't like people who have low self-esteem or confidence (will get looked down upon). If you're feeling you need (constructive) criticism to improve, that's not a bad thing. Ask others, or yourself, on what parts of your job you can improve. Then work on those parts. Always trying to improve yourself isn't a bad thing or something that's frowned upon. You're merely showing that you're willing to make progress and become better at the things you do. 

Given the fact you work alone on this project, do you really need to collaborate with colleagues? Meaning: do you need their expertise to give you advise, or do they have to provide you with actual components? If it's incidental, I highly doubt walking to their office would be a problem. If the communication is more frequent, you might want to think about setting up a messaging tool, such as Lync or Gitter. Gitter is more development focussed so it might fit better, but I think you're to answer that. As for people walking in, you could keep your door closed if you don't want people to blatantly walk in. If they have some manners, they would knock and ask if you got some spare time for them. Same would go for when you have your door opened, though keep in mind that people would come in quicker. Usually, when I go to someones office, I knock and wait in the doorpost, asking if they have time to help me out/look at my progress. If they say no, I'll say I come back later or send them an email. 

Based on the answer on your comment (you got told that new projects would come, but they haven't): It can be the case of hiring you now because they will have a project at some point in the near future. Don't be surprised if they use 2004 technology to implement it. This could explain your under utilization. Alternatively they did not have a new project nor intended to, just HR was saying that to attract people. Some of them would eventually stay not wanting to risk a hole in the CV, some would leave. I have seen it / experienced it somewhere: "Why do you use 90s tech?" answered with "It's temporary, we will shift for new projects to contemporary tech within the year" which they did not. It's up to you on how to act on it. I've seen people leaving on the spot (job description/ reality mismatch), staying a bit so that the CV will be concrete and be more thorough next time, or staying and going with the internal flow. I think you need to put your career in perspective (what I didn't do) and then act based on your long term goals (which is a bit of generic advice). 

Report this to Russell and, if you deem necessary, also to HR. If you talk to Russell first, you could also ask to be transferred to a different department. 

In my country, when people get a raise that is not substantial (i.e. several hundred, to a couple of thousand), it happens that people reject the raise. The reason for this are the lovely tax scales. If you are just below a "new" scale, and the raise pushes you into the new scale, you could end up having to pay 10% tax more. Employers usually understand this if notified about it, and the employer and employee can negotiate about either a bonus or lower raise. 

Not having a degree, yet claiming you do is fraud. If you get caught, people might report you and eventually you can get arrested for it. It's quite a severe crime, don't think too lightly of it. 

Assuming your relationship with both your boss and colleagues is good, you could go to your boss and suggest to do something together with the team. 

9/10 times, the company knows what you're worth. They've done background checks regarding salary scales for the job and experience. By telling your previous wage, they can compare the salaries and conclude whether it's accurate or not. 

It kind-of does matter (not because anyone else gets to decide what you should do, but because you may decide to reschedule); if you can afford to cancel your personal appointment, offer to do so (preferably notifying your manager that you will take your time off, later). If you cannot reschedule/cancel your time (or simply do not want to), point it out ("I'm sorry but I cannot be in office this afternoon - I had notified X of this yesterday through email and he said it was OK"). 

Yes, it is probably true. That said, it is also a red herring: Agreeing on your salary should not be done between yourself and their fair formula, but depending on other things (job responsibility, experience, market conditions etc); if the salary you need is not within their margins, they either have to go above their margins, or you could/should leave. 

Requirements, no matter how informal, should never be a conversation (but something persistent and verifiable). 

When you have work-related tasks that you cannot do because of other work-related tasks, notify your manager. It is his job to ensure your tasks do not conflict with each other (i.e. "manage" your tasks). This means, if you have two (or more) managers asking for your time, have them fight it out between themselves. When the second request comes in, tell the manager you will be able to get to it only after he confirms with your first manager (and lets you know), or after he tells you the responsibility for the first task not getting done, will be his. 

From your story it seems that nobody not even you can guarantee a long term employment. Based and extending the previous answers I would suggest going after a short 3-6 month contract suggesting yourself good terms for your employer if you leave. Then try to build extending it progressively (3/6/12 months etc). I would suggest to build a good track record. 

I had a related feedback at some time in the past with a related issue: Being in a small company usually involves more interaction with everyone, being able to skip hierarchies and generally an efficiency vs protocol approach. That's for the soft skills. Similarly for the technical skills, it is more about breadth then depth. It seems that in small places a person who "Gets things done" is more appropriate, while in bigger places there is a need that needs a specialist, eg: "person with X years on experience on Y". I'd suggest to mention that you are aware of this in the cover letter and that you are willing to work on crossing that chasm. This will signal to the HR person that you are aware of the situation. Now they can be thinking based on the number of CVs that they receive that you are testing the waters or something like that. 

Context switching is costly. If you have a schedule that pushes you to switch focus between very different types of work, this can be (at the very least) exhausting; Usually, it is the equivalent of being distracted all the time. Consider: 

If the deadline was something you committed to without external pressure, the best way is probably to state you overcommitted, learned from it and will commit to less on your next deadline. If the deadline was established by your manager/boss (without taking your input into account) then you should raise a couple of alarms and point out most of the problem appears from overtime itself: "I work beyond normal hours quite regularly (often continue at home after dinner) " - as a client I wouldn't want a product/service that is done on "after-hours work quality". The fact you have to do overtime on your project is a sign of poor management/planning. "occasionally I finish working on something but don't "Send" or finish [...] because I get too tired" - typically, work when you are exhausted is exceptionally lacking in quality. When I did overtime (I am a consultant now, so it doesn't happen anymore), I used to have situations when I would work on a problem for an entire evening (4hrs+ after work), then give up, come back the next morning and solve the same problem in 10 minutes. 

Historically two things can go wrong if your boss asks you to work on weekends: The first case that things can go wrong is by you saying "yes". In that case it can be solidified (@OpenCurious works on weekends) so later on they can ask you to do it again. It is also a good excuse for poor management and planning. Since the workweek can be more elastic, so can the deadlines, the estimates and many other things. The second case is if you say "no". Now you are not a team player, it will get back to you on your performance review. Even if it's not "allowed", it will get back somehow. I'd say it's a lose-lose game and you need to pick where you and your company lose less. Is there compensation? Is it big enough so that management will be discouraged from calling you every weekend? Is it a one-off? Is it really necessary? The comment "Do you have the opportunity to write those days as worked days, so you can take 2 days off the next week?" from @Edwin Lambregts offers a compelling alternative: What can you do to negate that action? In theory by getting those two days off during next week, you are helping the situation by being there on a weekend, while you remove from your management the capability to "mismanage" on your expense. On the other hand if this is the case, you wouldn't have been asked to do work those days in the first place.