Discover how Joe's telepathy works in order to block it. Let's suppose a military scientist learns about Joe's power. Does he want to kill Joe? Of course not—he wants Joe alive so that his secrets can be learned! And once the principle is discovered, Joe's ability can be neutralised—or even used as a weapon, so there is no reason to even plan to kill him. So Joe gets taken in for study, and after many brain scans, the key to the telepathy is discovered. Either the means of telepathic communication can be blocked somehow (a special helmet, chamber or interference device), or Joe can undergo brain surgery or drug treatments that shut down the appropriate section of his brain. Alternatively, Joe could beg doctors/scientists to help him and one of them comes up with the idea of learning how the telepathy works, in order to block it out. 

Simple answer: to fit in with the humans. The beings all have different personalities, and choose to assume the gender that best suits them, so they are more approachable to humans, easier to understand, etc. Either they have some control over their appearance, or their bodies slowly adapt to their personality and self-image as they age. 

This is inspired by Fringe's powerful science and technology research company Massive Dynamic, whose motto is "what don't we do?" Start an organisation that legitimately does a lot of R&D. A lot. Your huge R&D budget would provide an explanation of how you can do things cheaper than the competition. At the heart of your business will be producing things that in theory don't require a lot of raw materials or energy, but in practice do not have any known economical production methods, such as particular drugs or highly pure materials. You would only undercut the competition a little bit and limit volumes so as not to arouse too much suspicion. But even with low volumes these things can be very lucrative because they are so expensive to make. Surrounding this would be many legitimate research and production endeavours. You will employ many scientists and engineers to work on legitimate problems, and you will have established networks of suppliers and clients that help you expand and find new opportunities. Eventually you will be in everything from superconducting magnets to siRNA therapies to nanotechnology. And this is your real cover! By diversifying and moving into more markets, more products, you are able to amass more land, wealth and power without sticking out too much in any one industry. Once you're ready to move to the next phase, you'll have factories of all sorts at your disposal, too. Due to all your high-value stock and equipment, nobody would question why you have tight security at some of your sites. You would also have many accountants and lawyers at your disposal. You would understandably have safeguards in place to protect your trade secrets and intellectual property. Although it's tempting to use the machine to cut costs here there and everywhere by creating raw materials and machines and eliminating hazardous waste, things won't add up and someone will notice. It is much safer to say "on level 4 we have an XYZ machine that uses a trade-secret process to efficiently create chemical B." Potentially the machine can be a fake, and every night you personally restock it with what it later dispenses (because why trust anyone else to do it?). If you're brilliant enough, you don't even need to use the machine at all... just legitimately use your genius to direct your researchers to work on things that you know will bring big results. But if you want to get there faster or the machine was a bit of a fluke, then you'll have to use the machine to help you get that extra cash flow that gives you an edge over everyone else. 

It's just raw speed What's the main appeal of quantum computers? They're capable of doing vastly more computational work in the same amount of time. Perhaps this is the key. Even today's computers are so powerful that for many problems, we have given up on carefully designed and analysed solutions; instead a toolbox of techniques (like neural networks, k-means clustering, decision trees) is thrown at the problem to see what works. In a sense, we have so much computing power that we need the computer to take on part of the role of figuring out how to use all that power. Yes, all software has bugs—but when it's really important, we have techniques to make sure certain things do or don't happen. Basically, we can implement failsafes, redundancy, and make sure the most critical code is heavily analysed and overrides everything else. However, this sort of thing is next to impossible when the behaviour is occurring within a learning algorithm (like a neural net) whose structure is constantly changing and that we don't fully understand. Enter quantum computers This problem is going to get orders of magnitude worse with quantum computers, because they are so powerful. It is likely that even more complicated learning algorithms will be devised to take advantage of the power. In fact, the "weirdness" of quantum theory means the algorithms themselves will be weirder and harder to reason about intuitively. "The results are amazing but we're not sure how it works." Sure, the robot designers are going to ensure the system architecture makes sense: all decisions will need to be pass through a dedicated 3-laws verification module before they can affect the robot's body. Perhaps there will even be multiple independent verification modules and if any one rejects the action it is not allowed. But consider a "surgeon" robot that is performing open-heart surgery. A simplistic 3-laws module wouldn't be sufficient—alarm bells would go off because the patient is being injured. The robot is sticking a knife in the patient! So the designers would need to make these modules more sophisticated, or have them "trust" some of the other modules; perhaps the ones that formulate plans and assess the likely outcomes of these plans. And as things get more "intelligent" or "complex", we lose our grasp of what's really going on inside. We lose our ability to dictate "NEVER this" or "ALWAYS that". What if our robot's "main brain" decided to kill someone, but kept this hidden. The robot begins performing open heart surgery, and then stops halfway through and lets the patient die. The 3 laws verification modules can't do anything now, because they don't have the skills to complete the surgery. 

1. Depends on the competition. If the aliens are at war with the Gazronk Empire, or have just discovered the Karixi who can offer a wealth of trade, they're not going to have much time to bother with us. If, on the other hand, we're one of the most advanced civilizations they've encountered so far, they might take an interest in us. 2. Are aliens going to be more intelligent, or just have more technology? In the last 100 years we have progressed from a pre-computing society to a highly digital society that has achieved space travel. Maybe the aliens are similarly intelligent but have just got better spaceships. If so, they will surely be interested in learning how we tackle our "big problems" — life and death, unemployment, crime, big-city logistics. It's easy to say "oh, advanced aliens will have better solutions than we do", but these problems are inherently challenging and advanced aliens might still struggle with them. 3. Maybe the aliens really value diversity. How did they develop such advanced technology, anyhow? Perhaps by allowing varied ideas to be pursued, fostering different approaches to things. Maybe they let fledgling planets develop in their own way, to see what creative solutions they come up with. This isn't that different from us protecting and studying nature to find inspiration for new technology, like aeroplanes, medicines, etc. 

Problem: How do we allow inherited individual variation (eye colour, colour-blindness, etc.) without gradual change in the species as a whole? Solution 1: Strict mate selection For example, elephants will only mate with a partner that is sufficiently elephant-like. Also, they will only mate with partners that are clearly very selective about whom they mate with. But what about mutations that change an elephant's conception of what classifies as an elephant? Well, perhaps those parts of the elephant's DNA are subject to very strict quality control (e.g. checksums). Solution 2: Species DNA In this case, all members of a species have identical DNA, and individual variations are inherited through other means (such as epigenetics). The DNA must be copied exactly for an embryo to form. Of course in both of these solutions, the proportion of individuals with particular characteristics within a species may change (e.g. certain eye colours may become more common over time) but the species themselves will not drift. 

The new self-healing circuitry revolution Inspired by nature, the latest technology for extreme environments is self-healing circuitry. No more chips becoming desoldered due to vibration or thermal expansion. No more blown components. Wires are alive, transistors are alive, and instead of LEDs, bioluminescent cell clusters light up at will. We've learned how to defend against radiation by studying extremophiles, and all components are fairly large so that cosmic rays can't flip bits. This technology has become popular because, if a computer system fails on such a ship, you're dead. Most of the time nobody is awake and able to attend to a system malfunction. However, the technology is fairly new and processing speeds and RAM capacity are on par with 80s home computers. Displays are monochrome and low-resolution (each pixel is a clump of bioluminescent cells!) and all the cellular monitoring and repair that needs to go on consumes water/food and generates waste heat so operations are kept to a minimum anyway. Running a GUI takes a lot of RAM to store bitmaps, compose layers, and so on. It's just not worth it. Command line interfaces require far less resources. Yes, as this new technology evolves it will become more efficient—perhaps it will become solar powered and the components will shrink—but at the moment this is what's affordable, and proven to be extremely reliable. (Maybe it's based on open-source biotech research?) Presumably cargo ships are quite large and impacts with space debris and so on can leave crew members cut off so it's important to be able to be able to interact with the computer system from around the ship. Since a full-fledged computer is expensive to operate, dumb terminals are found around the ship, and they communicate with the "mainframe" over some fleshy living cables. Bandwidth is low to make sure messages aren't corrupted. If the cables are accidentally cut they are designed to reconnect to each other if they are in close proximity. Maybe the dumb terminals can communicate via radio instead, especially over long distances, though the terminals would need a supply of nutrients. All this begs the question: why not just have a laptop (or smartphone/tablet) that you can interface with the self-healing mainframe? It can have all the GUI you want. However, if it fails or gets damaged, everyone needs to be competent at using the mainframe terminals anyway. It's just a "why bother" situation. Plus another layer of abstraction and interfacing that could be affected by bugs and interference. What if the laptop had a bit flip due to cosmic rays and sent the wrong digit to the mainframe? Even if there are laptops on board, for interacting with the ship's computer, you probably want to do it directly. 

Let's assume the AI functions much like humans do—its "programmed goals" are reflected through pleasure, pain, urges, and inhibitions. (One of our programmed goals is to eat enough food: eating is pleasurable, starving is painful, we feel the urge to eat and it requires a lot of effort to refuse food or restrict our diet for sustained periods.) So, the AI feels an urge to inflict suffering on people. So what does it do? It starts planning the ultimate scheme to cause unbelievable suffering. In line with this, it considers various ideas, and pictures (simulates) how they will play out. Imagining all this suffering is intensely pleasurable, so the AI just delves deeper and deeper into its fantasies and doesn't bother trying them out in the real world where plans fail and unpredictable setbacks occur. When the supervillain tries to "debug" his AI, the AI refuses to co-operate because he knows this will cause his creator much frustration. However he does not risk more active approaches since he does not want to risk his creator pulling the plug. I guess this highlights a feature of human psychology which the supervillain didn't realise: fantasies become less and less satisfying if they have little bearing on what we do in reality. In addition, we have an urge to turn at least some of our fantasies to reality. Which explains why people enjoy things like cosplay... 

Let's suppose they are ordinary humans with ordinary needs for meals and rest. Perhaps the lack of day/night cycle would actually create societies where everyone works and rests at different times so the group is always active, always alert to predators and other clans. People would eat when hungry, sleep when tired, and everyone would have their own schedule. In this case timekeeping would actually be quite important to help people with different schedules co-ordinate. Perhaps bells would be sounded every hour or two (say) as a means of marking time. But how long is "an hour or two"? Well, the time does not need to be exact. One possibility is a traditional unbroken song is sung by the religious order (with individuals joining and leaving the song to eat, rest etc.) and at particular points in the (long) song, the bell is struck. Alternatively the constant migration might lead to a religious practice where a group is constantly marching, perhaps in a large circle, at a slow and very steady pace. Every thousand (say) paces the bell is struck. That said, it is quite complex for everyone to be working to their own rhythm, especially in simple societies. To create a more orderly approach, there could be a bell sounded every 12 hours, with people "swapping over" from work to leisure and rest and vice versa. Or there could be 3 "phases" in everyone's day (basically work, leisure/socialising, sleep), each of around 8 hours, with 3 different cohorts doing different things at different times. How would such long time periods be marked out? Consider a pyramid of 25 stones, that is to be moved by 1km, one stone at a time, in a process which takes around 8 hours. To keep time reasonably well, the site could be chosen 1000 paces from the old one, and the aim would be to complete it just as sunrise/sunset hits the new site. 

Spend time imitating various languages out loud Listen to foreign TV or Youtube videos. Try to repeat real sentences, even though you don't have any idea what they mean. Also, just make up words that sound like they could come from that language. I find this is also a great way to improve your pronunciation of foreign languages you're learning. Make sure to try languages from different parts of the world, for instance, Arabic, Mandarin, Russian, Spanish, Hindi. This helps you to play with totally different patterns of speaking—some with many consonants, others with more vowels; some very free-flowing, others more punctuated; some with short words, others long; some with a fixed rhythm, others with an organic rhythm, others with no pattern; some melodious, others discordant. (As a side note, using a name that sounds like it is from a particular language immediately gives the reader a strong idea of the geography and culture of a place. For instance, "Al Hazaab" sounds like a desert city, perhaps a trading hub; "Masetas" sounds like a regal, pious city.) Decide what sort of language "feels right" for your people Start making up words and sentences that you feel "fit". Put yourself in the head of an official reading a proclamation. Of someone gossiping. Of a leader trying to inspire his people. Don't worry about making mistakes, or things that sound wrong, or getting repetitive. When you notice this just make an adjustment and keep going. I find that sometimes while doing this, I get plenty of useful "words" that I can string together into a name. Record yourself or write things down if you like. Sometimes, though, when looking for a name that is "just right", I proceed to the next stage: Start somewhere, then fiddle Choose a letter or sound to start your name. For instance, "Ba". See if you can find a nice way to continue it. If you can't, try a different beginning, like "Bo" or "Ma". You might come up with "Magretta". Then try replacing bits of this with something else: "Segretta", "Magretava". Use what you have decided "feels right" to help guide you. Repeat this process many times. Mix and match. Yes, this progress does take a while but you may be surprised what you come up with. Don't forget: