The father of toxicology, Paracelsus said, "All things are poison, and nothing is without poison; only the dose permits something not to be poisonous." A real world example might be in order: 

Not exactly an Executive Order, but a program enacted by the Department of Homeland Security that targets illegal alien minors. The White House blog mentions the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program in August 15, 2012: 

It would be just as true, and less misleading. Now onto the harder question of, "does secondhand smoke cause lung cancer, and is it dangerous." 

Lincoln wasn't bypassing Congress. In fact, because Lincoln feared that after the war, states could reinstate slavery, that only a fraction of all the slaves were freed, he promoted passage of the 13th Amendment that would abolish slavery. 

The National Center for Educational Statistics shows Base Salary by state based on years of experience. You can compare those numbers with BLS numbers and you will discover that even starting pay for teachers is higher than the national median salary, or do comparisons by state. Even when you compare teachers with other occupations that require a bachelor's degree, the data doesn't look bad for teachers (BLS querry, search by education, bachelor's degree, (sort by) 2010 median annual wage. You will find that teachers rank 96-117th out of 154.) They are less than a standard deviation from the mean, only 16% difference from the median salary Accountants and Auditors. 

This ranks SNAP 11th out of 13 high-error programs (i.e. those programs that have +$750 million in improper payments) behind PELL grants and Retirement, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (RSDI) 

Mostly True. The National Archives notes that Proclamations are used to to communicate special observances and commemorative dates while Executive Orders manage the operations of government. Although the Emancipation Proclamation (EP) doesn't appear on. Lincoln's list of presidential executive orders, people use the terms interchangeably. 

If we further correct this data by adjusting for sex, 0.9 wage gap for women teachers (page 80), in this predominantly female field (84%). This also doesn't correct for CEO pay and Engineering pay that are highly dominated by males. This is all before you even look at benefits. 

As I said, my local library didn't have online access to the study, so I can't verify their exact numbers or how they arrived at 5.0%. I was able to find secondary sources that explained some of the numbers from the study: 

No This hasn't been true in Georgia, which has a similar Voter ID law to Texas. Georgia Secretary of State Brian Kemp has the data to back it up. 

The slides above were presented by Kemp at the Civitas Conservative Leadership Conference. He notes: 

Todd Akin's statement taken out of context seems ridiculous, because it is easy to find a single counter example of a woman who got pregnant from a rape. This isn't even close to what Todd Akin claimed. Todd Akin was arguing that you shouldn't use instances of rape to justify legalizing abortion, because pregnancy due to rape is really rare, he is not saying that pregnancy is never the result of rape. This is clarified in Todd Akin's apology video. Say it ain't So? Todd Akins is talking about false accusations when talking about "legitimate" rape. Todd Akins clarified his position on Aug 21, on the Mike Huckabee show (audio available). 

This study is extrapolating estimates for the USA reproductive female (1996) (page 44): 67,047,000 women age (12-45), with only 616 rapes resulting in 34 pregnancies from a sample of 4008-3031 women. Using a handy dandy online Confidence Interval calculator (Confidence Level 95%, Sample Size: 616, Population: 3031, Percent: 5 = CI: 1.54). This represents a slightly greater than 30% margin of error. (Note: Hopefully I am using the right (someone correct me if I am wrong) sample size 616, not 34. Since I think the sample is 616 women with 5% (34 women) answering "Yes" to the quality of becoming pregnant as a result of the rape. If I was supposed to use 34, then the CI=7.29 which would make the margin of error greater than the estimated 5% pregnancy rate) One of the authors of the study is Dean G. Kilpatrick, should know better (I'm just an amateur scientist). He should be more cautious when using figures that have a >30% margin of error. He is at least aware of other measures of rape, since he wrote a white paper Making Sense of Rape in America. One of the data sources used to measure rape listed on page 3 is National Violence Against Women Survey (NVAWS), which has a nice little chart (page 7) showing estimated standard error. The NVAWS also notes: 

And exclude the states the Union controlled (Kentucky, Maryland, Tennessee, Missouri, Delaware, and parts of Louisiana/Virgina), the 3.9 million slaves reduces the maximum to the range of 2.4 million-3.2 million. A clearer image of this slave population density map might make the maximum number of slaves the Emancipation Proclamation could apply to more precise. While Lincoln did declare these slaves free, they were under the control of the Confederate States of America and not subject to his declaration until Union troops conquered territory (see SEC 9). The official number actually freed isn't known. The autobiography by James McPherson, [Marching Toward Freedom: The Negro in the Civil War, 1861-1865] puts the number at around half a million. 

As a skeptic, any claim which is accompanied by the phrase, "the science is settled," or "science has proven," should set off alarm bells. You will also notice a peculiar high usage of the word "can" in explaining the possible consequences of brief secondhand smoke exposure. The truth of the matter is: 

Half true. The Emancipation Proclamation only applied to states in rebellion. This 3 million number comes from 1860 census, and is the highest possible number of slaves freed by the Emancipation Proclamation. If you only include the states specified as in rebellion: 

These recommendations are based on the Electronic Funds Transfer act, the details of which can be found here. It might be as little as $50. 

This particular study did not perform any sort of regression analysis, so causal inferences shouldn't be made from those particular results. Luckily, the study’s author, Shannon Catalano, did perform such analysis. After the logistical regression, their analysis found that: 

No, 97% of peer reviewed studies do not endorse that global warming is human caused The study found that 97% of abstracts about 'global climate' or 'global climate change', at least "Implied humans are causing global warming. E.g., research assumes greenhouse gas emissions cause warming without explicitly stating humans are the cause." versus abstracts that rejected humans as the main cause of global warming. This eliminated 2/3rds of the abstracts that either stated that the extent of human contributions are undefined/uncertain, or expressed no opinion. What is vitally important to this study, is that they excluded self-rated papers that rated themselves as a (4). They pretended that this wasn't a position on AGW, which allowed them to increase their endorsement from 62.7% to 96.4%. (see Table 4) 

Yes, married parents lowers the risk of violence against women and children. From the Bureau of Justice Statistics on which the study was based, a correlation in family status and intimate partner violence was indicated. Married females had a much lower victimization rate. 

Of course, they recognize that giving up your banking information to anybody is still dangerous. (Note: While your bank is investigating if the withdrawals were legal, you may not have access to your account or the money that should be in it. This can last from 45-90 days. (FDIC: laws and regulations)) 

From the major studies listed in Kilpatrik's whitepaper (see each national studies overview and methodological limitations), their doesn't exist a reliable estimate the chances of pregnancies from rape, and without a reliable rape pregnancy rate, a comparison cannot be made to consensual sex leading to pregnancy. Not only that, but the studies (and consensual sex) estimates usually cannot account for confounding factors that might affect the outcome. The Rape Abuse and Incest National Network does a good job of breaking these down. Conclusions When taken in context, it is clear that legal abortions for rape victims are very rare (Atkins actual claim). Without reliable estimates for the number of rapes, or resultant pregnancies from rape, it is impossible to tell if a woman is less likely to get pregnant after being raped than having consensual sex (the [possible] claim that Atkins says he gets from doctors). 

This amendment was added by U.S. House Representative Jay Dickey (R-AR) and was approved by 104th Congress. The American Psychology Association, that was against the Dickey Amendment admits: 

But, you might say that the "gap" increased. Unfortunately, these numbers don't take into account individual people who might be rich, they only look at the group as a whole. The people who make up that group change over time. If you are rich/poor one year, it doesn't follow that you will continue to be so the next year. It isn't true of individuals over time. 

False. The Emancipation Proclamation was enforcing the Second Confiscation Act passed by congress in July 17, 1862. Lincoln specifically refers to the act in his Preliminary Emancipation Proclamation. The EP only applied to the states the Union was at war with. This was within his power as Commander-in-Chief (CiC) of the armed forces to execute the law. 

So while it is true that there is no risk free exposure to SHS, there is also no where on earth that you can be free of natural occurring carcinogens. Report of the United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of Atomic Radiation to the General Assembly 

The WHO released a press release with preliminary finds to the media. After examining the preliminary study, the Telegraph, the Guardian and other newspapers printed articles with headlines like, "Passive Smoke Does't cause cancer -Official" This caused the WHO to issue another press release to say that there was a link between Second Hand Smoke and lung cancer. 

James Watson Nobel Prize winner for his discovery of the structure of DNA made the following claim in a 2007 Sunday Times interview: 

Women do lie about rape. What percentage of rapes are false accusations? Once again, the numbers vary greatly. The US Department of Justice released a report Convicted by Juries, Exonerated by Science places the false accusation percentage between 20%-40% using DNA testing. 

Update: I have included another secondary reference for the Johnathan Gottschall estimate provided in the accepted answer (Reference 7), that challenges the 6.4% rape pregnancy rate claimed in that study. 

Did the study find that the divorce rate was 50% higher in marriages where the housework was shared? 

The fraud rate isn't known, but it doesn't have the lowest percentage of improper payments. An August 2014 GAO report SNAP Enhanced Detection Tools and Reporting Could Improve Efforts to Combat Recipient Fraud notes that the fraud rate is unknown, but notes an improper payment rate of 3.4% for fiscal year 2013. 

Now this alone might not make her notable, since she is just a private citizen who testified at a single hearing during a Congressional recess, but a firestorm of controversy erupted when conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh called her a name. Additional, she has thrust herself into the public eye, most recently speaking at the Democratic National Convention, and is considered a poster child for the Democratic party. Can contraception cost a woman over $3,000 during law school? Do 40% of female students at Georgetown Law struggle financially to pay for contraceptives? I know that these are two claims (and normally, they should be separated), but they are both highly related. Both are about the affordability of contraceptives to women in law school. The first question is technically true, it can cost $3,000. (Example: I could spend $1 million on transportation by purchasing a Bentley for each day of the week to take me to law school). This is really a question of if this claim is true, how much contraception would you have to use to spend $3,000, and is this a reasonable amount (i.e. see Bentley transportation). The second question is related to the first, and is a function of how much money it costs for contraceptives for women. Is $3,000 (assuming that is true) an amount of money that someone going to Georgetown Law school would struggle paying? 

Today on the 700 Club’s “Bring It On” segment where viewers ask Robertson questions, one man wondered how he should go about repairing his marriage with a wife who “insults” him and once tried to attack him. “Well, you could become a Muslim and you could beat her,” Robertson responded. The co-host interjected, " But, in lieu of that." Prompting Robertson, "You don't want to go to Saudi Arabia?" Is it legal for muslims to beat their wives in Saudi Arabia? 

From the CDC themselves, they note the Dickey Amendment does not block research/funding related to gun control/gun violence. 

No, they didn't The NRA is a civil rights organization, and isn't capable of blocking federal research funding related to gun violence and gun control. That is the job of Congress. Congress passed the 1996 Omnibus Consolidated Appropriations Bill, which contains the following language: 

32,101? How confident are you? Finally, we come to the heart of the matter. Is a woman less likely to become pregnant if forcibly raped, than with consensual sex. How confident should we be that 32,101 pregnancies are the result of rape each year? I wasn't able to access the study online, but you can glean enough information from the abstract to see some problems with the estimate. 

Additionally, this only compares annual salary of teachers versus other professions. Teachers work fewer hours per day (including weekends), and teachers work fewer (185 days/year) on average versus 230 days/year. I used an 8 hour work day, even though teachers typically work less hours than most other occupations (see chart below). 

The above statements are all 100% true, but extremely misleading. If you are currently attempting to protect yourself from the dangers of Dihydrogen Monoxide, you will likely be issued a Darwin Award. This dangerous chemical is water. All "dangerous" chemicals are also safe at some level. Many of the chemical compounds listed below are found in secondhand smoke. To the right of these chemicals, is the Maximum Contaminant Level (MCL) allowed by the EPA in drinking water with notes indicating possible natural causes. 

The way they count such a large surplus, was by not counting money the government owes itself. Quaap.com - 

A new study did find that in 25 of 40 social and economic measures that children raised by a gay parent had worse outcomes than children raised by two biological parents. New Family Structures Study 

The EPA says we shouldn't be concerned about lead in our drinking water that is below an action level, but the Surgeon General wants to repeatedly warn us that NO risk free level of second-hand smoke exists. Lead is a carcinogen whether it is in your drinking water, or in your smoke. It seems foolish to warn us about exposure from one source while ignoring the other. Radiation is a potent carcinogen that has a low recommended exposure limits each year (5 rem/year whole body OSHA, 100 mrem/year general public, but it is used as a treatment to cure Prostate Cancer. The benefits of radiation therapy almost always exceed the risk.