Germanic languages tend to have a rule that if the nucleus is long, then a coda is short, and if a coda is long (say, a consonant cluster, or, in the case of some other languages, a geminate consonant) then the nucleus is short. Grewendorf posits another slot at the end of the German syllable, the suffix. It's mostly occupied by flectional morphemes, but in the case of Mond it seems to be occupied by the last segment of the lexical morpheme. You could have a look at Sprachliches Wissen by Grewendorf if you want to know more about this. 

*This is of course soemething of a simplification of the literature on non-configurationality. **Full disclosure: a professor of mine. 

I'm not quite sure what you mean by a "direct n-language creole." Creoles can and do draw their lexicon from many different sources; I would argue looking at aspects of syntax often doesn't let us identify any clear parents at all. (Berbice Dutch, a SVO language, developed from Ijo and Dutch, both SOV). So it seems that creoles from exactly two parents are not the norm, and furthermore considering different aspects of a creole's grammar/lexicon can give different answers as to what language(s) are the parents. Nonetheless, here's an attempt at answering your question from a couple points of view. Whinnom proposed a principle of "tertiary hybridization" which states that three language groups must be in contact for a creole to form. This is perhaps best illustrated by an example: in Papua New Guinea, Motu speakers were responsible for much coastal trade; they spoke pidgin Motu with their trading partners. The Hiri Motu ("Hiri" means trade) language arose when various of the trading partners began using their common pidgin Motu as a communication device among themselves. Motu could not form the basis of a creole (so the theory goes) when actual L1 speakers of Motu were in abundance, because they would perpetuate Motu grammatical norms as opposed to allowing a novel creole grammar to flourish. But I suspect that you are asking about creoles with a significant lexical contribution from many languages. Smith (1987, The genesis of the creole languages of Surinam, a Univ. of Amsterdam dissertation) speaks of a core of lexical material found in English-based Atlantic creoles which comes from various African languages. It was probably first amalgamated in a pidgin English spoken in African ports, then carried to the New World by slaves. There is also Saramaccan, which is among the most "mixed" creoles known, having drawn large portions of its core vocabulary from both English and Portugese. However, it also has other European and African influences. 

Because nations and national languages grew out of a standardization/demarcation of regional spoken dialects which did not have closed borders, and were alike to neighbors (a communication media). Mercantile and military traffic, large migrations, conquerors, the churches all had their influence. And out of such an amalgam a national language is standardized by institutions (initially literary), and by shaving speech and grammatical constructs to the same style. Going back still further, humanity took its origin in Africa and then split up. So even American Indian languages may contain a couple of recognizable words. However development may drift apart, as migration under duress of small groups, that may loose common language. (In understandable language.) 

My understanding of the issues is as follows. Principles and Parameters is an almost-tautologous restatement of Chomskian UG: there are certain things that are not subject to cross-linguistic variation (principles) and other things that can vary but only in constrained ways (parameters). (The part about parameters is where the "almost" in "almost-tautological" comes in.) There are other things that can vary freely, of course – e.g. vocabulary. All of Chomsky's syntactic theories fall under the P&P approach. In Government & Binding (the immediately previous generation), things like Conditions A, B, and C were principles; parameters were things like the EPP ("Extended Projection Principle;" originally this was the "subject movement to Spec,IP" parameter). Minimalism's principles are things like Merge (the operation) and the conditions on it (Last Resort, no lookahead, ...). One of the themes of Minimalist thought has been moving the locus of cross-linguistic variation to the lexicon. So the old EPP parameter, which in GB was true or false of a language, now can be specified independently for each functional head. In response to the observation/criticism that a small set of global parameters is not empirically adequate to describe the syntax of all natural languages, there has been research into lexical "micro-parameters" to fully describe languages (dialects) with small syntactic differences. 

It seems qualitative requirements of such a World Language have still not been mentioned. Other qualifications: The (as yet) failed Esperanto shows that pure rationality is not the sole issue. (I am both Esperantist and anglophile.) 

As to the definition wikipedia, agglutinative language Esperanto indeed is highly-agglutinative. And "malsanulejo" (there exists a hundred year old alternative, but rare, "hospitalo") indeed is often cited by both the pro and contra E-o factions. Having the same stem and same endings for deriving adjective , noun , verb () is one property. For E-o this has a funny effect on the "internationality," but assumedly makes the language easier for members of other language families. The "highly" makes only sense with sufficient affixes being used: 

Phonemic features which are strongly areal like the ones you mention, and a few others, such as labial-velar consonants as you see on this map, and ejective consonants. They are uncommon for some reason unknown to me. But they also spread easily from one language to another since they are easy enough to learn. Personally, I wouldn't say that tone is that uncommon (but as you noted it is much more common in some parts of the world than others), but the reason they've turned up in Punjabi is because of transphonologisation from so-called murky consonants (aspirated voiced plosives). These are no longer aspirated, so the adjacent vowel gets a low tone. I don't personally know much about what went on in the Punjab and adjacent regions, but it is rather common for this kind of process to happen to many neighbouring languages at once. This is why we've got tone in Norwegian and in Swedish. Clicks: although they are common in Bantu languages, apparently Proto-Bantu never had anything like a click. They were borrowed from Khoisan languages. So click languages don't seem to exist outside southern Africa precisely because it is very rare for a language to evolve clicks. They just did once and spread like wildfire. 

In general language standardisation happens after changes in the language communities. Only reforms in Chinese is a counter-example. The impetus of changes derives of the cultural changes in the communities. Historical American English and Brazilian Portugues changed faster. One language with many more or less isolated communities (historic Greek), isolated Portuguese in Portugal and Brasil. Small Dutch/Flanders may have easier reforms. Regulation like revisions, and cross-community standardisation, are conservative (though still receive much opposition). Take the reform of German where some occurrences of (but not all) were replaced by . Regulation authorities are seldom speeding things up to a larger degree. In general they start to allow new orthography and finally make some new spelling the standard. They also cannot really hinder new cultural terms. The dictionary though intending to be non-regulative, in fact is regulative. As people tend to follow spelling and word choice as provided in the dictionaries. Conclusion: The mosquito steering the elephant. Though language regulation is linguistically important, its controlling function (negative or positive) depends on other factors, like the Chinese in the past wanting to do a huge simplification. 

The English word child once had plural childer (regularized from the original invariant plural child). Another pluralizer -en was then added, giving modern children In Proto-Germanic, there is a class of verbs called preterite presents. These were perfective in Proto Indo-European, but reanalyzed as presents in Germanic. The past tense was then formed by addition of a suffix (cognate with Mod. Engl. -ed). So, the past tense forms of verbs carried two "past" markers -- the original PIE ablaut and the Germanic suffix. 

The English perhaps: can happen, and the Dutch misschien (geschieden): might happen have similar roots. The German vielleicht seems to deviate on first sight, but there is the Dutch wel-licht with the same meaning: "yes easily (possible)" - wel = indeed, yes, yeah (compare the English well). Both vielleicht and wellicht stem from the same spoken form evidently. 

English spelling did deteriorate, due to almost abruptive historical changes. It will never become phonetic (nation versus national), and we won't see much reform there besides through/thru. So evolution is not an automatically proceding process. We live with a much richer language in qualitative terms. Philosophics showed the historical introduction of a Greek notion for (non-religious) soul (Latin animus). So nowadays we have a bag of notions like creative, tolerance, open-minded. Nevertheless philosophy, or psychology did contribute nothing to our linguistic mental toolset describing mental processes themselves. We did not become better argumentators. And are still as gullible to wrong arguments (financially supporting child raising, despite world over-population; energy saving lamps, despite very toxic waste). Despite better expressiveness. So the meta-level of language did not evolve. It is interesting in this respect to look at the artificial language Esperanto. (I am Esperantist and anglophile.) The language can be seen to correct many of the grown short-commings of evolution: instead of the many suffixes to make a word adjective (-al, -ic, -ive) or noun there is just one -a or -o. The spelling is again phonetic. Rules are few and without exception. A linguistic evolution in general has no such opportunity to make a clean break. Modern Hebrew was such a forced effort and might be worth readding upon. In general language evolution is a process of growth, friction and fitting. Missing are aspects of the biological evolution that made so good survivors: hunt, competition for the same resources, colaboration, genetic reproduction. Hence language evolution is nothing to be overly optimistic about. Especially as there is a large qualitative equality between languages. Historical or otherwise.