The key point is What does everyone actually know? - and then controlling what they learn and how they interpret it. I don't live near Philly, so anything I'm going to hear about this will be via news reports. I'm literally only going to know what the media tells me. Easy-as-pie in this world of gag orders and national security letters. On the other extreme, anyone close enough to get a clear look at it was likely in the blast radius and thus not in a position to talk to anyone. In the middle are folks who would have saw the streaking light coming down. (Think of that meteor that hit Russia a few years back - even the folks who had cameras pointing at it just see a bright something coming down, then big boom). You simply call it whatever you want it to be called - meteor, nuclear attack, whatever your sneaky government masters want to spin it as. (And even from a kilometer away, you're not going to see much detail, particularly at speed) You mention that satellites caught details. While I think you're overestimating what a satellite can capture (relative speed is a bit of a bitch in photographing things in orbit, especially unexpected things), most of your serious cameras are government controlled. The rest are corporate, which brings us back to government nastygrams telling you that you had an unfortunate data outage, and you have NO IMAGES FROM THAT POINT OF TIME. Now, you just have a disaster scene, and it's pretty easy at this point. Lock down the area, close the roads, send in FEMA and the nuclear guys and everything else. Rig some gadgets to make clicky noises and declare an emergency evac. Get everyone out. Meanwhile, a bunch of MIBs in hazmats happily take care of the "suspect material". To sum up: 

All this engenders a loyalty amongst the guards who will then put in th extra effort. Compare this with mall renta-cops who don't really care once they clock-out. 

We're all adults here... so what age group is your story targetted at? Jim might be boring at home, but if missionaries haven't been invented then that's new and exotic. Also there's a size differential as suggested by @Korthalion which may be proportional. Even just same-but-different a way of freshening the blood leading to genetic variety over the subsequent generations. Many cultures recognise the dangers of inbreeding in isolated groups and could value Jim just for that. 

Another take - ohana meaning family. "The concept emphasises that families are bound together and members must cooperate and remember one another." In relation to this pantheon of gods, is exactly like Uncle Bob and Aunty Moaner. At a family gathering you may be annoyed by constant hugs from one, but you still have to tolerate it because the other is your favourite. 

First things first: you would see a drastic decline in technology at the strategic level, because military commands would happily EMP their bases every three days in order to maintain privacy. (And likely a large swatch of the neighboring countryside to increase the time it takes new snoopers to invade). On top of that there's going to be All The Jamming. You name it, they'll have made sure it's running. There's zero electronics in my war room. (Also, I expect you'd see several of these "CAMP LUDDITE" bases so that old fashioned HUMINT doesn't steal your secrets). (Second aside: the description doesn't quite cover how fast these guys are. If it's possible to secure Air Force One, replace the press seats with food supplies, and have it stay airborne to constantly outrun the snoopers, expect that to happen.) Second: anything planned isn't going to be on computers. It's going to be in people's heads, spoken quietly inside your warded spaces, and orders will most likely be written down, sealed (and possibly put inside EM-blocking envelopes) and hand delivered. (As well as old fashioned code books). The goal of secrets and encryption isn't to hide forever, just until you need to. So war is going to be based around moving very quietly, and then very fast. Decisions and conversations will be held in secure locations, and then any information that leaves will be cryptic and the bare minimum. Soldiers will be expected to follow orders near-blindly, because if the enemy finds out things the same time as them, there's no need for them to know where they're going until they need to be there NOW. 

Point of this is that a smart 8-10 year old might be able to leave school, but an 18 year old might not be able to perform the same tasks. What happens when school kids can't achieve by a certain maximum age we leave to your imagination. 

All the other answers deal with physics and thermodynamics and ignore the root of all evil - Money. There may be an issue of ownership - Halley would surely have a word to say about reuse of his comet, were he still alive. Since he's not alive, ownership will pass to his descendants, who have to be located and queried. Given that Edmond Halley was English there will be a reasonably-sized Compulsory Purchase payment due to Halley's estate Refer to $URL$ In short - complex finances could kill this faster than the consensus that it won't help anyway. 

People close enough to positively identify what it is are dead. People in the neighborhood to get a good look are busy trying not to be dead, rather than walking a kilometer into the blast zone - and can be easily sent elsewhere "for their safety". Anyone beyond that only know what you tell them. 

Tech wakes up the "prize crew". If this can be done without alarms, flush the tubes of the sleeping guards. (Removes possibility of them being awoken later). If this can't be done without alarms, do this after you've secured the ship. Kill out the alive guards as quietly as possible. (And you're in space, so you have options up-to-and-including just venting atmosphere in their compartments) Freeze (or space; their choice) the current techs on duty (if the ship can be controlled remotely, you can't afford someone being a hero and hitting the panic button down the road). Optional: find whatever mechanism allows remote-command of your ship and disable it (may not be an option in your world) 

One specific idea - separate breathing from eating. As humans we have to stop breathing for a moment to drink or swallow. Evolutionarily-speaking, its probably to make the best use of a complex system of the mouth for speaking as well as chewing rather than duplicating things. If the beings had separate eating orifaces from their breathing ones, then efficiency rises and multitasking becomes more possible. Downside, the human nose depends on air movement to smell things, and having no air movement there would impact on the sense of taste. On the positive side, there's zero danger of choking on food, or inhaling vomit into the lungs because of the partitioning of systems. 

Magic or at least sleight of hand. Danger here is it might get him rejected, not accepted, if its perceived badly. 

Physical Actions - perhaps Jim can juggle? Bowling or catch or dodgeball or knucklebones - nothing that requires keeping score more than "one at a time" or "taking turns" Music/Rhythm - noone knows what kind of song or music early man had. But there's a high chance birds were singing back then and early humans might have emulated them for pleasure. They might appreciate a rendition of "Yellow Submarine", without understanding it at all. A sling might be feasible - needs some cord and a cup, and a bunch of smooth pebbles. He may not have the ability to sling it himself, but a tribe of people who live by their hands could see the benefit. 

At this point, the only people awake are your people, your casualties are the guards plus any tech who didn't want to go into SA, and so long as the authorities planet-side aren't tipped off, you're good to go. 

I think you've got yourself in a bit of a corner. Without FTL, trading would be nomadic rather than what we think of today - think the old Silk Road, or traveling peddlers. It'll be people whose livelihood involves being constantly on the move, buying stuff here hoping it'll sell for more than that on the other end. (This of course assumes that we don't have transmutation or anything). It may be more feasible if it's combined with an entertainment troupe of some sort (circus being the classic, but even postWW1 barnstormers would fit the model). But, this assumes that it's cost-effective to be roaming the stars in the first place, and that means while you don't need FTL, you do need some sort of high-efficiency power source and sub-light propulsion. Otherwise, it's not worth the trip at all for most things. If we're use near-now tech, that means the only things that are even worth considering shipping is things that the destination planet can't get on their own. (Because if it's available on-planet or even in-system at all, it's cheaper to do it locally than it is to ship it). To my mind, that brings you to three things: 

Pay your guards very well, so much so that significant bribes are insufficient to make them risk a long and valuable income stream as their regular job. Make the guards a corps, rather than just employment. Care for your guards - feed them, arm/equip them well with current arms and armour. Care for their families - any guard injured or killed and their spouse is covered for life, and children till age of maturity. 

Answer: the Oxygen molecule O3, known as Ozone. I live in New Zealand and between us and the Australians we have a high level of UV compared to other places in the world. I get sunburned through my clothes, and I can get sunburned on a cloudy day. Some of this is because of the Ozone hole over the antarctic, allowing more ulta-violet in sunlight to come though. So your planet could have a naturally higher level of ozone, or could be actively adding ozone to the atmosphere somehow. Perhaps there are a lot of shorelines, because Ozone is generated by wave action. Or a heap of electrical activity, again oxygen is converted to ozone in proximity of electrical discharges. Ozone is damaged by chloroflorocarbons, aka CFCs, that were used in spray cans for years, as well as refrigerents like Freon and fire suppressent like Halon. Your planet should never have any of this. Links: 

People - colonists, refugees. Yes, you can "manufacture" them on-site, but assuming the travel time is < 20 years (or just for bootstrapping a new colony), you have to get people from there to here. Bootstrapping for a colony - basically, the stuff you need to build the stuff you need. Once a colony is established, this market dries up entirely, but for a colony that can't do X, a machine to let them do X is worth shipping. Unobtainium. Which goes back to the "can't get it here" issue. If some colony finds Dune Spice and it's useful enough, there will be people willing to pay the transport costs to get it. (Credit to R. in the top-post comments). Refugees - by which I mean folks who aren't trying to go somewhere, so much as needing to get away from where they started. In this context (esp. given the money needed to build this sort of thing), you're probably looking at some rich religion/orthodoxy that builds something relatively self-supporting so they can bugger off and find a brave new land (or Xenu or whatevs). It's crazy and most of them probably won't make it, but human history is full of people packing up and hoping for the best. 

Candles Jim could use fat from a kill, heat it with stones from the fire till it runs, and pour it into a hollowed out bone "end" or raw mud pottery cup. Even a shell of an orange or a hollowed out root vegetable or tree nut shell would do. Suspend a wick in the liquid, perhaps a few strands of cotton cloth from his clothes, and once the fat has cooled and solidified then its a candle. Maybe keeping the source of the wicks secret is his way of stopping others from duplicating his candles. Further info $URL$ 

Rather than trimming years off education, bring the school into work. That is, incorporate "labouring" time in education and call it physical education. Include helping your "elders and betters" in the underlying social expectations, and instill this in the child from an early and formative age. Consider teaching some skills later, for example teach "survival maths" instead of higher maths like calculus, which is left to late-high school, which is after the earliest leaving age. And start schooling earlier in life - kids can do some hours at a kindergarten or pre-school from 2 years, and work up towards a 6 hour school day by the age of 5, and an 8 hour day by the age of 10. If you're short on labour, use the older kids to look after the younger kids. This also teaches skills to raise more labour over time. This is playing the long game though, so assumes Glorious Leader is forever. You don't want a bunch of illiterate former students in your labour force, so make schooling a lifetime process. Instantiate Night School classes or Adult Education (either optional or compulsory) to continue educating your labourers. Also foster a culture of knowledge sharing, like reading over television. Finally, consider a "high school leaving exam" where student must perform a series of day to day adult things to graduate Some ideas for school-leaving exam - once student can perform 85% of this or better, they may leave school and join the workforce, and get a social status boost, and a pay increase: