In short, the primary appeal of empirical truth is its universality. If you can observe a fact or demonstrate a theory empirically, you effectively accomplish three things (assuming you use scientifically valid methods): 

You create evidence which should persuade any reasonable person of the veracity of your claim, You provide him a method by which he can verify those claims himself, and Your demonstration exposes underlying assumptions and sources of potential error so that your claims can be corrected by subsequent empirical tests if necessary 

Human perception is known to be unreliable and occasionally faulty. This supposed problem is not a significant concern. A materialist would simply reply that either PR or PB is inconsistent with reality, and further data would be necessary to determine which is inconsistent. A materialist would ask: What is the wavelength of the light observed by the twins? If it is not known, how was it produced? If the wavelength is known or reproducible, the materialist would then identify which twin had faulty perception. If the wavelength cannot be determined after the fact, then there is no way to know the actual color of the light during the event. Disclaimer: Wavelength is a property of light, but color is not. Color is a percept. In a certain strict sense, you could argue that both twins are correct, and that their perceptions map to different real properties. This is a bit disingenuous if we accept the assumption that everyone agrees "blue" is 450-495 nm light and "red" is 622-780 nm light. That assumption is necessary to imply any sort of contradiction in the twins' stated observations. 

Each model necessarily has its own set of abstractions. Conclusions that are consistent with each model don't necessarily have to be consistent across models. For example, the strings model may not encode the concept of colour, and a static model may not encode the concept of growth or change. Nevertheless, since the models are non-destructive descriptions of the tree, they can co-exist. So to your question of whether the various 'beings' can simultaneously be valid, I'd answer that yes, they can be simultaneously valid, but any conclusions must reference the respective model(s) from which they were derived. For example, if one synesthesist calls the tree colour 6 and another 7, the numbers are relative to the respective synesthesists. 

Note that Descartes distinguishes between thoughts and doubts, so the word thoughts is used in a somewhat more limited fashion than the arbitrary subject matter of thinking. That is, one can think thoughts and one can think doubts, which Descartes treats as quite separate categories. (This might be considered a fallacy in itself today.) After several iterations, Descartes is left with untrusted thoughts (or doubts as your quote has it). But even though those thoughts were untrusted, their existence could not be denied (i.e. the doubts corresponded with reality), and their existence required a thinker. Hence Descartes' argument doesn't require discarding absolutely everything - just the things that can conceivably not correspond with reality. 

Other methods of knowing things may not be universal or applicable in all cases. Some, such as deontological morality, rely on personal experiences, paradigms, or norms which may not be shared---and, in some cases, cannot be shared. Others, such as mathematics/informatics rely on axioms which may not apply to our physical, perceptible world. Empirical truths are, in some sense, the greatest success of philosophy because they can be accepted by anyone with an open, critical mindset. The primary problem with empirical truths is their limitations. There are many questions which we feel are important that cannot be answered by any empirical test. Many important questions have very few empirically-supported claims which can support an answer at all. It is seriously questionable whether empirical facts can ever fill these gaps. 

Some atheists believe in a form of "mandatory" naturalism. That is, they believe everything has a natural explanation---and unexplained phenomenon are simply events which lack a complete explanation at this time. Others have a more "skeptical" naturalism, where everything is assumed natural in the absence of compelling evidence to the contrary. This view seems to predominate among educated atheists. In practice, it can be difficult to tell these positions apart by casual observation. In both cases, the standard reaction to any mystery will be a scientific or forensic investigation. It is debatable whether these attitudes constitute axioms/dogma, circular reasoning, or justifiable beliefs. That would depend on the specific beliefs of each atheist. And, for the record, your definition is fatally flawed because it is possible to be an atheist and reject naturalism. One could believe in ghosts, the zodiac, planar energy, transcendence, or magic without believing in any sort of deity. If gravity and electromagnetism require no god, why should telekinesis and astral projection? 

But let me answer your actual question. One of the main reasons that most of mathematics uses a two-valued logical system is that most of mathematics is concerned with proving something either true or false. Nothing else. Hence, as mathematicians only wish to speak about two logical values for their statements, a two-valued logical system is the simplest system that allows them to do that. 1: Here we see a parallel with the 'imaginary numbers', they were introduced in Cardano's formula as an 'algebraic trick' to have some 'nonsense' in the middle of a derivation, but a correct result at the end) 

The question whether we could have a logical system that can be represented with complex numbers raise an interesting point: Are the logical systems where multiple dimensions are useful? The answer turns out to be yes. Consider the multidimensional logic of Carlos Gershenson. Here, each logical variable is a pair from the 'square' [0,1] x [0,1]. The reason that a 2-dimensional representation is chosen is such that we can assign a truth value to even paradoxical statements such as "This phrase is false." The basic idea is that if for the pair (x,y) we have x+y=1, then this is considered a non-paradoxical value within fuzzy logic1. Otherwise, the truth value is paradoxical, but can still be represented and computed with. (for more information, see the link provided) 

You pose the following apparent contradiction and I gather that your question asks why it isn't considered to be a logical fallacy in Descartes' argument: 

I'll take your question to be asking for the flaws in the linked argument to moderation. The 'middle ground' needs to be evaluated on its own merits. It's not a priori a good solution or a bad solution simply because it is the middle ground. More generally, if the values at the ends are comparable in the context of a partial ordering, the value of the middle could be argued to lie between them. That is, if there is a metric by which the 'worst' solution is measurably worse than the 'best' solution, a 'moderate' solution would by definition be measurably 'sandwiched' between them. If the values at the ends are not comparable (in that same sense), or if there's no agreement on the overall metric to use, then they are not truly 'ends', but simply alternatives in some solution space for which no metric has been imposed. In that case, a 'middle' or compromise might well have better utility - or worse. In the information-misinformation example you raise, one end is considered to be the only answer. There, it isn't simply that the middle is no good - it's that except for the single accepted answer, every answer is no good. 

The USA is already very religious. A lot more religious than most of western Europe, at least (the fact that less laws are deeply influenced by religion doesn't matter!). Also, the fact that most people in the USA are religious doesn't make it surprising that most scientists are 'believing'. Furthermore, there is a clear difference with 'believing in a super-natural power' and being a Christian. Being a Christian is met with arguments against religion, but believing in, for example, that there is some thinking entity that subtly influences humans for the good, doesn't directly link to a religion and hence such arguments cannot be made. Finally, personal belief and even personal support of a religion doesn't hinder science, usually. The influence of religion at large, however, can. So, it isn't strange that some individuals can perform science and still keep their religious connections. 

Where with 'positive belief' I mean 'something I believe to be true'. Atheism is a statement of negative belief, the firm rejection of belief in God or Gods and the Divine (often, let's just assume this for now). Why does that mean that you cannot have the same values of Christian dogma, if you rationally think those are good things to have value in? I mean, if God isn't real, then perhaps there is a more down-to-earth reason this stuff has lasted about 2 millennia, other than evil demagogues and dreadful dogma! A major 'issue' of 'modern atheism' is that is pretending to be a religion of its own. (I blame Dawkins, internet, America and the weird obsession to constantly 'debate' against religion, while 'atheism' is a statement of faith, not of religion (on likely implies the other in the denial, but this is only modern, really)) But really, you are free. Figure out what you want. Forget Dawkins and his lot. This is a good time to think what differs from your religious life and what is better and what is worse. This would be a nice time to learn about different religions (Perhaps you merely had the wrong religion. 'swapping faith' is a fine thing to do once carefully considered) or other philosophy (yes, religion is often a kind of philosophy, hidden in praises of God. As an atheist, you can observe philosophy of religions as you aren't fooled by religious promises) (but please, skip the 'atheism philosophy core'. Start with the classics. Look around this site) Also, don't be ashamed to return. Most religions have forgiveness and will likely force you to admit that this was stupid (is 'soul searching' stupid? I think it is a learning experience) and just come back. Do not think you cannot return. What you believe is truly your own, and none can take it away. 

I think the chink in your line of reasoning is the assumption that in the phrase "doubt everything", Descartes uses the word everything to mean literally everything, including doubts. In the context you've supplied, Descartes is using an implicitly iterative approach to discarding whatever can be discarded on the basis that they are not necessarily true (in the sense of correspondence of those things with reality). Two of the iterations are noted, which: 

I suspect you're trying to articulate something about human legacy. However, applying the word soul to that definition doesn't necessarily work because soul is defined in various ways, in various belief systems. Unless you identify the (existing) belief system(s) that your definition is intended to be compatible with, you may be using the word soul simply as a label, rather than talking about a concept that has broader meaning. 

It's not always the case that the natural-language pattern B causes A translates fully to the logic statement B -> A. But if we accept the mapping for sake of discussion, then the deductive step itself is simply taking the contrapositive and therefore sound: B -> A, therefore !A -> !B. The problem with the two natural-language examples in your question is that in each case, "A occurs because B causes it" hasn't been established. It is simply assumed, and a conclusion is derived from that assumption. Let X = "B causes A" and Y = "!A -> !B". Then the argument is "X, therefore Y". But since X and Y are logically equivalent, if someone doesn't already accept Y then it makes for a weak argument to prove Y by simply assuming X. In your examples, if the statements of causation aren't already accepted as axiomatically true, then they don't help establish the respective deductions.