OK, going by the first part of that video mainly, as the other two seem to be more technical and not so steep: When they are throwing the paddles away, they always seem to be falling from very high, the kayak pointing straight down, and they are going to hit the water flat with their face. In the first 2 or 3 falls, you see they not only throw the paddle, but also cover their faces with the hands to avoid hitting the surface hard on the face. I guess that's related - throwing the paddle so they have both hands for the face. Markedly, in all other falls, which are either not that high or where they are flying with a horizontal kayak, there is no throwing-away going on. 

Meditation has been mentioned, let me expand on it. There are certain techniques of meditation (namely Vipassana) which are in no way mystic or magical, but work quite like a sort of maintenance for the mind. While they are obviously employed a lot in Buddhism, they have at their core no religious/mystical background whatsoever, and they do "work" no matter whether you believe in anything or not. The point is not to sit down to meditate right after getting bitten by a snake, but to do the meditation as part of your regular life, at least for a while, like going to a gym to train your bodily muscles. After some time, you will learn to consciously notice what your mind is doing, while it is doing it. You will be able to notice when your thoughts are running away, you will notice when you are agitating yourself and so on. You will be able to recognize fears etc. arising, and let those pesky feelings "pass through" without harm (to a certain degree, you are certainly not expected to become a monk and sit in a cave for 15 years just to survive a snake bite). The great thing is that if your live gets busy and you don't have time for regular practice anymore, whatever you achieved stays with you (like being able to ride a bike). I would suggest this short series as a gentle (western, non-spiritual, non-religious, practical, no-nonsense, no-money, no-person-cult) introduction: How to meditate. Ignore the orange robe and give it a try, you might be surprised by the experience; and you will be that much more prepared for your next rattlesnake. 

I assume you are not talking about laws here ("can I carry an urn with ashes around"), nor about moral (ash-based, not outdoor-based) issues. So, Wikipedia gives us 7 principles for Leave No Trace. 

There is a reason why there are different kayaks: the small ones (a.k.a., whitewater kayaks) are very turnable, and this is exactly what you want in a strong/fast moving current. If things get "white", you must be able to do things like turn on the spot in an instant, with not too much effort. Short, fat kayaks do that splendidly; it is harder to keep them from turning than to turn them. (And other things factor in as well, for example being able to "edge", to do rolls easily and quickly and so on.) For sea kayaks, the opposite is true. You almost never want to turn in them; you can go wide arcs with no problem. But it is very important that you get from point A to B with minimal effort, as you can get into real, life-threatening danger if you run out of steam far from civilization with no real survival gear with you (think "eskimo in the ice"). Hence, those are designed to go forward very easily, and to resist turning with every stroke. (You also don't want to "edge" as there is not really a fast-changing current in play; and while you certainly want to be able to roll these kayaks as well, it does not matter if it takes you a few seconds longer.) The physical reason is simple - the fast type is streamlined (more deep than wide, without pronounced edges anywhere). Making few waves or submerged vortices, slicing through the water easily. The turning type is anti-streamlined; i.e., designed to "sit" on the water with minimal submersion, with a wide body to facilitate that, and with special edges designed to catch quick-changing currents. Hence, yes, if you want to go straight and far (and fast), then long = easier. If you want to be very mobile (turning a lot) and speed is of no concern, then short = easier. 

For all intents and purposes, I would not consider your ashes "waste"; it is a completely natural product. It is what is left if you burn an animal, they are certainly not toxic to plants they land on, or if swalloed (as individual little particles) by animals. Even if you dump them in a neat heap on the ground, no animal would go and eat big chunks of that. Lastly, if scattered properly, nobody will see them, so it is not a visual problem either. If you want to make sure, you can ask the company which created them for you whether they used any toxic chemicals in the burning process, but, frankly, I would be very highly surprised if they did (only imagine "yes, we use highly toxic Xyzinine to incinerate your grandma" - not conceivable). I also assume that those corpses are naked when cremated (or at least clothed in some non-plastic overalls or sheets to avoid air pollution or the use of expensive filters). 

You got plenty of good tips already. I am an Opinel user myself (everyday, not only when hiking); I use it to cut food, open envelopes, fish insects out of my drink, replace dull pizza knifes in a restaurant and whatever else you can think about. What I did with my kids was this: When they were very young (like 5-7 or so) they were allowed to handle the knife, but I made it an act of importance. I.e., I would not just throw it over to them and let them do their thing. I would hand it to them slowly, while looking at them steadily and talking earnestly. I very much made it an "adult" thing for them. They would very consciously be allowed to study the knife, open the lock, unflip the blade. I would encourage them to touch all parts of the blade (by showing more than telling, of course). The small pain when putting the tip to skin (without drawing blood, obviously) and the resistance when moving a fingernail across (not along, obviously) the edge. Folding the blade back in. From there on, they were allowed to do stuff with the knife; maybe cut an apple or some meat etc. on a "need to do" base (i.e., not playfully). As my knifes are very sharp indeed, I would closely watch and guide them. At any time, it was completely clear that they were never allowed to take the knife without me actively giving it tothem. Not because I said so, but because it was my property, and not a shared item (like you would have with any random bread knife). With this approach, you do know at every stage whether your child is ready or not, and it is very safe. 

I would strongly suggest taking a beginners course. Those are available for adults. While it may feel weird, just shrug off the feeling. Do not be shy, talk to the coach, ask questions, actually do what she says, and so on. A partner But the main reason for taking a beginners course would be to find another beginner to start your journey with! Exchange phone numbers with someone who seems to be close to your level of body strength, fitness, etc.. Find a weekly "jour fixe" where you regularly meet. The time/day-of-the-week of the course is a good starting point, as both of you obviously had spare time right then! Then just go and climb. You will find that you will improve very quickly. Do not be shy watching better climbers (i.e., everybody else). Nobody will think bad about you; most people will remember how it was when they started. The partner is important because a) motivation and b) talking about how to tackle different problems. As both of you will have different arm/leg lengths, mobilities, etc., you will quickly see that you will take different approaches to climbing, so you will learn from each other, even if you both are beginners. Bouldering I tried to get into indoor top-rope climbing twice, and it did not work out. The problem is that you are absolutely tied (sic) to having a partner around (so no spontaneous night at the gym) and downtime is much worse. One of you is always not climbing; and when the gym is full, the fullness is much worse, so to speak, since each climb takes longer. Also, frankly, I had incidents with lazy/inattentive partners while my life was literally hanging from a thread... Bouldering to the rescue! I encourage you to skip all the complexities of top-rope climbing, and go straight to bouldering, if you have a gym that focuses on that. Bouldering might not look like much, but it is very intense, and since you do not have a long climb for every route, it is much easier for the route setters to give you many, many more diverse problems. If a bouldering hall is full, it's not such a big problem. You get queues in front of the walls, but since each attempt takes only a few dozen seconds, 1-2 minutes max, you get to climb rather sooner than later. Also, when the difficulty rises, you need the time between tries to recover your strength anyways, so it is actually good to see what others are doing at "your" problem. 

Those are either not relevant to your undertaking, or are obvious anyway (e.g., when walking to your chosen spot, don't trample the flowers). That leaves us with... 

I love my Vibrams, and have been walking, hiking, swimming, climbing and running with them. I would not use them for multi-day hikes, though. Stepping on the wrong things (sharp/pointy) can give bruises. On a one-day outing I those were in my experience harmless; no problem there. But in a multi-day hike, it would really not be any fun if you step on something bad the first day (don't need to draw blood, just something that gives you a sore spot) and then have to live with that pain for the rest of the time. I'm not talking about stepping on a rusty nail, that will go through any hiking sole, just your average bad luck. There are things inbetween Vibrams and boots - look for "trail runners", "offroad runners", Roclite or something like that... Very very comfortable but a lot more material between you and the elements. 

Yes, they (well, good models) work just fine on ice, that's what they are made for. With my favourite model (Edelrid 6 Point Grödel), I can just walk on blank, mirror-like ice as if it were a normal road. Doesn't even take much more effort. 

I have seen people on glaciers with Nikes. People will wear everything. :-( Don't be that guy. But do have microspikes in your backpack just in case, to do a safe level crossing of a glacier, maybe. If you're sure that there are no holes, and all that... Note that the Edelrids I mentioned are a very old model, so please do not simply buy them because of this mention; there may be much better alternatives available these days. On the other hand, it might be a good sign that they are still sold - they are very tough. I like the fact that they are one contiguous steel platform and not just a few spikes connected by a chain. They stack quite nicely and do not use that much space in the pack. 

This comes closest. You are basically throwing the remains of a campfire in the air; likely with at least some wind (for reasons of ceremony). Those ashes will spread over a large area, you will not dump them just in a spot anyways (for said ceremonial reasons). 

Absolutely yes. I don't leave my home without them (well, another model than the one you linked) if there is any chance of hitting snow/ice during a hike. For such hikes, they always, at any time of the year, sit at the bottom of my pack, right next to the survival sheet. I've had at least two occasions where they transformed a stupendously dangerous situation into a happy, adrenaline-ridden stroll. One of which was in late August on the return from a lightweight climbing trip - nobody would have expected ice there, but it was on the shadowed side of the mountain, and really ugly. They don't weigh that much (at least compared to my body weight ;) ), and even if we are not talking life-or-death situations, they still can mean the difference between taking a large, uncomfortable detour or plowing along. It's pretty obvious that there are limits; you would rather have the "real deal" with you if you have to do very steep upwards climbs where you would really need the front teeth of crampons. Obviously, if you know that you will be facing crampon-level ice, then bring your crampons. Also, if and when I have to unpack them unplanned, then while putting them on I do a good hard amount of thinking whether I wish to continue or turn back, simply because I might not know what conditions are around the next corner.