First, wait until you are actually offered a promotion and an associated salary. You would look foolish if you did something without that offer. Then, if you still feel the promotion and raise (and additional benefits?) aren't what you feel you deserve, you can act. You could talk about why you think you should get a raise of over 50%. You should talk about value to the company, rather than trying to hold your existing work hostage. Then, you'll find out how much leverage you actually have. If this company is a cheap as you think, you probably have no leverage at all. You've only been there for 7 months - I assume the company existed before you got there. Be aware that we often think we are more invaluable than we really are. While I'm sure your current work is important, a company can always find someone else to do the work. It might be painful in the short run, but it's always possible. Also be aware that the promotion may have more long-term value for you than the raise. If this company is really very cheap, you should think about your exit strategy. Looking for a new development job with a promotion under your belt and a title more befitting a developer than "Call Center Team Lead" may be far more lucrative in the long run than the $5k you are planning to hold out for. Consider negotiating with that in mind instead of trying to "leverage" a few tools and reports you maintain. 

Interesting word choices here. Is it unethical? Well, you did sign a 1-year contract. And even if you can get away with it, some (like me) would view this as you going back on your word. Your personal ethics might not consider this an important factor. Others' personal ethics would never allow them to go back on their word, even if they had the leverage to do so. Can you demand an increase? Clearly you cannot just require the company to give you an increase. You have a signed contract at the current rate. But you may be in a position where you have enough leverage such that it would be in the company's best interest to give you an increase, or you will give them your notice and leave. (Part of this leverage would depend on the specific terms of the contract as well as local laws, so make sure you know and understand them). Again, your personal ethics come into play here as well. 

They want you there early next week - so be there early next week. There are no "tricks" to this. It's the same as any other request from a potential employer. If you really want this job, you want to accommodate their requests if at all possible. So, even if it is inconvenient for you, try to show your eagerness to work at the company by making every effort to get to the interview in their time frame - early next week. 

You should expect things in a startup to change rapidly and often. That is part of the nature of startups. Roles change. People that were formerly the go-to folks technically find themselves further down the totem pole and no longer relied on as much. New people with new management styles are brought in. Some stick, others move on quickly. The one constant is change. So it goes in many startups. When you go through the phase of rapid hiring of middle-level managers, things are often chaotic. Many of these managers come from very different environments, and bring a very different management style. A good startup has a strong culture and knows how to convey this culture and expectations to their new hires effectively. But sometimes, it takes time. And sometimes it isn't as effective as it should be. I think you already know that management which "treats people like crap" isn't to be expected. For me, it wouldn't be tolerated. If I hired those middle managers and they didn't change, they would be fired. And if I worked for such a middle manager and the company tolerated it for longer than a few months, I would leave. Give it a little while and see if things settle out for the better. If not, act accordingly. 

As always, it depends. First, check that your company has no prohibitions about girlfriends/partners working within the same company (or perhaps the same company unit). If not, one benefit would be your acting as a good internal reference. In some companies you could even earn a referral bonus. A potential drawback would be that - even if permitted - a hiring manager might not want to get into the middle of a situation that could affect two workers' performance. You might be a distraction to each other. And if the relationship goes sour, friction at work might cause performance issues. 

No need to establish a dialog, unless you don't know how internally-found bugs are normally reported in your company. Usually, there is a well-established process. You should report the bug using whatever is the formal bug-reporting system in your company. If that means going through the help desk, then do that. Provide factual details about what you are seeing. And propose what you think might be the correct query. Don't name names, or otherwise denigrate whoever coded the buggy query. You might have diagnosed the problem incorrectly. And you don't know who is responsible for the bug. None of that matters - report just the facts, without opinion. A good bug report has basically 

Climbing the ranks depends on the companies within which you are working, and what they value in their ranks. Some ranks require hardcore computer/programming/engineering background and degrees. Some do not. Overall, more academic credentials are very unlikely to hurt your chances of attaining what you are seeking. But they may not help, and/or they may not be necessary. Far too many variables and too many unknowns for anyone here (or elsewhere) to predict with any degree of assurance. 

If you anticipate asking for special accommodations during the application process (for example, if you are required to take a test that is usually written, but need it read to you), then you should indeed select "disabled" in the application. If you anticipate asking for special accommodations for your dyslexia after being hired, then you should indeed select "disabled" in the application, and expand on that in the section that is usually provided for comments. This will set up the process with HR, and make it easier for you to formally ask for, and receive your necessary accommodations - either during the application process, or after being hired. 

That will most likely come up in the context of "Why do you want to leave your current job?", but as you say, this has nothing to do with how far away you are willing to work. 

The term "extortion" has legal implications in many contexts. I don't think anyone here would advise you to take such a threatening route. Nor should they. 

Yes. I agree that basically saying "Why should I bother to listen to what my boss tells me to do" would be inappropriate and does not generally make for a healthy work environment. 

It depends solely on the employer, and on the potential employee. In some situations I have hired really good folks and have been willing to wait a few months. But in other cases, I need to fill a vacancy quickly, and 2 months would not be acceptable. 

If you believe your boss was hinting that he could pay you more, then feel free to negotiate a bit. The right time to negotiate is always before an agreement is reached, before you start working. Do a bit of research, and find out if there are other companies at which you could work as an intern, and what they are paying folks in your position. Many schools have placement or internship offices that can help you with that. What you want to have here is at least a few possible landing spots that can pay you at least as much, if not more - while still providing the work experience that interns need to concentrate on the most. You should get right on it now, set up a time that is convenient, and call your former boss. Indicate that you are lining up possible summer internship positions again, that you enjoyed your prior work, feel like you did a good job for them, and would like to return. Then, ask something along the lines of "The last few times I've worked for you, I was paid $10/hr. What will the pay rate be this year?" You are basically hinting that you are looking for more. Most sharp bosses will pick up on that gentle hint and be ready to either tell you that they cannot offer more, or will come back with a sweetened offer. That said, remember that as an intern, more money is good, but a few dollars per hour isn't really what you should be most concerned about. You want to intern in an environment where you can learn, grow professionally, and set yourself up for a great career. You want your internship to look great on your resume. And you might even want to set yourself up for employment with this company. I've hired lots of interns. The best ones come in wanting to work hard and to learn everything. I've gone on to try to find internal positions for them upon graduation. And when that didn't work out, I've given them great recommendations to work for my friends in other companies. I've told some interns that, while I'd love to have them come back the following year for another internship, I thought it would be best for them professionally to work for a different company. That way, they would learn how other companies do things, and provide insight that I couldn't provide. 

Write up a proposal. Lay out your ideas, the expected costs, the expected benefits, a hypothetical timeline of tasks, etc. Don't just make it a project that could only succeed if you do the work, but make it more generalized. Make sure it's a project that a well-trained person could handle, not just something that needs you specifically. Then schedule a chat with your boss. Start out by saying something like "I have really appreciated my internship here. I've learned a lot. And I've been thinking..." then talk about your ideas. Leave your boss with your written proposal and offer to discuss it further if he/she would like to do so. This is a really nice idea, shows initiative on your behalf, and might make you stand out over other interns should future opportunities arise. If, and only if, your boss asks if you would like to stay on to take this project forward, then you can take him/her up on the offer. Otherwise, just make it a sort of "final paper" to be handed off with the best of intentions. When I hired summer interns, I was always happy to discuss their thoughts and ideas. In fact, I always "debriefed" interns as we celebrated their internship, thanked them for they summer work, and sent them back to school. I took everything they said very seriously, as really good ideas often come from a wide variety of sources. 

If your company cannot be bothered to perform code reviews and would rather spend time and money on constant refactoring, there's not much else you can do. Pair programming is another obvious solution, but if code reviews are out, pairing is probably out as well. I'm also assuming that you aren't in a position to get rid of juniors and newbies and hire more senior developers with real experience. Sounds like you have to either get out, or continue on as you have as best you can. Continue to lobby your boss for better practices, and more experienced developers. But don't expect much in the short term.