The spacing between 9 speed and 10 speed is controlled at the shift lever. A 10 speed rear dérailleur will work with a 9 or 10 speed cassette and shifter. A 9 speed rear dérailleur is not compatible with 10 speed. The width of the chain and the cogs is the biggest issue. The pulleys on a 10 speed dérailleur are narrower, and a 10 speed chain will not rest correctly on the jockey pulleys of a 9 speed dérailleur. That does not mean it will not physically work, only that the shifting performance will be slow, you may drop gears unexpectedly, or have the chain skip unexpectedly. Long story short, 10 speed should be 10 speed all the way throughout your bike for it to work consistently and properly. Cable tension has nothing to do with cog spacing. That is designed into the shift lever. It is not adjustable, except by replacing the shifter. I hope that helps. 

In addition, the derailleur clamp size must be the same as the one for your frame. There are 3 common sizes, plus braze-on derailleurs which bolt to the frame. 

Perfect roundness, measured by placing a gauge under the edge of the rim, and spinning the wheel. Perfect lateral runout, or rather a lack of runout. This is measured by placing a gauge at the brake track of the wheel, and rotating the wheel to track the runout. Perfect Dish. Dish refers to the centering of the rim on the axle, or in some cases between the dropouts of the frame. This is measured using a truing stand or a dishing tool. Perfectly even and balanced spoke tension. Measure using a tensiometer, the value here will vary significantly based on the type of spoke, the size of the rim, the material of the spoke nipple. But the constant here is that all the spokes should have exactly equal tension. 

Spacers in place for the adapter bracket. If the caliper mount is equal to or smaller than the machined area, no spacer is required. 

It's very difficult to diagnose this kind of pain without being far more directly involved in the situation. However, the immediate issues that come to mind are: 

You will also need to ensure that you've enough adjustment range on the frame to move your front derailleur up by up to 2cm, and that the derailleur you purchase is dual pull, so that you don't need a pull converter. But it seems to me you've already worked that out. 

Short answer: No, you shouldn't. Heavy oils attract too much dirt, grit and grime which will damage the useful life of your chain. You need a light lubricant which will wick it's way into the internals of the chain, rather than simply coating the external portion of the chain. A good Teflon carrier lube like the Finish Line Teflon works well, lasts a good while and doesn't pick up dirt when properly applied. Using something like that will extend the useful life of your chain. Gear oil is too thick, and designed for a higher heat production than you get on a pedal driven bicycle. It relies on engine heat, and the gears moving at high speed to produce enough friction to reduce the viscosity of the oil enough to be thin enough to flow as a good lubricant. It would be better than nothing, but hardly a good choice. 

The bike is amazingly light, and agile. But the best part is the smooth ride, and the comfort. It is a Centurion's bike. The Scott CR1 SL is a similar design, my preference, actually. But they don't currently offer it with Di2 Electronic shifting. Again, it's on the horizon for next year. 

That style of drum brake relies on friction between steel and leather. If it is setup to stop reasonably well, they will always make some noise. Quite often, when new, they do indeed howl like Baoine Sidhe. This will get better with use. From the photos, it appears your brakes are fairly new? Assuming that they are actual photos of your bike... Rubbing talcum powder into the leather strap will help quiet the brake, but it may also have an adverse effect on your braking performance. Best to let it work out naturally, with time and use. I hope that helps. 

The Bike you have is a GT VFR BMX bike designed by Dyno, and made of 1020 high tensile steel. These were made for a number of years. One model, 1997, is like this: 

It is important to note that most manufacturer's of quality frames do face and ream their frames before they assemble or ship. They often do it before paint because they do it with machinery to build/assemble their frames, which allow a level of precision which wasn't possible with a locally produced hand built frame. So facing to raw metal isn't necessary anymore. In addition, the components installed on a modern bicycle often require a level of precision in frame specifications which can be destroyed by hand reaming or facing a frame after purchase. Campagnolo Ultra Torque cranks in particular, when installed, require a very specific shell width for the bottom bracket to be installed and function correctly. The tolerance range is less than .5 millimeters. So it is not always automatically a good idea to face your frame in a shop or on your own. 

While this may in fact be a serious problem which needs attention, it can also be normal. The first thing you need to do is define what you mean by leak. If it is a thin and light coat of oil on on fork stanchion, this is very likely normal. If it is a puddle, pool, or drip of oil on the fork leg, this is more than likely a problem. It can be a failed fork seal, or a a damaged damping or lockout cartridge. Both of these can be caused by over compression of the fork. It could also a be a defect in the fork, which should be replaced. Do you have an LBS you trust? If so, take the bike to them and ask. Be aware that there are other things that can cause this that may not be damage. How do you store the bike? Do you hang it up on the wall by the wheel or set it upside down on the bars and saddle? Leaving the fork in a position to have oil draining against the seal can allow it to seep through, but that is normal. I know this is a bit ambiguous, but there is no way to give an answer with certainty without seeing the fork. Post a picture of the leak, and we can be more helpful. 

If your LBS mechanic looked at it, and said it wouldn't work, why would any of us second guess a professional on a project which can't even look at? There are many reasons I can think of why doing so is a bad idea, even if it works technically. The biggest reason I can think of for it not working technically is that an axle for a sealed bearing hub has large, machined areas designed to interface with the inside race of the bearing. A solid axle, unless specifically made for that hub, isn't going to be machined to fit the bearing race. In addition, most axles for sealed bearing wheels are aluminum, which is fine when using a compression closure like the quick release, but which is a poor, and very likely unsafe, material for a threaded closure system like a single speed axle nut. 

For titanium frames, it is best to use a copper paste grease. You need to do so anywhere there is metal on metal contact, especially if it is aluminum to titanium contact. Normal grease is not enough to prevent the accelerated oxidation and bonding that occurs between totanium and other metals. 

There are 2 good reasons for this. First, a TT bike is the most efficient machine for flat, fast course racing, where there are a minimum of hills. It is not the most efficient machine when it comes to climbing. The body position is far too aggressive for even professional athletes to use in a non-TT style event. A bike with more a more upright body position, a more stable weight distribution, a lighter frame, and far, far lighter wheels, is a more efficient choice for that style of ride. Secondly, a TT bike sacrifices bike handling for that extreme power and aero efficiency. The TT stages are controlled events, where there are either one rider, or one team on the course at a time, and so limitations on stability and handling are acceptable. Take the same bike in a 150 rider peloton, where riders constantly jockey for position, and where even on a stable bike losing focus for 1 second can cause a major crash, and all of a sudden, those same sacrifices in bike handling and stability are no longer a benefit for the rider or the team. They become a hazard to the team's chances of winning. And not just for the stage or the day, since a bad crash can take a rider out for the season. Or God forbid, permanently. For these reasons, the UCI has seen fit to ban the bikes in non-TT events, in order to ensure rider safety. And for once, their decision makes sense. 

There is no one good answer to this question, because there are many personal factors which play in. Your weight, your physical fitness, the quality of the saddle, and whether it fits your body well will all be a factor here. In general, a short (sub 1 hour) ride every 3 days works well for most people. Consider getting rid of your stock seat, and getting something more fitted and more stable for your body to adapt to it. I hope that helps. 

Bent dérailleur hanger, or Bent derailleur cage. (Your derailleur hanger looks straight, but the cage appears slightly twisted in the upper photo. Could be the angle of the shot, though.) Edit: This turned out to be the correct answer, after all. Bent, twisted, or sticky chain link. Badly worn dérailleur pulley wheels. This means there is not enough tooth left to hold the chain on the pulley wheel. (In my opinion this is most likely, but I'd need a photo of the derailleur side on to confirm.) Worn chain. A badly worn chain will slip off the pulleys in this manner, sometimes. Usually, you would also experience slow and noisy shifting in the rear gears. Worn cassette. Usually, you would also experience slow and noisy shifting in the rear gears, not just the pulley derailment, and usually it would be preceded by a worn chain. But it is possible, especially if the chain has recently been changed. 

The only significant loss of efficiency comes at the point wear the wear causes the chain to skip, in terms of power efficiency. In addition, efficiency(time) lost to poor shifts and delays of that sort are a risk. But until the point where damage is affecting your ride is beyond the point where the chain has begun damaging the cassette and chain rings, and so your loss of financial efficiency comes much earlier. 

First, to remove a cassette freehub does require a specific tool. The Park Tool version is called the FR-5. There is no need for more than one kind of grease. Use any light bearing grease like the Park Poly Lube 1000. There is a good set of instructions here on how to do the rebuild. From Park Tool's repair help site: Hub Overhaul and Adjustment Useful Tools and Supplies Cone wrenches, see DCW and SCW series wrenches. Always use the smallest size that fits. Bench vise and axle vise AV-1, or AV-4. Holds wheel secure for easier work. Combination wrenches to fit, or adjustable wrench Pencil Magnet Grease, Park Tool Polylube® 1000 Wire ties Solvent, such as CB-2 Citrus ChainBrite Rags Hub Overhaul and Adjustment This article will discuss the adjustment and overhaul of "cup-and-cone" hubs. These hubs allow for access to internal bearings, and are adjustable. See related article for Freehub Service. Bicycle hubs may be either the adjustable cup-and-cone type or the non-adjustable cartridge style. The adjustable type bearing surfaces can be adjusted for bearing play. The cartridge types typically cannot be adjusted for wear or play. Both types can come in either the freehub type or the thread-on freewheel style. A basic bearing system is seen below. The cup is normally a permanent press fit into the hub shell. The cone traps the ball bearing. The locknut is tightened against the cone to prevent the cone from moving. If there is looseness from bearing play, the cone can be move closer to the cup. The modern freehubs tend to be more complex. The hub will have a freehub mechanism attached to the hub. The cassette cogs attach to the freehub. It is possible to remove and service the freehub in a separate operation. See Freehub Service. A typical rear hub with freehub is seen below. Cup and cone type freehub Cartridge Bearing Hubs Hubs using the cartridge type bearings are not serviceable in the sense they can be dismantled and adjusted. As cartridge bearings wear and develop play, the entire cartridge unit is replaced. Cartridge hub service is not covered in this article. Common cartridge bearing type hub Hub overhaul For rear hubs, begin by removing rear cogs. Remove quick release skewer. If it is a solid axle type, remove axle nuts. Inspect axle ends. Measure and note the amount of axle protruding past locknut. For quick release hubs, counting the number of threads is an adequate measurement. (OPTIONAL) Mount in axle vise, if possible. Mount right side down with left side facing upward. Generally, dismantle from the left side. Remove any rubber cover. Use a tie or string to hold small parts in the same orientation as they came off of hub. Hold cone using cone wrench, and loosen locknut counter-clockwise. Remove locknut and any washers, placing them on the tie. Remove cone by turning counter-clockwise. Place hand below right side, and lift wheel slowly. Be prepared to catch bearings that fall from hub. Place wheel on bench. If inspecting bent axle, remove right side locknut and cones. Note that left side and right side cones, washers and locknuts may be different. Do not confuse left and right side parts. Use tie method to keep track of parts. Also note axle thread may be asymmetrical. The side with more axle spacers gets more axle thread. Count the number of bearings on each side, and then use pencil magnet to remove bearings from hub shell. For many hub models, it is possible and recommended to overhaul with the pressed dust caps in place. Dust caps may be fragile and removal may result in damage. Work around dust caps when cleaning and inspecting. Wipe and clean all parts. Parts must be dry for assembly. Wipe freehub mechanism out using damp rag. Do not soak freehub in solvent. Freehub bodies are lubricated internally with a light lubricant, and soaking them with solvent will remove lubrication. For freehub service, see Freehub Service. Hub and Parts Inspection View hub cups and cones for pitting or damage. Also use a ballpoint pen to trace the bearing path. Roughness and wear will be felt as the small ball of the pen passes over pits.      Inspect ball bearings for shininess and brightness. If balls are dull looking, they should be replaced. If the cup is damaged, it typically cannot be replaced. A new hub would be required. Cones are typically available as replacement parts. If inspecting axle, roll axle on flat surface. View axle close to surface and watch for gap appearing as axle rolls. Bent axles cannot be re-bent. A new axle is required. Hub Assembly Grease axle threads. Grease heavily inside hub shell cups. Place ball bearings in both cups and cover with more grease. Make sure balls are seated flat in cup. For rear hubs, the common number is 9 balls of 1/4-inch diameter per side. For front hubs, the common number is 10 balls of 3/16-inch diameter per side. If all parts were removed from axle, install right side parts. Use care to install in the same orientation as they came off. Return axle protrusion to the original measurement, as noted earlier. Tighten cone locknut fully. Install axle through right side of hub. Install left side axle parts, using care to install in the same orientation as they came off. Do not set axle protrusion on this side and do not tighten locknut at this time. For quick release type hubs, snug the cone down until it contacts the ball bearings, and turn back counter-clockwise one quarter turn (90 degrees). This will purposely make the bearing adjustment too loose. Hold cone with cone wrench and tighten locknut fully. Proceed to HUB ADJUSTMENT below. NOTE: For quick release wheels, it is critical the axle end sit inboard or recessed inside the frame or fork dropout. This allows the quick release skewer to secure onto the frame or fork end. If the axle end protrudes even a very small amount, the wheel may not properly secure and may come out during use. In the image below the axle end is only slightly too long. If the hub is the correct width, check the axle is centered between the locknuts. It may be necessary to grind off the axle end until it is safely recessed. Hub Adjustment Quick release hubs have hollow axles that flex slightly when the quick release is closed. Hub bearing adjustments must account for this extra pressure. When a quick release hub is not clamped tight in the frame, there should be a slight amount of play in the axle. This play disappears when the hub and wheel are clamped in the frame. To test if a hub in your bike has an adequate adjustment, grab the wheel while it is still in the frame and pull it side to side laterally. Turn wheel and test again, feeling for a knocking sensation. If no play is felt, remove the wheel. Grab the axle (not the skewer) and rock it up and down to check for play. If the axle has play when the wheel is outside the bike, but no play inside the bike, the adjustment is adequate. If there is no play in the axle when the wheel is outside the bike, the adjustment is too tight, even if the axle seems to turn smoothly when out of the bike. Bearing Adjustment and "Feel" Bearing surfaces are made from hardened steel. The surfaces are cut typically by grinding. Round ball bearings roll on the curved surface of the cup and cone. Even the highest quality bearing surfaces will have slight grinding marks. In the left image below is a high quality cone magnified two hundred times. Notice the parallel marks from the grinding stone. Also note a slight pit from wear. The right hand image is a bearing magnified the same amount. It does show some surface marking, but is generally smoother than the cone or cup. Bearing surface smoothness will vary between manufacturers and between models. Some bearing system will simply "feel" smoother because they are smoother. This is why it is difficult to adjust by using a subjective feeling of smoothness. Generally, adjust bearings for the loosest setting that has no knocking or play, regardless of this relative smoothness.      The following adjustment procedures simulate the on-the-bike compression while still allowing access to the left side cone and locknut for adjustment. The bicycle frame and skewer act as a holder for the wheel and the axle. The set up of the wheel on the frame may seem unusual. Follow directions carefully. NOTE: Some frames and dropouts will not allow clamping the wheel as described. The hub or spokes may contact the frame. It is possible to find spacers to simulate the dropout. Additionally, an alternative to the procedure below is to adjust the bearings with the wheel unclamped. Mount the wheel in the frame to test the adjustment. Remove as necessary, adjust, and re-test. Mount bike in repair stand. Remove rear wheel from bike. If adjusting front wheel, remove front wheel as well. Remove quick release skewer and springs. Remove any rubber boot covering left side cones and locknuts. Insert skewer through cog side of hub. Install quick release adjusting nut on non-cog side. There must be a gap between the skewer adjusting nut and the locknut. The quick release nut must press only on the axle, not on the locknut. Place cog side of wheel into left rear dropout. Non-cog side sits outboard of the bike, and is accessible to mechanic. If the cogs touch or interfere with the frame, remove rear cogs. Front wheel: either left or right side goes to rear dropout. Adjustment is done from side opposite clamped side. Adjust quick release until tension is same as when normally clamping wheel in bike. Resistance to closing should begin half way through swing to fully closed. If in doubt see Wheel Installation. Check bearings for play. Hold end of axle on non-cog side with one hand and rock rim laterally with other hand. Play in bearings will be felt as a knocking in the axle. If play is felt, proceed to step #9 below. If no play is felt, adjustment is potentially too tight. Purposely create excess bearing play as the first step to proper adjustment. A. Use a cone wrench and hold cone from moving. Note position and angle of wrench. B. Use another wrench on locknut. Turn locknut counter-clockwise to loosen. C. Loosen cone by turning cone wrench counter-clockwise about 1/4 turn, or 90 degrees. D. Hold cone from moving with cone wrench and tighten locknut. Locknut must be fully tight before play can be checked. E. Test for play by holding axle and moving rim laterally. If play is felt, adjustment is too loose. Tighten adjustment: A. Use a cone wrench and hold cone from moving. Note position and angle of wrench. B. Use another wrench on locknut and loosen by turning counter-clockwise. C. Recall angle of cone wrench and tighten adjustment by turning cone clockwise 1/32nd of a turn. Imagine cone wrench extending to the rim. Move end of wrench only the distance from one nipple to the next at the rim. This approximates 1/32nd of a turn for thirty-six and thirty-two spoke rims. D. Hold cone from moving with cone wrench and tighten locknut. Locknut must be fully tight before play can be checked. Test again for play by holding axle with one hand and moving rim laterally with the other hand. Rotate wheel and check for play all the way around wheel rotation. If play is still present, repeat adjustment step above until play just disappears. Remember to make small adjustments clockwise one at a time. Check for play at rim after each adjustment. It is likely it will take several small adjustments. Once play has disappeared, test final adjustment. Open skewer partially (about 45 degrees) and check again for play by rotating wheel and checking several points. If play is felt during this test, hub is adjusted. If no play is felt during final skewer check, the adjustment is too tight. To adjust, first CLOSE SKEWER, loosen locknut and loosen adjustment only slightly. Tighten locknut and check adjustment for play, then test again by opening skewer to 45-degreee. Adjustment is finished when there is no play felt when skewer is closed, but some play is felt when skewer is partially open. Remove wheel from bike and return skewer and springs to normal position. Replace any rubber covers. Notice there is play in axle. This play disappears when wheel is clamped in place for use. You must use the same skewer setting for riding as for adjusting the hub. Remount cogs, if removed, and install wheel into bike. It is necessary to duplicate the quick release setting of hub adjustment when installing wheel. Misc. Notes: If hub will not adjust smoothly, the bearing surfaces may be worn out. If play does not disappear until bearing adjustment is very tight, right side locknut may not be tight against cone, or cups inside hub shell may be loose. HUB ADJUSTMENT- SOLID AXLE TYPE Non-quick release hub systems use axle nuts and washers on the outside of the dropouts to hold the wheel in place. Adjustment of solid axle hub bearings is similar to the hollow axle quick release type, but there is no need to allow for axle flex. Mount the wheel in the frame similar to quick release hubs as described above. Tighten the axle nut inside the dropout that is holding the wheel. The axle is now held tight. Check for bearing play. If no play is present, create play by loosening bearing adjustment, then adjust in small increments until play in gone. The goal is to find the loosest adjustment that has no play. Remove the wheel from the bike. The adjustment for solid axle hubs does not change when mounted in the bike. HUB-CARTRIDGE BEARING TYPE These types of hubs use an industrial type-bearing unit. The inner and outer rotating races and ball bearings are installed as a unit. These hubs are not serviceable in the sense they are overhauled and adjusted. When the cartridge bearings are worn, rough, or have play, the cartridge should be replaced. The bearing unit is then removed and a new one pressed in. This requires special tools and is best left to professional mechanics.