As we know, this passage seems to overstate the effectiveness of the Persian army against Greek armour or tactics in only slightly later times than Xenophon describes. 

As interesting as this seems to be, there seems to be not much light available to shine onto this issue, except for the fact that such a man existed, although probably not really in command of that late and lonely mission: 

If there ever was to put a name on it, or him, shaky evidence points to an almost legendary figure, note the surname, of Robert Eracles (Hercules): 

Let me emphasise that again in force, since Wikipedia is a bit too diplomatic there: even the early republic left no reliable written sources for us. The kingdom era is even more so much less reliable than that. Shrouded in myth, legend and fantasy. There may be traces of actual history in it. But that cannot be ascertained. You cannot take one single thing or fact from the monarchical period and treat it at face value. Adding to that that the picture in question is more than 2000 years younger than the "event" displayed and is typically for that style inventing its inventory in terms of clothing and weapons, it only presents an idea and allegory. Nothing in it can claim any historical accuracy. But taking aside the fundamental aspect of "there were no real Horatii": this picture displays a scene that is not to be found in the sources we have, legendary as their factual content is. The absence of the scene from Livy means that the whole setup is made up by the painter as a form of interpolation. 

The "nation" of Germany (really the second Reich) was forged by Bismarck just a few decades before and explicitly excluding the Germans from Austria, for practical power politics reasons. But including the Danes and Friesians in the North, the Sorbs and Wendish in the Middle, a few French in thoroughly Germanic Alsace-Lorraine and Poles, Kashubs etc. in the East. Even the ever separatist Bavarians. As well as the 30% Polish minority in the industrialised Rhineland. 

It is very difficult to actually find any convincing and reliable account of the true religious affiliations, feelings and beliefs of Constantine. His actions were so not in a straight line that one has to conclude that his own convictions were apparently ambiguous or "flexible". It is probably imprecise to call him an unequivocally devout and exclusively Christian believer (a "fundamentalist" in today's terms?) He was a public convert and baptised on his deathbed. But his whole life is much more colourful in its nuances as to allow to call him just a Christian. 

If iron would be so superior it would have all but supplanted the use of bronze, once it was a mastered technology? Not for the Romans, at least. 

One of the utmost important practical powers was the determination of the seating order during a Reichstag session. The Reichstag was thought of being a representation of the Reich and each prince, elector and so on would have to be seated by rank, which was constantly and heavily disputed. That is not a formal function but actively ordering the power distribution symbolically for the Reich and practically during the proceedings. With corresponding consequences after such an event rsulting from ther decisions reached there and how they were reached.. Johann Philipp von Schönborn managed to force a conditional into the Wahlkapitulation (Electoral capitulation): that the new Habsburg emperor Leopold I was forbidden to ally himself with someone (meaning his Spanish relatives) against France. In 1805 the Holy Roman Empire was completely splintered from French, Austrian and Prussian forces. Yet, Archchancellor Dalberg initiated several attempts to reform the empire's institutions to continue as a political institutions, possibly with Napoleon as Emperor, but the remaining sovereigns rejected this offer. 

In Germany Maximilian Negwer founded the company "Fabrik pharmazeutischer und kosmetischer Spezialitäten Max Negwer" in 1907. The first package of Ohropax noise protectors was sold in autumn 1908 for one Goldmark (adjusted for inflation about €5.75).[…] In August 1914, the product was recommended by Lieutenant General Freiherr von Dinklage to the War Ministry for use in the military. In 1916 the military introduced Ohropax. This was the first time that large sections of the population got to know the product, making Ohropax noise protectors the company's main product. Source: Ohropax & Siegeszug von Ohropax begann im Ersten Weltkrieg These plugs were initially made of wax and reduced the noise by up to 27dB. That would aid somewhat in sleep ability, but compared to noise near a gun of up to 170dB this is obviously a long way from really protecting the health of a hearing system. This video shows Hermann Göring unplugging these protectors after he landed his plane during the last year of the First World War. Plain and simple hearing loss and symptoms ranging up to shell shock are listed as reasons for introducing them. Previously it seems that communication ability, even if it required extremest forms of shouting were preferred and just covering the ears with your hands the only option available, despite age old stories about Sirens and Ulysses. Also note that not nearly all troops would have had access to these protectors, exact numbers of plugs delivered being lost. All this before scientific evidence could be objectively measured: 

This quote is amply found on the net then. In Douglas A. Macgregor: "Transformation Under Fire: Revolutionizing how America Fights" it even has a footnote attached to the quote, indicating that this sometimes qualified as "legendary quote from a German officer captured in Salerno" might be indeed real, but that page is inaccessible for me now. Apparently the source for this quote is the personal memoir of David H. Hackworth stationed in Italy after the war as part of the occupation forces. It is found in David H. Hackworth & Julie Sherman: "About Face: The Odyssey of an American Warrior" , Touchstone: New York, 1990, p 274. So it seems that the quote in question got a bit mangled. As it appears the source version of this quote has a number typo for the year when it was supposed have happened in Macgregor. Salerno battle was over in 43, and while a prisoner of war may be kept there in 44, the one person that claims to have directly spoken to 'the German lieutenant' seems to be Hackworth, stationed in Italy only after the war at age 15. As this is painted as a private exchange between two individuals it is either an authentic recollection or at least portrayal by Hackworth, or he made it all up by himself. It may be possible that Hackworth wrote this anecdote down earlier, only recycling it in his 1990 book. That the 88 was an efficient tank killer of legendary fame might have been inspiring in devising this story quote, but as far as the details go, Hackworth is very likely the source for it. That he apparently did recycle this now famous story is apparent in that it also apears in his later book "Brave Men" (p163) and that his, Hackworth's story, is also quoted in Stewart H. Loory: "Defeated. Inside America's Military Machine", Random House: New York, 1973, p39 as well as in James M. Fallows: "National Defense, Vol 306", Vintage Books, 1982, p27. It seems quite authentic over all. When it was first brought down onto paper currently eludes me. 

This would all be debatable. It's just archaeology and therefore a bunch of rusty metals in a heap of dirt. And after all this evidence there might be still some doubters whether bronze can be made into wire? Modern minds need modern evidence. It's even used today by some fashionable pepople: All categories “bronze chainmail” (1,018 Results) Bronze went out of fashion, but it never went out of business. 

If you are a now amiable French a skeptical British in a shared European Market and Union, allies in the same military pact etc. that is quite an uncomfortable thought. Together in one boat with those beasts of un-human cruelty? It's much better to alienate the description to some Nazis and think of the Germans being just like the Austrians the first victims of Nazism. This started at the time, but not because, of the Nuremberg trials to get a wide-spread hold in common parlance. Before these were concluded the Cold War had started and both sides of that war needed new allies that they found in the Nazis Germans, East and West. 

If we look for something similar in antiquity we just need to turn that onto its feet: this is about purity or impurity. Purity rules! As well for Greeks as for Romans also. 

The Germans and Austrians did occupy Kiev, and they did so as a result from military action, albeit one with less resistance than otherwise expected on that front. When the Bolshevik delegation tried to stall the Brest-Litovsk peace treaty negotiations the Central Powers resumed offensive aggression in the East against very weak forces. This is known as the "Eleven Days War" or in German as Operation Faustschlag: 

Not answeering the more global issues from the question, but what led the king into his habit and addiction: When Cigaretts were Acceptable a physicians perspective in: Under the Knife: A History of Surgery in 28 Remarkable Operations and from a biography George VI Sources: David T. Courtwright: "Forces of Habit, Drugs and the Making of the Modern World", Harvard University Press: Cambridge, London, 2001. Jordan Goodman: "Tobacco in History. The cultures of dependence", Routledge: London, New York, 1993. Jordan Goodman: "Tobacco in History and Culture. An Encyclopedia, Vol. 2 Native Americans–Zimbabwe", Thomson Gale, Farmington Hills, 2005. 

There is a certain notion of inherent progressivism in history, limited understanding or premature conclusionism of or in material science that seem to be in need of addressing them. Iron is not simply "better" than bronze. In fact, often bronze is the better material for the job at hand. "Iron" is just as precise a description as "carbon" is when you want to describe the absolutely obvious inherent hardness of diamonds; or graphite: 

An economy produces too much inequality and discontent, whether most of the time real or sometimes just imagined (usually this is thought to appear in a severe downturn, but it is just as likely in a recovery period or even a statistically flourishing economy; these statistics do not cover the distribution or feelings about it) Then a charismatic champion emerges that unifies the support of the lower and middle classes against the current leadership. If the current leadership resists its own overthrow with violence, the equally violent response to this gives the charismatic rebel his means to attempt to seize power. That includes both volunteers and a general wish of "restoring order". Once in power former supporters need and receive, at least initially, something to show for their effort and support, some promises have to be kept (in brackets are examples of how a well known modern tyrant might compare to this): 

While it is a hopefully well-known fact that after he really came to power in the Soviet Union, many photos were retouched to make him look more attractive, more friendly, closer to Lenin, etc. What I want to know is: when was the photograph of "sexy Stalin" altered? Was that a service offered by the original photographer in 1902? If so, then that seems to be a wide spread/standard service? In the case for this picture that is quite unlikely, as it is a mugshot (but compare another one from 1911) taken by the police from Batumi. Was it done after the fact that he came to power? If so, did they really get their hands on all of those photos to retouche them? The latter seems quite unlikely. Given that the StalinMuseum has some less obviously altered images of him (example), the museum still only has this "sexy Stalin" photo from his 23rd year. Or is there an unaltered version of this picture somewhere?