What level of (technological) development are you considering? Direct democracy would fall apart quickly in pre-industrial times (which seems to be your focus, given the reference to the Roman Empire), because every proposal to vote on something on would take weeks or even months to distribute across the empire, then another few weeks for the vote tallies to be returned, after which the actual vote would take the same amount of time again. In addition, the people in the conquered territories probably have no shared interests at all with the original state's citizens. They could probably organize and pass a vote to disband the imperial army and distribute the treasury to the conquered territories. They wouldn't even need to vote for independence after that. A federal system might work to alleviate the communications problem by having direct democracy only at the city/province level, but it doesn't solve the problem of people not wanting to be part of the empire and voting to sabotage or leave it. Conquest and democracy simply don't go well together. Imagine the United Kingdom The Netherlands (pop 17 million) conquering India its old colony Indonesia (pop 220+ million) and then giving their new citizens equal voting rights. After the next elections, the country will be run by a government of Indonesian parties. Essentially, the UK Netherlands would have been absorbed by India Indonesia rather than having conquered it. If the empire grew by having cities join voluntarily (after the population deposes the local rulers), it might last longer, but only as long as it can provide material benefits to the citizens that its neighbors don't. 

Have your phlebotinum's effect depend on it's density. I'll assume it gets stronger with higher density/compression (the interaction between particles is more intense), but it could be the other way around just as easily. Either way, you'd deploy it in large cylinders/pistons (potentially running the length of the lifting bodies) that can be mechanically compressed by use of a steam engine or similar. Changes in altitude or weight could be controlled simply by the pistons. (for these examples, the phlebotinum increases its antigrav effect when compressed) 

For it to be colder while the planet surface is exposed to more energy input from the sun, most of that energy needs to be either intercepted or absorbed during the day and then released at night. Both scenarios I came up with would make the most sense if the planet used to be colder and/or had extreme temperature variations, prompting some advanced species to engineer a climate control system. A million years later, the planet is more moderate, but the systems still work to the old specs, essentially overcompensating to the point where the day is colder than the night. Intercepting the energy Intercepting the sun's energy seems feasible from a physics perspective, but still a purely artificial advanced science thing. The system would consist of a ring of large composite panels in geostationary orbit that let through 60-80% of visible light and absorb all other radiation during the day, then rotate their sun-facing side towards the planet at sunset and radiate all that excess energy to the planet. The reason it can't let all visible light through is that annoyingly, life evolves to see exactly in the spectrum that the sun's output is highest in, and assuming some energy is lost from the panels by radiation, they could never warm the planet enough during the night. Probably the panels need more than simple black body radiation at night as well, some kind of process to transport all the heat to the planet-facing surface. With this, the planet would have a nice warm reddish glowing ring around it at night, while the sunshine does not feel warm at all during the day. Absorbing the energy Purely absorbing the heat/energy during the day, even at 100% efficiency with perfect timing for the release at night, would require most of the planet to be covered in whatever plant/chemical soup/device does this. Even at 50% of the surface, it would only even out the temperature over the day/night cycle. So what is needed is essentially planet-wide airconditioning, except that the evaporator is not in the air outside, but in underground water. At night, the cycle is reversed and the water is cooled while the surface component is heated, as in a reversible heat pump. I'm going to go out on a ledge and assume you weren't thinking of skyscraper sized airconditioning towers dotting the planet, so let's at least try to make it look natural. What I could imagine is forests of bio-engineered trees that grow tubular roots full of refrigerant deep into the earth until they hit water. During the day they are in cooling mode, generating electricity in their leaves from the sunlight to power the heat pump as well as charging some chemical energy storage (sugar?). At night, that chemical process powers the reverse cycle. Seas may contain kelp forests that do the same. 

Religion and other cultural reasons to protect the language (like the French sentiment that their language is perfect being written into law) would help slow down the rate of change to the point that they might understand some of what the other says after a millennium. Dan's answer covers that already. Here is another way the language might be preserved. It does require some conditions that would have larger effects than only language. The shared language is highly musical, with rhythm and melody as important as the words. The two peoples universally have a high level of musical talent and a possibly a perfect memory for sounds/music. Speaking (more like singing) together in harmony or in a duet would be common. The result is that any changes made to the language by an individual would cause dissonance and negative reactions. The younger generations, normally more likely to change the language as they grow up, in this case have to follow what the elders are speaking/singing quite strictly. If the people also have inborn musical talent and/or a perfect memory, they absorb the words they are exposed to with a much higher accuracy than normal. They can then reproduce them almost perfectly, rather than in their own way. 

Does your AI have any internal directives (self-preservation, self-improvement or preset goals) at all? Yes If it does, then it is explicitly not a (hypothetical) perfect being without needs or dependencies. The directives are the AI equivalent of human desires, and it will pursue them relentlessly. Also, simply existing as a collection of software routines running means it has plenty of dependencies. This AI may appear to act morally or immorally at times, but this is simply a side-effect of the AI predicting human responses to its actions and choosing the optimal path according to its own directives. Suppose the AI needs labor for a new datacenter. 

Without universal education, the troll villagers only learn other language on an individual basis, preventing any common language from spreading. 

These goals are impossible to achieve all at once, so you need to go through several phases. Startup phase The assumption here is that you have a small capital, either pre-existing or generated through the machine, but no power/influence to exert. You need to stay under everyone's radar and in one place. The waste processing plant is an excellent start: 

It's difficult to say anything about sexual orientation, because we don't know the exact mechanism by which the brain develops one. 

An Alien Device of Unknown Nature and Origin To stay within the MacGuffin definition, it should not actually affect the plot, so it either cannot be used during the story, or has no tangible benefit. Enter the ADoUNaO: There's only one in known space, it's huge and can't be moved. It could be a weapon, a gateway to other stars or dimensions, an archive of super-advanced science and technology or even the fountain of youth. Everybody has their own theory, but it'll takes years if not decades of research to figure it out, and whoever finally does might control the galaxy! 

The bureaucracy cannot deal with a stalemate It is impossible to "declare Exterminatus" due to a bureaucratic hitch: One of the attachments required for the Exterminatus request form is the Finalized Cost Accounting Statement, model 432g "Lost wars". As the war is not lost, this statement is unavailable. There are also no directives or request forms that could be used for intentionally losing a war, so your options are to freeze any reinforcements and slowly let the invasion force die off or to request additional support from outside the solar system, at which point you might as well prepare the forms for your own evaluation and recycling. Of course, none of this matters if your computers are compatible with human Apple laptops. 

A spaceship could measure red/blue shift from stars around it. This would require a database of light frequency distributions of stars measured "at rest". Comparing observed values of stars at different angles relative to the ship would give both speed and direction of the ship (peak blue-shift is where you're heading).. By incorporating relativity into the calculation this should work for speeds close to light speed as well. Inside a planetary system your speed is normally slow enough that measuring the position of the stars and planets should work. In space combat, absolute speed doesn't matter, only relative speed and especially acceleration. For that, gyroscopes and lasers should work. 

After the latest edit, my post can be a lot shorter: There is no way "ultra-advanced consciousness" robots will wage war on each other because of religion, because there would be no logical reason to waste so many resources on it. -- Robots as intelligent as you describe (able to be teachers and even design new robots) will be able to filter or discard irrelevant and nonsensical data. That is going to happen to data on religion if simply provided to the robots. Religions revolve about humans after all and not robots. As the robots cannot be hacked to change their basic programming, you would need to carefully craft your data to fit in with the existing AI goals and evaluation logic, to mislead them or corrupt their goal priorities. You don't specify how robots get assigned to their tasks, but someone or something must be giving them instructions, for example, at which school they should perform teacher functions, what class to teach and which curriculum to use. They will also have some tests to measure their performance in order to improve it. That feedback and improvement loop may be open to exploiting with a self-reinforcing set of goals and tests. Initial goals (assuming safety is a built-in goal of the robots): 

Magic fills a gap in our understanding of patterns Humans (and probably any intelligent species) are hardwired to detect patterns. Not just in the moment (that silhouette looks like a tiger!) but also in time, linking a sequence of events together. It is an essential part of learning: Eat pink berries - feel sick, eat purple berries, feel good. The problem is that we see patterns all the time where there really are none: I slaughtered a goat - the rains finally came. I can make the rain come by slaughtering a goat! Most of these are unlearned when they are not repeatedly successful, but if other people hear of your pattern and have their own remembered patterns, they reinforce each other. With no way to explain how such a pattern actually works, we imagine it's "Magic". A second aspect is that humans are also hardwired for social interactions, meaning we automatically infer other people's intentions and emotional state from their expressions and actions. This filter can also be triggered (wrongly) by other events and lead humans to imagine spirits and gods. Lightning struck Oona's hut at the top of the hill. Someone must be angry at her. How to have humans without the concept of magic Doing without pattern recognition is out of the question, as the humans would probably never have made it to the stone age development level. Having an advanced understanding of physical laws (as we do in the modern age) doesn't quite fit with the medieval theme. "The Will of the Goddess" is actually quite useful to explain most patterns, but the danger is that humans apply human motivations to Gods (because we're hardwired to do that) and inconsistencies will lead to questions and then likely to the idea of other powers... and magic. To have a satisfactory explanation for all the weird and inconsistent patterns humans see, an abstract concept works best. Karma is a good example, though because of it moralistic nature it would greatly change the nature of society. The basic idea works though: Anything (good or bad) happening to you happens because of something in the (unknowable) past. You can make up your own more neutral concept, say "Flow", inspired by water : It can keep your plants alive or wash away your village, it doesn't care. Whenever there is an obstacle to the flow, there will be eddies and swirls, which manifest in the form of all those patterns we perceive but don't understand. The critical part is that it is so abstract/inhuman/complex there is no way to influence it. Trying to change the Flow is like standing in the river pushing the water aside. It will simply flow around you or drag you under. All together, people wouldn't need the concept of magic, since any pattern can be explained by either the will of the Goddess (if the event makes sense from our ideas of what She would do) or just "Flow" at work if it doesn't make sense.