What's the wheel size? If it's 700c, then you can get disc road/CX/gravel frame. Do mind type of bottom bracket, hub widths and seatpost diameter, though. You can fit MTB shifters and brake levers to a drop bar, but that would look funky, so probably flat bar only. For proper fit, stem might require replacement too. 

Does the rear brake lever has spongy feel to it or longer throw? If not, you might want to manually rectract the caliper pistons: 

Those brake boosters are definetely by WTB, you can see a logo on third photo. I'd gues that whole assembly is by WTB too, at least google images return very similar results (this post especially, scroll down a bit for a picture). 

There was an attempt to kickstart a bike periscope last year. Unfortunately, Pedi-Scope has failed to reach funding goal, but person behind promised to "get in touch if he plans to relaunch the project", so link might become helpful again some day. 

11 speed chains are narrower on the outer side and same width inside. I'd first try to run older front shifter/derailleur/crankset and see if performance is acceptable. Also note that 5800 front shifter is compatible only with 5800/6800/9000 front derailleurs in case you are going that way. 

Cost (in some cases). Maybe a reduced service life. A lot of factors contribute to this, I think it's a complex matter. Limited availability. Good luck finding a replacement 12 speed chain in third-world nowhere. 

2-14Nm torque wrench with a set of hex heads. Without it you might crush carbon fiber parts. Hex keys set. Phillips screwdriver. Used only for derailleur adjustment. Bottom bracket tool that came with SM-BB6800. If you didn't get one, make sure you buy compatible model and not Hollowtech II specific, these BB have different tool interface. Cassette lockring tool. Try to get one with either hex key slot or handle. Rotary tool. Because I didn't have anything better to cut cable housing and cables. Adjusting wrench. Used only to hold lockring tool because it didn't have hex key slot. Carbon fibre paste. Hacksaw and 32 tpi blade. You'll have to cut fork steerer and maybe seatpost. Hacksaw guide. Chain tool. Plastic quick release ratchet clamps to hold stuff tightly. 

Given a 15 years mark, you run FC-M950 or FC-M952. If that's true, try looking for an aftermarket directmount spider that accepts more readily available chainrings. Personally, I find it quite cool to own one of a kind crank like that. 

In your case, without modifications and assuming you are going to run same manufacturer components, 11 cogs would cause poor shifting with jams or skips. I'd rather not do that, but if you are mechanically talented, you can always try luck with existing gear mods. 

Get a more expensive XG-1295 or XG-1299 11-50 cassette (Shimano freehub body compatible). Get a cheaper Sunrace CSMZ90 11-50 casstte (Shimano freehub body compatible). If your rear hub has compatible XD freehub body for sale, get it and a regular XG-1275 10-50 cassette. If there's no XD freehub body available for your rear hub, you can buy an XD rear hub and relace the rear wheel. Or buy a complete, compatible wheel. 

SM-RT900 has Centerlock interface. The front hub must be either Centerlock-compatible or you can get a Centerlock to 6 bolt adapter. Rotor size. If you plan to replace an existing brake rotor and decide to go with a different size (140mm or 160mm) and assuming your setup uses a regular flat mount fork/caliper, then you'll need to flip the caliper mounting bracket between 140 and 160 rotor size positions. Hopefully you don't have a rare fork that dictates only a single caliper position. 

The bike was manufactured by BSA, the chainring is an obvious clue, it's also a "ladies" model (parallel top tube). Looks very similar this 1975 BSA Wayfarer. The linked post has a lot of detailed photos you can compare the frame to. Pay attention to chainring with BSA letters, arrows on chormed fork crown, rear dropouts and dropout eyelets, tube taper at seatstay/seatpost junction. Here's how I went with search: "lettered chainring", "sprocket with letters", "bsa retro bicycle ladies", "bsa bikes retro catalog", "1970 bsa wayfarer". 

Here's a photo of RD-M970 from behind. As you can see, the slotted (guide) pulley goes to knuckle and solid one (tension) to the bottom of cage. I'd align the arrows with chain movement direction that happens when you pedal forward. 

It's a legitimate trend that offers benefits for some people at cost that other people might not find acceptable. A general advice would be to use what you find suitable for your application scenarios. Manufacturers might have their own reasons to reduce front gears amount, hype/trends and manufacturing costs being among them. Only companies are able to answer about particular reasons, but I doubt you'd hear anything beyond approved PR talk. Not like it has any different for a bike industry since always. 

Shimano 11 speed road cassettes are wider than previous models, so you most likely will need a wider freehub body. In some cases it can be bought separately, but given that you have 9 speed at the moment, I find it unlikely, so add an 11 speed Shimano road rear compatible hub to the purchase list. 

It's a JC Higgins Jet Flow from about 1953-57. Here's a forum thread where people are ready to pay $350+ for one in pristine condition. 

I've built pretty similar bike recently (5800 groupset, chinese frame), here's the list of tools used: 

Yes, you can use SM-RT900 rotor with with a BR-R8070 caliper. Calipers rarely have rotor incompatibility (width, size) and almost never across the same manufacturer product range. There are some things to keep in mind, but none of potential issues are caused by particular caliper/rotor combo: 

Looks like a Free Agent Limo 24 BMX" bike, circa late 80s to early 90s. Here's a BMX museum page with very similar looking one. To find the model, I just typed "free agent 24" into Google image search and the second result matched the bike. 

The price evaluation is discouraged on Bicycles SE, but knowing the model you can look for ads and see what other people sell/buy it for. 

These things are called tightening plates or lock washers. Your suggestion was righ in where it goes, here's an exploded diagram and installed photo: 

Yes, you can use the same cassette. Even if you use short cage rear derailleur now, it should have enough capacity for 28 teeth sprocket. 11 speed Shimano chains have the same internal width, so these should be compatible with older 10 speed systems. Given that you have limited budget, 10s might be a better choice. Yes, that cable set will be fine. 

Bottom bracket pressing tool - BSA BB just srews in. Headset facing and pressing tools - that frame has integrated cups, just drop bearings into cups. Crown race setting tool - tapered fork crown races usually have a cut that allows to put them on with bare hands or some basic tubing (like toilet paper roll). 

If it didn't help and pads are still too close, it can be the case of too much mineral oil in the system. I had the similar issue when I overbled M615 brakes. In this case you'll need to open bleeding port (black bolt to the left of "SLX" print on lever from second photo) prior to step 3 and wrap with some cloth to catch extra mineral oil. After you're done pushing the pistons, screw the bolt back in and try the brake again. As a side note, keep disc rotor and pads away from mineral oil. 

Rear derailleur maximum cog capacity. RD-6870 supports up to 32 teeth, so you'll have to get RD-M8050 or RD-M9050 for anything bigger than that. Road/MTB DI2 capability. According to this article, 6870 and M-8070/9070 should be compatible. Rear derailleur overall capacity. I'm not sure how 8070/9070 will handle road double up front. Freehub body width. Shimano 11-speed MTB cassettes are narrower than 11-speed Shimano road cassettes by about 1mm. Make sure you've fitting a spacer. 

Beefy clamp with various torque settings. Didn't help at all. PVC tape. Helped, but didn't last long. More torque on a lightweight clamp. I snapped it in half with only 6Nm. Hair spray. To my surprise, it worked and seatpost stopped slipping, creaking and annoying me. 

New 105 5800 crankset is compatible with older components, according to numerous posts in this thread. 

Putting Schwalbe One Tubeless was tough as hell, I had to lube everything with dishwashing liquid to drop enough traction, tires sit very tight. Tire doesn't blow off at 100 psi. I didn't pump more that that. It takes two weeks for non-sealed tire to lose all air. With a scoop of Stan's it takes about three days to drop from 80 psi to 60 psi. I don't know how hooked clincher would affect this, duration probably depends on other factors as well (tape, tires condition, sealant). Riding bad quality asphalt didn't seem to affect wheels at all. 

To clarify things, with a SRAM GX Eagle groupset that consits of a crankset, GXP bottom bracket, chain, gear shifter, cassette and rear derailleur the only part that might cause incompatibility issues is the cassette because the XG-1275 11-50 cassette requires an XD freehub driver body (XD body has extra space for 10 and 9 cogs, while Shimano-style body does not). Still, you've got several options to choose from: 

Similar or wider range with reduced simplicity. Weight reduction. Frees up bar space for remote control levers (suspension lockout, adjustable seatpost). Availability. SRAM does not offer 2x12 or 3x12. 

Obviously, the ultimate target is to build the bike, no matter what tools used. I suggest to make a list of what you have to do, choose suitable tool depending on the budget and only then proceed with purchase. Oh, and you totally won't need these: 

It might also be another Bianchi mixte-style frame with components swapped, i.e. flat bar to drop bar, which makes identification harder. Or it might be a late '80s (possibly 1986) womens Bianchi Strada, as shown in this question. Note that serial numbers on both bikes are very close: 51027534 vs 51027563. 

In your case, you can run pretty much any XC 26" quick release fork in 80-100mm travel range. That includes non-tapered steerer options as well, just get a crown race adapter. Through axle might be an option too if your front wheel hubs supports QR to TA conversion (or you are willing to replace/rebuild the wheel). 

The tall bearing height is 8mm, the less tall lightweight bearing is 7mm. Update 3: the 2.5mm shim looks too thick even for a 7mm bearing, the gap is ~2.4mm: 

The bike might be the a 1981 Rekord "W" Strada, at least this catalog page shows a very similar photo, but no exact parts list: 

There's nothing that should cause incompatibility, unless you manage to find a monster of a rotor with width greater than distance between pads, but I doubt such specimen even exist. More than one manufacturer offers 140mm 6-bolt rotors, ranging from affordable (KCNC, Ashima, Avid) to not-so (Carbon-Ti). I think you shouldn't worry about that. To add weight for said above, my road bike has ST-RS785 shifters, BR-RS685 calipers, 140mm KCNC Razor rear disc and Avid HS-1 140mm front disc. In two years I didn't experience any issues caused by discs. 

For example, if current tire is 53mm wide and clearance at each point is 1.5cm, about 1cm wider tire might fit (about 2.3"). Keep in mind that tire width will vary from claimed depending on manufacturer and your rims inner width. You should also factor in riding conditions, especially amount of mud. And make sure that new tire will fit into rim brakes, if that's what the bike has. You might find it easier to visit a local bike shop and find a suitable wider tire together. Just fit something bigger and see if clearance is good enough. 

It's a Schwinn Frontier circa late 90s. You can read the branding on the tubes and the 90s part comes from the rigid fork and similar matches in Google image search. 

I had an exactly same problem: Ritchey WCS seatpost, Merida frame (both alu alloy) and a lightweight clamp, like in @Frisbee's answer. What I tried: 

This seems to be pretty similar to my UST ready Sunringle Black Flag wheelset combined with non-UST tires running tubeless. Unfortunately, I can't compare same model rims in same conditions. Update: in the following two months I didn't experience any trouble with wheels whatsoever. Tires seem to lose air less quicky than before, but this is very subjective. 

I ended up in a situation in which my new fork with an integrated crown race imposes lower headset bearing (1.5" 45deg) stack restriction, i.e. I need an additional 1.5mm of bearing height so the fork doesn't rub lower headset cup (bonded to CF tube, by the way). I see two ways to alleviate the issue: 

Looks like 70s Schauff Elite. Compare it with bike here, the frame has very distinct shapes. A similar bike is also listed at the official (correct me if I'm wrong) Schauff website, the picture under number 28. 

Certainly possible, but details depend on what calipers MTB has. Shimano hydraulic calipers are compatible between road and MTB levers. In fact, BR-R785 was an XT. I don't see why you can't just get a set of any Shimano hydraulic road levers and put them on. No idea about SRAM, though. You should also be aware that mechanical MTB/road calipers might have different leverage ratio, like BB7 does. 

As long it secures the seatpost I don't see how a screw instead of bolt can damage the bike. If it fails, the worst case would be a seat sliding down. You might find it inconvient if screw has head that requires tools not usually used for bicycles, like phillips screwdriver or a hex head. New seatpost collars are cheap, so you can buy a replacement to feel subjectively safer. 

You must understand that what matters is not how much "speeds" drivetrain offers, but the available range and other factors (see below). Let's compare 3x7 13-30 24-32-42 and 1x12 10-50 36: 3x7 has 404% range versus 500% range of 1x12. That's a 96% difference! 1x12 will also be lighter by at least several hundred grams. The quality of parts will also be generally higher, given that there are no modern high end 3x7 complete groups. Even compared to a 2x10 11-36 28-38 444% 1x12 has a wider range. 

So, the question(s): is the shim approach a viable solution? If no, why exactly? If yes, can I buy one? Update: in perfect scenario, I want to use the shim with another, less tall but lighter bearing I already own. I do not want to purchase a taller bearing. Here's a fork crown photo: