You could look at bungee cord hooks. They're pretty cheap and come in a bunch of sizes, plus you can bend and adjust them to suit your purpose. You can get them attached to bungee cord, as a length of cord or as a loop, or you can purchase them individually. Another option if you do want to use an antler is to check out pet shops, they tend to have loads of varying shapes and sizes (hollowed out or not as well) but I'm not sure how well one of these would suit your desired purpose. 

As requested. So certain wools are worth more than others when it comes to breed, quality etc. For a lot of wools the wool itself isn't used in textiles, and as such it does not sell well. In these cases the sheep have to be sheered (leaving a thick dirty fleece on sheep leads to maggots growing inside it) for their own health and hygiene, and the wool is often sold at a value only slightly above the cost of having the sheep sheered. If you're looking for wool for as cheap as possible, or even free, and are only looking for a handful or so, consider contacting your local farm. If they can't provide it themselves they may known who or where can. Source: A farmer friend who works on a farm that has sheep 

If you're out of the water and wet, you will lose heat by evaporation (as well conduction and convection), so dry clothing and dry body are important. 

FWIW, I used a short NeoAir mat (with the platformat from my OMM pack under the feet), PHD Minum 500 down Bag, TarpTent Scarp 1. I left my lighter Marmot Atom bag at home, which I think was the right call. 

"list" questions can cause problems on stackexchange sites, but, anyhow... From a UK perspective, Robert Macfarlane's "The Wild Places" is excellent. 

One 'pro' of certain digital altimeters: Even without GPS they can do a surprisingly good job of distinguishing between changes of elevation and changes of 'atmospheric pressure'. This means that you don't need to reset the altimeter to known elevations so frequently. The Suunto Core has this feature. It works by looking at the rate of change of pressure. If the rate is slow, it assumes it's just changes in the weather, and that the wearer isn't going anywhere - Barometer mode. If the rate of change is higher, it switches into Altimeter mode, and assumes that atmospheric pressure isn't changing. It's not perfect. If you're trekking over very gently-angled paths all day it would stay in barometer mode unless manually switched - and once in Altimeter mode, any weather changes will still affect the altitude reading (like a conventional altimeter). 

However even they state that this is a general guideline and should not be taken as anything more than approximate! West Coast Surf - Source 

Areas Include: East Wemyss, Crail, Kinghorn and St Monans UK Fossils have a good map where you can pick a location (eg, North Wales) and it will list all the areas where you can look for fossils, how common they are, and what period the fossils are from. 

Blacks / Millets do festival pop up tents (take it out the bag and it literally pops up) and pole system tents in your price range by Eurohike and Vango, who are both good well known brands. Bear in mind for that price range I don't see you getting anything that will have brilliant reviews. You'll be able to buy them brand new so shouldn't have to worry about leaks / getting too wet. But remember it's a festival in the UK, the Gods of British Camping and Festivals will likely make it rain, and with all those people it will get muddy - but you can't blame the tent for that if it seeps through when you are only going to spend £50. Since you are only planning to throw it away after you might even go for the £20 on sale tents they have on offer. I wouldn't say at this price range you really need to worry about what to look for - especially since you are going to use and bin it. Blacks Festival Tents also @user3840692 also linked to Sports Direct which is where I get a lot of my Karrimor gear from. What my fiance an I usually look for in a tent (based on a mix of Car Camping and planning to future Wild Camp): 

I know that's all bit of a leap, but if you had a problem our running in remote country and had to wait for rescue, having all your layers soaked with sweat is giong to be pretty uncomfortable. 

Here's one study: $URL$ And a couple of snippets, the first showing how water cools faster than air. In this test with 10degC water, subject's core temperature was still over 36degC after approx 40 minutes. 

For compasses, it will depend on the model. You can get globally balanced compasses like the Suunto M3 Global, but Silva compasses (probably the most common in Europe) tend to be balanced for the Northern Hemisphere. As LBell says, they'll point the right way, but just won't work smoothly so you run the risk of taking inaccurate bearings. It's worth looking at a declination map to understand the scale of the problem. We're not talking just a degree or two out. Large parts of the world are 20 degrees or more away from polar north. Another point: when you correct for declination, you need to correct from magnetic north to GRID north (which will not be the same as polar, and the difference will vary according to your location on the grid - as well as over time). Some smartphone apps (e.g. Eclipsim's GPS Status) can help by using GPS to determine location, and then lookup using declination map data to give the required correction. You can then set your compass accordingly and switch off the phone. Good background material here and here. 

Nhinkle gives an amazing answer here, but I wanted to add an option which we quite often use, which is to soapy wash less often throughout the day. This will depend on what you cook / eat / water supply etc however. For example when camping we often eat, packet noodles, porridge, beans, packet soups, couscous etc from our cups or mess tins. My point here being that what you choose to eat will have an effect on how dirty your pots pans etc become. Routinely, even at home, I will reuse a glass for a few drinks throughout the day without cleaning it. We do similar camping. Because packet noodles and the like actually don't leave a lot of grime in a mess tin or cup, you can get away with a quick rinse right after you finish, I don't even use a brush or sponge, just wipe around the tin with my hand and chuck the water away. No soap needed. It will not be sparkling dishwasher clean but it will be reusable throughout the day - ultimately then just clean thoroughly in the evening. This saves on soapy waste, but a rinse right after eating with just water can leave mess tins and cups good enough for the days use. Like I said, I reuse my cup a lot before washing it up, mostly it will only have water in anyway. Obviously this won't work so well if you've cooked meats, as the grease will not come out without soap when only using cold water... However most grime will come up with hot water if you've the time to boil some up and use a bit of elbow grease. Also try microfiber cloths as I find these dry out really quickly compared to regular sponges and dishcloths and I find they can clean just as well as a sponge. Definitely avoid disposable items as you'll find you'll carry more than you need to and will have to recycle them afterwards. Not so good for the planet! 

Liam's right that you can't/shouldn't overhydrate, but based on my experience it's easily possible to start the day under-hydrated. Maybe you're office-bound and don't drink enough water, or you've had a spot more alcohol the evening before than you should, or too much coffee... Either way, you start walking under-hydrated, and end up drinking more water than expected early in the day. If I'm doing a day hike, I tend to take a 1 or 2 litre water bottle in the car (in addition to what I'm walking with...), and use this to improve hydration as I drive/before I start walking. Whatever's left in the bottle is great to rehydrate with when you return to the car. 

...and the second showing effect of different clothing. In this test with 10degC water, subject (wearing 'street' clothes) had core temperature of 35.6degC after 30 minutes. 

I've never had a pack failure 'in the wild' but I think my usual repair kit of duct tape, tie wraps and a bit of paracord should be able to handle most things. Minor strap and buckle failures aren't likely to cause you major problem - but if a shoulder strap fails, that's quite a challenge: Just remember your pack is a vital part of your gear, and look after it well! 

Title says it all really, if I were out practice shooting on a boss, or if I were hunting, how could I tell if I can reuse the arrows I've just shot? 

Yes, and no, it kind of depends on the local laws. So long as your equipment is covered by your manufacturer guarantee, and you will have to bear in mind as will all diving the local laws and legislations for equipment use in various countries / regions within a country, then it can use a higher FO2 than diving with Air. However your equipment must be: 

So roughly a month ago my other half and I brought ourselves each a SOT plastic kayak, we've been out on the water for maybe 2 hours total paddling time, but mine filled up with water. We found a hole, approx. 1cm by 0.4cm, in the seam of the plastic in one of the two rear drainage holes, too small to get your hand down easily. I am currently talking to the manufacturer about a replacement. However this has lead me to wonder (outside of warranty) how would I go about repairing a hole in a plastic kayak? Varied sized holes, and temporary and permanent fixes, I understand will vary. 

I can't answer the rest, but for here's my 2c worth for gloves. Layering : As with other clothes, layering gloves is worth doing. I'd try fairly thin liner gloves inside either mitts or a larger glove than you'd normally wear. This gives an extra layer of insulation, but also means you can just take the outer layer off when you need more dexterity than mitts allow. Mitts have an advantage that there's less 'surface area' around each finger so they can stay warmer. Also they allow warmer parts of the hand (palms) to conduct heat to colder parts (fingers) if you make a fist inside the them. 

On a backpack, you'd have the quick-release buckle, but no clasp. The clasp is really doing two things - stopping the buckle loosening, and making it look tidy. If the buckle is decent quality and condition it's unlikely to loosen much by itself in normal use. I'd just remove the clasp, and shorten the webbing as much as possible (which helps keep it tidy). Carefully melt the cut end of the webbing to stop it fraying. 

This is really interesting, and I think it might be similar to why we don't generally have snow tires / chains etc as a common item here in stores. Certainly the South rarely gets snow, with Wales, The North and Scotland being more likely to get snow days. From the MET Office: 

Urban red foxes have been known to be a tad vicious or territorial and attack people... but it is not a common occurrence by any means, usually it's due to the fox having gotten itself into a cornered situation, they then act as any wild animal will and potentially strike. There is always the odd news story of a fox getting into a house, and attacking people... but it's uncommon, and for the majority of interactions, the fox only strikes as it cannot escape. The majority of them are simply made up by people who have had vague experiences... Not all pet dogs attack, but once bitten twice shy. Rabid foxes are also, like urban foxes, less wary of humans than their rural counterparts. Also an injured fox may attempt to bite you if you get too close, but this is common of any wild animal that has an injury. That said, I've never had a bad experience with either an urban or rural red fox. Usually they just run away from you. I've seen some beautiful red foxes in my town, and out in the woods, they look at you, they may watch a while, but they don't come close, or let you get close. Red foxes are not massive pack animals, but they will hunt with their cubs, to teach them until they move on on their own. They for the most part hunt small rodents, nothing bigger than a rabbit. Foxes are known to scavenge in bins, eat nuts and berries... they're opportunistic. You will more likely see a fox at dusk, or at night, but they do not attack people so there is no worry about exploring an area either at day or night. That said you should always be respectful of whenever you are exploring, and be aware that your torchlight could easily disturb, or spook, a number of nocturnal animals. Just a note when we have our dog around we actually have noticed the red foxes will linger longer... we recently had a fox run right into a field maybe 5 meters from us, stop dead and stare at the dog, then run off after a few seconds. Taking a dog exploring with you at night in a foxes habitat is something I would say you need to be aware of - but again the fox will likely just run. 

I take a Primus EtaExpress stove with me when camping, and am slowing accumulating a collection of canisters with only around ~20% gas in them. With this little gas, they don't have enough pressure to be useful in anything except ideal conditions (hot, windless, and you have all the time in the world) but I'm reluctant to dispose of them. Is there a good way of constructively using up the remaining gas - and what's the right way to recycle the canisters when they are properly empty? 

Each scenario is probably different, so you'd likely make a plan on the hoof: How far are you from your previous 'checkpoint', and how far is it to the next? What time of day is it, etc... If the 'lost' couple were at the rear of the group (a likely scenario) and you're following a rerasonably well defined trail, then backtracking for a while (or at least, sitting and waiting) to look for them seems common sense: An accident or injury could have slowed their progress significantly, and the next checkpoint could be a long way off. And, who's carrying any group medical kit..? 

Some background. Whilst car camping down in Weymouth recently I was unfortunate enough to encounter a stomach bug (we initially thought it was food poisoning but later realised it was a bug as my other half developed the same symptoms over 3 days later). I ended up making a mess inside the tent, though not as bad as it could have been (this one was mostly just water). My sleeping bag became unusable however, and this was on the first night, so I slept under a blanket instead, as luckily the weather was still surprisingly warm for September. My other half kindly cleaned up as best he could - the tent seemed to wipe clean ok and was done immediately - but my pack and my sleeping bag took the brunt of the mess. Since we were only there for two nights we just chucked most things effected into the back of the car, but obviously if we had been trekking instead of car camping this would not be possible. My sleeping bag is synthetic and machine washable (as stated by the manufacturer on low heat, no or low spin and only a tiny bit of detergent, no fabric softeners) and now lovely and clean. Again, this isn't exactly something I can manage out on a trek in the future - plus we had plenty of towels with us due to swimming etc, which we probably would not have with us trekking. Also as vomit is a rather nasty thing to clean up anyway, I'm not worried if things get dirty but obviously vomit is completely unhygienic, so I would assume it need something more thorough than a splash in a stream like you do with grubby boots. So my question is: When out trekking, what is the best way to clean camping gear of vomit?