Our town (Groton Massachusetts) formed a town committee a few months ago to concentrate on invasive species issues. Since we are new, we are trying to find our way and decide what exactly we should be doing. Obvious activities include public education, monitoring infestations, cataloging problem areas, and actually doing control operations in some cases. I'd like to hear what other similar committees are doing, especially other formal municipal committees. It's different when you're part of town government as apposed to a private group. We have several of those already, but being part of the town makes some things possible, others more difficult. For example, we're considering proposing that the town pay for the processes of one or two of us getting pesticide applicator licenses. In return, we'd do any pesticide applications as volunteers, with only the materials needing to be paid for. But what about insurance? Any experiences/advice out there about trying to get covered by the municiple insurance plan? Any other advice from those that have been at this longer than we have? What worked? What didn't? What other municipalities have invasive species committees or similar that you know of? (I tried, but haven't found any) 

Asking why people wanted to do something in the past is opinion-based, so this question will likely be closed. I'm only guessing, but most likely the desire to establish wild populations of turkeys was to be able to hunt them. I'm not a hunter, but here in New England where wild turkeys are common, I know that they are also a favorite of hunters. Especially back in 1732, and unfortunately even as recently as 1993, people rarely stopped to think about the impact of a non-native animal on a existing ecosystem. Significant numbers of wild turkeys would certainly have had some impact on the balance of European ecosystems. Some native species would benefit, and some would decline. Whether the overall effect would be "desirable" in human terms would be a matter of opinion, and what attributes of the ecosystem a particular person valued above others. History tells us that almost certainly there would have been unforseen negative consequences. You should consider yourselves fortunate that attempts to introduce these foreign animals into the wild failed. A much more interesting question would have been why the introduction efforts failed. I don't even know enough to guess at the answer to that, but the answer could be illuminating. 

I picture would greatly help. However, I suspect you are looking at the lines on the part you manually rotate relative to the fixed base part. Good compasses have something you can rotate to set the offset for the local magnetic declination. For example, here in north-central Massachusetts, magnetic north is about 14½° left of true geodedic north. Before heading out around here, you'd set the dial 14½° left from fully aligned. The rotating part has a outline of the compass needle on it. To point the compass to true north, you align the needle with the outline. This magnetic declination setting is usually stiff enough to not rotate too easily. It's meant to be a "fixed" setting during a hike. You're not going to move far enough on a day hike, or even a few nights backpack, so that the magnetic declination changes appreciably. 

First, don't be holier than though. People resent that. Be realistic. Push for what matters in the area you're in. Hard and strict rules without regard to the situation are just religion. People will see them as such, think the whole thing is silly, and tune out anything else you say. Realize that the only true way to leave no trace is to not go there at all. Just being somewhere wild will have some affect, so it'a matter of degree. This again goes back to not preaching inflexible rules. For example, if you're in a desert with mostly bare ground and few people visit, then it's OK to walk around a bit to explore. The same thing above treeline in a alpine tundra can cause harm that will take decades to recover. Carrying out poop is extreme for most places. In most places it's fine to just minimize toilet paper by using natural objects as much as possible and bury everything afterwards. After all, the moose, bear, coyote, etc, do the same thing. When there's 2 moose for every human, the extra human waste doesn't make much difference. So the answer is, use common sense to push for the things that matter, don't preach rules, but explain the problem and show ways to deal with it. Let them be part of the solution rather than be preached at like sinners. 

In these areas, the relatively hard sandstone doesn't erode much so the occasional downpour washes away what little soil forms over time. That together with the dry conditions leaves large areas of mostly beadrock with wide open vistas. This open bedrock is locally called slickrock, although it's actually not slick at all, even when wet. These pictures are from Grand Staircase - Escalante in southern UT. There are also slot canyons in this area that aren't what you asked for, but worth exploring (in my opinion) if you're there anyway: 

This does look like some sort of turtle. Snapping turtles can easily get to the size you mention, and are fairly common. The picture doesn't give the impression the tracks are really 10 inches apart. They seem narrower than that, which would open the possibility for a number of other turtles. Box turtles get to a reasonable size, and then there are a list of other more rare possibilities. 

Seals appear at various times in various places on Cape Cod. There isn't a guaranteed time and place to see seals, but some spots are better than others. For example, this picture was taken at Head of the Meadow Beach in the Cape Cod National Seashore: 

Yes, "Nor'easter" is derived from "north-easter" meaning the winds come from the northeast. That is exactly what happens in a nor'easter. You are confusing the wind direction with the travel direction of the storm. The whole storm moves up the coast, but remember these are counter-clockwise rotating cyclonic storms. The winds that bring the most stuff and the notorious bad weather hit the New England coast from the ocean. These are usually the leading or northwesterly regions of the storm, so the winds themselves come from the northeast. Remember that the names evolved long before people understood large scale weather patterns. All people in Cape Cod, Gloucester, or "down east" Maine knew was that the nastiest weather accompanied by serious precipitation come howling from the northeast. While not universally true of course, it's actually not that far off in the larger scheme of things. "Normal" weather here in New England comes from the west. Notable exceptions are the "Montreal Express" being cold and dry from the northwest, and a nor'easter bringing strong winds and serious precipitation from the northeast. "Nice" weather from the northeast basically doesn't happen here. The old mariners and fishermen knew a lot about local weather without understanding the global picture. 

I have never heard of wild boars charging a tent. I really don't imagine that happening, assuming there isn't a human visibly standing in the doorway or something. Wild boars predominantly charge to protect their young. A person walking around near them could be seen as a threat, but not a fixed object like a tent. They don't charge trees and large boulders either. 

I go to Arizona and hike around the desert pretty much every summer. One thing I've noticed that makes a difference is to immerse yourself in the heat. Don't try to avoid it; embrace it. I have experienced up to 121 °F (49 °C), that I know of. While that certainly felt hot, the limiting factor for walking around was how much liquid I was willing to carry, not being out in the heat. However, at that point I had been outside for a few days. Try to avoid artificially cooled places. Sometimes you have to get supplies and go into air conditioned stores. A few minutes doesn't make much difference, although even then you notice the heat more when you get out than when you went in. However, absolutely don't sleep in a air conditioned space. That deprives your body of getting used to the heat. Stay hydrated and think about electrolytes. The first thing I do when I get to AZ is to get a large tub of Gatorade powder. After that, I make it a rule that I only drink diluted Gatorade. That, together with salts in what I eat seems to work well enough, at least for me. The first year I went to the desert in summer, I took plenty of water on a hike but hadn't considered electrolytes. After probably about 7 miles I got sick enough to throw up and lie down for a while where there was a little shade. It was the longest 1½ miles back to the car I've ever experienced. After that, I stuck with diluted Gatorade and haven't had a problem since. That was about 15 years ago. 

Personally I want to be as unobtrusive in the wilderness as possible. There seems to be a lot of focus on, even fanatical devotion to, leave no trace. While bright colors aren't technically leaving a trace once you take the tent down, you are unnecessarily polluting the view of anyone else that happens to be there. It's kindof like jumping up and down shouting "Here I am, here I am.". Most of the time, being unobtrusive is merely being polite to others, but there can be times it really matters. One obvious case is stealth camping. In places where the land is tightly controlled, like New England, it's not always easy to find a clearly legal place to camp. Sometimes the best alternative is to go a few 100 feet into a patch of woods, be as unobtrusive as possible, and of course have as little impact as possible. Theft or other illegal activity is another, although admittedly minor, issue. One time I was swimming with some friends in a lake by the side of the trail. We put our packs down by the edge of the water. When we got back, one of my friends' pack was gone, and another one had been rifled thru. Mine was completely untouched only about 2 meters away. The only difference appeared to be that mine was olive gray-green, and the others were bright colors. It seems the thieves simply didn't notice my pack. I'm currently looking to replace a small backpacking tent that got lost in airplane luggage last summer. I'm very dismayed by the many options that only come in bright obtrusive colors. Those are non-starters for me. Fortunately some companies get it and either offer a color choice or a single more muted color.