I'm using an asterisk VOIP server, and I'm able to make called though with my SIP client. The problem I get is one-way voice. I can hear the incoming voice but the caller can not hear me. I have no problems when using the X-Lite3 windows SIP client. I VOIP provider is broadvoice. Could it be something in the firewall rules that I need to fix? 

Depending on how you setup your Postfix you may be able to use an alias to forward all mail. edit Also you can setup a redirect that will do it for you easily. In /etc/postfix/main.cf add this: 

I dont know of a web interface to manage squid blacklists, but you may want to look at DansGuarding. It has a very good blacklist and can be edited to suit your needs. 

Time servers take a couple of samples to make sure they are reading the upstream servers properly and to set their own stratum correctly. It sometimes takes a while. Usually less then 10 minutes. When you get an error like that you should first check the stratum your NTP server is reporting. There is a limit on how low windows will go to set its time from a NTP server, but I dont recall off the top of my head. 

What does show? Once you get the kernel names you can just Just make sure you do not purge your current kernel. The results can be unexpected. 

Our network is a small peer-to-peer / workgroup, no domain controller, no AD. We just added a new file server running Fedora 27. This server has several shares on it. All shares are accessible from all workstations (Mostly windows 7), except one (also Windows 7). This same problem workstation can access the other Samba servers and shares. The new server is visible in 'Network' on the problem workstation. I know I have not given enough info. But, I don't know enough to know what to share. Can anyone give me some direction as to where to look for the problem? Let me know what other info I can provide. 

I found the problem. The hard drive was running out of space. I suppose there was not enough space for MySQL to write to the log, causing it to fail. Since this is a vm, I added virtual drive space. Posting this in hopes that it helps someone else, and that my hours of time are of some benefit to someone. 

When I tried in a config file the above was within a block. EDIT Here is my code in the config file: 

I am trying to install Postfix on an Ubuntu 16.04 server; this is a web server. I need Postfix for send-only for fail2ban and logwatch. All Postfix tutorials show that apt install postfix ends with dialog windows. When I run sudo apt install mailutils all I get is a completed script, no install (that I can tell). How do I configure my install? (there is no /etc/postfix/main.cnf) Sorry for the lack of support info. I do not know enough to know what to give you. Ask, and I will post what I can. 

I'm running a couple of iSCSI Targets with OCFS2. I had to reboot my iSCSI Target (the physical iSCSI Target) due to some hardware changes and it caused all the initiators to reboot. I want to prevent that or at least make them wait a lot longer before they reboot. Is there some sysctl variables I can use to modify the targets? I have multiple iSCSI Targets on my main system, due to need to share them out with multiple systems I'm running OCFS2 as the Filesystems on the Initiators 

I just check to see if the Currently Active slave has changed or not. Also if you are just looking to see if link is lost on one of your NIC's, you can still do that though SNMP or other standard forms of monitoring. 

It sounds like you system is doing what is called thrashing. What that means is your system is swapping pages in and out of memory for in use systems. That includes SSH. You actually have a couple of options. The first option is of course to reboot the server, but it sounds like that is not much of an option for you because it's not local to you. If it's at a datacenter then you may be able to get them to walk up to it and reboot it. You have to check with your DataCenter. Second option is also pretty simple. Your SSH session just hangs waiting for some stuff to be swapped out so it can allocate a tty for you. I have had this happen to me before, and you just have to wait for it to respond, it can take quite a while. Once you have a cli then you can kill or reboot the server. The reason you can PING the server is actually pretty simple, the kernel's IP stack (IIRC) does not get swapped out that is why ICMP is able to respond. A third option would require some setup before hand so I dont think it's a real option for you right now. You can setup a modem to allow you to dial in to a number and get a serial console. On the same note you can use IPMI Serial over LAN (SOL) to get a serial console. Also IPMI can allow you to reboot the server. Once again it sounds like those are not setup for you. 

I found the solution. The problem does seem to have been in the naming of directories. Instead of using the slash delimiter for the space, I had to wrap the directory names in quotes. (I didn't know Linux saw any difference in the 2 methods) In the commands where I was using directory names, this did not work: 

I am working with an inherited Fedora server that has dozens (maybe hundreds) of Perl scripts. Many of these mount then unmount network locations. So, the mounts are not discoverable with the mount command. We are about to move some network storage to other servers. Is there a way to pull from logs everything that has been mounted / unmounted in the past 30 days? Is mount activity typically logged? EDIT I was unclear in my original question. Updating to help the future. The shares are all via Samba; added that to the question. 

I am not an experienced Linux administrator (getting that out there first). We plan on using FreeIPA to manage users and systems internal to our network (mixed Linux and Windows, no Windows DC, set up under workgroup - no domain). By following a tutorial, I have FreeIPA 4.5 set up under CentOS 7. The system currently works as expected for user management for login to a test server (Fedora 27). My next step is to get IPA to manage Samba shares. I am attempting to get this to work on the test server. The FQDN of the IPA server is net.mycompany.com, where "mycompany.com" is publicly registered, the "net" subdomain is not. The IPA server host file has the entry: [server IP] net.mycompany.com net I am following a tutorial on setting up FreeIPA to manage Samba. The step returns returns How do I add/configure DNS on an existing FreeIPA server in an internal-only network? I found instructions for installing FreeIPA with DNS. However, I do not wnat reinstall, unless I must. Is setting up DNS within FreeIPA what I need to do to resolve my issue? 

arp -an will show what you you are looking for. There is a time out for how long the MAC will stay in the table. 

Official Support for the Debian distribution is not provided by Dell. However I have been running Dell Servers with various Debian versions for the past several years. They have been very good about supporting the Hardware. 

This is a bit of a hack but it will work for forwarding specific users from one domain to another. You also may want to look at this page for how to do some rewriting within Postfix it's self. 

It depends on what type of Load Balancing you are using, and what you mean by load balancing. If you have some kind of firewall disto such as pfSense, then there are build in clustering and failover solutions you can use. 

I use Bacula, its free and open and works on Windows and Linux, and has extensive documentation on the linux and windows ports. As for Duplicati, I have never used it so I cant really tell you what do on that, but you that is an alternative. 

I was wondering who uses off site tape storage for their backups and their Positives and Negatives with each system. My basic requirements are secure storage, HIPPA certified, or SAS certified would be great. We rotate our tapes out every 6 months to offsite storage. I have looked briefly at Iron Mountain. 

Is something in SELinux my problem? Other places I should look? EDIT Here is a link to gist with the results of ssh -vvv: $URL$ And, a link to a gist with sshd_config: $URL$ 

Given the above, will use the settings that are in fstab, or do I need to specify them in my script? 

I am a software developer trying to help with a network issue (letting you know I don't know what I am doing). We are a very small shop. We have a Samba network with a dozen or so Linux servers, and maybe 2 dozen users. Network discovery stopped working last week. Users cannot browse to network resources. Most users are Windows 7, I have an Ubuntu box and a Fedora box with the same issue. I can connect by manually entering resource locations (by name). Windows users can as well, but have to manually connect by IP address. There have been no intentional changes to the network. We did have a power interruption last week. We have rebooted the router, and the switches. Can anyone give me some guidance? Thanks for any help you can offer. EDIT: We still have this issue. We have one Mac user - Network Discovery works for him. 

I am trying to redirect all requests within a directory on a server to https. I have tried the following in a separate config (within the config.d directory), and in an .htaccess file. Neither work, but cause no errors. 

The issue is displayed in your netstat output. Mysql is bound to the loopback address. Check your /etc/mysql/my.cnf (if you are running Debian, or ubuntu) and change the bind-address from bind-address = 127.0.0.1 to bind-address = 10.10.10.99 Also I would make sure you have proper security and firewall rules setup to protect your mysql server. 

If you server is running some form of linux, try setting a ulimit on the user that generates the PDF's. 

You can host multiple SSL based sites. You have to use SNI, and not all browsers support SNI, so you can have issues with an older web browser. Most modern browsers should support it. It's described in RFC-6066 This HOW-TO can walk you though how to do it. 

This is what I think the best option would be. First Connect the ASA5550's in a HA pair. Connect HA1 Inside/DMZ interface to Switch1. Connect HA2 Inside/DMZ to Switch two. Have the Failover monitor ALL interfaces that are active. Between Switch one and Switch two setup a 3 or 4 port LACP. Now this is also assuming that your ISP has given you two distinct connections that are in the same IP address space. Also you didnt say what version of ASAOS you are running. The Release notes for 8.4(1) stats they did introduce EtherChannel. They may be worth looking in to as well. 

That line right there tells you the issue. Check your DMESG and see if it's detecting your other disk, also with software Raid I run smartmon on all my drives to make sure they are ok. You could have had your second disk go bad, and you didnt know it. Now to fix this you just need to run this command, assuming your second drive of your array is sdb.