It does not necessarily reflect poorly made poles. If you have used the poles for a while without problems and you're just recently having problems, they likely need to be cleaned. I would start by checking to see if your poles have maintenance instructions specific to your model. You should always follow the manufacturers advice if possible. If they do not have cleaning instructions, than it's still fairly easy to clean most twist style locks on hiking poles. Cleaning the poles Start by pulling the poles apart. At the end of each section, there is a screw with a cap on it. This cap expands as the screw tightens into it causing it to put pressure on the walls of the outside tube preventing it from moving. Clean off the cap if it is dirty, and while you're at it, remove the cap and clean and lubricate the screw as well. After the screw and cap are clean, use a brush of the correct diameter to clean inside the poles themselves. Make sure there the cap is gripping a clean surface and not just slipping on gunk built up inside the poles. Re-assemble the poles and see if they now support weight when locked. 

Here is an example of the paracord wrap I have on my fixed blade. this will give you a feel for the type of grip you have. 

I have two sets of shoes that I wear while hiking. My favorite by far are my light weight trail running shoes. I have worn them on 9 mile hikes without any break-in, and went blister free. From a comfort perspective they are simply amazing. I also have a much more expensive hiking boot, which is made of durable leather, however every single time I wear them, even for a couple miles, I get blisters. I cannot seem to break them in to the point where they are comfortable to wear. When is it worth going through the pain to break in leather boots versus just sticking with the much more comfortable and light weight trail running shoes? I typically just day hike so my pack weight is often less than 20 lbs. 

I live in New Mexico, and have done lots of hiking all over the state. Several things first. (1) In the northern part of New Mexico (anything north or, say, Socorro, the Forest Service campgrounds will be closed November 1st until April 1st. (2) If not closed, you will generally have to supply your own water. OK - options for you. First, instead of the Sandias, I might suggest the Manzanos, the range to the south. Get off at the Tijeras exit of I40, go south, and there are a series of Forest Service campgrounds along the east side of the Manzanos. The first is Fourth of July campground, with some nice hikes right there. Further south is Red Canyon campground, with a nice loop including a side trail to Manzano Peak (over 10000 feet). Besides @OlinLathrop's suggestion of Mt Taylor (great views, lots of snow right now), there are a variety of campgrounds on the south side of I40 along the Zuni mountains. I've done less out that way, but there is plenty of hiking there as well. Somewhat off the beaten path, but El Morro National Monument is less than an hour south of Grants NM. They have a campground (although it does not seem to be mentioned on their web site anymore - you should call first) and some day hikes there. Along the road are various turn offs in to the El Malpais (mostly BLM land), with hikes and caving in the lava tubes (great fun). But, for the true New Mexico experience, I would direct you to Chaco Canyon. It will be about 2.5 hours from Albuquerque, with the last 30 minutes on a pretty good dirt road. The camp ground is open year round, and water is available. There are 4 back country trails in addition to the great house ruins in the canyon. The loop (3-4 miles) up the north side of the canyon to the Pueblo Alto complex has fabulous views of ruins in the canyon, as well as to the north into Colorado. The longer (7 miles) hike to Penasco Blanco at the end of Chaco Wash takes you by many petroglyphs. Both can be done in one day, if starting early. And, providing you have talked to the rangers before hand about the road conditions, you can exit the park to the south, meeting up with I40 near Gallup (the north entrance dirt road is pretty good, the south may require real four wheel drive). My two cents. 

Montana: 18.0 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage Idaho: 17.6 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage Florida: 17.0 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage Minnesota: 14.3 miles from nearest road, no cel coverage 

For outdoor hiking, backpacking or camping trips, I always hear people saying Cotton Kills. That means don't wear cotton anywhere (underwear, shirts, pants), and no cotton blends. Usually it's given as a strict, no compromise rule if the temperature is somewhat cold < 40F. I understand that cotton retains moisture (sweat, rain), which makes it less thermally insulating, harder to dry out and heavier. This can lead to hypothermia, pneumonia, etc. Thus, synthetic materials and wool are preferable. But by how much? Are there any studies showing how much more thermally insulating damp synthetics or wool are compared to damp cotton? I'm curious if cotton is just like 50% worse or more like 5x worse. That might allow you estimate, for example, that you could survive 5 hours with wool vs. 2 hours with cotton under certain temperature conditions. 

Experimental Summary Here is a rough summary of their experimental setup so you can understand the applicability and limitations to real-life scenarios. 

From my experience, a dish hold is one containing a smooth, shallow concave indentation, generally looking like the shape of a bowl or dish. I think it would fall under the sloper category, although slopers include both smooth concave and convex surfaces. Below are some examples: The indentation on the right would be considered a dish hold. Another example of a dish hold. 

I think even asking sometimes can be impolite. Some people just have a hard time saying 'no', even if they don't want you there. If there's a good chance they wouldn't want you in the group, don't put them in a difficult situation. Probably Don't Ask: 

I regularly drive my 2003 Honda CR-V AWD on forest roads here in New Mexico. There isn't much gravel anywhere, generally it is graded dirt and rocks. Some roads haven't seen any work in a year or two, sometimes more, but we don't get nearly as much rain as NH. If it is dry, the real issue is ground clearance, which is pretty good in my CR-V - you just have to pick your way around the biggest bits. The most exciting trip I did was with a group to go caving in the Malpais, south of Grants, NM. This was in the spring, so the snow had melted, but the Malpais doesn't drain well, being a thin skin of dirt over the lava flows. So, the roads were all mud (several inches). One car in the group was FWD only, and it had to be towed through the worst because once the rear wheels started sliding sideways it would end up in the ditch. When we encountered meadows they were covered in standing water, and you had to pick a line across the meadow and go for it, not knowing really what was under it. On one meadow I was unlucky and managed to bounce down on a rock at some point, which took out my evap filter (which I had to get fixed later). At one point, one of our 4WD F-350's got bogged down and had to get towed out - it was that messy of a road. I'd say the CR-V performed very well. All in all, I've been very happy with the CR-V and regularly take it down pretty nasty forest roads. I'm not sure that I'd take it 'off road', i.e. where there is no road at all. I have friends who do serious off-roading events, and my CR-V is certainly not suitable for that. Take a tire pump and repair kit. A winch isn't a bad idea either.