I eat 4000 kcal per day and only one meal is a hot meal that I prepare at home. I eat breakfast at home, then I pack my bread meals for the rest of the day (about 500 grams of whole grain bread bread). Then at home I cook dinner. Today I had 300 grams (uncooked) of brown rice with 500 grams of vegetables baked in 60 grams of olive oil with some meat. And I'm already feeling quite hungry again, I'll eat a few sandwiches, some fruit and yoghurt and then go to bed. 

This can be caused by gas, you can should be able to breath better using chest breathing instead of belly breathing. While belly breathing is touted as being superior to chest breathing, there has been no rigorous science done in this area. Some results suggest that there may be some health benefits for patients suffering from asthma to practice belly breathing. Arguments like chest breathing being a lot shallower and therefore bringing in a lot less oxygen is pseudo-scientific nonsense, you can run just as fast with either breathing method, unless, of course belly breathing is obstructed by e.g. excessive pressure due to gas. 

This is just personal experience, over the past few months I started doing a large number of squats three times a week. I play soccer all year round. I have an increase in take-off speed, I can run at higher speeds later in a game and I also feel my thighs aren't as sore during recovery. Disclaimer: You will need to figure out personally what a reasonable number of squats your child should be doing or if this is suitable for someone her age. 

This will widely vary person to person and most claims that you will lose x number of kilos in a certain period of time are unfounded. You should consult your GP or a dietician if you want a definitive answer. You should set your exercise goals based on fitness milestones and have your weight milestones as a consequence of that. Depending on your current fitness level you could set yourself a goal for either distance or time with either walking, jogging or running. Swimming is also a great for setting goals as it can be done by people of all fitness levels. You can also apply similar goals to your eating habits. 

It seems from your description that you (your brain) has especially the fear from falling. You know rationally that the mattress is very soft, but your brain seem not to believe that. Maybe you haven't fall on it enough times? I think you could benefit from training judo falling techniques for a while. The more time you fall, the more your brain will be comfortable with the idea of falling, the less your fear will be. 

I'm a beginner runner for years. Usually I've had to stop running after a while because of knee problem or common colds. Because of the first, I've got interested in toe-first technique (referred also as barefoot running technique). My first attempt hasn't taken long because of very strong calves fatigue. The muscle activity unusual for my body has made it hard for me to concentrate fully on details, but I've noticed I was running quite fast, and my heels were not touching or slightly touching the ground, and it was quite painful for my calves. What is the proper technique when toe-first running? Should the heel have a solid contact with the ground, or it should only slightly touch it? Or it shouldn't touch it all, so that only the front part of the feet has contact with the ground? It seems to be the most fatiguing for the calves... 

Growing up in many school activities we were made to do sit-ups and push-ups. In Navy Cadets we did pushups and situps whenever we exercised. I have also seen it included in many general fitness programs, including in a poster that appeared in our offices in the past couple of days. Why are push-ups and sit-ups so common? Is there any indication that these either: 

A few weeks back I strained my soleus and have gradually started building up my exercise levels again. I have noticed after a few days back on full exercise that the muscles in my lower leg (calf and particularly soleus) are pulled very tight which I think puts me at risk of reinjury again. I did quite a few stretches before riding to work this morning, but I'm still worried about further injury. What sort of exercises should I be doing pre and post exercise to 'loosen-up' or reduce risk of injury in this area. I do a lot of sport that puts pressure on this area (cycling, soccer and running). I also think the injury happened last time doing squats (without weights) when my calf muscles were already super tight. 

There is no authoritative answer. Science and authority don't mix very well, but you can still have an authoritative answer to some question when the vast majority of scientists have come to the same conclusion. This happens when the known facts leave no room for other answers. In case of nutrition this is certainly not the case. Therefore the best you can do is read the peer reviewed journals like e.g. AJCN, many of their articles are free to read. This way you can shape your ideas more based on hard facts rather than vague opnions. 

You should eat a normal diet with a normal amount of calories. The weight loss toward an ideal weight should come from gains in physical fitness. Suppose in the future you weigh 70 kg, you are eating 2500 Kcal/day and you are physically very fit. If you then have equilibrium between consumed energy and energy expenditure at 2500 Kcal/day, then why can't such an equilibrium be reached now? So, clearly, you should be able to eat a lot more and yet stay at your present way or even lose some weight. 

I would suggest you may be addressing the issue at the wrong point if this is related to your work. I suggest you have a look at why you are experiencing pain and strain related to your work rather than how you can reduce the pain during workouts. Intentionally trying to avoid this pain during your workout may still exacerbate the problem. It is also possible you may be doing the exercises incorrectly, in that case I would check with a trainer or someone experienced that your arms, wrists and grip are correct. I've had someone come up to me before in a gym and say "you're doing that wrong", this advice is priceless. So always check with someone if it doesn't feel right. I would then attempt to address the issue at the source and find out why you are straining your wrists at work. This is not good. I used to have this problem when I started programming and after about six months I was in screaming pain. I replaced the keyboard I was using with one I bought myself and I found the problem went away after 3 or 4 days. I also learnt to take periodic brakes and how to touch type properly. Touch typing (if done properly) will help immensely with strain if you are trying to go as fast as you can. I know this doesn't answer your question directly, however I think you are avoiding the underlying problem and could put yourself at risk by avoiding it. 

I agree with the spirit of cocojay's answer but I favor a more moderate approach. For cardio you should increase the speed a bit, I would recommend that you measure your heart rate while you exercise and make sure it is around 150 bpm or a bit higher. Before you do that you should make sure there are no medical issues here, if you are not sure you should first check with your doctor. Then, you may find that you can only do this for ten minutes. You should then try to increase the exercise time, e.g. via interval training or simply by sticking to the ten minutes for a while until you feel that you exercise for longer. The rule of thumb is that you should not increase the time by more than 10% in one go. As you get fitter, you will not only be able to cycle for longer, but you will also be able to cycle faster at the same heart rate. The rule of thumb for good cardio-fitness is the power to weight ratio. If you divide the amount of sustained power you can deliver (say for 20 minutes) in Watts divided by your weight in Kg, then this ratio should be 3 or higher. But then you are doing a maximum effort while in exercise sessions you should go slower. For you this amounts to about 220 Watt of power. Another measure is the heart rate recovery rate. If you exercise for, say, 20 minutes at a heart rate of 150 bpm, then you can measure how fast your heart rate goes down if you significantly reduce the effort. It should drop by at least 30 bpm per minute in the first minute, so after one minute you should be below 120 bpm. Your resting heart rate should also get lower over time, but this is a less reliable measure for fitness. If you do this and you keep good track of your cardio fitness, then as you gain experience with increasing your cardio fitness, you should work toward increasing this to about an hour per day. You will likely only start to lose weight when you are exercising more than half an hour per day at high intensity. I would not recommend dieting, as that will interfere with building your fitness up to top level. It is far better to become stronger first which then will lead to an increase in your base metabolic rate to above 3000 Kcal/day. You will then gradually lose a bit of weight as your body reconfigures itself. So, you will actually start to eat a lot more and still lose a bit of weight. I lost a bit of weight from about 62 kg to 57 kg over the course of about 6 years. I gradually increased my fitness from running 20 minutes per day 3 times per week to 50 minuted 5 times per week now. But I eat a lot more than I did 6 years ago. Had I restricted my calory intake 6 years ago, I would have lost a bit of weight, but I would not have been physically much fitter. Also, it is likely that visceral fat around the organs could have increased due to dieting. If you tell your body that it is ok not to be superfit and that it can't always count on enough calories, then what is the logical response? Compare that to telling your body that unless it is superfit it may not survive (that's a lie but the cells in your body dont know that you are only exercising hard for fun), but that it can always count on enough calories. Obviously your body will respond differently in this case.