Consider a trailer - I've carried 50 kg of bike tools on a recycled kid's trailer successfully. The trick was to cut a floor from some medium customwood. I notched the corners to fit exactly within the four up-posts, and to rest on the four horizontal rails. The longer term plan was to add some small lips to help prevent things falling off. Another advantage, you can leave the tools on the trailer and merely unhitch it for storage, or to free the bike for a quick trip. If you do go this way, get one hitch for every bike you might use as a tractor, and one spare that you can fasten to a stake. I've hammered my hitch/stake into the ground and used it as a pitching point, along with some stout buckets under the rear corners for a stable triangle. Depending on your need, a small workbench could even be fastened on top. for sawing or whatever. Could even attach a small bench vise. 

The other answers haven't referenced rim width. According to this ...your rim width is between 17c and 23/25c. So you need a 700c wheel with a rim width between 17 and 24. You also need a freehub that is compatible with the cassette you already have, and either a suitable disk brake rotor mount, or a rim brake track for any rim brakes. 

Notice the rear guard is fastened to the rear triangle, so as the suspension flexes, the guard stays in the same place. The front guard is much shorter because it can't use stays for support, and is a very long way from the tyre. The tyre/guard clearance has to be bigger if the bike is likely to be ridden in mud too, else there can be a buildup of mud enough to stop the wheel turning. The MTB guard has to be much wider too, because the tyre is wider. Knobblies catch and throw a lot more water/mud/stones than smoother road tyres. As such, this offers much less protection from water and mud. 

I can't comment on your specific hitch, here's a generalisation. The normal quoted figure for an automotive trailer or caravan is ~45% weight on each wheel and 10% on the nose. A bike trailer is likely a single axle - if yous has 3 or 4 wheels then it should stand by itself and noseweight is rough;y half the weight of the drawbar. 

That chain should have been changed ages ago - at or before 0.75% ideally. At 1% you will need a new cassette. To get to 1.8% is astounding, and means that the cassette and chain have worn into each other, The chainrings look OK, because there's a lot more teeth engaged compared to the cassette, however if the chain slips at the front after replacing chain and cassette, then the chainring needs doing too. You might also want to examine your two jockey wheels and consider replacing them. The main difference of that is improved shifting and little to do with skipping, but given the rest is that worn you may as well change all the wear items. Keep your chain cleaner too - that's a contributing factor on transmission wear. 

So the ETRTO number and the imperial measurement are not quite equal. Could be your circumference is closer to halfway between these, or 2101 mm Downside, this would put your reading up by 0.5% making it even larger, and further from the map distance. Do the rolling distance measure repeatedly as others have suggested, for an accurate figure. You can also consider putting your reader-magnet on the rear wheel, which should have less slip than the front one, and will follow a shorter path while you steer. 

Sorry for the answer to an old post, but I've done this exact upgrade recently on my rear. The bike is a 60cm frame, so it was worth saving. Originally it had a 5 speed freewheel and 3 front chainrings. Wheel rims were alloy. The rear spokes were made of spaghetti so I was replacing one or two a month. I scored a rear wheel with a freehub and QR skewer in it, which just fit inside the frame with some minor encouragement. I bought a 7 speed cassette for $45 NZ, and had to fit 3.5mm of spacers because it was actually an 8 speed freehub. Spacers cost $5. The old 5 speed indexed shifter was useless so I fitted a Shimano one with a lever that clicks to go up, and a push button to drop a gear. Works well and cost about $25 NZ I also fitted a new gear inner wire because I could, cost $6 NZ. I soldered the end of the gear cable rather than using a crimp-on cap. I reused all the old outers, except I trimmed 10mm off where some of them were a bit sharp exiting the frame mounts. All outers were lubed with Wolf's oil (a cheap and lightweight chinese oil.) Definitely worth doing, and I have not yet broken a spoke in 3 months of riding. You should find your rear derailereuyueyrueyruer will work fine over 7 or 8 gears, but do take the change to clean and lube it. I did not do anything with the front chainrings other than a clean and paint, and tweak up the limit screws. They're still on a friction shifter, which is fine for my needs. 

Your freewheel is failing - the pawls are not grabbing immediately which allows the chain to move without the rear wheel being powered. This will not resolve itself over time, it will get worse. Your two solutions are Temporary) try washing the freewheel with solvent to get the gunk out. Then let it dry and relube with light machine oil. Longterm) Replace the freewheel mechanism with a new one. You will probably need a new chain at this time too. 

Having more weight on your front wheel will temporarily increase the size of the contact patch. If your bike+rider is 200 pounds, and your tyre/tire pressure is 100 PSI, then each tyre is supporting 100 pounds, and will have a contact patch area of 1 square inch (imperial measurements work quite nicely here, sorry) So if you load the front wheel with another 5 pounds, the contact patch area will increase by 5%. Downside, if you're going to slide out anyway, adding weight to the front at the wrong moment will make you go down harder. Also, weight on the front is weight that has come off the rear. A rear wheel step-out is more controllable, but still not a pleasant experience. The best answer is to hit the corner at a speed you can manage, not too fast, but fast enough to carry momentum through the turn. 

Buy and fit new ball bearings. They're under $5NZ $4US for a set. Its false economy to not replace them when the headset is open. Headset bearings are probably best in retainers rather than loose bearings. They don't roll a lot compared to wheel or BB bearings, and there's a lot of small bearings around a relatively large race compared to wheels. 

That is surface rust. You can remove the bolt and clean it off using sandpaper and then a rust fixer like "rustbuster" and then paint it to keep the rust away. I find grey primer spray paint works well enough once hardened. Never had much luck with chrome-paints though. You should apply some penetrating oil before undoing the bolt, and make sure your hex tool is well-seated in the bolt before applying leverage. 

The prevention The chain jumped over the largest cog on your cassette. This is because the low limit screw is not set right on the rear derailleur, and it allowed the chain to go too far. 

I never found anything useful, so I made my own. $5 of fabric, $30 cheap overtrousers as a base, several hours, and access to a (vintage) sewing machine and misc sewing tools. Started with some generic overpants, and replaced the thigh and shin panels with non-breathing plastic/cloth with a fabric backing. High-vis yellow of course. The thigh panel gets wettest in my experience, the knee area and shin are not quite as bad, but you need the freedom of movement around the knee so I haven't seen a need (kneed?) to resurface that bit yet. I used the surplus pieces to extend the pant legs by an extra 200mm (8") and shaped the leg so it was close around the ankle and shin. You want the crotch to be close-fitting / high fitting, so the pants are long enough when pressed upward by your bike saddle. There was already a zip (zipper) at the cuff, to make getting them on and off easier. So now I can ride with these pants, and my shoe covers go on first so the pant cuff covers them and water runs down the outside. You still need normal trousers underneath, for warmth and friction. Downside - they're not particularly breathable so its best to take it easy, and not go for PRs or KOMs in the rain. (Unless its a pounding tail wind!) 

However I think you should be looking at your Panniers first. It probably has two clips at the top and a third centered and toward the bottom. Something like this: 

A bike shop will do whatever it can to turn a profit by selling cycles and parts and services. Selling brand new takeoff parts is not at all unusual, because they sold the original for a profit and can sell the takeoffs for a profit. Used stuff is more effort than profit, so expect much less of this. A bike coop will do what it can to encourage cycling. That involves fixing bikes for no profit, just covering costs normally (if even that much) Upshot: You're most likely to get the help you need from your local bike cooperative. Remember they can also teach you to maintain the bike yourself. If you can tell us what city you're in, I can google it for you too :-P Don't be concerned about the people at the bike coops, they're there volunteering their time because they want to help cyclists. They won't judge or make fun of you for some perceived fault, like I've seen bike shop monkeys do when a bike or rider isn't their "type" 

It is frequently cheaper to buy a new wheel complete than to try and rebuild an old rim onto a new hub. An 8/9 speed 26" MTB wheel should be relatively common to buy complete. You should be able to re-use 

ANSWER 2 No, these can't be used without major re-working of the bottom bracket. There are adapters to do this, but they won't be cheap. 

Sounds like you have a Pedal Assist system, where your work is augmented by the motor at speeds under 25 km/h Most modern systems will stop the motor assist at all speeds above the limit. If you drop under 25 but are still pedalling, then the motor will kick in and give you some assistance. That's what its there for. If your forward speed remains under 25 then the motor will be assisting as long as you're pushing the pedals around. If you coast, the motor will stop too. SO the battery gets a wee rest between activations. On older SLA batteries this would be the best way to get the most energy out before they're "discharged" but in modern lithium batteries it will make very little difference. In short, don't worry about your battery - its a consumable item and will need replacing in some number of years no matter how well or poorly you treat it. 

In my experience, resolution doesn't really matter, as long as you're in the territory of High Defniition. What has much more effect is the overall brightness of the scene, which directly affects the "sensor speed" I've got a gopro3 and during a sunny day I could make out the screws holding a licence plate on a car when they're doing 100+ km hour in the other direction. At night I could stop within touching distance behind a stopped car and still not read the plate. Most of this is due to too much light from bike lights, and the rest of the scene being dark leading to oversaturation on the lit areas. A secondary technique is for you the cyclist to read off the licence plate, so that the audio microphone in the camera can hear you. Its one more thing to think about at a busy moment though. Don't count on a camera to save you from anything, its merely supporting information for after the fact of an accident. Your best defense is not to get in an accident, so bike defensively and anticipate problems. Note - gopro makes a bad choice for a proof-camera because there's no date/time stamp on the images. 

So you got several punctures in the tube caused by something sharp in the tire You damaged the tire somehow and have a replacement. Now you've removed the sharp thing from the tire, and you want to know if the tube needs replacing ? ANSWER Probably not. If the tube holds the air pressure its fine. If the tire has worn tread (ie to the point you're through the rubber and riding on the threads, or if it feels really thin to your fingers) or if the tire has a cut or significant hole, then replace it. I'd recommend you throw a spare tube in your schoolbag, along with a mini-pump and tire levers if you need them, and a tool for your axle nuts if required. This will let you change tube on the side of the road, and patch it at home later. Replacing the rear tyre should reduce the frequency of punctures too. The rear wheel suffers punctures about twice as fast as the front wheel. Also, you might consider avoiding things that generate punctures too - which means not hopping kerbs/curbs, not bouncing through potholes, and going around patches of glass on the road/cycleway. 

Looks like Senator is a store brand bike from the 70's. They did rebadge Puch branded bikes which were made in Austria, as did Sears. It probably has cottered cranks, a three speed internally geared hub, and a twist shifter on the handlebars. If it has sentimental value then by all means rebuild it, but its not especially rare. If you just want a bike to ride, it might be cheaper, less work, and give you a better ride to pick up a slightly used modern bike. 

Answer: Learn to bike more defensively at all times, and build your confidence by coping with situations as they arise. Practice at slower speeds on gentler grades, where there is less traffic, fewer obstructions, and ideally a smooth unblemished surface. Sounds like cycling nirvana, but they do exist. If you're doing near the speed limit (or above) then you are perfectly entitled to take the lane. Get out away from parked cars and driveways and don't put yourself in a position where you need to change something quickly to avoid a problem. Make your path so they can't become problems. Use your eyes to scan further ahead - right to the limit of your vision and line of sight. Use your peripheral vision to be aware of the closest 30-40 metres of pavement, but don't look directly at it. Lose the earbuds - use your ears to be aware of whatever is behind you. Speed wobbles - if you get that fast, use the rear brake only to bleed off some speed slowly to regain stability. Sittingn back down on the bike can help too - these are resonant frequencies of your bike and you, so a minor change in posture can stop the reinforcement. Unweight your seat - put more weight on your hands and brace the arms in an almost-locked angle. Don't try and tuck for aerodynamics at this point in your recovery. Put your pedals at 3 and 9 and stop pedalling, to give a platform to stand on. Finally remember that downhill is not everyone's preference, I don't particularly like it, but its the payback after a long hard climb. Down should take around 1/3 of the time it took to ride up, so 30 minutes to climb is 10 minutes to descend. Also, consider testing out disk brakes if you are up for new kit. Road disk rotors can be super lightweight, which decreases their effectiveness in the heat. Personally I'd use thicker MTB disks, and avoid dragging the brakes on a downhill. Do please let us know what you do and how it works/helps. I'm sure other users will benefit from your learnings, should they experience the same problems. Edit -- Legitimately, its okay to be apprehensive about downhill. In reality its one of the most dangerous things we can do on a bike, exceeded only by downhill MTB racing with jumps. Don't feel that you have to go downhill at ludicrous speeds.