I would say that there are three kinds of 'value' at play here. 1) The price that is charged for a commodity. This is what your friend was referring to in 1. Usually, it closely approximates the intersection of the supply and demand curves, but that is not always the case. In somewhat simplistic terms, the value of a commodity is what people are willing to pay for it. 2) The price that a particular individual is willing to pay for a commodity. Of course, this price may be higher or lower than what the average consumer is willing to pay. Obviously, this kind of value is closely related to 1). 3) The third kind of value is different than the first two and, essentially, is the benefit that a commodity will have to a person. Of course, benefit is a bit of a difficult philosophical problem. To me, it is, within applied philosophy, satisfactory to say that benefit is the difference in pleasure, brought about by some factor X, from what a person would have obtained without X. Ie. benefit = (pleasure with X) - (pleasure without X). Benefit can therefore of course be negative if X makes your situation worse. It's important to note that pleasure is calculated as the total pleasure that a person will experience over the remainder of their life (and thus shortening your lifespan decreases pleasure), and also that pleasure is calculated as (pleasure - pain) so that pain factors in as well. If I understand your reasoning correctly, the concept of benefit is equivalent to your concept of 'real value'. Thus interpreted, the concept of real value/benefit is referred to as utility within economics and philosophy, and is probably most fully explored within the philosophy of utilitarianism. However, you will find that in both fields, especially economics, defining exactly what utility is is often neglected. You will also find that, if you scrutinize the concept of utility, it comes down to pain and pleasure (see also hedonism). You seem to be taking the utilitarian perspective here and saying that we should adopt policies that maximize the collective benefit. There are multiple reasons why, for a particular person, values 2) and 3), as ascribed to a particular commodity, might not be congruent, but they all come down to a failure to accurately evaluate the benefit of the commodity relative to other available commodities (see opportunity cost). A special case where people fail at this evaluation is when they erroneously bias immediate pleasure over long term pleasure (which happens largely due to evolutionary reasons that reflect (and over-bias) the reality that neither future life, nor the success of long-term efforts, are guaranteed). More generally, failure at this evaluation results from ignorance: ignorance of the benefit of commodity A, of the benefits of commodities other than A, and ignorance of even the existence of commodities. Ignorance, in turn, can result from lack of exposure to information, inability to interpret information, or deception. Since education addresses most--I would argue all--of the above stumbling blocks to accurate assessment of utility, I would guess that you already have a good awareness of those. 

The table below shows 9 possible ways that the truth value of a proposition can map to belief, where indicates that belief is invariant for that truth value. 

Note that, in the 3rd last case, belief never results when the proposition is false, but that does not guarantee that belief will result when the proposition is true. Imagine a black box that returns true/false to any query and that, when it says true, you can be sure that its correct, but, when it says false, you can't. 

Lets imagine a form of epiphenomenalism called pseudo-epiphenomenalism (pEP). In pEP there are two causal chains A, and B. each chain has its own type of particle a for A, and b for B, which are the substrate of the causal chains. Also, interactions between a 's somehow affect b 's, but not the other way around. Lets say A is our physical world. One day, scientists conduct an experiment that modifies a 's in such a way that they can be temporarily affected by b 's. Thus, b 's can be detected based on their effects on modified a 's (m-a 's), and pEP can then be detected by measuring a -> b -> m-a. Perhaps this does not meet your definition of epiphenomenalism, but it does show an example of how an epiphenomenalism-like situation could exist and one day be detected. 

Because living forever, or at least much longer than we do now, is something who's impact would unfold predominantly in the future, consideration of its consequences have to take into account the nature of the future. Of course, we all the know the problems associated with predicting the future. The subject of future resource availability is something that many people have studied closely, yet there is still, of course, substantial disagreement. Thus, I would say, the consequences are unpredictable. Personally, I subscribe to the idea that a technological singularity will likely occur within the next 10-50 years. Thus, to me, immortality does not seem to pose much of a danger. Notably, many people who today endorse life-extension research and/or the pursuit of immortality also anticipate the advent of a near-term singularity. The most notable such person would be Ray Kurzweil. Also, I believe that Aubrey de Gray is a board member of the singularity institute. 

2.5. A Good Faith Effort to Address Confirmation Biases: Yes, there are "Logic" and "Science" biases too. (The historical debate over the exact nature of mankind's evolution is a great example, the Scriptural account being one of the first examples of genetic engineering.) Mankind, still in its infancy, cannot rationally assert which bias is more valid than others, let alone argue that each bias doesn't have some validity in their own right. The Scientific method, at the very least, requires an assessment of rival hypotheses. Accordingly, it is often observed that when rival hypotheses are rejected - those hypotheses often evolve, and even the de-facto hypotheses mature too. It is prima-facie apparent that each different confirmation bias has led to hypotheses that have challenged and refined other hypotheses under different biases. This mechanic of intra-accountability between standards of truth has added, and still adds value, to the scientific method - is not too burdensome, and risks can be reasonably mitigated. Regardless, this mechanic of intra-accountability can only be dismissed according to the same exact principles that other mechanics in scientific development could be dismissed. Until that burden of proof is met - then it is not reasonable to dismiss the "dialectic" between "Theism" and "Science". (Whether that burden of proof has already been met, or how it could be met, is a great question, tbh.) 

2. The Text, Epictetus Discourses 1.11: Because ἓν / one is given emphatic placement, and because I understand ἐπὶ πάντων to indicate "Primacy / Importance", I read it as: 

3. The Distinction Between Truth and Existence: The fallacy that leads to equating "Existence" and "Truth" is that only the "Truth Value" of "Existence" is compared to "Truth", not the "holistic" value of the qualities that make up existence, (time, location, form, nature, etc.). 

2. The Plausibility of Pleasure: Suppose that "God" is defined, (at least in part), as the creator of beings. Then analogously, if we created beings - we could be considered "gods". And, if we find pleasure in our creation - then it stands to reason that our own creator would plausibly find pleasure too. The question then becomes - why are we finding pleasure in creating beings? 

3. Why we find pleasure in creat/ing/ed beings: We are in fact creating "beings" - of some sort, certainly not as complex as ourselves - yet. If we are examining "God", transcendent of this causal domain, of physicality, and time - then any "physical pleasure" we find could not be validly attributed to God too. So, necessarily - the list would have to be limited - somewhat - to apply between a "Life Giving Spirit" towards "Mankind" - in the same ways we might find pleasure in the beings we are creating, (to establish plausibility). Our greatest pleasures creating beings, are in those that are "like us" - at least seeming to take pleasure in the same experiences that we do, (literature, comics, movies, virtual reality, etc.). 

A False Presupposition: " So, theists don't??? I am supposing that the original question is actually addressing . 

Regardless of the "Validity" of standards of truth, or what their true vulnerabilities are ... scientists, throughout history, have shown general biases towards one standard - or another. For example, a "Wisdom" Bias: True Justice always injects life, never death or toxicity. So, justice will be merciful to those who show mercy, and will judge those who condemn, according to their own condemnations. Mercy triumphs over condemnation, (c.f., Every narrative in Judeo-Christian texts). The validity of this bias is subject to its internal consistency, (logic), empiricism, (textual evidence), and Morality. 

In that case, it is not necessary for "A" to be true, as "B" is another explanation. Although, both A and B are "Truths" in form - the type of "Truth" that "A" is, (a plausible truth) is not interchangeable with deductive truth. Even if "A" IS deductively true, within our own "Causal Domain", it is NOT the case that it MUST be true within this "Logic Domain". So, "A" is not "True" [deductively true], because it is not necessarily true - nor false - in this context/domain. 

Is Epictetus implying there is only ever just one cause for our actions? Or, is Epictetus arguing there is one cause which outweighs all others? What is Epictetus saying this cause actually is? 

Because of this "injection", there is a lot of equivocation between the terms. But, abstractly: even if "2 + 2 = 4" is true AND ALSO exists. ... It would appear that "2 + 2 = 4" would exist in a different "domain of reality" than where "my tomato" exists in my own "causal domain". Causality does not necessarily apply to logic, but can certainly be a factor. And, when one domain of reality is plausibly affected by other domains, it is plausible that certain domains might "override" each other. 

Obviously, I am speaking to some common Scriptural passages - to avoid the meritless claims of a mis-deific characterization, (like "God" as a "celestial-dictator", solipsistic, and self-fulfilling, etc.); Obviously this argument only aspires to an abductive or inductive conclusion - through analogy, as it probably isn't valid to actually dogmatically represent a non-corporeal "God" dwelling in a transcendent domain of reality - which would be hard to relate to. 

2.2. Evolving Definitions and Perceptions: Deism, Atheism, and Mysticism, in their various forms, throughout history, are relative constructs, and have changed over time. It is absolutely certain that our concepts of theism/mysticism will mature further. Consider: Justin Martyr defended Christianity against accusations of atheism.