Apparently Egypt uses a fixed exchange rate so there is a substantial difference between the government rate for the Egyptian pound and the price on the street. What prevents someone from just buying pounds on the street using dollars and then depositing the pounds in a bank and converting them back to dollars at the official rate, thus allowing the person to instantly make a large profit? I assume that there is some mechanism to prevent this. Is there? 

Suppose that country A buys freely from country B, but B uses steep tarriffs to block its citizens from buying from A. In that case country A's currency will pile up in B. Other things being equal, will this cause currency A to become more and more valuable relative to currency B? 

One argument against a completely free market economy without "government" oversight is the tendency towards anti-competitive behavior. The argument is that government laws are needed to prevent anti-competitive behavior which could be used to create and solidify monopolies. A typical example of this is the behavior of liquor distributors in the United States. In the United States it is (or was?) a common practice of liquor distributors to coerce retailers into selling only the brands of liquor that the distributor offered. Distributors carrying the major brands would inspect liquor stores and if they found the store selling any small company's liquor, they would threaten them: "Either stop selling this company's liquor, or else our deal is over and we won't supply you anymore." This is deadly threat, since liquor stores need big brands to stay in business. Because of this, it has been traditionally been difficult for small liquor distillers to survive without a deal with a major distributor. The same kind of argument was floated at the turn of the century (1900). Oil companies would threaten pipelines: don't carry this small oil company's oil or we will drop you. This type threat caused small oil companies to get frozen out of pipeline distribution networks until legislation basically forced pipelines to carry all oil equally and made it illegal to prefer one company's oil to another. Is it possible in a totally free market economy to combat anti-competitive behavior or is government regulation the only way to stop it? 

Starting around 2009 there was one news story after another about Italy's debt problems and one EU bailout after another seemed to be going on. Yet now everything seems to be hunky dory. What happened? How did Italy make the debt monster go away? 

A gold standard is when a country tries to maintain a fixed rate of exchange between their currency and the value of gold. So, for example, the United States attempted to maintain an exchange rate of about $20 to the troy ounce starting in 1862 with the so-called "greenback" dollar which is the ancestor of our current dollar. This is difficult to do because gold has an inherent value which fluctuates, so any government offering a fixed rate of exchange can be arbitraged and will lose money as a result. For example, when greenbacks were first issued, the US Treasury almost immediately defaulted on them. The only reliable way to maintain a gold standard is to issue gold certificates in which there is a one-to-one relationship between the gold in the treasury and the corresponding currency issues. Historically, few governments have had the discipline to achieve this. They instead tend to maintain a fractional reserve and as a result their currency depreciates until eventually they default. In the United States this default occurred in 1934. To answer your specific questions: How did trade work in former times? In former times foreign trade worked in basically two ways: cash and kind. To trade in cash, the trader would bring whatever money was used in the foreign place with them. So, for example, China used silver, so the trader would bring silver to buy something. To trade in kind, the trader brings goods, sells the goods for the local money, then uses that money to buy a new good. For example, in the opium trade, the merchants would bring English textiles, sell them in India for rupees, then use the rupees to buy opium. The opium would then be brought to China and sold for silver. The silver would then would be used to buy silk and tea which would be brought back to England. In today's fiat currency, how does trade occur? Some transactions are resolved in cash. The buyer buys the needed currency from their local bank and then buys the foreign good. In this case the buyer risks a default by the seller. The other method is via an acceptance. This process is too complicated to easily describe. Basically banks act to negotiate the trade. Look up "Bankers Acceptance" for details. In both cases, the banks must resolve any imbalances in the currency trade. I understand that different factors like interest rates and inflation can effect exchange rates. However, why do countries hold currencies of other countries in "reserve"? Why is this necessary? It's not necessary. A bank can always resolve an imbalance using gold. For example, if I am the Croatian National Bank and I am long Kunas and short Forints, I can buy gold locally with Kunas, ship the gold to Hungary and I will be credited Forints and this resolves the imbalance. However, the disadvantage is that buying and shipping gold is costly and time consuming. It may be faster and cheaper for me to buy US Dollars with Kunas, then use the dollars to buy Forints. Thus, I solve my imbalance much more conveniently by dollars instead of gold. This works as long as both the kuna dealers and forint dealers accept dollars. Since the dollar is widely accepted by currency traders, it is called a "reserve" currency because people hold it in reserve because it is widely accepted. 

What would be a recommended source of historical data for commodity production amounts which is current up to the previous year or better? For example, if I wanted to know the annual global production of steel (metric tonnes), timber, cotton, soybeans, aluminum, salt, sulfuric acid, asphalt, paperboard, wheat, kaolin, copper, silica, etc etc, where could I find that information. Note I want physical amounts (tonnes, bushels or whatever), not prices or dollar volume. 

How does the settlement of trades in foreign exchange work? For example, if I am a large company with money in dollars and I buy another currency like Deutschmarks with my dollars, how does the money flow? Where do my Deutschmarks end up? Do US banks have accounts with foreign currency in them for this purpose? 

I find the current monetary context unprecedented and baffling. On one hand there is no significant inflation, or even deflation. This is occurring against a backdrop of continued dollarization; many countries that do not even do significant business with the US, like Malaysia, are basically converting their wholesale distribution and economy into dollars. At the same time growth seems stagnant with global commodity consumption remaining at similar levels year after year. State-incurred debt seems to be constantly growing, balanced by reduced commercial debt and tightening, which, I guess, is caused by low interest rates giving banks no incentive to lend. It is hard to find any parallels to these conditions in history, sort of the black swan theory of macro economics: every age is different. Is there any way to relate the current context to classical economics? Did the classical economists (Adam Smith, David Ricardo and John Stuart Mill) describe or analyze conditions like we have today and explain them? 

Most major exchanges seem to have secret order books. For example, on the NYSE only the specialists know the order books. On the NASDAQ only the market maker can see the order book. On Globex, the full order book (Level 6) is kept secret. Are there any major exchanges with a public order book? Example of a public order book: $URL$ 

Different assets have different motivations and components for price determination. For example, an equity stock price might be considered to be include the value of underlying company, its potential for future growth, and its value as a store of wealth (kind of like a Yap stone). The price of a currency would seem to be largely determined by the balance of trade with the country or countries involved. For example, if there is a net interest in buying the products of a country, then its currency will be in demand and the price will decrease, but if the citizens of the country are net buyers of foreign goods, then the price will tend to decrease. Thus, it is self balancing, because as long as the net buying of foreign goods continues, the value of the currency will decline reducing the amount they can buy, until it becomes so low that the country is forced to become a net seller, and the value of the currency begins to increase again. Is there an econometric method for valuing currencies that takes such factors into account? 

Most manufactured products are sold domestically, but even so a strong dollar will (usually) cause a decline in sales and profitability of US manufacturers. The reason for this is that a strong dollar makes foreign products relatively cheaper, not just manufactured products, but all products. Therefore it becomes cheaper for person to buy, say a foreign-made washing machine compared to an American-made washing machine. What news articles like this don't mention is that a weak dollar hurts Americans because it makes everything they buy, like gasoline, more expensive, not just manufactured goods. The exception to the rule is during wartime. For example, as a result of World War II the United States dollar became stronger AND manufacturing profitability increased at the same time. But this was because competitors in Europe had all their factories in ruins, which is not the case today obviously. 

I read that up to 70% of Brazil's sugar cane in the Sao Paulo area is still harvested manually. Some workers are paid $1.50 per tonne. Why is it still being cut manually? Some possibilities: (1) farm owners lack the capital to buy mechanical harvesters (2) human labor is cheaper (3) regulatory or legal obstacles are blocking the use of harvesters 

A question that I have is whether a truly economically free society needs to (or should) have laws against anti-competitive behavior. Take liquor distribution as an example. In the United States liquor distributors widely employ anti-competitive tactics. For example, they will threaten liquor stores that sell product from competing distributors with being cutoff. Since liquor stores rely on key brands, this is a lethal threat so the distributor can essentially prevent them from selling product from someone else. The six or seven liquor distributors in the US have essentially divided up the country geographically among themselves using this mechanism. Some economists might argue, however, that this is only possible because of government regulations on alcohol. So, for example, for years regulations prevented small brewers from being possible, so there were only a few large brands, Budweiser, Schlitz, Michelob, etc. Because of the artificially restricted number of brands that opens the door for anti-competitive distribution monopolies, they argue. If there were no restrictions on distilleries, then the distribution monopolies would vanish, is the contention. What is the basis for that kind of theory? Does it have a name? What is the argument against it? 

Mathematica has a graph building and drawing capability. So, if you built the graph in Mathematica, then you could plot it using settings of your choosing. In Mathematica, you might use the TreeGraph as way to build the graph, and TreePlot as a way to plot it. For example, the following code generates a tree with the nodes labeled by coordinate and has a similar format to what you want: 

I thought that GDP in the United States was computed by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, but I find that now it is made by the "U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis" which I never heard of. For how long has been case? Has this agency always been responsible for GDP? If not, when did it start? 

In recent months, there has been a lot of talk of a "retail apocalypse". The increasing purchases on the internet have (supposedly) put pressure on storefront retailers. Payless is declaring bankruptcy and Sears has made public statements that suggest they may be facing bankruptcy shortly. Nevertheless, luxury retailers like Nordstrom and the Hudson Bay Company, exactly the kind of companies I would expect to be most affected by internet sales cutting into their business, seem to be doing well. Why would this be the case? Note that my impression that higher-income consumers are more likely to use is the internet is born out by statistics (Pew Research report on internet use by income level.) 

I find the yield curve for bond rates confusing. For example, the current yield curve for US treasuries is shown below: 

Countries trade different amounts of goods that are inherently imbalanced. How do currency traders resolve these imbalances in the demand for different currencies? For example.... Imagine we have two countries, Oilonia whose primary export is oil, and Chocolatonia whose primary export is chocolate. In Oilonia the currency is oilinos and the main moneychanger is Bancoilio. In Chocolatonia the currency is chocolatinos and the main money changer is Chocolatanza. Imagine that in the year they first encounter each other there is a candy dealer in Oilonia who wants to import 1000 pounds of chocolate from Chocolatonia, and there is an oil dealer in Chocolatonia who would like to import as much as 10,000 tonnes of oil from Oilonia. The price of chocolate in Chocolatonia is 4 chocolatinos per pound and the price of oil in Oilonia is 400 oilinos per tonne. The two dealers go to the money changers in their country and tell them their needs. The currency brokers at the two money changers then talk and one says "I need 4000 chocolatinos" and the other says "What a coincidence, I need 4 million oilinos." Now, if both changers have these amounts in inventory they might do a direct trade, 4000 chocolatinos for 4 million oilinos, and everybody is happy, but this trade would be unbalanced. For example, if Chocolatanza advertised an exchange rate of 1000 to 1 for oilinos, they would have people lined up at the door to take that deal, but nobody in Oilonia would want to do the corresponding deal at Bancoilio. So, if that deal got done, it would be a one-time event. More likely, the two money changers would not sell currency out of their inventory at all, but would only do the deal so far as they could lay it off immediately. So, what would happen is that the candy dealer would tell Bancoilio, "I am willing to pay 5000 oilinos for the 4000 chocolatinos because I know I can sell the 1000 pounds of chocolate here for 9000 oilinos which would be a good profit for me." Meanwhile, in Chocolatonia, the oil dealer would tell Chocolatanza, "I am willing to pay 7 million chocolatinos for 4 million oilinos, because I know I can sell the 10,000 tonnes of oil for much more than that." So, now what happens is that Bancoilio goes to Chocolatanza, adds in their own profit, and says, "We are willing to buy 4000 chocolatinos for 4500 oilinos." Chocolatanza answers, "That rate sounds great to us and we will happily make that deal, but we would like to buy 4 million oilinos at that rate, not just 4500." Bancoilio will then say "Sorry, we only have a need for 4500 chocolatinos right now." So, they are at an impasse. The rate is profitable for both of them, but due to the difference in trade demand, one side is unable to get the amount of currency they want. Chocolatanza could try to break the impasse by asking to borrow the oilinos. "Could we borrow the 4 million oilinos?" but Bancoilio will be reluctant to do this because they know that Chocolatanza will only be able to acquire a few thousand oilinos every year through the chocolate trade, so it will take a very long time before they could pay the loan back. So, in this situation, how is progress made? How do real banks solve this problem? I have abstracted the problem into the above described case, so I will not consider as "answers" generic descriptions of currency trading which I know very well. I would like to know the solution as it applies to the abstracted example. So, a valid answer would be something like "In the real world Chocolatanza would do X, Y and Z, then Bancolio would do P an d Q" or whatever. For the purpose of the problem there are no other intermediary countries, nor are there any other non-monetary goods to trade (or if there are other goods, assume that the prices of those goods makes it infeasible to trade them between the two countries).