It's well known that Silverberg wrote novels based on some of Asimov's stories. For example, The Child of Time was based off of The Ugly Little Boy, and Nightfall was based off the Asimov story of the same name. How many other (if any) novels/books/other works did Silverberg base off of Asimov stories? 

The scarlet letter has many meanings in the context of the story. In the beginning, it represented a sin and crime committed. As the story (and Hester) move on though, it becomes a symbol to be proud of (at least in Hester's mind): 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter XIII In short, the letter started as a badge of sin, but due to Hester's actions later it became something, if not to be proud of, not to be ashamed of. 

Therefore she focuses on her weaving intently, but gets captivated by the reflections of the outside world in her mirror. And of course she eventually looks out and becomes cursed. TL;DR: She started looking at Camelot, she's cursed if she doesn't stop that 

Here is also a list of place names and their equivalents, taken from the book linked above: (warning - really long) Wessex - Name - Region of Wessex Actual Name 

Rose doesn't recognize him, and when questioned about how to leave (to get to the Keep of Time), he abruptly tells them to try the trump again, and walks away. However, before they leave, he tells Rose: 

He also wrote more stories after LOTR, in addition to a couple (non-fiction) research papers before that. So he wasn't entirely new to writing in general. 

I was re-reading The Silver Chair recently, the 6th book in the Narnia series. Towards the end of the novel, 

The Scarlet Letter, Chapter II As time passes, the letter changes in meaning. Some people "refused to interpret the scarlet A by its original signification". The A comes to mean "able" in their minds. (Chapter XII) Eventually, the letter becomes somewhat sacred: 

So it's not really a retirement, it's more of a temporary break. And the last quote implies that stars prefer to be in the sky versus on the ground, because Coriakin was punished with coming down. For those who don't remember, the duffers were the (for a time) invisible and one-legged creatures. Coriakin was supposed to be guiding them. Finally, it's also unknown what punishment merits a star coming down. 

(I don't remember the main character's name) The book opened with the main character (an old man) living on a mostly abandoned world. I don't remember the exact setting, but it was barren of sapient life. There were animals that were like a cross between a racoon, komodo dragon, and velociraptor. They were sentient and hostile to humans, but the main character had somehow tamed them so they didn't attack him. A woman visits the man, asking for his help with something. I'm fairly certain it's not explicitly stated in the story yet, but the man understands what she wants. He refuses. It turns out there are two rival factions warring for control of pretty much everything, and he doesn't want to participate in the war. Furthermore, he doesn't trust the woman to be who she claims to be (she says she's from faction A, but she might be from B) At some point in here another man appears, heavily injured and unconscious. I don't remember much about this, except I'm fairly certain the woman kills the unconscious man. The story culminates with the reveal of the a piece of technology. This is some sort of wristband that allows the wearer to warp between parallel Earths. The old man's version of the device was older and in the form of a belt. There was an asteroid. In different versions of the Earths, the asteroid went from overshooting it on the right, to hitting the edge, to full-on collision, then hitting the left edge, to missing, etc. The old man was living on a planet where the asteroid had come close enough to obliterate life, but not actually hit and destroy the planet. The woman turned out to be evil (shocker amirite) and stole something (I think) from the old man. He chased her, and she kept running and warping from world to world. At some point they even warped to a place where the asteroid had completely destroyed the planet and there wasn't even an atmosphere. At the end, it turns out the old man was the creator of this technology. He couldn't live in a world with that tech being constantly used, so he left to live like a hermit on an Earth far away. He had created the device, and another person had refined it into a lightweight wrist device. He spared the woman and told her to leave, but she still tried to kill him. She failed, and I'm fairly certain the old man just left her for the komodo-racoon-raptor beasts to kill. He packed up camp and left for a more distant world, possibly using up the rest of his device's battery. At the end, the leader of the pack of the komodoraptors was implied to have gained human-like intelligence, implying that it would start a dog-eat-dog style civilization. Lastly, I'm fairly certain the reason the old man didn't like the technology was because he thought it would lead (spoiler: it did) to humanity exterminating other versions of humanity and pretty much any other animals they came across, cutting off their future and preventing them from evolving further. The ending possibly implied that he realized what the komodo lizards would become, but maybe not. I'm fairly certain I read this story in a collection of short stories from assorted authors, again in the US about 6 months to a year ago. 

(Cover image of Point Blanc taken from publisher's website. Note that the book has been republished under different covers.) 

The numbers don't seem to make any sense. (Pirx is actually 22 years old at that time.) This appears to show that the young Pirx still says the first stupid thing that comes into his mind without thinking it through, which is in character for him. If there's a deeper meaning or joke behind the choice of these particular numbers, I can't see it. 

In Jules Verne, Michel Strogoff, part 1 chapter 5, when Michel arrives to Nijni-Novgorod, there's a huge trade fair going on in the city. The text seems to give two contradictory numbers about how long the trade fair is. 

The English translation by Agnes Kinloch Kingston and the one found on Project Gutenberg does not mention a duration the second time in the text, so it does not have this contradiction. 

You are describing a scene from Point Blanc, the second novel of the Alex Rider series by Anthony Horowitz. The protagonist of this book is Alex Rider, a teenage James Bond style secret agent. In this book, he has to infiltrate Point Blanc, a special school for selected teenage kids of millionaire parents. Alex has to infiltrate the school by adopting the cover identity of Alex Friend, son of a rich businessman Sir David Friend. To prepare for the role, Alex spends a few weeks on the estate of David Friend with his family, who are in to the deception. Alex rides a horse with David's daughter Fiona, and saves her in a railway tunnel in the way you describe. You might also recall the event described in the first chapter of the book. In this, the millionaire Michael J. Roscoe falls to their death in an elevator shaft. An assassin has reprogrammed the elevator so the door opened when the elevator wasn't on the right storey, but also installed a holographic projector that projected a realistic image of the elevator car so that the businessman doesn't notice this. The chapter seems unconnected to the rest of the book at first, though importance in the story is revealed later. If you have read this in English original, you can find the text of this first chapter as a free sample on the publisher's website to see if it rings the bell. 

Is this trying to reference George Orwell's 1984? In that novel, too, every apartment has a television that cannot be silenced, so Smith is astonished that the inner party member O'Brien has a television that can be turned off completely. 

In Isaac Asimov's short story “Gold”, Laborian is clearly a self-insertion of Asimov himself, and the story in the story is Asimov's own book The Gods Themselves. I'm wondering though, what about the other major character in this short story? Is the film producer Jonas Willard invented completely from scratch? Or did Asimov get inspiration for that character from someone, such as a contemporary real world film producer or director? The character is described in a positive way in the end, so I'm wondering if Asimov is indirectly complimenting someone from the real world with this unusually self-reflecting story. 

Yes… I don't get it. It occurs in Pirx pilóta kalandjai (orig title. Opowieści o pilocie Pirxie; in Stanisław Lem teljes science-fiction univerzuma vol. 2, (2006) Szukits könyvkiadó, translator Murányi Beatrix), in the short story “Feltételes reflex”. The young student Pirx and the older scientist (astrophysicist) Langner are waiting in a hotel room on the moon, before traveling to the base at the back side of the moon. Langner asks Pirx his age, without looking up from the complicated computations he was doing. Pirx replies “111”, which makes Langner look up, then adds “in binary”, which makes the scientist smile. 

There are many instances of boats, some of them quite large, being carried inland by a tsunami. For example... 

I don't see this as rhetorical. It is a description of how bodies decompose in water. A body that is left in water will start to decompose, gases develop inside the body and force the skin outwards. The skin of the bloated body becomes pallid and stretched. I have seen a few times farm animals that have fallen into water and drowned. Their bloated bodies are not a pleasant sight. 

It is a reference to the English class system. Lady Bracknell, a stickler for propriety, is suggesting that the Liberals are lower class than herself. The lower classes don't dine in the evening, they merely eat a meal. Dinner was as much an institution as a simple meal. One dresses for dinner, is summoned by one's butler and is served by one's footmen. She would regard the Liberal Unionists as of a class such as mere trade who don't bother with such things. So, the Liberal Unionists don't dine - don't follow the process of dinner - but they do visit around dinner time. Lady Bracknell is a snob, there are many instances of her snobbery in the play. Also, the works of Oscar Wilde, an Irishman, contain several jibes at the English class system as he saw it at the time. 

...which is from the Japanese tsunami of 2011. It is quite likely that Terry Pratchett took events of this nature as inspiration for the book. Although, wind alone isn't going to lift a boat any distance, the story doesn't have to be scientifically accurate. 

As suggested in a comment, it is a reference to the normal practice of putting injured horses out of their misery. Gloria feels her life is hopeless and has attempted suicide in the past. During the dance marathon she becomes increasingly depressed - losing the will to live. She tells Robert that her life is hopeless and she would be better off dead. Robert feels that killing her is the kind thing to do. Putting her out of her misery and saving her decades of further unhappiness. So, when arrested, he doesn't attempt to deny the shooting. He simply makes the metaphorical connection to the practice with horses. 

This is possibly a reference to astrology. In western astrology, April is regarded as a masculine month. April is the month of Aries, The Ram, a masculine sign. It is ruled by Mars, a masculine planet. As astrology was more highly regarded in Chaucer's time than today, he could well be making a reference to April's astrological masculinity. However, to be sure of this as an explanation, a reference to a feminine month using feminine pronoun is needed. I can't immediately think of such a reference. 

You are correct in that the boards are the planks of wood from which the ship is constructed. Although nautically, "boards" is more often used to refer to the decking than to the hull. In hot dry conditions, wood will shrink. It was common in the 18th Century for wooden sailing ships travelling from Europe to the tropics to suffer shrinkage of the deck boards. This often required the decks to be recaulked to prevent leaks. Later, wood treatment improved. Significantly reducing the risk of such shrinkage. So the phrase is being used to set the scene of hot weather. 

It was the title given to the "Earth Edition" on the web: H2G2.com This was founded - and named - in 1999 by Douglas Adams himself. Clearly taken from The HitchHiker's Guide to the Galaxy. This website was an early attempt at crowdsourced knowledge. Somewhat overshadowed by the later Wikipaedia. A description of the history of H2G2.com is given on that site and Adams' own description is on another page. From 1978 up to about 1982 I had a friend who worked in the sound department of the BBC. The series was commonly either referred to Hitchhiker's or HHG. The abbreviation H2G2 become more common after the creation of the website.