But this is not the same image! Singer's objection is about treating people as replaceable vessels (that is, aggregation of utility does not take into account the separation of persons), but Benatar's objection is about treating people as mere vessels (that is, as means rather than ends). So I would have to put [citation needed] on Benatar's claim. Reference 

For Poe this is clearly a question of balance: coincidences detract from the quality of verisimilitude, but add to the quality of fatality, and he values both qualities. (Aside: Poe’s review refutes the idea, raised in comments, that “readers back then were much less nitpicky”. The review is a monument of nitpicks! But Poe’s nitpicks are directed at the effects Poe values, which are dramatic unity, which he thinks is spoiled by the inclusion of the Gordon Riots, and suspense, which he thinks is spoiled by the sloppy way the mystery plot is handled. Poe recognizes that coincidences are unrealistic, but realism is far from his most important concern.) What did readers make of coincidences? One way to think about this kind of question is to turn it around: 

On the Subway ("The Last Poets," 1970, track 02) (genius.com link) concludes with shouting the word "blink" a lot, and I'm not sure what it means. On the surface level, I figure it might be describing the lights going past the train--but it could just as easily be the two men blinking furiously at each other. The verses describe both character and environment in a similar manner earlier in the piece. Or it could be something else entirely. And whatever literal element the blinking is depicting in the scene described, what does it signify for the poem's theme? 

There are a number of children's books with additional references in the text which most children will not understand and which many adults will find hilarious - possibly more so in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century than later on. (Edith Nesbit is a good example of this.) Children are still the primary audience, but an adult choosing to buy the book or to read it to their child may be more likely to do so if there is something extra for the adult to appreciate. Books with different layers in this way are revisited by their readers and passed on to other generations, so may achieve a much longer span of popularity. 

(Here "gonzo" means a style of writing "characterized by factual distortion and exaggerated rhetorical style" [OED] popularized by the journalist Hunter S. Thompson.) Jeter modelled the term "steampunk" after "cyberpunk", which was coined by Bruce Bethke and used as the title of a novel first published in 1983. 

What does the term ‘bodice-ripper’ mean? In what context did the term originate? To what extent do these novels feature violence? How do readers and critics interpret the violence? 

The first sentence, in French, contains an ambiguity about time which can't be translated into English. The original line is: "Aujourd'hui, maman est morte. Où peut-être hier, je ne sais pas." In written French the past historic tense is normally used, but as this novel has a first person narrator, he uses the "passé composé" tense normally used in everyday speech. To form this tense, you usually use the verb "to have" followed by the past participle (similar to one of the past constructions in English, e.g. "I have written a letter"). However - a peculiarity of French is that certain verbs (15 common ones, mostly to do with motion) use the verb "to be" instead of the verb "to have". So in French you don't say, for example, "I have gone"; you say "I am gone". One of these non-standard verbs is the verb "to die". Therefore, you can legitimately translate the first line of the novel as "Today, Mum died" or "Today, Mum is dead". Most translations take the first option (though they unaccountably change the word order!), because otherwise the second sentence doesn't follow on too well. 

(“The dew of Hermon” is a reference to Psalm 133: “Behold, how good and how pleasant for brethren to dwell together in unity! […] as the dew of Hermon, that descended upon the mountains of Zion”.) We suspect that Jude is fooling himself, and that by ‘social’ he really means ‘sexual’: 

So what Orwell seems to have had in mind is that the ‘good bad poem’ panders to popular taste, but nonetheless it is a good example of its type: it is constructed with skill and enjoyable to read. A quick note on ‘sentimentality’. The Oxford English Dictionary says 

It is feminist because none of the inhabitants of Gethen are male or female; they are both. As Genly is the principal narrator of the story, and comes from Terra, he automatically refers to everyone he meets as "he", as his established convention is to default to the male pronoun, and he is used to men running society. If he referred to all the Gethenians as "she" (which is equally valid) the feminist aspects would be clearer, but part of the subtlety of the novel is Genly's unconscious prejudices. 

‘Dickens in Camp’ by Bret Harte, which imagines a California pioneer reading aloud a novel by Charles Dickens: 

‘The Charge of the Light Brigade’ (1854) by Alfred, Lord Tennyson, about a disastrous maneouvre at the battle of Balaclava: 

These lines are somewhat obscure, but maybe they can be understood in the context of the following stanza: 

These are puns on the names of tourist agencies and operators. Ways no gaze could follow has the double meaning: 

I want to read The Expanse, but I'm kind of confused about which to read first and what I actually need to read. So far as I can tell The Expanse is a series of novels that fall in roughly chronological order, but there's also a number of novellas and short stories which jump around the chronology. I figure the shorter stuff is going to be harder to find (published in magazines, etc). Does it matter what order I read the non-novel material in? Can/should I skip the non-novel material entirely? 

The biography by Melissa Muller (Bloomsbury, 1999), based on information from relatives and friends, states that Anne was always popular and assertive at school, and not good at concentrating (which may have meant she was more aware of what the boys were up to). In 1942 there were 12 girls and 18 boys in her class, so the relatively small number of girls could have meant that they all attracted more attention?