Your boss sounds like a real ... live one (that's as best as I'm going to be able to say!) If scheduling or supervising is not part of your regular job, then I'd say that her approach of leaning on you because of a legal, court-ordered responsibility is quite discriminatory. I'd run straight to human resources and have them intercede to set your boss straight, because she seems to be cluelessly taking HER personal issue (apparently, negative) with the jury duty and trying to turn it into yours. Let's not overlook the fact that you may not get paid by your employer for whatever time you happen to be out. Last time I got jury duty, I think the court paid $35 dollars a day in Orange County. So, you're likely to come up short in the pocket somewhere, AND your boss is giving you crap at the same time? Like I said, run straight to HR. 

That person is seeking either information for gossip, or to soothe her own ego to make sure you (the newbie) aren't making what she's making. So just to get her to shut up, have a little fun. Give her some extremely low number, or some extremely high number. As long as you don't divulge your actual salary, watching whatever happens might be quite fun. See, neither of you is obligated to tell your own true salary - she could be throwing a number your way just to get a rise out of you! People do that! Or tell her that you get paid with bags of chocolate, or peanuts, or potato chips, or something grossly silly. You can even change the story each time if you like. Make it enjoyable for yourself. She may get tired of your wild story and drop the subject. Lastly, there's always the direct refusal approach, as others have mentioned. Not as much fun, but it's effective too. 

Right now, you have no leverage. Meaning - you don't have any other prospects on the table. You should GET some, because other opportunities will become a bargaining chip. The company has the advantage now because they know darn well that the contract is coming to an end, and you've made no efforts (as far as I can tell) to inform them that it's time to tighten their belts if they want to retain you. I get the idea that you've approached this very casually. A casual approach will get you casual results - which is not what I think you're looking for, at least monetarily. 

In about every place I know, if you are an hourly worker and are required to show up for work, even when it's labelled as "training", you need to get paid for it. 

He'll know that you're not out to waste his time. He'll know that you are honest. He may offer to pay for the training you need to complete the task, or extend you much more time. (DON'T ask for this. If he offers, great.) 

You might consider moving ownership of your investments to an LLC ($50 to establish one in Wyoming!) Then, they're not your investments any more. Run this by a financial advisor, though. Edit: See this as reference. 

I'm going to assume you're in the US. Usually, a start date is put into an offer letter (for perm jobs). You haven't indicated that you've received one, so until you do, you don't have much to work with. You could contact the company's HR department and ask for one. I wouldn't advise that you just show up. You may make a fool of yourself by doing so. But in the meantime, don't stop your job search just yet. 

People don't read e-mails from bottom to top, and their attention is least likely to be on something that occurs at the end. If you want people to know, with the least amount of confusion or guesswork, do the work of writing a proper message with a proper subject line pertaining only to your change in status. The footer approach will cause confusion - is that the impression you want? I think it'd be best to either be succinct, or don't send anything at all. 

This isn't making any sense to me. You have two engineering degrees, but your experience is in the medical industry. You're not doing engineering work, but believe a doctorate (I assume it's in an engineering discipline) is the magic bullet to make your career take off. Do you realize that there are law school grads working at your neighborhood Starbucks? "Joe Schmo, Barista, JD." It seems it'd be better to skip the doctorate (and the bill!) to avoid becoming a highly-educated data entry clerk, and pursue job opportunities actually in your field(s) of engineering. Possessing a doctorate will only prove that you know how to make your way back to a college campus, fill out more forms, and do as you're told. It doesn't show at all how you've actually applied (and been paid by sake of) what you spent all that money on. At some point, you may need to unlatch yourself from the sweet, seductive, non-threatening environment of academia (which is not like the "real" world) and move along. In the end, working in academia forever may be the only outlet for someone with a doctorate and no practical experience. There's an old idiom: "He who can, does. He who cannot, teaches." Which do you want to be? You can't straddle the fence. 

"Hey ____, Hope you had a great vacation. At your convenience, I'd like to continue our dialog on the internship opportunity. Please respond with your availability. Thanks!" Simple. 

Newbie recruiters are a frustrating annoyance, because they don't know sugar-from-shinola about the actual work or the tools. They are typically trained to match keywords between requisitions and resumes. Very small firms often have cashflow problems, and the principals may divert revenue into their own pockets first and try to make you wait to get paid (i.e. missing payroll). If you are a W-2 employee, this is usually illegal! They use peoples' ignorance to their advantage. If something starts to not feel right, don't WAIT to take action. The ones that haven't been around for long have no qualms at all about putting you into an environment that they know is hostile or troublesome. They're not about building win-win situations for the long term. They can be pushy. Avoid them. 

If you are working in the United States -- especially in a venue with at-will employment -- the probation period has absolutely nothing to do with how long you're going to last on a job. So friend, using this as a basis as to whether you should move, or not, is ultimately meaningless. In the US, an employer does not have to keep you for any specific duration after a probation period. Obviously, you want to stay employed. Are you moving closer to where a lot of work is available, or further away? You could lose that job you're on, even today or tomorrow. The business could be bankrupt, or bought out with the intention to not replace your position. That said, make your move with "plan b" in mind. All that said, you could ask your boss but if it's a lot of paperwork your request might be more work than the boss is willing to do. A half-month isn't really a lot of time to assess the value of a new employee. You may come off as someone who's pushy, or overconfident. If I were your boss, I'd want to know why you think I should try to override company policy on your behalf, for reasons that benefit the business. If you can't give a super-great answer to such a question, then be very careful of asking for special treatment.