This is part comment, part answer, but too long to fit in a comment, so here we go. Personally, I use SPD, and when I ride with a group, everyone else has SPD-SL or LOOK. I'm usually clipped in and across the intersection before they're clipped in. Either I'm just really good at clipping in, or SPD are designed to be easier to get clipped in to. Even the very experienced riders tend to have problems with clipping in from time to time. Personally I don't know what advantage SPD-SL offers over SPD. People say that the larger platform allows for better power transfer, but I don't see how that makes difference. The foot pushes on the hard sole of the shoe, and sole of the shoe pushes on the pedal, which is made of rigid metal. Assuming there is no flex in the pedal or the sole of the shoe, it doesn't matter how large the attachment point is. Personally, I would recommend you try out a pair of SPDs. Borrow some from a friend or see if the shop has a demo pair and see if that works better for you. Too many shops will push you towards road pedals (either SPD-SL or LOOK) because you're riding on the road, and you will break "Rule 34" if you use mountain pedals on a road bike. I think that SPD pedals are a much better solution unless you're an actual road racer and only plan to unclip at the end of the ride. 

Most likely no. That is too big of a difference in wheel sizes. The frame does not likely have enough room for the larger wheels. If you have rim brakes there would also be the problem of adjusting the brake pad position for the larger wheel. You could always go to a shop or swap wheels from another bike just to see if they will fit, but I think it is very unlikely that they would, 

This article shows an 1891 Hiwheel Eagle. It looks quite similar to the bike shown with a small front wheel and hub mounted pedals. 

Perhaps instead of password protecting it, you might want to think of ways you could detect that the device was tampered with. I'm not certain how often you would change settings or plug into it, but you may want to cover the port with security tape or something similar so that you are aware when somebody has been messing with the equipment. This may not be the best solution, but perhaps someone more familiar with the hardware could offer a solution to detect tampering with the hardware that would work better. Or perhaps you should just have your desired settings and firmware backed up and reload them before each ride or race. 

The number of gears does not determine the available gear range of the bike. Normally a 3x8 would have a wider gear range than a 2x6, and would therefore be a better choice, but you could also have a situation where the smallest front chainring on the 3x8 is 30 tooth, and the biggest rear cog is 28, giving you gear ratio of 1.07. The 2x6 could have a 24 tooth chainring with a 32 rear sprocket making your lowest gear ratio 0.75, which would be much easier for getting up hills. If you have knee problems and don't really care about speed too much, you should pick the bike with the easiest gear ratio so that you aren't stuck in a situation where you have to apply a lot of force to the pedals. 

Here's how I would fix the problem. This could all be done by somebody with basic tools and basic knowledge. Get a quill-threadless stem adapter and a new stem. This will allow you to fit the new stem to the handlebars without removing anything from the bars. The old stem can be removed destructively by removing the cinch bolt and prying the thing apart since it is already broken and no longer fit for use. Using a new theadless stem will give you a huge variety of stems to choose from so you can find the right length and angle to fit you comfortably and match your riding style. I'm not recommending those specific products, but those are the type of products you should be looking for. Make sure the handlebar end of the stem is the proper size for the bars you already own. I got a threadless stem adapter a couple years back for my old bike and it makes working on anything to do with the handlebars so much easier. 

I'm trying to figure out the easiest way for this to work. She could essentially pedal with just a single leg if she had toe clips or clipless pedals. Google "one legged cyclist" and you'll see quite a few examples cyclists with only one leg who ride unmodified bikes. Steering might be a problem with only a single arm, but hopefully a prosthesis can help for that. The hard part would be building up enough strength in the one leg, but it can be done. Also, if you get a standard trike with a handle similar as on the bike you linked to, you could push her along a bit until she developed the necessary strength. 

You could always get a fixed gear and use your legs to slow you down. Getting back up the mountain would present a completely different problem though. Although with the right gear ratio it would probably be possible to go both up and down the mountain on a fixed gear. 

If you have quick release wheels you could remove your front wheel in order to turn the handlebars 90 degrees. You could also get something like thisquick release mount to make your fork a little more stable. Hang the wheel on the wall, or put it anywhere you have room. I'd rather not have a quick release mechanism on my headset. 

Check to see where it's rubbing. It will probably be rubbing on the brake pads, or less likely on the chain stays. If it happens once per rotation it means your wheel is probably warped and needs to be straightened. Should be a pretty basic fix if you take it to a bike shop. Straightening a wheel can be done at home with a simple cheap tool, but takes some time to figure out how to do it well. 

They are not any less secure than the old style where they are built into the frame. Even if you were to undo the screws, they would still be a solid ring around your wheel, and would prevent the bike from being ridden as it would come into contact with the seat stays, chain stays, and ground as the wheel went around. However, in general, these types of locks aren't very secure as they are highly susceptible to the "pick it up and walk/drive away" method of theft. Once the thief has the bike in their own garage, the lock can easily be cut with basic tools like a hacksaw or a grinder/dremel with a cut-off disk 

From personal experience, having just changed to a cassette with less range, I have to say that smaller steps definitely offers some advantage. I went from an 8-speed 11-32 to a 12-23. Having a single tooth of difference between adjacent gears means that it's more likely that you will be in the "right gear". The "right gear" is the gear in which you aren't spinning too fast, and aren't pushing too hard for the given conditions (slope, wind, etc.). Sure a large gear range is desirable, but there is such a thing as too much range, where some of the gears (usually the easiest gears) are never used. Personally, I found that I never needed the extra range in my ride, especially considering I have triple chainrings, so I went with smaller increments which made the range smaller, while allowing me to be in the "right gear" more often. 

I don't think 170/175 represents a bottom bracket size as others have assumed. That would be a very wide axle for a bottom bracket. 170/175 would be the measure of the crank arm length. The crank arm length is pretty much completely a non-issue except that longer crank arms can cause issues if you pedal through turns. When looking to replace your crankset or bottom bracket, there are many other things you must look into such as: 

I live in Ottawa as well, seems as though there are a few of us here. My best recommendation after riding until end of December last year when the snow came is to get a bike that you don't care if it gets rusted out. With all the salt they put down here, the drive train is going to get destroyed and you will probably want to have a new drive train (or many new parts) each winter. My freewheel cassette no longer freewheels after riding it until last December (was planning on a new bike anyway). Unless you are in a particularly hilly section of the city (there aren't many) I would probably go with a single speed or fixed gear as there's just less parts to replace next time around. I got a cheap fixie off Kijiji that I plan to use until the snow comes. There's another cyclist around my office complex who rode all winter last year and he has single speed as well. The frames seem to hold up well enough either with aluminium or steel, but the drive train and any kind of bolts seem to undergo a terrible amount of corrosion. You might want to cover all the bolts in a layer of grease. It will make working on it a little messier, but will protect them from the elements a lot more. 

If you can find some ball bearings that just fit into the allen key sockets, then you lube them up with thick grease, it's quite difficult to remove them. Use a magnet to get them out. Although I imagine a good bike thief would carry a magnet because this trick is quite common. You can also replace your quick release skewers with allen key skewers. They wouldn't be the most secure solution, but they would work better than quick release skewers. If you use nutted wheels, you can pick up some security nuts for a lot cheaper than you can buy security skewers. Check you local professional tool supply store and you can probably buy them by the piece for a couple bucks each. They also sell security skewers which are cheaper than pitlock. The disadvantage over pitlock is that they all use the same specialized tool to remove whereas pitlock has 256 differently shaped pits available. So they would be safer than quick release, allen key or hex nut, but less so that pitlock. And almost definitely safer than the bike next to yours. 

Suntour makes a significantly different designed road suspension fork I found on Wired Magazine while Googling. Here is the Suntour product page 

The first step is to probably check the bottle for the icon shown below to identify that the manufacturer has said the product is Dishwasher Safe. 

You'd probably get a good information by looking at the components. Assuming the components are original, you can tell a lot information about the general quality of the frame from the quality components. Almost nobody is putting DuraAce on a cheap Walmart frame, and almost nobody is putting Tourney parts on a Cervello. The bolt on wheels and ProMax crank lead to me believe that this bike is more likely from Walmart or another department store. That doesn't mean it is, but it could be. Also, it has V-Brakes, which most quality full suspension bikes don't use any more. They've almost entirely switched over to disk brakes at the high end. Get some more pictures showing close ups of the derailleurs, crankset, suspension, and the markings on the rim of the wheel to help us evaluate it further. 

Similar to as @Mathew pointed out, you can get some bullhorn handlebars. I got some similar to ones in the link above, but their curve inward at the end, to look more like the ones in @Mathew's post with the middle front section cut out. Putting your hands in the front section allows you to be in almost a complete tuck position, while the bars are wide enough to give you plenty of balance on the trials. I use bars like this exclusively on the road, as I find that they provide many different hand positions, allowing me to lessen fatigue.