I had simiar issues until I discovered towel toe curls. Simply take off your shoes and socks and stand over a towel. Place the toes of your right foot on the towel and keep your heel on the floor. Use your toes to "curl" the towel back towards your body. It is like you are pulling the towel towards you using your toes. Do 50 reps to the right foot. Do 50 reps to the left foot. Do every day for 2 weeks and then every other as maintenance. Good luck. 

Running downhill is the BEST way to strengthen your quad muscles. Often we build muscle imbalances by continually running uphill which does great for glutes, hamstrings, hip flexors. Downhill pounds the quads but strengthens them. How to downhill run effectively 1) Focus on being tall and relaxed 2) Slight forward lean 3) Use the "big muscles" to cushion the landing as opposed to pounding your shins. Based on the work by Arthur Lydiard I recommend short downhill strides coupled with uphill "sprints" to fully maximize your running strength (which does wonders for endurance, coincidentally). Sample Beginner Workout Week 1 - Short hills 10 seconds up a steep hill at 90-95% effort (almost all out). Walk back down. (Walking backwards down the hill can eccentrically stress the hamstring meaning more strength). Rest 2 minutes. Repeat 2 times total. Can do this AFTER an easy run. Week 2 - Long hills 30 seconds up a gradual hill at a medium hard to hard pace (not all out), walk back down halfway, gently run the last hall focusing on using the big muscles for cushion. Rest 2 minutes. Repeat 4 times total. Week 3 - Short Hills 4 times Week 4 - Long Hills 6 times Week 5 - Short Hills 6 times Week 6 - Long Hills 8 times Additionally, add a half mile to a mile of a gradual hill to your long run each week to help with aerobic power. Finally with hills, recommend no more than 2-3 times per week and always try to keep a minimum of one or 2 days between hill sessions. You will be sore, especially in the early going but by focusing on form and using your glutes, hips, hamstrings and quads, you will get stronger quickly. Good luck. 

Definitely think you can go sub 25 minutes. The key with running is "Accumulated fitness". The more often you run and the more consistently (say 4 days a week for an entire year), the better you will become. So how do you get there? 1) Run often - minimum 4 days a week but slowly see if you can fit 5 or even 6 days a week into your schedule 2) Run consistently - run every week. Don't skip. 3) Add variety - vary your pace, vary your distance, add intervals, add distance, etc. 4) Extend your long run - try to get to 90 minutes by adding 5 minutes a week. Once you get to 90 minutes, try to make the run faster. One week make the last 5 minutes medium. Next week make the last 10 minutes medium, etc. Good luck! Let us know how you progress. P.S. I have worked with runners of all age groups. Anyone that has 1) desire to improve 2) discipline in training and diet and 3) even a small bit of athletic talent can improve. I have seen the following as good age goals for male "non-runners" under 30 - 21:00 30 - 40 - 24:00 40 - 50 - 25:00 50+ - 26:00 

Do bird-dogs without lifting your arms. From the quadruped position, lift one leg straight back so it is parallel to the floor. Lower it back to the ground. Repeat with the other leg. For maximum results, place a dowel rod on across your lower back and do the exercises without the dowel falling off. Focuses on activating glutes without rotating hips. Can do 100 of these a day as this is neuromuscular (activating) and produces best results with maximum volume. Do 1 legged bridges but with your knee held to your chest. Lay on your back in a situp position. Pull one knee to your chest and hold it tightly in place. Squeeze your glutes (not hamstrings) and lift up into a bridge position so shoulder to knee is a straight line. Hold for 3 seconds. Lower. Repeat. This is a strengthening and activating exercise but it can cause strain on the lower back and hamstrings if not done correctly. Start with 1 set of 5 to each side. Increase up to 3 sets a day once you are ready. Once you can handle 3 sets a day, increase the reps by 5. For stretches, do the newspaper stretch. Hold for 3 minutes per side in order to lengthen the muscles. 30 seconds will make you feel better but more time is needed to actually lengthen the tissue. Good luck. 

They aren't particularly accurate, however, it is not out of the realm of possibility. It largely depends on the type of exercise you're doing and the intensity at which you're doing it. 1200 calories/hr isn't insane for a rowing machine (I personally have gone to around 1500 calories/hr on a concept2 rowing machine, however this was during HIIT training and I couldn't sustain such a rate for more than a minute. From your description, it sounds like you're talking about a lateral trainer of some sort that simulates what I think of as being a cross country skiing style motion. Regardless, due to the recoil speed of the stepping machine and the limited amount of resistance (body weight) and the fact that your legs aren't really lifting your body if there isn't enough resistance to overcome your weight and if you're using too much resistance your range of motion suffers due to the machine moving your body instead of your body moving the machine. So while 1200 cal/hr is not absurd on it's face, based on the machine description, I'm going to have to say it's not a fair representation as I just can't see you being able to get the proper combination of cadence and resistance that is required for high caloric consumption. From my personal experience, the best cardio in terms of cardiopulmonary health and caloric consumption, comes from swimming, rowing, or a stair machine ($URL$ )) Additionally, sprints, especially loaded sprints, will burn more calories per unit of time (HIIT also has the added perk of burning calories for about 24 hrs after exercise.) Side note: Be wary of using charts to base your caloric consumption. (a) people's metabolisms are different (b) time based caloric consumption values are rate and weight based (the former being highly variable and the latter being dependant on how much weight is supported by something other than your body and how your body moves said weight.) 

To the best of my ability, I've not been able to find a study that thoroughly looks into this issue. However, BMI is a poor indicator in and of itself for a multitude of reasons. I'll enumerate some of them: (a) visceral fat is far worse than subcutaneous fat in terms of health. (b) too little fat is also bad for your health, but the odds of your BF% entering the into the essential fat levels is rather small and requires extreme effort or starvation. (c) heart health depends on more than just body fat, Cholesterol levels, stress and cortisol levels, additionally, the amount of cardio that you do has a profound effect on heart health. So, you could have a high BMI a 10% body fat and be a high risk of heart attack. Furthermore, regardless of what the tissue is, any addition of vascular tissue results in greater strain and work that the heart must overcome in order to pump blood through your body. In terms of heart health, BMI is poor indicator as it tells you little more than what you could learn from a mirror. If you're concerned about health, and heart health, consult a physician to have them do a cardiac stress test and run bloodwork. For example, congestive heart failure occurs As for orthopedic health, BMI correlates better and has a great possibility of causation due to the fact that body mass is among the largest contributors to orthopedic issues after diet, exercise, and genetics (Joint problems). Too much mass and your body will be overstressed, too little mass and your bones will be weaker due to decreased stress loads resulting in less calcium being transferred into the bones (Osteoporosis). TL::DR: regardless of composition, increased mass results in greater work on the body. Greater persistent work causes greater stress, greater waste, etc. The problem comes with finding balance between exercise and muscle gains (hypertrophy) and inactivity (atrophy). Generally, inactivity is worse for your health than too much body mass. Ultimately, any concerns you have regarding health is best suited for a doctor who can run tests and make objective evaluations in addition to subjective evaluation. This answer is based largely off of my experience as a paramedic and being a biomedical engineering student with a minor in pre-med. I apologize for not being able to come up with a definitive study, but I suspect there aren't many since high muscle low fat people aren't nearly the health concern as obesity and high fat people. 

Depends on your race distance. For races involving mostly aerobic energy, I think you are ok to stick to the simple 10-15 minute "get blood flowing" warm up. For races that involve more anerobic energy, try this 30 minutes before you race. 1) 10 minutes easy designed to get blood in the legs and the lungs. 2) 2-3 minutes a little below race intensity. 3) 30 seconds a little above race intensity. 4) 60 second easy jog. 5) a few strides If the race is less than a 1600, break the 2-3 minutes into 2 45 second intervals below race intensity with 30 second jog between. This gets blood to the desired areas, increases heart beat and also makes the brain adjust to faster than race pace so race pace seems easier. Good luck and good running. 

What recommendations (fact-based, if possible) do you have for pre-race to ensure optimal performance? Warm up is a given so no need to mention that. But what about nutrition, hydration, rest, etc. Assume a 10 am race. For example, consume 12-18oz of water 2 hours before a 5k to ensure hydration. Thanks. 

Uh, no, they aren't worth your ROI. The main purposes I see in Vibram Shoes is to strengthen the supporting lower leg muscles and to change your running gait to put you more on your toes. Vibram shoes are training tools within themselves. The shoes should be worn progressively similarly to how you would progress a workout -> maybe 10 minutes a day this week and then 15 minutes a day the next week and then maybe a 15 minute run in the 3rd week, etc. You get the idea. For running they improve form (when properly & slowly introduced) and improve supporting structures (ankles, ligaments, calves, etc.). So for weight-lifting ONLY, I see them as being nothing more than a conversation piece between sets. 

2 schools of thoughts on running the day before. 1) rest and save your glycogen stores for race day. 2) warm up and then run a few minutes at race pace. This could look like 10 minutes easy followed by 10 minutes of 30 seconds at 10k pace and 90 seconds jog. If you tapered the week before, I prefer 2. If you haven't cut back mileage, choose 1. Really don't think you can go wrong with either though. Eat before? Again, personal preference but choose something easily digestible and that you normally eat. Choose high carb, low protein, low fat. My personal favorite is a whole wheat bagel with a little bit of peanut butter about 2 hours before race time. Less time? Choose a spoon of honey. If the race is Sunday, too late to truly carbo load. You need a few days before. BUT a pasta dinner the night before would be beneficial provided it isnt loaded with cheese. Besides a carbo load probably isn't needed for a 10k. Oh and lifting, cross training, core, etc. - definitely skip if this is a goal race. Good luck and let us know what your new PR is! 

Protein always helps with recovery. Recommend carb / protein mix within first 20 minutes to maximize nutrient uptake. Also ensure you are getting enough calcium to prevent bone injuries. Best of luck. 

Shin splints are commonly caused by imbalances in muscles and supporting tissue. Try these for strengthening and mobility. 1) Alphabet with your feet focusing on rotating your ankles. 2) Towel toe curls or picking up change with your toes. 3) Heel raises. 4) Calf raises. More detail about the above can be found at Exercises to Prevent Shin Splints. For stretching, use these Calf Stretches. Do following a run for 3 minutes to a side in order to lengthen the calf muscles. Good luck. 

Great question. Progressive loading is the best strategy. In other words, start easy and increase load (difficulty, stress) as you gain strength. In my experience, it is best to train each pathway independently when possible, at least at first. Part of this reason is that lactate (anaerobic conditioning) interferes with the production of the aerobic enzyme. Would recommend aerobic to be the base of everything you do with anaerobic load to gradually increase. For example, in week 1 of training, perhaps only do 10-15% anaerobic work such as hill sprints or suicides. As you get closer to key competitions, gradually build the anaerobic portion up to maybe 50% of total work. The aerobic conditioning will always be the key though. As the season progresses, mixing the two and game scrimmages will allow for better development. It is crucial that hard days are followed by easy days as well. The Creatine Phosphate system can be developed at all times of the season. The key to ATP-CP development is the work (7-10 seconds max) and rest periods (3-5 minutes). 3 great ways to develop ATP-CP? 1) 60m accelerations to top speed. Turn around, walk back, wait 3 minutes before doing another. 2) Short hill sprints up a steep incline lasting no more than 7-10 seconds. Jog back, rest 3 minutes. 3) Deadlifts at 85% max with 2-3 reps. KEY TO NOT GAINING MASS is to rest 5 minutes between sets and no more than 2 or 3 sets. This exercise does wonders to also gain speed endurance. EVERY athlete can benefit from this regardless of sport and it can be performed 3 times a week.