Modern nursing came to being during the Crimean war, and was a 100% female thing for all practical intents at the time. US census might have data on job occupation by sex - I haven't checked - as might its UK, French, and German equivalents. But intuitively your friend is incorrect: until a few decades ago, doctors were nearly always men and nurses were nearly always women. 

With the note: As cited by James & Thorpe (1994, p. 302). The quote appears to be from the de Mirabilibus Auscultationibus (paragraph 35), which is usually attributed to Aristotle. The claim Persia developed pipeline technology first strikes me as weird if not dubious, since the Chinese arguably did it before them. Plus, there would be no need for pipelines if you'd build a kitchen atop an ignited gas seep. So that bit might be the author getting ahead of themselves. But the Ancient Greek citation seems genuine. On the next page of her book, Snodgrass puts forward that the first use of gas to cook in a way we'd recognize today to have occurred in England in 1802 indeed - but mentions Frederik Albert Windsor of Braunschweig rather than Zachaus Winzler. The claim that Chinese used natural gas to cook brine in order to extract salt since ancient times seems rather documented. I admittedly stuck to cursory googling but I haven't located any sources that claimed or hinted that they used it for cooking. One site (can't recall which) justified they didn't (without citation) because it would have required modern pipelines. Which I took as meaning safety reasons got in the way. (But I might have read that on a gas distributor's website, so take it with a fistful of salt.) At any rate, going by the above, it indeed seems plausible that gas for cooking first occurred in Persia in a "brute" form (i.e. gas seeps), and in England in a modern form (i.e. gas pipelines). Who was involved in the latter isn't clear to me, but FWIW I'm tempted to trust the Smithsonian's Winzler claim over the Braunschweig claim mentioned above. 

In other words, the earliest available recordings for your hearing pleasure are those made by the inventor of the phonautograph, the earliest known sound recording device in the late 1850s. I'd put forward in passing that you can go earlier in time than that by simply visiting Quebec. Linguists widely believe that they speak French with an accent similar to how it was spoken in the 17th century. Or for that matter, as suggested in the comments, rhymes in poetry give good hints on how people spoke in a given time period. 

Vasco da Gama did not discover India. He merely was the first European to sail there without going through the Ottoman Empire. India was on the Silk Road. I've no idea if it was self-sufficient, but at the very least it was well connected to the Old World's trade network and prosperous at the time. 

I'd argue that Ronald Reagan, or someone in his administration or amongst his influencers did. Whether one might like the character or not, methinks he deserves credit for great Soviet Russia jokes and for having reversed the policy of deescalation of his predecessors. He basically smashed the accelerator to the floor and proceeded to militarily outspend the USSR to death. It ended up very costly for the US but by 1985 the Soviet Union was spending 25% of its GDP on its military - which is completely unsustainable, and indeed led it to its collapse a few years later. In this sense one could argue that his contribution to ending the Cold War was quite significant, if not key, and I can't imagine him moving forward with this without at least some of his surroundings or influencers thinking - or outright predicting - it might work. 

Insofar as I'm aware of, and until the late 17th century when academic journals began to appear, scientists would communicate their thoughts and discoveries by either publishing books or sending each other letters. Mind you, the latter process didn't change that much initially, in that you'd still send letters. The difference was that you'd send them to e.g. the Royal Society rather than to your peers directly. Peer review wasn't mainstream until the 20th century. There wasn't even a prescribed language or format in the early day of journals either. Antonie van Leeuwenhoek, for instance, wrote in colloquial Dutch when writing to the Royal Society. (I recollect reading somewhere - but unfortunately can't recall the book, except for the fact that it had a blue-shaded cover and had to do with the discovery of how sexual reproduction worked - that he made an exception once. Namely, he had his letter translated to Latin when he wrote about his discovery of spermatozoa. In the latter he purportedly also made it a point to explain that he extracted his semen after having sex with his wife rather than by masturbating.) 

The wikipedia article on Women in Shinto offers a few potential explanations (none of them specific to Okinoshima): 

There wasn't much Spain to speak of until later, and the Spaniards were already crusading in Spain before, during, and after what's usually referred to as the Crusades: 

At the risk of not answering the question directly, I think it's more interesting to put the stat in context than it is to try to figure out the precise number. In the event you haven't seen it already, I can only recommend spending a few hours watching Ken Burn's The Vietnam War. The most vivid recollection I have from it, besides the political scheming, was how the US troops were constantly instructed to capture hills throughout the conflict. They'd come out victorious, of course, but would then be instructed to abandon their position days or weeks later instead of holding the hill - with the enemy settling back in shortly after. That is, I would surmise, the reason the casualty rate was so high: in addition to the day to day ambushes and soldiers never really knowing who they can trust in the civilian population, in open battle the US was often fighting uphill battles - which is the exemplar unfavorable battle position. With respect to the casualty statistic proper, this source holds that: 

They likely spoke a combination of German and French. It's not entirely clear what they were speaking while teaching their respective mother tongues to each other - most likely Latin, maybe Flemish, maybe some combination of Flemish and German (the two are related enough that you can pick up what was meant every now and then). Maximilian spoke 6 or 7 languages depending on the source; but not French until Mary taught him. Mary spoke French, Flemish (which is related to German), and Latin; and then learned German. 

I'm not too familiar with that time period, but best I'm aware it's generally assumed that there were no well organized civilizations in the area (see Urnfield culture for instance). Think small, loosely related settlements, rather than large city building cultures. 4,000 professional soldiers fighting each other would be significant enough to revisit assumptions on how they lived and interacted. 

Actually, that's not quite right. You can see the Ottomans listed here at the side of other "well known" colonial powers like the US or Japan. The Ottomans were active in the Balkans, North Africa, and the Arab World. I think it's worth briefly describing what other European colonialism looked like to put the Ottoman colonialism in context. What one often means by colonialism is countries sending waves of settlers overseas, as occurred when the major colonial powers (Spain, Portugal, France, and the UK) colonized the Americas. State sponsored migrations like those slowed down after former American colonies gained their independence. There were a handful of major settlements outside of the Americas, for instance in South Africa, Australia, and New Zealand. But these were exceptions rather than the rule. Elsewhere, the Europeans met hostile environments (deserts, tropical diseases) and densely populated areas. Colonial powers didn't settle them. Rather, they'd claim them and set up trade outposts. Improvements in travel conditions and medicine later led them to also bring in troops and administrators in the 19th century. And settlers came too, but there was no large scale state-sponsored migration like in the Americas. The number of Europeans in these colonies was very small. So small, in fact, that some observers quipped Indians could drown the Brits living there were they to spit all at once. Lastly, there was an exception to the exception. Large scale migrations occurred in North Africa to the point where 1.6 million or so "pieds noirs" came back to France when Algeria, Morocco, and Tunis gained independence. But Algeria was special. It was a French "Département" i.e. part of France proper. Schools were teaching "Nos ancêtres, les Gaulois" (our ancestors, the Gauls) to Algerian kids. While it's also called colonialism, it's tempting to file it under cultural conversion, cultural spread, or something to that effect. My admittedly vague understanding of Ottoman colonialism is that it shared traits with the three above descriptions - though mostly the third. The empire itself was culturally diverse, with the Ottomans in control of the administration and the population mostly left to its own affairs. Settlers were sent in its periphery (rather than overseas) to spread Turkish culture. Much like Russia, one might add. Another factor that made them different is that they were considered the Sick man of Europe until they collapsed. European powers at the time were awaiting when they'd be able to partition the empire between themselves. 

(Photo via Yair Karelic) The horse would go in the middle, and the next two slits would allow the cart's wheels to go through. And yes, it was manure, feces, and trash, which water periodically washed out, that pedestrians would avoid walking in by crossing on the stones. The problem of trash disposal and sewage was a much greater problem than bathing. The latter two problems grew along with the cities. In France, trash probably culminated with a Paris prefect mandating that trash be put out in containers that now carry his name. In the UK sewage probably culminated with the Great Stink of 1858, during which the Thames' smelled so bad that parliament could barely work. A proper sewer system was created in short order in the aftermath of the stench. At any rate, to echo the comments to your question: people did clean themselves, but when trash and feces are at your doorstep all day long, having a pristine body odor is the least of your worries.