Keep a journal of every exercise done each workout, and record the amount of weight lifted. In the journal, also record whether or not you plateaued or struggled at a given weight. When the time to repeat that exercise comes around, if you didn't plateau you can increase the weight by an amount reasonable for that exercise (anywhere from 2.5-10 lbs, typically). If instead you did plateau, attempt doing the exercise at the same weight/rep as before. If you continue to plateau, deload the weight by an appropriate amount (typically 10-20%) and work your way back up. 

Bad routine / form. If you are doing bad exercises, or doing exercises badly, then your progress will suffer as a result. Most popular recommendation for this is a beginner barbell routine with progressive overloading, such as Starting Strength or Stronglifts. Not lifting enough. If you are not lifting heavy enough to stress your muscles, then there will be no adaptation or muscle growth. Use progressive overloading technique to safely increase the weight you lift each workout so you are properly stressing the muscles. Poor diet. While your diet has lots of protein (and that's a good start), you also need to be eating over your caloric maintenance level so your body has plenty of calories to use towards building muscle. Since you are doing cardio, it's possible that you are simply starving your muscles of the calories they need to grow. Poor recovery. Your muscles require proper recovery in order to grow. If you aren't getting enough sleep at night (try for 8 hours), or if you workout your muscles every day and never get them a rest day, then you will be blocking your muscle growth. No patience. Change takes time. Bodybuilders are not born in a day. Results may be slow to come, but over time if you are patient and follow the advice here you will succeed. 

What type of exercise? If it's short burst exercise such as the anaerobic exercise of body building, then simple carbohydrates are better: baked potato with cheese. For long aerobic exercise such as marathon running, slow burning complex carbohydrates work best - pitta breads, pasta. This book goes into a lot more detail: 

It features in Rocky therefore has all the associations related to that film. Egg yolks have lots of fat in, however egg whites are really just water and protein (about 90% water and 10% protein). They would be slightly cheaper than chicken if you don't mind eating 10 of them. Chicken however has a lot more protein as a percentage - 24% compared to 3%. It'd be cheaper and less labor-intensive to simply eat protein shakes or chicken. 

If you look at the nutrition value of the bar it looks like their claims are largely BS. The product has high amounts of sugar and seems to fit into the mid-to-high GI/GL bracket so won't be providing a slow intake of energy (low GI foods are associated with this). And the feeling full factor is likely to come from the 500ml of water you're drinking with it rather than the bar. 

The secret to feeling full is combining protein with carbohydrates, which also gives you the added benefit of aiding the transport of the increased Tryptophan from the protein. There's a tonne of studies to support this, to quote one: 

As you have experienced, going to extremes does not end well and can be very dangerous to your body (not to mention your mind and spirit). Luckily for you, you very clearly have the desire to get better, all you need is a healthy and sustainable framework for you to follow. Step 1: Set Your Expectations The first step in losing fat and getting healthy is setting proper expectations. You are not going to become skinny overnight, and in fact you don't want to have that kind of drastic change. Willpower is a finite resource, and as you've seen if you try doing too much at once you lose your willpower and end up accomplishing nothing. Sustainability should be your core focus to prevent your "yoyo-dieting" and ensure you adhere to your new lifestyle. Step 2: Eat Healthy When approaching food don't think in terms of diet but rather lifestyle. To be healthy you must live healthy. A key concept to understand when "dieting" is that it is significantly harder to overeat healthy food in comparison to junk food. A banana and apple will fill you up and give you nutrition while a soda will be empty calories that do nothing to quench your hunger. Simply by virtue of eating healthier foods it will be harder for you to overeat. Stick to the staples like fruits, veggies, dairy, lean meats, fish, and other good stuff like nuts. Also, drinking lots of water can help manage hunger. You want make sure you always have healthy food around so you don't have an excuse to eat unhealthy. Keep some food in your car like nuts, water, canned food, or protein powder; these will help hold you over if you ever get a hankering for fast food while out of the house. If you can count calories that's great (I never have the willpower to track that). Track your calories consumed and compare that against your TDEE (Total Daily Energy Expenditure) to see whether you are actually eating more or less than you should be. Again, try doing something small (like 100-200 calories under) until you are adjusted to the new routine and feel comfortable going beyond that (but again, always be conservative so don't go too far below). Step 3: Exercise Start small and try to do just one healthy activity each day. Even something as small as just one pushup or a few jumping jacks. The goal here is trying to get you accustomed to physical exercise as part of a daily routine. If you can do your current workout alongside your diet, then by all means do that, but at a minimum you want to at least do something small each day, no excuses. Step 4: Motivate Yourself You will want to have some measures in place to give you motivation and willpower as you embark on your journey. Reward yourself for sticking to your program. Set (realistic/sustainable) goals and try to reach them. Find a person in your life who can hold you accountable to your actions, and maybe even join you in your new program. Summary 

In my (limited) experience I would recommend using the Smart Coach to set yourself speed goals. The tool speeds you up gently over a 12-16 week period (or less amount of time if you're feeling like a challenge). It gives you an indurance run, a gentle run and speed training each week. I only use it for 10k running so I can't speak for half or full marathon running, but it really improved my pace a lot - down to about 46 mins from 50+ mins. 

What weight training exercises can I do with dumbbells that will benefit me most for running 5-10ks? Are stomach crunches/sit ups worth doing too? 

As you're not a professional athlete (I'm guessing), or even if you were, it's really whatever works best for your body based on the sport and the food which takes a few months of trial and error. 

The way to increase you lung capacity (vo2 max) is to perform interval training and sprinting, one technique is known as Fartleks. The more you push your lungs (and get out of breath for short periods), the greater your capacity becomes, at least up to a point. One interesting device that is a fairly cheap that claims to improve your inspiratory muscles is the Powerbreathe. It works by you blowing into the device, and it providing resistance for both. Like push ups or press ups, you increase the amount you do each day, and also increase the resistance. 

As someone who is currently recovering from knee issues, I prefer swimming as it never aggravates my knee and is an especially good cardio exercise. 

In contrast, if you wish to burn bodyfat, you will need to be running at a caloric deficit (generally speaking 3500 calories = 1 pound fat, so 500 calorie deficit / day is the target). You should already see the problem here: you will have to choose which is more important to you, gaining muscle or losing fat. 

Breakfast > Lunch > Dinner. Breakfast and lunch are the foundation that feed your energy throughout the day, so treat them with respect and make them hearty meals. Regulate blood sugar. Be mindful of the amount of carbs you eat and the glucose index of your foods. You want to prevent the high/low blood sugar swings that result in energy crashes, and instead have a more regular level of blood sugar. This is most easily accomplished by sticking to low glycemic index foods. Eat frequently. Don't do three big meals a day and starve yourself in between. You should have a small snack between meals, which usually comes out to eating every 2-3 hours. This helps with #2 regulating blood sugar, just make sure to stick to low glycemic snacks or snacks with high protein count. Stay hydrated. Water plays an instrumental role in keeping your energy level up. Get a Nalgene bottle or something similar, and take it with you to school/work/etc.. Still having problems? If you are still having problems maintaining your energy level, then you should start keeping a log and see if you can notice any patterns. It may be as simple as changing your eating habits by 30 minutes. Alternatively, after a long day you could just be exhausted and stressed out, at which point your best bet is restructuring your daily routine so you get up earlier to hit the gym in the morning. 

$URL$ is the best of the others I've tried. It allows user data and has a decent user interface unlike the competition. It'd be nice if they could all get together and offer a single database instead of the 5-6 bad ones you get now. Another place to try is mysupermarket, for example an Apple 

I've never managed to get below 46 minutes for a 10k because there is actually quite a big fitness and training gap with just those two minutes. As Rhea points out it's down to miles per week and then raising the tempo from 4:36 km/minute to 4:30 (I think) or using another strategy such as increasing the tempo post 5k. Increasing the weekly mileage will make shaving a few seconds per minute off easier, however the speed training is important for the races as you're rarely able to keep one consistent pace with a lot of runners. I've linked it a few times on the site but the Runner's World Smart Coach can really help, and also doing the speed training on a treadmill. I realise that as someone who hasn't done a sub 45 minute race my advice is really just anecdotal, however I believe enough miles per week turns it into a breeze. 

The information is sort of correct, except it's supposed to be roughly a 2 hour window of increased metabolic rate after doing exercise that is primarily anaerobic. However, this doesn't mean you can eat anything you want, in fact almost the opposite - the benefit comes from eating a small snack during this period and enjoying the 'free' increased calorie burn. 

Supersets are an advanced strength training technique that allow you to increase the intensity of your workout while decreasing the time spent working out. Incorporating supersets will make your workout more difficult, but also more efficient. 

To expand upon @Dave's answer, you should get away from the Smith machine and start using barbells. Here's why: 

Short answer: you should not be too worried about the sun in the later afternoon. Long answer: there are several risk factors to consider when running in the heat, and if you properly stick to them you will remain healthy and minimize the potential health risks of sun exposure. Carcinogenic exposure Scientifically speaking there is no consensus regarding which component(s) of sunlight (UVA/UVB/UVC) are carcinogenic. Since UVA/UVB/UVC proportions can change drastically based on the time of day, that means we really have no way of knowing what time of day presents the highest risk to our body as far as skin damage and cancer are concerned. Because of this, you should not consider UV exposure when deciding what time to run. That being said, whatever time you do choose to run you should make sure to take adequate precautions by applying sun screen before leaving. If the sun is out--even if it isn't very hot--you are at risk and need to use sun screen. Heat stroke To avoid heat stroke you want to stay properly hydrated. That means drinking water before, during, and after your exercise. Listen to your body and drink as needed. If you are doing a prolonged exercise, consider bringing a sports drink like Gatorade to help replenish the salts and minerals that your body is craving. Some additional pointers to avoid heat stroke are: 

4 exercises I was given by an osteopath when I had fairly chronic muscular lower back pain were all leg related: 

The advice I was given by a professional physiotherapist was to concentrate on stride length, and landing on the back of the foot/heel (I pronate though, so this was probably foot shape specific). It may have been very generic advice and not something an Olympic champion would care about, but it helped my pace/lap time quite a lot. Squats and glute exercises are worth considering too, especially if you are increasing your mileage fairly quickly, both help if you suffer from shin-splints. 

The main problem with eating breakfast before a work out is you have to wait an hour or more for it to be digested. For jogging, a lot of people prefer to eat a carbohydrate rich meal before bed to avoid the wait in the morning. If you aren't doing anything intense, a low speed 30 minute jog for example, this probably isn't necessary. But for more intense work outs you will use your glycogen supplies quickly without carb-loading the night before. You'll then get tired and do less, and lose lean tissue. So the choice for running is a low intensity jog on a piece of fruit or drink, or mid-high intensity with a meal the night before. 

There are a couple reasons why these wouldn't work, and they all boil down to one word: diet. To quote the linked question, Now, there is nothing in "unhealthy food" that magically makes you fat; that is a pure myth. The weight loss comes from the fact that when you eat healthier, it becomes harder for you to overeat. Consider a big mac and an apple. A big mac clocks in at about 600 calories, while an apple is closer to 100. After eating a big mac, I am usually still very hungry, and could easily finish a drink and fries... after which my meal has come closer to 1000 calories. But what happens if I were to eat 600 calories worth of apples? I don't think I could even eat 6 apples at once, but I'm sure if I did I would be full! Now, this is a basic example (obviously you wouldn't want to eat 6 apples as your meal) but it helps prove the point how eating healthy helps your diet: on a per-calorie basis, healthy foods are simply more fulfilling than highly processed foods. In summary, you'll need to really work out a diet and cardio plan based off your current fitness levels, your desired goals (set a target BF% or weight), and how many calories you need to eat each day (make sure to factor in the cardio!).