The offensive players probably practice this way all the time. While the defensive players may only practice this at some times or never. During a run play the offense has 9 guys blocking, one guy doing nothing (QB), and one guy running hard. On defense you have 11 defenders fighting through blocks trying to sprint to the ball. This is much harder work. During a pass play you have 5-6 guys standing next to each other blocking (easier than run blocking for lineman). You have 4-6 defensive players trying their hardest to get around these blockers. This may be the most strenuous and tiring activity there is on a football field. At the same time you have WRs running routes - at most 2 of these are deep routes. The defenders are expending more energy covering them because they don't know where they are going. (Equivalent to basketball where playing D is more tiring than running an offense) These schemes run players off and on the field quickly. I ran one for several years at a high school. I almost felt bad because no matter how good the other players were the coaches weren't prepared and gave their team no chance. Your defensive substitutions need to be spot on. [In the NFL there are rules regulating offensive substitutions, in that the offense must give the defense time to make a substitution without worrying about too many men on the field] With any offense, even the most sluggishly ran, the offense will wear down the defense faster than it wears down itself. Running at a faster pace just accelerates all of this. The defensive coaches are so worried about the frantic pace that they don't do their basic jobs. They are worried about their players being tired and substitutions and they aren't seeing how the other team is scheming them. This is really the genius of the up tempo. That people are so quick to blame the quick tempo on the success of the offense that they don't look at the schemes being used to execute. There are however teams just not with enough coaching/football IQ that don't get it. You run up to the line on a quick snap and the other team LBs are still looking at coaches for signals. This does happen in the NFL too. I have seen the Patriots line up for sneaks 7-8 seconds after the previous play and the d-line isn't even set. Guess what they have done it 50 times. Why aren't your players ready? I blame this 90% on the coaches. 

So you are already at a huge disadvantage to your 6'4" counterpart for #1. I am going to assume that a shorter person would be quicker or more agile. Maybe not by a lot but generally a little quicker since it is easier to move 150 pounds than 210 pounds. So you might win on #2. You may have issues with #3 since you are moving sports and this anticipation is learnt over many years. And again you will have a major disadvantage on #4 unless you have outstanding vertical that can make up for you lack of height. And there is really nothing that correlates with a shorter person having more hops. So you can be a goalie for sure at a club level. You have to demonstrate that your quickness, intuitiveness and vertical make up for your lack of height. Note that you will probably have to be "better" than your competition to beat them out for a spot since you aren't the norm. Going past club level though you will have to have world-class abilities in quickness or vertical (plenty of tall guys can be as intuitive as you) to carry on. And if you do have world-class ability then maybe another position would highlight those things better. 

Absolutely. I boxed in the late 90s while in college. My dining hall was not feeding me enough so I was heavily smuggling food out for late night snacks. I found out that the easiest food to smuggle out and that would actually take decent were the bagels. And the only ones they had left at the end of the meals were the poppy seed ones. So I was eating 4-5 very large poppy seed bagels a day for snacks. Right before golden gloves finals we were taken to a facility, met agents, talked with some of us about joining Olympic team (not me), allowed our trainers to train us there... lots of fun actually. But we also had weigh-ins and a drug test the first day. And since I was a light middle weight weighing 190 I was having at least 5 of the poppy seed bagels a day to gain weight. I was a completely drug free person (save beer). Failed my first test - told me traces of morphine in my system. It took two days to figure out why and many meetings with officials. I also had doctors raising an eye brow when I explained to them I was eating 25-30 poppy seed bagels a week. It was like a bad sitcom episode. The only thing that kept me from getting kicked out is they actually called the school, spoke to the lady who ran the dining hall, and she knew I was taking the bagels every night - I listened to her on speaker. (I think her exact words were that skinny guy who eats like a horse takes all the bagels every night. We would throw them out anyway so I never cared.) 

It is probably to just keep with the same terminology. The lines extending from home to first to right field and then third to left field, are both called foul lines. Anything outside of them are foul, just like the pole. The fact is there were no foul poles when baseball was invented and I think they were incorporated in the 20s or 30s. Before foul poles the umpires used the foul lines to judge if a homerun was fair or foul. That line would go on forever and the ball was not judged where it crossed the fence, it was where it landed. So think about the lost homeruns from players of the eras before. So you have foul lines that are fair and when the poles were inserted into baseball there was already common language. So it was called foul poles. Why isn't it changed? Because tradition often trumps logic. 

Why do some guys always throw from the stretch: The wind-up has the advantage of giving you more momentum. But some guys give that away for familiarity. You can't be in the wind-up all the time but you can be in the stretch all the time. So by only practicing pitching from the stretch you get extra practice with arm angles and release points. 

The key to everything I am saying is use the "cheap" players tactics against them. Just like in judo every offensive move has a counter. Your opponent by doing these tactics is taking themselves away from playing sound D or rebounding right. You must learn to use those things to your advantage. If you have to step down your game to "take care of a player" then you aren't good enough to handle these things properly - yet. And I say yet because I would expect if you haven't played organized ball you will have a few missteps/fouls/issues when trying to "legally retaliate". You have to take care of yourself on the court and doing nothing will just lead to you not like playing the beautiful game. 

OK Mo'ne Davis is a horrible example. Chances are she doesn't grow at all and her fastball hits 75 mph max. Many 13 year old girls are fully grown, height-wise. I have personally been around 2 very athletic girls that were very similar to her - one as an umpire and another I personally coached. The girls at 13 are just more mature than boys of that age psychologically and developmentally. Boys hit their growing spurt around 14-15. So girls have two years in school that they might be faster or more talented in the strength/speed sports. [Actually 4 years ago one of my boys played against a 12 year old girl in football that was laying kids out. She is talented and will probably have multiple big-time college offers for 2-3 sports but you would laugh if she had football pads on now. She's 5-8 120 pounds... almost the same size as when she played football] I want a disclaimer to my answer in that I am pretty strict what I consider a sport. Auto racing, board games, and strategy games are not sports to me. I personally feel that bowling is not a sport (but a great game) and golf is right on the lowest fringe of sport. Do women have a chance? Well not anytime soon. They just don't have the physical attributes that will help them, unless they start altering their physical attributes. I remember my college (large D1 school) having the WNBA players stay in the dorms over the summer. I was on the basketball practice team. Was probably at the level of a DIII starter but nothing great. We would play the WNBA girls daily. My team would include 1-2 guys from practice squade and 2-3 "good" pickup players. In their three weeks there the WNBA players never won a game. They scratched, clawed, brought out their 6-7 big, it didn't matter. They couldn't stop our first step or the power drive. Number don't lie. We won probably close to 100 games. Most of these girls were stars at big D1 programs. We didn't hold back at all (mainly because they started playing dirty in game one) but we weren't also "great" players. I believe all of the girls we played were better basketball players than us - fundamentals, shooting, tactic, positioning, whatever - but the athletic disadvantage was too much to make up. What sport are women closest to catching men? I would think it would be the marathon. Running that distance requires using your body's existing fat reserves. Women have an advantage here. They can possibly be lean and in race shape with more fat in their body. 

There are no rules associated with players' distance from the center. If there was a rule on it, it would be in the rule book. There are just really three stipulations: 

When you call a football play it is a sequenced code. Each section of the code refers to a certain function. Let's take something simple on the offensive side that I have called for a college program. 

If you bring the ball up you must dribble inside three point line unless getting trapped before making a pass. This keeps from fighting over bringing it up and making the lazy wing pass which is my pet peeve at that age - since it puts offense in worse position and if it gets stolen always leads to fast break. The longer you have the ball the more chance for a turnover so I want my PG (for that play) penetrating and forcing the D out of position. My PG (for that play) can not take any shot until two other players touch the ball except for a layup. A wide open 3 would get him benched. Again this keeps the kids who are only worried about scoring from begging for the ball every possession. 

I did scorekeeping for a few high school teams my sons played on. I told the coaches from the get go that I counted hits as hits, rules be damned. Doing otherwise doesn't let the stats reflect what is going on, on the field. Just like when giving out errors in baseball or assists in basketball it is about obeying the spirit of the rules. Examples: 

First at that age you will almost exclusively face zone defenses. So while it is great to have a guy that can break defenses down, passing is the bigger key on offense. By that age players should be able to make a variety of types of passes, if they don't this should be highly stressed during practices. Next you need to develop other ball handlers. At that age a good team will score 30% of the time in the half court (by your question you don't have a good team and will probably score 15-20%). Being able to push the ball up the floor to get easy buckets is the key to winning. Which means making sure everyone on your team can make a layup running at 80-90% and that they understand how to outlet quickly and run a simple 3 man attack going up the floor. Full court 3-2 drills really help with this. You don't want your star player always bringing the ball up because you want him on the floor 80-90% of the game. This will have to be on a case by case basis. Any game/situation where others can bring it up without having the ball stolen from them, do it. Over time a few players will stick out and learn to handle the ball. On offense it is really basic. Everyone is moving, picks are being set liberally, there are no positions. The worst thing you can do as a coach is call one guy your center, two your forwards, and two your guards and they sit like robots at their spots on the floor. Even worse is having 2-3 kids constantly a few feet behind the 3 point line that can't hit one. The defense will eventually cave in and then you are playing 3-5 with your star getting doubled/tripled constantly. Your star will inevitably be doubled all game but the goal is to have enough movement to confuse the double teams so that you can open up a guy right under the basket. Really you should have kids rotating everywhere but the key points are the weakside under rim and the free throw line. The end goal is your star has the ball around free throw line and other players are moving. The guy guarding him gets beat and then the bottom zone guy helps, the other side of the zone should rotate and then another player opens low. You have to realize that your star player will either score or setup 70%+ of your baskets. However he doesn't have to dominate the ball. Make sure your players understand you want low risk and quick passes. Make sure they understand there is no shot clock and a bad shot will mean riding the bench for a few minutes. That is the last thing I will mention. Take a kid out if they do something dumb or if they aren't hustling. Taking bad shots is a virus that spreads quickly on a mediocre kids rec team. I often hear dads yelling at their kids to shoot or get theirs. By simply benching a kid after every bad shot (something clearly out of range, incredibly bad technique, or with a defender right on top of them from outside) you set a precedence that the team will adapt to very quickly. And yes you have to treat your star player just like every other kid when it comes to this. Your star player will have off games and if he is jacking up bad long twos because he thinks he needs to beat some clock, then so will everyone else and the 10 point game turns into 30 real quick. Note I have two rules for my guys bringing the ball up at that age: