Yes. There are sentences that are simply exactly the same in similar languages. "No." or "Gol!" or Trump! would be some extreme examples, but between languages like Portuguese and Galician, Croatian and Bosnian or Danish and Swedish there is significant overlap in any parallel corpus. It is really then more a function of orthography. Rarely there are also random or not so random collisions - "false friends" - where a phrase or sentence in one language means something completely different in another. "50ml Gift, 1 Roman & 1 Abort" means something very very different in German than in English. The last example is not a sentence, but you will see plenty of not quite a sentence language in the Twitter data. See $URL$ You should also think what you want to do about a case like Pozor!, which is valid in almost all Slavic languages written in Latin, but could also be Russian позор given that on the internet people do write Russian in translit. The input and output of language identification is application specific, we cannot speak of accuracy for this task in the abstract. In many applications, the probabilities should not add up to 1.0 as they are not mutually exclusive. Commonly for example the API client wants to know if content is in one of the user's languages. 

In Turkic languages it is similar, with some nuances. For example: Araba sokakta. (The car is in the street.) Breaking it down a bit, we have Car street-IN. Araba simply means car, and is in its pure nominative and canonical form. (You can regard -ta and its variations either as a locative case ending or as a postposition meaning in, for our discussion it does not matter.) Furthermore, notice that sokak (street) is also a definite NP. So this is a good example of default definite interpretation of NPs. In both language groups, however, there are many cases of countable, and of course uncountable, NPs without any article that would be translated into, say, English with the indefinite article or with no article, for example: آیا اتومبیل دارید؟ | ("Do you have a car?") Kar var mı? | ("Is there snow?") Only in some context would one interpret this as Do you have the car?, and it is hard to dream up a context where "Is there the snow?" would make sense. Thus in such instances it functions more like a language without any articles. Compare this to the following, with the indefinite article is strange or emphatic, a bit like English one (as opposed to a/an): آیا یک ماشین دارید؟ | ("Do you have one car?") Bir kar varmı? | ("Is there one snow?") Again, it only makes sense in context or almost never. In Slavic languages, there are generally neither definite nor indefinite articles, which is actually very common among the world's languages. In these cases, the default interpretation is mostly a question of the context, although naturally native speakers do not bother to map every NP to the concepts of definite and indefinite in an English speakers' mind. As you are interested in the overview, some exceptions to the groupings: among Iranian languages, Ossetian and informal Persian and Kurdish can mark definiteness explicitly, and apparently Tajik marks only objects, like Turkic languages. Hungarian has very simple and explicit definite and indefinite articles, like Western European languages. Among Slavic languages, Macedonian and Bulgarian and related dialects do have a definite article, like other Balkan languages. Again, this is definitely an areal feature. Also, I cannot find a colonial-era creole that does not have a definite article. In any case, there are always ways to be explicitly definite, eg with demonstratives, ie by saying that frog, and indeed definite articles in many languages were derived from such ways. To me anyway it is not clear where to draw the line. 

Is there a good dataset or library or some trick for getting the similarity between languages, or n most similar languages? Similarity here means lexical and structural similarity for the purposes of translation and translation errors, especially into and out of English. For example, one of the closest languages to Basque would be Spanish, because translation systems use similar training datasets for them, because they deal with things like English named entities in similar ways, because they have the same punctuation and casing rules, some flavour of T-V distinction, and use a similar character set. Another example for Kazakh I would put Russian, Turkish, Kyrgyz and Uzbek in the top 10 in terms of predictiveness for translation and translation quality. We should be biased a bit towards the big languages, so Uyghur and Turkmen are technically closer but it's really important to have Russian and Turkish in there, because those systems are working better and their data bleed into everything. One solution would simply measures the distance (say, in km, or sq km of overlap) between the languages where their locations could be defined by centroids or multiple points or areas, because location is a really good proxy for these sorts of features. Another solution would give multiple dimensions, that can then be averaged, weighted or selected for the application. It could also just be a hand-built dataset. Options that will not work: Word vectors We can get the word vector for the actual English string, like or or even if our model was trained with word-level n-grams. This seems to work but is far from ideal. Some names are strictly for a language, others often refer to a country or nation. is also used for rugs and cats. Some languages have multiple names. ' and '' may be near to each other because they both often occur before . WALS WALS - which is available as a Python lib: $URL$ - will not work out of the box, the results are simply nonsense for any kind of real-world application. For example: : 

fasttext.cc/docs/en/pretrained-vectors.html / github.com/facebookresearch/fastText/blob/master/docs/crawl-vectors.md As noted under Format, the words are sorted in order of frequency. They provide Python code, if you do not care about the vector representation then you could use bash to split on space and take only the first column.) To download them all, get download.sh from the ftio package: 

The average length of lemmata in a corpus does not tell much definitively in itself. It is not clear to me if you are asking about absolute length or length relative to unlemmatised surface form. If two corpora of similar size and structure differ in average absolute lemma length or average word length for that matter, it could be that they are in different languages, or that they are using very different registers of the same language. If two corpora differ in the average difference between lemma length and word length, then it could be that one is in a higher-morphology language or compounding language. But these are just correlations, without more context it is tea-leaf reading, and there are more straightforward ways to determine those features. 

A Survey of Available Corpora For Building Data-Driven Dialogue Systems (PDF), recently published by researchers at the Université de Montréal and McGill, has a good overview. 

If you actually try to speak a very long Turkish word, for example Afyonkarahisarlılaştırabildiklerimizdenmişsinizcesine, is it recognised? Today's speech recognition is end-to-end, that is, the input in training is just the audio and the transcript. There is ideally nothing language-specific in that part. It can be done, for example, with seq2seq architecture. It can be augmented with unsupervised models - an acoustic model trained on raw audio with no transcript and/or language model trained on raw text with no audio - and ideally those also do not have any language-specific components, but they may have language-specific parameter values. The language with this structure that drives much of the research is Japanese. Agglutination and generally morphology, including compound nouns that are written together in languages like English, can be addressed with character-level models, as opposed to strictly word-level models. So the language model parameters for the minimum and maximum character n-grams to learn can be different for different languages. And because language models are used in many if not most tasks - and because agglutination is an issue in most English-specific approaches to most tasks - that is not specific to speech recognition. Looking through $URL$ and $URL$ gives you a concrete idea of the experiments. However there are engineering reasons not to maintain separate components or even approaches for each language when you are supporting more than a hundred languages, and many of the additions forced by agglutinative languages like Japanese, Turkish, Hungarian and Finnish are also useful innovations if generalised to all other languages. And it does not work perfectly yet. 

We can build a model for this if we consider many words or country names specifically. The respective names for certain concepts vary little, they spread very fast or through some bottleneck. Country names generally are clustered near the low-variance end of the spectrum, near the words for potato and internet. In the case of Germany, the specific factors leading to slightly greater variation are: 

Areal features develop when languages from different groups or branches are in contact with each other. There are a few main mechanisms - common substrate, common superstrate, parallel development. About the feature in question: The use of have, haben, avoir, avere etc as an auxiliary for the past tense is an example of an areal feature. The areas where languages use this auxiliary correspond roughly to former Celtic-speaking areas and to those where language was heavily influenced by Vulgar Latin, including deep in the Balkans. I will not speculate on the ultimate source and exact mechanism here. Danish, Dutch, French, German and Italian represent a transitional zone, where to be is the auxiliary for intransitive verbs, and to have for others. Old Spanish and Middle English had this distinction too, which is to say this feature's area was still evolving in recent centuries - across language families. It is not common unbroken Indo-European legacy - Latin habere and Germanic haben are not actually cognates, and classical Latin and Greek made little use of auxiliaries anyway. Many Indo-European languages outside of Western Europe - Armenian, Iranian languages, Slavic languages beside Macedonian - use the copula as an auxiliary, but most do not use any translation or cognate of habere or haben as an auxiliary for the past tense. 

In Turkish, a plural declension is not needed if the noun is modified by a numeral. (If it is used, it is emphatic.) In fact, it is not needed with any modifier that already implies plural. arkadaş (friend) arkadaşlar (friends) bir arkadaş (one friend) iki arkadaş (two friends) birçok arkadaş (many friends, a lot of friends) çok fazla arkadaş (too many friends) sayıda arkadaş (numerous friends) (Note all the situations in which -lar is not required.) The same is true of Turkic languages generally, and of neighbouring languages, like Persian, Armenian and Georgian, from other language families. 

This examples shows tags not dependencies, and the code has changed since then, but you should still be able to apply this basic solution. spaCy supports German and about two dozen other languages. 

Eastern and Western are just two codifications, the total dialect variation within Armenian is similar to that within English and arguably much less than that within German. As noted in the other answer, while the spoken dialect continuum developed over a thousand years, the minor fork in codifications only happened in the past two centuries. One soft proof of their intelligibility is that you will hardly find a website which is in both Eastern and Western Armenian, nor will you find subtitles in television interviews. Eastern vs Western Here is the situation across the aspects that affect intelligibility: Eastern Armenian is more conservative in terms of pronunciation. Western Armenian is more conservative in terms of grammar and in terms of orthography. Both Eastern and Western Armenian have taken on new vocabulary for some concepts that emerged since their split, at least informally. Soviet Armenian has taken on, via Russian, more internationalisms like desinfekcia, but Western Armenians will often understand those thanks to their better knowledge of French or English. Western Armenian was more influential historically, while Eastern Armenian is much more influential since the Genocide. How we knows this Armenian and Georgian have been written since the 4th century, so there is a reasonably sized corpus of "grabar", Classical Armenian from before and during the split, from which these assertions are derived. Even the pronunciation can be reconstructed, because of loanwords from Greek, Aramaic, Latin, Iranic, Kartvelian and so on, and using the comparative method. Intelligibility in Practice So educated Eastern Armenian speakers can read Western Armenian without any problem, because it is basically classic Armenian. In theory, Western Armenians can understand spoken formal Eastern Armenian because the pronunciation is very clear, and they may be exposed to it. But in practice there are many Russian words and other jargon in the street language that are difficult. This is more of a factor for intelligibility than any aspect of grammar or pronunciation. But the use of Russian words as opposed to French or Arabic or English words actually has nothing to do with Eastern and Western. Definition of Eastern and Western Commonly people use "Eastern" to mean Soviet Yerevanian and "Western" to mean the diaspora, especially in the Levant. But the Western/Eastern dichotomy is highly imperfect. Firstly, it was always a dialect continuum, someone in Gyumri, someone im Kars and someone in Erzurum spoke similarly, no matter in which group we would place them today. Secondly, some speakers in Russia, Soviet Armenia and especially Georgia speak with Western pronunciation, but because they were in the Soviet Union, they are familiar with the so-called Eastern orthography and vocabulary. Conversely, speakers in or from Iran, which includes those in places like India and Singapore, speak with Eastern pronunciation, but because they were not in the Soviet Union, they are not familiar with the so-called Eastern orthography and vocabulary. So there are actually 4 basic groups: Western and not Soviet, Western but Soviet, Eastern and Soviet, and Eastern but not Soviet. Forces of Harmonisation Then there are those who moved across those groups more recently. To ask if Vartan Oskanian or Levon Ter-Petrosyan or their parents speak Eastern or Western Armenian is like asking if Elon Musk speaks British or American English. In essence, a series of events - the Genocide, and today the flight of hundreds of thousands of Armenians from Syria and Iraq, whose families had found refuge there during the Genocide - has severely endangered Western Armenian, by killing most of the speakers and scattering the surviving ones across the world. It is strongest in Lebanon and Syria. Those few Western Armenian speakers who do re-settle in the slice of historic Armenia where Armenian is still spoken inevitably learn Eastern Armenian instead, but also contribute words amd expressions and effectively force some dialect levelling. In the 1910s and 1920s a few hundred thousand refugees from the West arrived, roughly half the people in Armenia are descended from one, and that proportion is surely much higher in Yerevan. In Georgia too this is a non-trivial phenomenon, most Armenians in the Armenian-majority areas had fled from near Erzurum around the time of the Hamidian massacres. Then there is net economic emigration, so for example an estimated 100,000 Eastern Armenian speakers now live in Istanbul, perhaps a similar number in Western Europe, and more in the United States, generally always to places where there was an earlier and continuing wave of Western Armenian speakers. Similarly the Armenians of Iran, while safe and very successful there, also emigrate in high numbers. The net effect of this is that the Eastern and Western speakers keep coming into contact with each other, if not in historic Armenia then in places like Rostov, Boston, Los Angeles, Istanbul, Bulgaria, the Emirates, Zurich, San Francisco and so on. (Concrete examples where I know of speakers of both.) And online, and in music, film and television. This contact, combined with a more than thousand years tradition of writing and emphasis on literacy arguably precisely as a means of bridging the imposed divide, has led to the constant harmonisation of the formal and informal standards, so that even new scientific words and so on are mostly the same in both variants. Relative to Other Languages This is in fact not so unique, half the world's major languages are polycentric. Standard formal British English and standard formal American English are quite similar, whether written or spoken. However, within each, the most unintelligible dialects are barely intelligible to someone who has learnt only the standard, let alone to someone who has learnt only another standard. We could say similar for German or Spanish. And we can make an analogy regarding the fact that often one variant is perceived as archaic, and one as corrupted, when in fact the other variant is just as often archaic or corrupted, but in any case perceiving something as archaic or corrupted is also a tacit admission of intelligibility. As an aside, one could argue that the divide has been the key to maintaining the language, as it is the only common language between Armenians living for centuries in the different spheres, very very few of whom are monolingual in Armenian. In that there are some parallels to Hebrew in the 19th century, and Romanes and Kurdish today. These languages were never very useful for, say, marketing, they are useful as a lingua franca between the different nodes of the community. Summary So, in summary, they are as mutually intelligible as the variants of the language we are writing now, but it is not so much a question of some metrics of the phonetic, grammatical or lexical differences, but of the sociopolitical reality, which is that the two standards do not exist in total isolation from one another, in contrast to, say, Homshetsi.