Like I said previously, a proper psychological attitude with the will to reach your aims can give you quite a boost and will lay the groundwork for success. If you are physically fit, have the technical requirements and experience (maybe due to a guide) you should go for it. At least this would be my approach to the tour, sounds like a desirable summit. 

You use an ice axe and crampons just as you do on ice. The colder it gets, the more rigid the solid is. Best is ice (frozen ground) because it gives you more security and the ground won't break off so easily. If it's warm and wet I personally wouldn't go on such steep grassy hills. Even if conditions are good (=cold) you have to be mentally strong because there is not much to secure you on that 60°+ slope. 

Being young, athletic, fit and having great conditions won't help you if you are missing experience in techniques/tactics required when going over glaciers. Kilimanjaro is a high altitude mountain, but it is technically easy. You don't have to touch a glacier there so it's not really a good reference. Therefore I would highly suggest to hire a guide at least the first time going on a glacier. You need to know how to walk as a rope team and you need to train crevasse rescue. That being said, going as a duo-rope-team should only be done by very experienced mountaineers. Crevasse rescue is very tough and technically challenging when there is only one guy on the bright side of the glacier... 100 bucks isn't that much for a guide plus you will learn really a lot on that tour. Go for it, hire a guide and enjoy! 

Like being said you could also ask if price scales with quality. That's not true in general as we all know. What hasn't been said is that there are big differences in terms of labor conditions, sustainability, environmental influence and animal protection. Especially the latter is a very critical issue in the Merino industry. I am not going to blame a brand here but please have this in mind. Fair gained quality wool or down has its price. But we don't have to buy the most expensive stuff therefore. (similar discussion for e.g. recyclable Hardshells) 

I often heard this method is reliable and I am also using it. From experience I can say it works. Also if you search the web you will find articles like for example this and this. Also available are color charts to get an visual impression, see e.g.: 

If you want to communicate more than that, your signals should be easy and self-explaining. If you are e.g. climbing and it's not that obvious who needs help you could also inform the rescue team in the helicopter by pointing to the casualty after signaling Y. 

Yes and don't even think about leaving your fleece at home... Even if you are moving fast and therefore producing a lot of warmth by the exercise there is always the possibility to get into bad weather. And if not, what are you doing when you stop for a break? You are wearing wet clothing and it is cold. Maybe even windy. This will feel really cold and you even might get hypothermia in those conditions. Always take one layer of waterproof clothing with you while going in remote areas outdoors. I never use all my gear on each trip but in case of emergency you will be freaking glad you carried the extra weight in your backpack all day long 99 times, and have it with you the hundredth time you go on a ski tour. If it is cold or there is a chance it might get cold (and -20°F is very cold in my opinion), always take appropriate layers for warmth. If you sweat going uphill in the sun, just make a 30 second stop, drink something and pack that extra layer in the backpack. Try not to sweat too much, because sweating makes you cold! It is great to use the layering system where you are able to adjust very fast to the conditions and you will therefore always stay comfortable. Besides that I suggest to carry a second pair of gloves and even take two items for the head. Just in case it gets wet (very likely for the gloves) and you can even use the layering system for those items. In cold conditions you described I bring a balaclava with me. Additionally it's not a bad idea to have a spare base layer shirt because you will be wet from sweat at the summit before you go on the descent. Because of the wind speeds while going down, you will be happy to have dry clothing. For the first layer I like merino wool a lot, try it and you will love it! 

This is simply a question of the increased surface area of gloves which will therefore increase temperature (heat flux) exchange. Same reason why foxes have smaller ears as further away they are located from the equator. This reduces the heat flux of polar foxes and in this case keeps the body temperature higher. Compared to gloves mittens are therefore preferable, they lower the loss of body heat to the environment. It is also easier to achieve a certain amount/thickness of insulation in mitts than it is for gloves because fingers are so filigree and don't offer much room between each other. Of course the bulky appearance of mittens also have disadvantages but you just asked about warmth. 

While reading this article about mountaineering boots I found following quote by Ian Nicholson quite interesting: 

Depends on the situation and therefore the gear you have along and the environment you are in. For example if you are on an alpine tour, you can do similar as we did this year in a bivouac: 

At an online shop I found a great deal for an avalanche shovel (14€). It's not a no-name brand, indeed it is a trustworthy German label. Still there are users complaining about the robustness of the shovel. Someone tested a brand new shovel and it directly broke while digging some tight snow. Because an avalanche shovel is relevant to safety and even surviving could depend on it: 

There are additional courses for crevasse rescue which show the importance of this topic. Avalanche is only a topic in winter courses. I guess they aren't learning the topic of avalanche because it is pretty complex for itself and you are generally trying to avoid situations with a lot of fresh snow in summer. Of course they have avalanche courses but it's not a topic in those glacier courses! My personal advice is to take a course which covers the important points from the basic course above. How to rope up on glaciers is the first thing you have to know and it's not very complicated. But still you should learn the general ideas from a professional (distances long enough to hold possible falls, maybe using knots between members, having rope for a possible crevasse rescue, NOT meeting up when you are doing a break...). Crevasse rescue is also important, I would suggest that you learn at least one method. Under real conditions the rescue might be really tough but having stopped the fall of a companion (or even two) you could still call the mountain rescue services most of the times (still: learn how to rescue someone fallen into a crevasse!). That being said it shows the importance to actually get into this position of braking the fall, setting a deadman and so on. To rope up on glaciers, to be able to belay correctly and to rescue crevasse falls you naturally have to learn some knots. You cover this in the fitting sections of the course. Maybe they don't write those topics explicitly in the description but I am pretty sure all will cover this. Check the course requirements though. Techniques with crampons and ice axes are nice to learn although I don't think they are as important as the security relevant topics mentioned above. What's really important is how to set an ice screw correctly. Still, you will be using crampons in all glacier courses and you will be excited if you do it the first time. I personally didn't had big problems walking in them but you should care when you climb in them or you might get some porous trousers like I did... 

source Yes, overexertion reduces the ability of the body to acclimate properly and therefore increase the chances of getting AMS. By the way the Diamox makes this question more difficult so I wasn't referring to this part of the story. I am just generally saying you should keep a slow pace! 

I can't speak for the Scottish winter and there definitely are differences to the Alps. But still I can give you an overview what is important to learn if you are going to do alpine summer tours in the Alps. The German Alpine Club (German: Deutscher Alpenverein, DAV) is the world's largest climbing association. The number of members is over one million. (source: "Deutscher Alpenverein"). I will therefore give you the topics which are covered by the glacier courses (courses for alpine tours). The list might seem long but I think it gives you an idea what to look for. 1. Basic course 

Besides that personally I know that I am not prone to get headache. So when I start getting slight headache I am aware it could be due to dehydration. Often it helps to drink some water which is the cheapest and healthiest medication against headache. From the link above you see there are a lot of symptons to be aware: 

I own Haglöfs Grepp Glove which are quite thin but have a Windstopper membrane. I like those gloves because they offer great grip. But I am also a bit confused because I got really cold fingers on my bicycle during the winter with approx. 30 km/h speed. It wasn't that cold (0°C/32°F) so I wouldn't get frosty fingers with those gloves without the wind, especially when I am making sports. Is the membrane not working like I expected? It is said to be 100% windproof, so wind-chill shoudn't be the major issue. Is this just marketing or is it the unfortunate exposure of the finger tips while cycling? That all being said I am searching gloves for mountaineering. I am not explicitly planning to do winter tours. I was thinking in getting a second, thicker pair to wear over the thinner one. I don't know if this might be a good choice. I have to clip carabiner, use ropes and (un)tie knots. I will grab in the snow, it could be raining the whole day and there might be quite strong wind - and not just 30 km/h... All those thoughts make me doubtful although I am not expecting really cold temperatures at all. So which system is recommended to protect the hands, if most important requirements are those for typical glacier/alpine tours: