Besides radio, SETI is also searching for signs of artificial technology in data from infrared (space) telescopes. The idea is that civilizations make good use of energy, and solar energy is the most abundant and easy to access. Fusion power for free. Fissile elements are mostly inaccessibly hidden deep inside planets. If a civilization absorbs a substantial part of a star's light for its industry, the natural star light would be replaced by redshifted waste heat radiation from that industry. Something we should be able to detect with today's technology. Jason T Wright seems to be the one man driving force behind this kind of actual search today, within the SETI and wider science community. Here are some links to a talk, slides, a paper and a blog by Jason. Lots of galaxies have been studied, so at least it isn't common that civilizations extract most of the energy from entire galaxies. The universe might be too young for that. Personally, I fear that our focus on life and intelligence as we know it, expressed in the in my opinion naive Kardashev scale may miss that there might exist completely different kinds of phenomena out there. Life on Earth is all just one single instance. We have no diversity, no statistics, but we do know that the combinatorics of chemistry is mindboggling. But we can only do what we can do, and it would be a bit strange if there's nothing like us out there, considering how extremely ancient and successful DNA-life is on Earth, which doesn't seem to have unique circumstances. A problem might be that biology seems to use all tricks, except radio. 

The mass of a black hole is dependent on the formation mechanism, which as far as we are aware is predominantly as a supernovae remnant. The Tolman–Oppenheimer–Volkoff limit provides the theoretical lower mass bound of a black hole formed from a collapsing star; this is between 1.5-3.0 solar masses depending on the interpretation. You must also remember that the mass of a Black Hole is not static; due to Hawking radiation and absorbtion from the Cosmic Microwave Background it can grow or shrink depending on its size. The following wiki quote sums it up well 

I assume you mean contraction, as opposed to the current expansion that we see today due to dark energy. Again this would be unfeasible due to the reasons outlined above, and if contraction was to proceed to it's conclusion, i.e. a singularity like the Big Bang, then no information from this universe could be carried through that singularity, even if there was another universe on the other side. 

Zeilik's Introductory Astronomy and Astrophysics is worth investigating. It's more in depth than Kaufman & Freedman's Universe, mentioned in another answer, but requires a little more mathematical background such as basic calculus and trigonometry. I'd also recommend looking at online courses from providers such as Coursera, Khan Academy and edx (and here) for inspiration on how to structure such a course. 

Comets are mostly icy but they should have some rocky components too, right? I wonder if there's any rocky piece of a former comet among collected meteorites. Is it possible today to identify a meteorite as having cometary origin? Or has surviving pieces from comet impacts been too rare (or violent vapourizing) events? 

Molecular oxygen O2 has been found on comet 67P/C-G in a ratio of 3.8% to water, which is much higher than expected. An explanation proposed is that the Solar System formed from a molecular cloud warmer at 45 K, than typical molecular clouds at 10 K. I speculate this could have had many kinds of consequences for the Solar System and wonder what the most important or easiest to detect would be. For example, my uneducated guess would be that more hydrogen escapes from warmer clouds. Exoplanets with low density could then be the result of higher hydrogen abundance, more frequently than here giving them large hydrogen atmospheres. News article Ten minutes radio interview (Haven't found any paper) 

But there's a third way too, the SETI way. The evolutionary steps to intelligence, to technology, to space travel all seem to benefit the proliferation of life and thus would tend to become more common over time, if they at all occur. Considering the small size of the Milky Way compared to its age and reasonable space traveling and settling speeds, one could put upper limits on how common life is. If anyone anytime anywhere in the Milky Way developed space travel to its nearest stars, they (their offspring) should be everywhere today! They won't need to travel further than a few light years to "seed" the entire galaxy, because their Sun does the traveling through the galaxy for them. Our Sun makes a revolution every 0.25 billion years, 18 full revolutions since it was formed. We know that dinosaurs lived on the other side of the galactic center. Traveling to the nearest stars over time spreads a space traveling civilization to all over the place. If we don't find any signs of artificiality during the next few decades, given the rapid advancements in telescopy, we can say that space traveling civilizations never happened anywhere (or got too exotic for us to discover even if under our nose). And that might be extrapolated to how frequent biological evolution is overall. And most importantly, what unique event happened here to make us walk on the Moon. On Earth, life has settled every habitable spot on Earth (everywhere where liquid water is found, life is also found). Maybe life tends to settle on interstellar scales too? 

There are around 2 trillion galaxies in the currently observable universe according to the latest estimates, obtained by integrating theoretical galaxy stellar mass functions above $10^{6} M_{\odot}$ between $0 \leqslant z \leqslant 8$. It's difficult to get a precise number for the total observed galaxies as the results from new surveys are being released all the time, and updated analysis of legacy data is revealing more galaxies. For example, the latest SDSS data release identified close to 200 million galaxies, whilst the ongoing Dark Energy Survey seeks to identify around 300 million galaxies. LSST, in Chile, will observe close to 20 billion galaxies, an order of magnitude greater than anything before it. However, all of these surveys operate up to relatively low redshifts. Probing to higher redshifts requires bigger, preferably space based telescopes, and much longer exposure times. As such, the high redshift universe has been poorly documented. Our understanding of galaxy formation at high redshift is not as complete as at low redshift, and so we may be under- or over-estimating the number of galaxies at this epoch. A vague upper limit: we've observed less than 0.01% of all currently observable galaxies. 

It depends on whether the black hole is rotating or not. If it is, The ergosphere and singularity are oblate spheroids. If not, both would be spherical. The event horizon is always spherical. Accreting matter around a black hole would form an accretion disk, however this should not be mistaken for the black hole itself. 

No, that is not possible. There are quite a few capable telescopes studying the Sun since some decades. Already Galileo stared at the Sun until he got blind. Don't you think a planet would've been detected if it passed by in images like these? But Sun grazing comets are pretty common visitors in the corona. It is a bit weird that a couple of percent of exoplanetary systems have hot Jupiters. They probably didn't form there, but migrated. And still stay there somehow. 

NASA's Galileo orbiter at Jupiter ended its mission in 2003 by intentionally dive into the gas planet. Did it take and transmit any close up images before it ceased to function? If not, why? Are there any images from Galileo, or its separate impactor probe, which show the Jovian clouds from close enough range that their topology is discernible? On all images I've seen, Jupiter looks like a perfect sphere because of its huge size and far distances from which it has been imaged. But if two spacecrafts have dived into it, there should be close up images of its clouds, right? 

Current models of the configurations of the planets conclude that Neptune once migrated outwards. AFAIK this refurbishment came about by Jupiter and Saturn gradually getting into and leaving a gravitational resonance. Did Neptune (and possibly a fifth giant planet) redirect itself in a sudden encounter event, like comet 67P Churyumov–Gerasimenko did in 1959, halving the perihelion of its orbit since then? Or did it happen gradually over maybe millions of years? Is planetary migration in general sudden or gradual? Is it a matter of a single encounter event, or an adaptation to a changing gravity landscape? 

Planetary orbits are governed by gravitational effects. The effect of light interaction on orbits is negligible. Finally, none of this has anything to do with planets in orbit or not. Planetary orbits are due to gravitation. 

When it's cloudy at sea, the one measurement one still has is approximate sunrise or sunset, which can be used to determine longitude, but the uncertainty is very large, in particular at higher latitudes where sunrise and -set are slow. Having both (length of day) one can estimate latitude as well. Although one cannot determine those to the same precision and accuracy as in clear conditions, an experienced person should still be able to do a pretty good job. If they are 10 minutes off in their estimate, that translates to around 2.5° of longitude. And of course it means they can only make 2 measurements per 24 hours. Between those, they'd have to extrapolate. 

And then, from this protoplanetary disk, planets form. Consequently, they're all in the same plane. As such, the inclinations of each planet's orbit are pretty close to that of Earth's: 

This is not a coincidence at all, but a direct consequence of the way the solar system was formed. The generally accepted model is that solar systems (including our own) form out of a Protoplanetary disc. Gravitation causes mass to collapse around a protostar, which always has some angular momentum (as does everything). Wikipedia explains it better than I can: 

Mercury is asynchronously tidally locked so that all of its surface regularly sees the Sun. But an exoplanet which is synchronously locked to its star, could we tell that it is? It would have a hot side and a cold side. This should affect transit and occultation on some wavelengths, but does the symmetry of the movement degenerate any possibility to disentangle tidal locking from that? Mercury seems to cool down during night time, and gas giants maybe distribute their temperature atmospherically. So their tidal locking might be hard to discern. But there are terrestrial exoplanets with much shorter orbital period which should have a cool side and a hot side permanently. That's my speculation. My basic curiosity is: Is Mercury a freak or a standard in terms of tidally locked planets being asynchronously so? And by observational support, not just models. 

The Sun's diameter being ½ degree out of 360, I figure it is 2 minutes. Very even precisely two, because the division of time as into minutes, very very long ago, was designed with the movement of the Sun as its base. 

Does NASA's New Horizons flyby probe to Pluto have instruments to measure Pluto's (or Charon's) magnetic field, if any? I'm a bit confused by the Wikipedia article which says that New Horizons, during its flyby of Jupiter, on one hand: 

The density increases as you move closer to the center of the star. Note how the density is less than that of water for up to half the sun's radius! 

No, the sun and all other stars do not have the same composition and density within them. The composition varies with depth. Most stars overall composition reflects the interstellar medium from which they form. Convection, settling and nuclear processes then lead to layers of different elements at differing depths. Fusion occurs at the core of our sun (where pressure and temperature are greatest) therefore there is a greater abundance of Helium at this depth (through conversion of hydrogen). Other stars that have entered the red giant phase will also have many more heavier elements. Very late stage stars are thought to fuse these elements progressively, leading to layers of decreasing atomic number elements stacked on top of each other. Convection can also lead to mixing of elements between layers. The diagram below shows theoretically how these convective layers differ over a range of stellar masses 

Further details here on astronomical causes of average daytime variation, and here on Insolation, the solar radiation received at the top of the atmosphere and its effects on the energy received at ground level.