After much frustration, I finally looked at the pad and the clip in that side view and realized that the "ears" on the top of the pad need to be forced (gently) past the narrow, re-entrant part of the cap (expanding the cap outward as they pass). The force required was more than my fingers could muster, and more than was implied by the instructions I found on an Avid site and elsewhere. The way I applied the necessary force was by setting a drive pin across the edges of both partially installed pads at their bottom (next to the bottom "ears") and giving the drive a light tap with a plastic or rubber mallet. The pads moved ever so slightly as the ears pushed past the re-entrant portion of the steel cap. A piece of wood or a dowel of the right dimension would be better, and a steel hammer would work fine. No matter what you use, be gentle. 

The stem on my bike is at roughly negative five degrees. If I were to flip it upside down, thus making it positive five degrees, might I be putting pressure on parts of it that were not designed for pressure? 

Judging by the comments, you're in too high a gear. It is easiest to pedal when the chain is around the smallest gear in the front and the largest gear in the back. Note that the hardest/highest/fastest gear on your mountain bike is probably not nearly as fast as the highest gear on your road bike. But... I mainly wanted to share my hill climbing strategy, because it is different: Before reaching the hill, I get out of the saddle ( stand up ), and try to gain a little speed/cadence. Once in the hill, my cadence will drop and it's time to sit down and lower gears. I'm pretty good at knowing what gear I will use for the rest of the hill, so I just coast until I hit the correct speed/cadence for that gear. Mid-hill, I stand up to stretch my legs out and then sit back down. At a certain point, I will reach the part of the hill where I can do most of it standing up, and I will do that. I don't make it to the top. With about 20 or 30 seconds left in the hill, I sit back down and go at a slower pace than I was when I was climbing. This is my cool down time, I catch my breath and drink water. I like this strategy because it makes it so I'm not out of breath at the top of the hill. I get to enjoy the view. Mainly, though, it means that I stand up and quickly get to the speed that is correct for the flatter slope. 

Standing up on a bike, especially when you lack fitness, is a good way to go "anaerobic." Put simply, that means your body is working so hard, it can't get enough oxygen. You can only do that for a short amount of time, which for most people is in the range of 10-30 seconds. Then the lactic acid build up in your muscles becomes too painful and you are forced to ease up. The solution is simple. You need more strength and fitness. If you like to ride fast and/or climb hills, you can't avoid the anaerobic zone completely, but you can move it a little farther away by getting good fitness. Keep riding, and keep riding hills. 

Don't forget that there is money involved! Every competition in the TDF has a cash prize. Every sprint. Every categorized mountain. Often towns along the way will have their own prizes, such as a cow, or your weight in champagne. Every team wants to take home some of the spoils, but you can't win if you don't play, so teams that aren't winning stages or jerseys will make sure they have guys in the breaks. 

I believe you are taking about a bolt, rather than a nut ( nuts hold bolts onto things ). Anyway, you aren't going to damage the bolt if you file it down or cut it with a metal cutting saw, it's done all the time. 

I'm just going to ignore fancy apps, gps, and physics all together: Figure out how many calories you consume on a typical/non-exercise day and multiply that by the days in your bike tour. Subtract that from the amount of calories you consumed during the tour, and that will be a pretty good estimate of how many calories the actual biking required. 

I'm not 100% confident in this as an answer, but I do have a bit of experience. I don't know anything about over-heating breaks. I commute year-round, and part of this ride is on a small hill on a quiet road. Snow provides the perfect conditions to ask "What can my bike do?" So, I'm going straight down an icy hill and lock the back wheel... The back of the bike instantly whips towards the front. The distance between the front and rear obviously has to stay the same, so the bike becomes sideways in the road (sometimes, with me still on it). The best course of action seems to be exactly what you would do in a car, turn the handlebars to keep the front wheel in the direction of your movement and release the breaks. The difference with a bike is that you also have to keep your weight over it, so don't resist your bike going sideways or it will slide out from under you. As a side note: I don't know why the rear of the bike goes do much faster than the front, but it's significant. It could be that the lack of traction causes the back to slide out from your weight, but then the front still has enough to transfer that sideways force to forwards. I'm no physicist, just a guy locking his wheel. :) I've always had better luck slowing the bike down by using only the front break. Turns are not easy. When I'm on ice, leaning into a turn will cause instant crashing. I take a turn slow enough that I can do it by turning the handlebar alone. Winter is coming up here, I'll be thinking about this. 

If it's a multi-way stop and there's another car waiting or just arriving, I stop. If I can't clearly see or judge what I'm riding into, I stop. If it doesn't feel right for some reason, I stop. If there's a cop there (or a history of cops), I stop. 

Really, it's all about your core. Your legs need leverage to push the pedals, and that comes from your core. Crunches are probably the best exercise you can do to improve your cycling. You help stabilize your core with your back and arms, so put a pull up bar in a doorway, and do pull ups. That's all you need to do. You definitely don't need to do a weight routine. You don't even have to get fancy. Back in the day when I was a serious cyclist, I was doing 200 crunches and 40 pull-ups almost every day. Half in the morning, half in the evening. That's a little extreme for most people, but I was a little extreme back then. 

Here is the link to the article. (If it loads as binary garbage, which it does for me, save the page with a .pdf extension and try opening it with Adobe.) $URL$ The SON Deluxe is very efficient and light, and it has a five-year warranty, but it is not so powerful at low speed. (If you decide to use a USB charger driven by the dynamo, this could be an issue.) 

How do you get new BB7 pads to install in the new caliper bodies? By "new" I mean the ones with the spring steel "cap" on the opening at the "top" of the caliper unit (the side opposite the axle). On my c. 2004 Gary Fisher, the silver calipers are closed on the side opposite the axle. On my 2015 Salsa Vaya the black calipers have an opening on that side, and they have a spring steel cap that clips into the opening. The upper "ears" on the pads extend up into that space. Here is what it looks like from the "top" (looking toward the axle): 

Those are paired spokes, and there's a reason they pair them up. If that was a rear wheel, I might ride it a mile or two if I had to. But not a front wheel. I'm really curious how you managed to break five spokes in one 90 degree section of that wheel. That's not normal behavior. There is something really wrong with that wheel. 

Don't neglect your core and upper body. If your core is weak, your ability to balance, lift, and jump the bike will also be weak. 

I don't necessarily clip out and put my foot down, but I stop. These rules have worked for me pretty well. But one thing I've never worried about is my safety, when I stop. I've easily ridden 100,000 miles on the roads, including the East Bay, in all kinds of conditions. I don't think I've ever been in a situation where I felt less safe stopping than not stopping. There are plenty of things out there to worry about, but that isn't one of them. 

I have commuted on a Shimano Alfine 36-spoke hub for several years. I just rode a Shutter Precision 32-spoke hub 4k miles across the U.S. on a loaded bike. I have had zero problems with either wheel. You might not want to ride a 32-spoke wheel, which rules out the Shutter Precision. Based on reputation, I'm sure you would not go wrong with a SON. It is more costly, but think of it as a lifetime investment. Here are some results from a study by CTC in the UK: 

You can see the pads through the opening in the cap. On the old Fisher, I would install BB7 pads just by pinching the pad-spring-pad "sandwich" and pushing the sandwich into the caliper from the "bottom" (the side toward the axle). This is how all the advice on the web tells you to install BB7 pads. On the Salsa Vaya, with the cap installed, I can only get the pads all the way in about one in fifty tries--usually one or the other pad will not go all the way in. Sometimes both pads hang up short. If I take the cap off, then the pads go in fine. I rode all the way across the U.S. with the cap off because that was the only way I could get the pads into the caliper. What's the trick?