We see so many colors in this world. But we have opposites only for 'black' and 'white'. For our daily activities this is often helpful. One word represents presence of light (the totality of the whole spectrum of sunlight) and the other, absence of light. For adding darkness or giving lightness we use black or white. Since these two colors have a relation to our usual experience also there is no error in saying "'black' and 'white' are opposites to each other". But if we try to say the opposite of any other color we won't get such relation. So they have no opposite. To say the opposite of X, we should be able to 'stop' at a point on the line of thought for imagination. If you say only X, we can't 'stop' at any point to imagine. [i.e., when you say only 'color', we can create only a line of thought. But, if you say 'black', we stop there and fix that word.] You may verify what happens if you say like this in the situation mentioned above: 'X is a color'. The answer will be long sentences. So we can't say the opposite of X as a one-word answer. 

Like love, patience, solidarity, peace etc, truth is essential in modern society. If we ignore truth we will have to face more problems. Like chain reaction, these problems will multiply and will create a great disparity in the society. [The decay of Dharma causes problems in the world ... shows the Mahabharata. The Gita says (18.47): "It is better to do one’s own dharma, even though imperfectly. than to do another’s dharma, even though perfectly." So, when dealing dharma, even some lies become a part of dharma.] 

All living things are Earth's parasites. But the question is what we can give in return for the wellbeing of coming generations. Humans are the only living being that can find the value of each thing in terms of money. You will find some useful information in Indian Philosophy. For e.g. see this: Science is developing amazingly and it seems it is for each human to stand on his own feet ignoring the basics of ecology. Material pleasire would be for a short period only. Actually day by day we are becoming a mere thinking animal. Ego, if it has developed as a complex, it will create problems. Too much of anything is bad. Human life has aims; considering him as an animal and as a being that has the highest potentiality. If people were aware of their own Dharma and had lived accordingly, many problems we are facing now could have been eliminated. These descriptions are just for the enrichment of your ideas. You will certainly find valuable information in Indian philosophy as well as in other philosophies. The basis of creation is described in Bhagavad Gita: See Chapter 3.10 Try to know about Tri Rinas (Deva Rina, Pitru Rina and Rishi Rina) $URL$ Many ancient scripts in India known as Puranas, have great significance in our daily life. [The word 'Purana' is derived from 'purana' meaning ancient and 'nava' meaning new. That implies the things (way of life) mentioned in them is applicable now also.] So 

Schrödinger was a leading physicist in the development of Quantum Mechanics (QM). Hence he knew well about the question whether the separation between the observer (subject) and the observed natural phenomens (object) could be held up in QM. Classical mechanics successfully adheres to the paradigm that the observer has no impact on the phenomens he observes. The observer observes just the objective nature. On the other hand, one learned by QM that our observation may influence the microphysical objects. As a consequence, the result is a mix of properties of the object and of the experimental interaction. A strict separation cannot be uphold any longer. The degree of this interaction could be even quantified by Heisenberg’s principle of uncertainty. Schrödinger emphasizes that the physical world, as it appears in the models created by physicists, does not capture the subjective experience of colours, sound, feeling of cold and warm, i.e. the subjective experience of our senses is lacking in the model. But even more, the whole mental world is excluded from the model of the physical world. This separation poses the question how mind and body interact, which is up to now the unsolved mind-body problem. Eventually Schrödinger votes for a monistic stance. In the last passage of chapter three he makes the radical claim that there is no gap between subject and object at all. This would imply that objectivation in the sense of seraparating of subject and object is impossible, In this chapter Schrödinger does not argue for this worldview. Possibly he is influenced by the monistic position from Upanishads with it fundamental equation “atman = brahman”. Here is a link to the German text of chapter 3: $URL$ 

There are few examples of persons active in both disciplines mathematics and philosophy. The two most eminent are Leibniz and Russell. Kant - in reply to Leibniz - published one essay on a certain topic from mechanics. He also has been thinking on the origin of the planetary system. But because physics is not the topic of the present question I will not go into the details. Instead I want to emphasize the differences between mathematics and philosophy and between the methods employed in each field. 

It is people's habit to name beautiful phenomena if it happens more or less frequently. Sunrise and sunset are two such phenomena. This naming is necessary to indicate (the time of) the presence and absence of the most important source of living things in each day's talk. People might have named these phenomena before the truth about the Sun is revealed. If we apply our science here, we might be compelled to use more words. And they would create inconvenience. 

$URL$ If the aforementioned is difficult to digest, the following mantra would be useful in our daily life. Isavasyam idam sarvam yat kim ca jagatyam jagat 

Of course. Scientific analysis is enough for understanding this. It can be realized only by self realization. Actually all of us cannot maintain our ego throughout our life as it is now. When people have certain experiences they may understand it. You might have read about some people's anecdotes when they visited some places or when they met some great men. Some of them have said that they felt like melting their ego when they visited such places or great persons. 

Have you ever thought about the cause of her death? And which soul/souls (according to your definition) might have influenced her death? Which soul would you consider when you try to find out its root? If you, other readers and me were mere embodiments we wouldn't be able to communicate (so precisely) with each other without much difficulty. So the word--'soul' must have a greater meaning. Otherwise it would only be a four letter word. To define it there must be something similar or imaginable. This is the main difficulty that most people face. So others will call it a mere nonsense. Don't worry. This will be helpful to know more about the inadequacy of your question. 

This might be because he loves that idol (Einstein) so much. Sometimes the words that come from a person whom we love so much will feel as poetic. [You may check the last two words--'to me', in the related statement.] You may verify a common word used in Sanskrit to represent a poet. 

Probably you may consider also Putnam, Hilary: Renewing Philosophy. 1992. In the preface Putnam announces a diagnosis of the whole present situation of philosophy as well as proposals to renew contemporary philosophy. The book arises from the Gifford lectures in 1990. Putnams deals with scientifical and logical issues as well as with issues from the philosophy of language and from political philosophy. Of course the book is written from the personal standpoint of a single philosopher. But Putnam is an eminent comtemporary philosopher and it is interesting to learn why he criticizes many of his former views. 

Nietzsche hated any form of compassion, his ideal was the strong man. Buddhism became known in Europe during Nietzsche's time. Buddhist ethics emphasizes compassion. Therefore Nietzsche rejected Buddhist ethics alike rejecting Christian ethics. Nietzsche does not think that Europe misunderstands Buddhism. 

Concerning meaning see $URL$ Accordingly meaning is a property of words, sentences and - more general - symbols of a language: 

Edmund Husserl is one of the founders of phenomenology. Husserl has even studied mathematics, but afterwards switched to philosophy. Husserl has published Philosophy as Rigorous Science besides many essays like Ideas Pertaining to a Pure Phenomenology and to a Phenomenological Philosophy with phenomenology already in the title. It is up to you, to decide how helpful phenomenology is for you, serving as an introduction to philosophy. In my opinion, possibly the writings of Karl Popper are more helpful to a reader with a mathematical or scientific background, e.g. Popper's book Objective Knowledge: An Evolutionary Approach. Popper does not deal with phenomenology. I think he did not estimate this type of philosophy. 

How does Newton's concept of absolute time change in SR? Answer: Absolute time is abolished, there is no absolute time in SR. The main reason is the contradictory concept of global simultaneoussness. In GR Einstein also votes against an entity which influences other entities, but does not experience itself any impact from other entities: Not only does spacetime prescribe via geodesics the trajectories of material objects. Spacetime itself is curved by the mass distribution. How does Newton's concept of relative time change in SR? Answer: One can substitute the proper time along a trajectory for Newton's concept of relative time. Is it correct that all inertial frames everywhere and at all times are the same? Answer: They are not the same, but Lorentz transformation transforms between the coordinates of different inertial frames. At most one can say: All inertial frames are equivalent concerning the description of nature. But note that GR extends the concept of frame transformation and allows also non-inertial frames. 

Since laws of a country are formulated according to some philosophy, here you can rely only on laws; not on philosophy; especially because this is not fully related to ethics. [This answer is from a common man's point of view; never from a broad minded man's.] Since all people are not so generous, wise or like-minded as we think, while solving an issue like this, we should consider the mentality of the common men of that country. Otherwise it will lead to internal conflicts (emerged from envy) and will affect the refugees adversely (in future). In a family (for staying): How should we treat our guests (in a perfect family)?. See the story from the Mahabharata (given in bold letters) told by The Golden Mongoose. In a country (for living): What should a king do to avoid/deal gossips (even though it is about his own family)? In other words, what care should be taken while handling sensitive issues? The answer to these questions are given in the Ramayana. Though Rama had firm faith in his wife--Sita, he conducted a fire test and also renounced her...just to convince his subjects. Since your government couldn't accomplish their main duties to the public, at least for an apology, they should conduct a referendum and show their respect/responsibilities towards them. 

You could ask yourself why we have more sense organs if our eyes can show the truth. If a man's eye could show as if he were looking through a concave lens or convex lens or a compound microscope, which one would you say, is true? what would be your conclusion..? So, the answer to the first part of this question is,'No'; but the second part is, 'Yes'. For an explanation, you needn't seek the help of philosophy. Just remember the optical illusion, 'persistence of vision'. Many philosophies also agree with this ideas. E.g.: 'Maya'. Though this term is used in a higher level, any way we can say that the second part is true. 

A clear-cut answer to this question is impossible. People will have different aims in their lives. If one can't achieve it in his life they will be in despair. So, live in the same way as others live is not a good answer and is impossible. You would be compelled to expand the range of basic necessities if you ask yourself some questions like this: What should he use to travel long distances? Where should he get money? Is traveling in a vehicle a basic necessity? How should he treat himself if he is well? How, if it is a serious disease? What happens other family members are not happy with what you have saved for the family? So the person should lead a saint's life. Then he would get things freely. Don't forget, he must have sound health also till his death. Otherwise he must have great endurance. Actually your question is the commonest problem many people face. But most people are not quite sure about it clearly. If there were a good answer that suits for all, most people would have followed it. It may be one of the reasons for the the emergence of some religions. Many religions suggest different ways for this, but everybody can't practice correctly what it suggests. Some religions suggest different ways according to people's character. But without understanding the religion correctly jumping from one to another is not a good tendency. Trying to reach the topmost level with the first leap may lead to a fall. When one can't do according to his character his mind become restless. I mean, most people are compelled to do unsuited jobs. This part should also be rectified. Hobbies play an important role here. Some people might be able to train their mind to be calm. Such persons must have some potentialities. But it will take time..sometimes very long time. So an immediate action also is not possible for acquiring this ability. There are different religions and meditation centers, yoga centers etc for helping people. Contentment is to the mind. So importance to be given is to the mind. "An idle mind is the devil's workshop." Some people can do some activities continuously without boring. It depends on the vasanas of the people. So, one should find out such activities and indulge in it. It may be some kind of charity work/service to the poor etc. Haven't you heard the quote of Swami Vivekananda, "They alone live, who live for others." If the activities are according to the vasanas, the mind will not disturb you. In short, whatever you do should be helpful to your mind also. You might have heard about kings and millionaires who renounced everything they had just for calmness and contentment in life. 

David Hume deals with the question in Book 1 of his work “A Treatise of Human Nature”. The content of our consciousness are either 

That's the most simple hypothesis about our future. No case is known which contradicts the hypothesis. Instead billions of cases from experience support the hypothesis. In addition, there are many theoretical arguments which make the statement a plausible hypothesis. "To die" means that a certain process ends. The noun "death" does not refer to a new entity. It is just the nominalisation of "to end living". Nominalisations of this type can be helpful ways of speaking. But one has to keep in mind that they do not refer to new entities. The alternative, whether negative entities like death refer to an existing object or are just negations of positive statements, is the subject of lengthy discussion between nominalists and realists. IMO these types of discussions seem a bit far fetched. In any case, they do not decide whether the original hypothesis is true or false. 

On one hand, I agree that proving the existence of a specific god is difficult. How to verify that we proved the existence of the right person? Though each god has a personal name - Jahweh, Allah, Brahma, Zeus, Athena - we cannot successfully complete our proof by verifying his/her identity card. On the other hand, in the present context I do not consider it a serious handicap, that science does not prove general statements. There are many examples where physics discovered specific hypothetical entities: Higgs boson, W-bosons and Z-boson, positron, neutrino etc. My main reason for being sceptical about a scientific or philosophical proof of the existence of a specific god is different. All these gods are characterized as powerful beings. But IMO 

I did never found a precise proposal. Actor causality seems to me an ad-hoc explanation, hence a pseudo explanation. Freewill libertarian make an assumption which they have never tested: That we could decide other than we actually did. In order to test this claim one has to reproduce the original situation and to repeat the decision experiment. How could such experiment look like? Did anybody perform such an experiment? Hence freewill libertarian use an untested and possibly even untestable hypothesis. But first one needs the data of the experiment, than one can search for an explanation. 2) The following book of Henrik Walter deals with the whole subject on the base of neurophilosophy: $URL$