If there is tech that can read a person (like a lie detector, or some future version of such a device) is available it should be used on all members of the core team annually in full view of the rest of the team. I am sure more rules could be dreamed up, but keep in mind nothing guarantees the group won't be corrupted...just the nature of things. 

Rarity: If your super metal is x percent more expensive it will have a corresponding reduction in commonality. Basically the concept here is that in the medieval era, armor was not issued to soldiers (nobles) they each purchased and maintained their own. If the armor is more expensive correspondingly fewer will have it. Functional changes: Most importantly the armor will be thinner and lighter. The main goal of plate is obviously the protection of the wearer but the counter point to that is that they were slow and would tire easily. 

I think you can see that the location will likely end up defining the outcome. Keep in mind the following: 

Odds are the natural selection process is not going to select for surviving in space...why would it. Natural selection selects the individuals most fit in their respective environments. This simply means that if an organism makes it to space accidentally survival will also be random/accidental. The more complicated the creature the less likely they are to pull this off. The more biologically complicated you become the more you are tied to your environment, mainly because you need more quantity and variety of resources. 

What sort of naturally occurring phenomena could make this scenario happen? Answers should include both the compound and its effects as well as any setting specific requirements to make it possible. 

If you are looking for a temperate climate, meaning non-tropical, that has an actual four season year the answer is no. Now if the temperature swing you are looking for is minimal <10 degrees F, you could probably use the ideas/concepts in the other answers to get what you want. But if you are looking for snow in the summer and scorching hot days in the winter you just can't naturally overcome the impact of the sun. It is, by orders of magnitude, the unquestioned dominant force on our weather. Without magic or hand-wavium you just can't beat it. 

Cat species are generally solitary. Lions being the notable example and I think the concept of a pride fits what you are looking for perfectly. 1-3 Adult males with a host of females and their offspring. 

A castle inside a large cave. Literally, walls indoors. So for starters you have a main cave entrance. (tremble at my mighty ms paint skills) This would be the main entrance only, a good cave fortress is going to have multiple egress points for flexibility. 

The benevolent king. If you have a legitimately benevolent King a system where the King rules absolute and then listens to an elected body when making decisions this could function. The major drawback here is that kings don't last forever, and having a line of kings that are all benevolent is unlikely to the point of I wouldn't believe it. For some background reading check out some Plato. Read up on the philosopher kings. 

In response to the bounty posting: If you stop time and yet want things to happen, *for anything to happen physics must immediately give way to magic. The only thing you could do without violating that is to think hard (while suffocating). In short the boundary you are asking for is any action your protagonist takes. There is no subset of actions that would be allowable under physics. You can't stop time AND do stuff without magic. With the exception of thinking really hard for however long you can hold your breath. You kind of just have to give in and say: Magic (jazz hands will spice it up) 

What you are likely going to end up with depends on what you start with. In the case of a fairly advanced society you likely end up with. 

An organized group of persons associated together for religious, benevolent, cultural, scientific, political, patriotic, or other purposes. 

What single chemical element (get out your periodic tables) could most efficiently destroy all life on the planet. Restrictions: 

In combat? Nothing, (though Bowls comment about causing damage from removing a weapon makes sense) there are no combat scenarios where a serrated blade is more useful than a non-serrated blade. Serrations exist to give you more cutting edge so that you can keep an edge longer and were primarily developed for cutting wood. To effectively use serrations in combat you would have to pull the weapon along your target. This would be completely useless against armor...even if that armor was wooden. Even against heavy fabric serrations would be less effective than a standard slashing blade (katana for example). In short you would get more blade contacting the target using a standard edge when compared to a serrated edge. Hold still I need to saw through your protective gear! -- unknown (He died) Additional note: Having recently picked up forging as a hobby and having started on knives...I can tell you that the grinding/polishing/sharpening process is lengthy and time consuming. Creating serrations would be even more difficult and the lack of benefit would lead to it being a style choice for the wealthy and not worth the time for mass produced army blades. 

The only mostly universally agreed upon human rights are the basics (the UN bill of human rights is delusionally optimistic and VERY western/progressive, and as such wouldn't use it as a baseline). That being: Food, Shelter, Water ...but that's about all we can usually agree upon as human beings. Taking a cell phone out of your arm doesn't really violate any basic human rights. If your society agrees that it is not a violation of rights for a prisoner to lose these privileges then you're good to go. 

That being said there are reasons to build underground on a future earth or a planet only slightly different from Earth. 

Additional note: You don't mention it as part of the question itself but you could create a class (job) system not unlike DnD. You'd have to create a chart showing what rank in what skills is required to take a certain class. So for example someone wants to be a police officer so they have to have a certain proficiency in diplomacy, combative, weapons, critical thinking/analytics...etc. So you could create a super complex web of skill interdependency for each profession...would be an interesting exercise. 

Concerns in other answers of soldiers messing up the economy and taking jobs is overblown. If we continue to use the WWII United States as an example we can find that the US total population in 1946 was 141 million. This included the soldiers. Now in the case of the US those people were actually missing from the workforce and returned so there was no issue. Now if you add 10 million clones to the population (leaving a standing force of 2 million) you are talking about roughly 12 percent more people. While not insignificant it will still not flood the national stage too badly. When you consider that the economy also normally grows after a major conflict, finding jobs should not be too big a deal. And if I may extrapolate, your society is likely much farther in the future if you are able to create cloned soldiers, you would generally expect that the population would be larger as well. The larger a population gets the smaller the percentage that are in the military becomes, this reduces the impact of integrating these clones into society even further. To effectively integrate these soldiers you will need a few things.