refers to the objects (or relations or whatever) that the theory postulates or that one is committed to when believing a theory. In this second sense it might be a word which you can (ab)use in a sentence like 

I would be inclined to agree with the latter, but by circumscribing the claim to thought experiments in traditional branches of philosophy, i.e.: thought experiments by medieval theologians are pretty close to thought experiments in contemporary analytic philosophy, both in their content and in their function(s). Under this premise, one can safely claim that thought experiments do not have a 'scientistic' bias. Dominik Perler has done a wonderful job in recent times studying the role of thought experiments in medieval philosophy/theology. You might want to have a look at his 

In case you wonder: The fact that it is possible to find different "foundations" for previously established mathematical results (i.e multiple groups of axioms for a given set of theorems) is a matter concerning the pluralism of foundational systems, not their being infinitely regressive. 

That's not the case. You are somehow mixing together the first and the second incompleteness theorem and drawing a misleading conclusion. Briefly put: 

Your question is complicated because you take the big bang as an example, which marks also the "beginning of time" and is thus more problematic. In fact, the first of Kant's famous antinomies is dedicated to it. However, always keep in mind that Kant was a transcendental idealist, not to be confused with an "esse est percipi"-idealism á la Berkeley. As to the more general question: Is it possible in Kant's view to conduct history as a science on a geological/development scale? – The answer is yes. Kant was acquainted with so-called natural history his time, i.e. the work of Linnaeus and Buffon. Kant introduced an important distinction between "description of nature" (Naturbeschreibung) and "history of nature" (Naturgeschichte). Only the second can aspire to be science proper. As Kant writes, 

These are strange examples to give as an exercise! Normally you'd take some common folk knowledge on which we all agree ("Socrates is mortal", "all dogs are mammals" and the like). Also, the second example includes some (logically) nasty terms ("can't", "must") that are usually treated as modal operators. But those requires a more advanced treatment, called modal logic. I guess that you're taking an introductory logic course and you're being taught classical propositional logic. Comments As for your first example: your logical translation is correct. My best guess is that this exercise is meant to take the second premise of the modus tollens (~B) as indicating something which you know is true (hence the "first person"-perspective) and only evaluate if the first premise (the conditional) is true. But this evaluation is really a context-dependent affair and you are not given enough informations to evaluate the factual truth of these conditionals. Still, without being provided any further restrictions, the conditional "If I had ADD, I'd have a prescription for this drug" is arguably false - I can certainly think of a real situation in which I have ADD, but I don't have a prescription for an ADD drug. So, the argument seems unsound. As for your second example: your logical translation could be problematic. "I haven't studied at all" is not the same as "I [haven't] study all night", so the first premise is not the same as the antecedent of the conditional in the second premise. The actual argument seems to me to include the inverse of the conditional: from the premise "If I don't study all night, I'll fail the test" it concludes that "If I do study all night, I'll pass the test". That is: 

Lakatos then used it in his 1971 paper. Though both Hanson and Lakatos appeal to a necessary interplay between history and philosophy of science, they mean to express the idea from opposite perspectives: 

I'll try to answer your first question about the connection between etymological meaning and philosophy: 

The aphorism is obviously an example of surreal humor - the ascription to Einstein is somewhat shaky. I'd say that it has really nothing to do with Ockham's Razor and therefore cannot even be called a bad formulation of it. If we grant (for the sake of argument) that Einstein is the author of the aphorism, my speculative interpretation would be the following: Einstein is not only known as a great physicist, but also as a great popularizer of science. One of the achievements of popular science is to explain scientific notions to an informed public by finding an optimal tradeoff between (1) rendering difficult notions intelligible and (2) conveying what a particular notion actually describes. In this sense one could say that the task is to simplify the notions of science without oversimplifying them - and this task (which Einstein mastered so well) is rendered, as a humorous maxim, in the aphorism quoted. 

Basically, even very basic and well-defined concepts like bachelor as "unmarried man" admit counterexamples, i.e. cases where conditions given by the definition do not readily include or exclude some items (think of the pope, a newborn male baby, etc.). Wittgenstein's remarks eventually led on to new models in cognitive semantics, which departed from definition-based approaches, e.g. the pioneering work of Eleanor Rosch (who wrote her under-grad thesis on Wittgenstein) on a graded notion of categories; see Prototype theory. You may want to read the book Women, Fire and Dangerous Things by another great cognitive linguist, Georg Lakoff, as an introductory text. As to your question, you may want to read some work by Morris Weitz, who applied Wittgenstein's definition-less approach to the very case of art: 

Your problem is difficult to address in the Popperian framework because falsificationism addresses theories, i.e. a conjunction of multiple hypotheses (plus other things), not a single hypothesis. Popper was aware that data may be consistent with multiple competing hypotheses and that is why he thought that sophisticated falsification happens at the level of theories, not hypotheses. While two competing theories may overlap in many of their predictions, they might not overlap in all. So there's at least one pair of competing hypotheses that predict two contrary experimental outcomes and that can be used to stage a crucial experiment. This experiment can rule out one hypothesis, thus falsifying one theory, while the other theory survives. (Please note that the logical possibility or factual existence of crucial experiments has been disputed and debated for a long time. Popper's own theory was a response to Pierre Duhem's view that crucial experiments are a logical impossibility. This is called "contrastive underdetermination". See the problem of underdetermination of scientific theory by evidence for a background discussion.) Conclusion Even according to Popper, crucial experiments are rare. It is normal for scientists to work with data that is consistent with multiple hypotheses most of the time. Curiously enough, there are also enough scientific problems for which scientists have struggled to find any viable theory and are happy when they find one. No wonder that they disregard the philosophical discussion about competing alternatives to be highly artificial. I wonder if this is specific to certain sciences. 

There are many philosophical traditions which support your philosophical desiderata. A few modern examples: 

is however incorrect. FO axiomatizations of set theory became only dominant starting in the mid 30s. There is an hypothesis to the effect that this timeline should be correlated with Tarski's important contribution to model theory (truth, logical consequence). On this view, FOL became standard not (only) because of its intrinsic qualities, but because it was shown to have a particularly nice model theory. 4. Why (not) first-order set theory? 

it would seem thus that Williams' position is the standard view. On the other side, I found a passage in Kvanvig (2003): 

Please note that "reflection" is a technical term in Kierkegaard's philosophy. I found an online essay disentangling this difficult notion. This might help you understanding the passage further. (I cannot comment on or vouch for the essay's accuracy, however.) 

It has been noted in the preceding answers that attempts at formalization were made in the first part of the 20th century. This isn't really news in philosophy, for centuries philosophers tried to import the rigor found in the mathematics of their time into philosophy by providing a mathematical treatment of philosophical problems. (Think of Spinoza's Ethica more geometrico demonstrata!). There is currently a new attempt by philosopher and mathematician Hannes Leitgeb to reinvigorate this style of doing philosophy, without the reductionist pretenses of the past, called Mathematical Philosophy: 

Skeptical argument: how can we find out precisely what the writer intended anyway? Attributing intent is interpretation: The attribution of a specific intent to an author is itself an act of interpretation. (Referring to the author is just a spoof to give more authority to one interpretation over another.) Downplaying the role of author's individual experience: an author's text is a mouthpiece of centuries of culture preceding him. A principled reversal of the relation between language and speaker: it is not the speaker who expresses herself through language, but language that expresses itself through the speaker.1 

I am with you on this point. However, there is a well known tradition in philosophy that did hold the opposite view in high regard: the etymological meaning is actually the most relevant one for philosophy! 

The way your source puts it, is very misleading. Logical empiricists had nothing against "metaphysical poetry". This seems to be a recurring misunderstanding. Indeed, according to logical empiricists, poetry is one of the best suited media to express "mystical longings". Long explanation (by Carnap himself) The whole point is clearly stated by Carnap in his paper on the "Elimination of metaphysics through logical analysis of language" (1932), esp. §7 "Metaphysics as expression of an attitude towards life": 

If you are interested in this kind of explanations in the history of philosophy, there is an ambitious book which I can recommend: Randall Collins, The sociology of philosophies: a global theory of intellectual change, HUP 2000 Here's the blurb: 

It doesn't apply to every belief, but only to beliefs in the form of universally quantified statements, such as . According to Popper, real scientific hypotheses were exactly of this type. It obviously does not apply to beliefs in the form of singular existential statements, which can be verified. Take a look at a nice blog entry about Karl Popper's typology of statements for a more detailed overview. Lastly, Popper's idea that singular evidence has no bearing on the probability of a scientific hypothesis (known as corroboration) has been mostly rejected in today's philosophy of science. In actual science singular evidence has some kind of effect on the probability that the hypothesis is true or at least on our belief that the hypothesis is true (known as confirmation). Different applications of Bayesian accounts of confirmation are at the center of discussion in order to account for the rational structure of induction. 

it is important to stress that this is exactly not Kant's point. The opposite is the case: TD itself is the verification! – The "proof" that his categories apply to the objects of experience is exactly what Kant tries to achieve through TD. Kant's argument is not about cognition in any "naturalized" sense of the term. Kant is not interested in asserting an empirical hypothesis that might be somehow verified by empirical means (that would have been an "empirical deduction", as Kant calls it, which Hume already showed to fail for apriori concepts). 

As you can see, the image-text works mostly by playing with dictionary definitions, rhetorical suggestions and expected anticipations on the part of the audience/reader. The only factual point being made seems to me (5), which is an empirical research question in anthropology. The expectation that the reader might find (5) an appealing and established/evident truth points to the popular acceptance of romantic primitivism (see $URL$ In fact, the whole image-text can be interpreted as an expression of romantic primitivism. 

Please note: Russell uses terms here following the classical distinction between atheist (roughly "I know that there is no God") and agnostic (roughly "I don't know for sure if there's (no) God"). There are more elaborate distinctions. On these more elaborate accounts, Russell's own position is that of an agnostic atheist. 

With Hume against Hume In order to understand Kant's philosophical move, TD must be set against Hume's empiricist psychological theory. Hume denied that apriori concepts could correctly apply to objects featured in experience, because only concepts (Hume: ideas) deriving from sensory experiences (Hume: impressions) can actually apply to the objects in our experience. Apriori concepts lack such a connection and therefore, according to Hume, fail to apply to the objects of experience - they lack objective validity. Against this position, Kant employes TD to prove that certain apriori concepts do correctly apply to objects featured in our experience, i.e. that such apriori concepts have objective validity after all. In doing so, Kant doesn't counter Hume's point, he actually concedes that apriori concepts cannot be derived from sensory experiences. He does, however, object to Hume's conclusion that a priori concepts therefore cannot apply to the objects of experience at all. To block this conclusion, Kant needs to show that there's another, non-empirical way in which apriori concepts can correctly apply to experience and achieve objective validity. This alternative way is through a transcendental argument, see the outline above. This is why Kant employes a deduction. Kant's "deduction" is not used in the modern sense, but in a way used in German legal language at the time. Here Deduktion meant a proof of the quid iuris (the matter of the law) in opposition to the quid facti (the matter of the fact). As Kant's argument does not involve the rule of law in a literal sense, the analogy that he tries to convey is about a legitimate source of justification not concerned with establishing matters of fact. Please note Because you write that 

Formal languages are structured deductively and that's is why you have primitive notions. Natural/constructed languages are not structured deductively and thus do not have (stable) primitive notions. They have more of a network-like structure and the meaning of terms are not set only (or mainly) by intensional definitions, but also (and mainly) by partial extensional definitions, particularly ostensive definitions. 

That the axiomatic system may be inconsistent or not has nothing to do with the existence of undecidable propositions in that system. Inconsistency and incompleteness are not related in that way. One relation that does hold though is the following: any inconsistent axiomatic system is complete, via explosion principle. 

This isn't a philosophy question per se, but I find it interesting because it can be addressed from a cognitive perspective that targets reasoning, which is on-topic. I don't see a paradox, strictly speaking, but I see three ways (and combinations thereof) in which the inconsistency that you mention can be dissolved: 

1) The existence of social facts If you believe that there actually are "brute facts" out there in the world, which would also exist if there were no human beings (say, a mountain), then a very basic way to phrase the puzzle is: There seem to be things which wouldn't exist without human beings recognizing them as such; at the same time, they are not subjective in the sense that if you wouldn't believe in them, they would therefore cease to exist. Such things are five-dollar bills, driver's licenses, being married to someone, etc. In John Searle's parlance they are epistemically objective (they are not a matter of individual preference or opinion), but may be ontologically subjective (they depend for their existence on being agreed upon). I may suggest that Mona Lisa is one if these things. There is a whole field dedicated to this question called social ontology. You may want to read John Searle's The Construction of Social Reality as an easy introductory text. 2) The semantics of concepts Aristotle codified a view which became the major (only?) theory of concepts: Concepts are categories characterized by a set of properties which are shared by their members. The set of properties set both the necessary and sufficient conditions to include or exclude some item from the category. This view led in the 20th century to extensional or intensional semantics, in their set-theoretic approaches. This view was first (as far as I know) challenged as a model of how to think about ordinary language by Ludwig Wittgenstein. He observed that concepts are vague in their application and that a better analogy - he never construed a theoretical model - might be family resemblance: