I don't see any reason why dark matter couldn't be considered a medium just as air or water are, but this does not mean that your conclusion is correct. Dark matter does not interact with photons, however the reason we know dark matter exists is because of the measurable effect of its gravity. Galaxies have a tendency to clump around it. Light travels unimpeded at its standard rate between galaxies where we don't detect any dark matter, so interesting question though it is, I'm afraid the answer is no. 

First off, if Earth were point B, and you were an observer at point A looking at it with the most magnificent telescope ever imagined, you would still not see the Earth, because it didn't exist 13 billion years ago. I assume you picked 13 billion years because it is roughly the age of the universe, so you'd see the universe as it existed then, but that doesn't get you what I think you want. I will instead pick 4.5 billion years ago (or objects A and B 4.5 billion light years apart), because then you will have an actual Sun and Earth to look at but long before life evolved. We'll also wave our arms over the tracking software of your telescope being able to locate Sun and Earth in their orbits over the course of 4.5 billion years as seen from point B. 

Yes. You would have to wait 4.5 billion years to see the observer at point A looking back at you through his telescope. You would now be looking at a cooling hunk of molten rock with no moon or oceans. No. If you waited 4.5 billion years and saw Observer A, he would have been dead for 4.5 billion years by the time you see him. In fact, his Sun would likely be expanding to the point of burning his planet to a cinder if not engulfing it entirely. But of course, you would have to wait another 4.5 billion years to see that. You would be observing the photons that bounced off Observer A all that time ago and have been traveling ever since. It is important to note that this is not him, and does not mean he still exists. 

Both articles mention MIDAS (the Moon Impacts Detection and Analysis System). Since the first link is from 2006, perhaps soon we will have a good estimate for you. 

Hopefully this answers your question, though it doesn't have much to do with Special Relativity, it's still good blow-your-mind stuff. It's just speed of light stuff which we really knew and measured (albeit inaccurately) long before Einstein. 

We generally like you to check google before posting questions here. I posed your question to google and amongst other links, I got these: $URL$ $URL$ Per Bill cook in the top link: 

Let me see if I can ask a different question that will help you understand why these other answers are correct. If you weigh yourself at night (when the Earth's gravity and the Sun's gravity are pulling in the same direction), do you weigh significantly more than you do during the day (when the Sun would be 'pulling you up'? The answer is no, because the Sun doesn't have a noticeable effect on your weight. If the Earth suddenly stopped rotating around its axis, everything not nailed to the Earth would get flung West at about 1000 mph including you and your scale. But a 150 lb human would still weigh 150 lbs as they splattered against the nearest building/mountain. If the Earth suddenly stopped revolving around the Sun, anything on the leading hemisphere would launch off the Earth at roughly 67,000 mph (well above escape velocity), and this includes things like oceans and atmosphere. Anything on the trailing side would simply smash into the ground at 67,000 mph, effectively burying the goo that used to be you miles underground. Worse things would happen as well, such as the Earth's molten core erupting through the crust, etc., but no one would be alive long enough to lament it. But just as your mass doesn't change when you go on a trampoline, it wouldn't change based on the Earth's rotation or revolution. Notice I said mass this time and not weight. If you had presence of mind during your last fleeting moments to hold your trusty scale under your feet, it would probably register '0', but that is because of your momentum, not because of the gravitational interaction between you and the Earth, which is what we call weight. You would still be 150 pounds, you would just be a 150 pound pile of goo somewhere unexpected. 

Today (March 20, 2015) is seeing a rare combination of the spring equinox, a total solar eclipse, and a supermoon. I am wondering if there is anything special astronomically about all three of these happening at the same time, like is the equinox a particularly more or less likely time for solar eclipses to happen (my guess is that it has no impact eclipses). The supermoon/total solar eclipse combination doesn't seem surprising to me, since if the opposite were to happen (moon far away and solar eclipse) we would end up with an annular eclipse instead of a total eclipse. 

I just noticed this announcement from the K2 mission that the field observed for Campaign 16 of the K2 mission would be changed so that the telescope would be "forward facing", saying that "observing in this mode allows for simultaneous observations from K2 and from Earth." (an aside: Campaign 17 was originally planned to be a forward facing to facilitate supernova science, but it was discovered that the telescope may not have enough fuel to last through Campaign 17, hence the modification to Campaign 16 to still facilitate supernova science) What exactly does it mean to be forward facing? 

The Minor Planet Center shows that we know of about 1350 Trans-Neptunian Objects (TNO's). I think it is safe to assume that we have not found all the TNO's there are to find, even the ones that we are capable of detecting with current telescope technology (simply because we haven't looked at them yet). Are there any estimates for how many TNO's exist (not just how many we've discovered)? I know such estimates probably are for numbers of objects with a radius greater than a certain amount and for objects belonging to a certain group (Plutinos, Kuiper Belt Objects, scattered disk objects, etc.). I am fine with estimates that make such size cuts and group specifications. 

I am working on an orbital dynamics code and, for fun, I would like to model the Sun-Earth-Moon system with my code. I can look up the masses of each object just fine, as well as average distances and relative velocities (which I can also calculate). However, I would like to model the Sun-Earth-Moon system in great detail. I would like to know the positions and velocities of each object on any given day (today works just fine) so that I can represent the orbits of these objects with great accuracy, hopefully even reproducing their actual ellipticity. Where can I find values for: 

This Wikipedia article states that Segue 1 is either a dwarf spheroidal galaxy or globular cluster associated with our own Milky Way. I am wondering what the difference is between dwarf spheroidal galaxies and globular clusters, since at first glance is seems that the morphological properties and stellar ages are similar between the two classes of objects. 

In my research on exoplanets, I have heard many people talk "forward modeling of exoplanet atmospheres". I don't know what the "forward" means in "forward modeling" and how it compares with "reverse modeling", if that's even a thing. What is forward modeling, and why is it so special that it needs to be distinguished from just plain ol' regular modeling? 

Because the Drake equation has so many variables that have to be supplied out of whole cloth, there is no way that one can say it is accurate. As we learn more about the cosmos, we are getting a better range of values for some of those variables though. We know fairly accurately (read: within an order of magnitude) how many stars there are in the Milky Way. We are getting more refined estimates of what percentage of them have planets, and it is higher than anyone would have guessed previously (the highest estimate I saw before we started using doppler effects to find planets was 10%, but now we see ~22% of surveyed stars have planets). We also know that stars which have planets almost always have more than one. We also seem to find life pretty much everywhere we look on earth, but have still found none beyond our planet. Still, I think most educated guesses nowadays put this percentage in the 90-100% range. I think the better way to phrase this question is, is the Drake Equation a reasonable way of estimating the probability of finding intelligent life? Since 1961 when it was first proposed, have we found any reason to call into question any of the assumptions Dr. Drake made? I think it is reasonable. I think the greatest room for modification is in the definition of "technology that releases detectable signs of their existence into space" and what signals we search for. But the variable itself is broad enough to encompass whatever we might come up with. One further variable might be added though: Percentage of likelihood that we would recognize an alien signal for what it is. EDIT: We could potentially find signs of life without receiving technologically created signals. During stellar transits we have the opportunity to examine the spectroscopy of their atmosphere and check for methane and other organic gasses that are unlikely to have formed without life, but I think we'll have to find life on Europa (where we know there is methane) before that test will be commonly accepted. 

Have 2 people stand in opposite corners of a large empty room each with a jar of marbles. Have them roll these at each other all at once as fast as they can, and you will get a pretty good answer to your question. 97% (or thereabouts) of a given galaxy is empty space. Most of one is going to pass harmlessly through the other, though you are likely to get a few collisions. At or near the speed of light, gravity will have very little effect as well, so a few orbits will be perturbed, but any given star will hardly notice. I suspect (though I haven't the expertise to say definitively) that the radiation increase during the ~100,000 years or more that this collision would take (assuming the galaxies were of approximately the size of the Milky Way and that they hit exactly edge on) would be significant to any creatures living in your galaxies. If by the off chance (I'm talking about lightning-striking-a-shark-currently-eating-a-recent-lottery-winner kind of chance) the supermassive black holes at the center of these two galaxies collided, the speed would be no obstacle, and they would combine. The angular momentum would certainly rip the new black hole from one of, or likely both, of the colliding galaxies. This would be bad for them. I propose sending this as a "What If?" question to XKCD. He seems to have the time to do the math on questions of this nature and follow as far as it leads. 

I am looking for a official term that describes all stars that are not neutron stars or white dwarfs. "Still burning stuff stars" or "ordinary stars" are all I have been able to come up with. Is there an official term for stars that are still evolving and haven't "died" yet? 

Auroras require an atmosphere, which the moon does not have. Auroras occur as solar wind and other particles that interact or are associated with Earth's magnetic field are funneled by the magnetic field and accelerated until they collide with atoms/molecules in Earth's atmosphere. These collisions cause the atoms/molecules to ionize or excite the the subsequent recombination/de-excitation of the electrons is what causes the light seen in the auroras. Without at atmosphere, though, there are no particles to ionize and excite to create an aurora. 

I am wondering what is the largest known core hydrogen-burning star? A look at the list of largest known stars on Wikipedia seems to indicate VV Cephei B (at the bottom of the list), but I would like to know for sure if it is the largest known. In addition to knowing which star it is, I would also like to know its temperature, size, and expected lifetime. I am also curious to know if the largest known core hydrogen-burning star is similar to what astrophysicists theorize is the largest possible core hydrogen-burning star (given current metallicity conditions in the universe; I know star-formation timescales have a metallicity dependence) and the expected temperature, size, and lifetime of such an object. 

I'm coming across the concept of "period doubling" in RR Lyrae stars. When I look up what period doubling is on the Internet, I find general-level explanations of bifurcations of dynamical systems and transitioning to chaos. However, I am unable to apply these things to stars in a way I understand. What is period doubling, and what is physically happening in a star to lead to period doubling? 

Let me answer what I think you're asking (parts of your question aren't that clear to me). Background: I am currently an astrophysics graduate student. First, from you question it seems to me that you are proceeding under an assumption that you are accepted into a research group when you are accepted into a PhD program. Everywhere I looked as I applied for graduate school, though, this certainly was not the case. Not only was I not accepted into a specific research group at the schools I was accepted to but I was also encouraged to try out different research projects before settling on a specific topic to pursue for my dissertation. That being said, I do think there are some programs which may choose to accept or not accept you based on what you are thinking you would like to do for research (if you know). This may be because of resources (for instances, if all the professors who are experts in what you want to do research in already have as many graduate students as they want/have money for, that may impact your acceptance and will impact your chances of doing the research you want should you be accepted).