From Earth, Jupiter's maximum brightness is -2.94 and Saturn's is -0.24. But what about from Mars? They should be brighter, but by how much? There are equations at the obvious wiki entry but I'm not sure I understand them. Plus I'm afraid to attempt this calculation myself because I've heard that this sort of thing does not follow the inverse square law. They're reflecting light (not generating it), and I read somewhere that it should follow an inverse 4th power law because of that. I don't see any 4th powers in the apparent magnitude equations. 

I'm in search of historical knowledge of the outer ice giants, which seems so hard to come by. Right now I would be happy with just a photo of each, the best photo we had of them before Voyager 2. Such a photo from the 60's to early 80's would be great. This will almost surely be from the Hale Telescope at the Palomar Observatory, because it's 5 meter primary mirror was the biggest for a long time. Note: I'm not entirely sure that Neptune would even be a resolvable disk, but nevertheless I still want to see what our best photo of it (from that time) would be. After googling this for so long, I've come to the conclusion that the best bet would be old astronomy books, which sadly, I do not have. Maybe someone here can help me out. 

Note: there is no cite for it. I'm pretty sure the orbit of Pluto, including it's period, was calculated many years before 1965, to say nothing of Neptune. So how is it possible that astronomers missed the 2:3 resonance? Was orbital resonance just not a conceived concept until the sixties? 

The ecliptic (Earth's orbital plane) is inclined 23.4 degrees. This is the same as Earth's axial tilt. The Moon's orbit is inclined 5.145 degrees to the ecliptic. Therefore, the maximum latitude where a solar eclipse produces an umbra should be 28.545 N and 28.545 S. But this is clearly not the case. Wikipedia has a huge list of solar eclipses with charts. Here's one that goes very near the south pole. How is this possible? Edit: Actually I missed something. Since the Moon and Sun must be in the same place, and the Sun can never exceed 23.4 degrees declination, solar eclipses must be bound by 23.4 N/S. I should not have added the two angles. Thanks to user:berrycenter for pointing it out. 

Why are radio telescopes typically only a dish with a receiver above it, while optical telescopes have a primary, plus secondary and sometimes even a tertiary mirror? In other words, why do radio telescopes have only one reflector, while optical telescopes have up to three or more? The same wave phenomena, such as focusing, should apply in both cases. So I don't understand why the geometry would be radically different. You could just replace actual mirrors with a convenient solid, such as plastic, that reflects radio waves just as wells as mirrors reflect optical waves. 

I wanted to ask this question even though I realized the correct geometry in the middle of typing it. So I will answer this myself. First of all, the sub-lunar point never exceeds 28.545 N/S. If you're standing at the sub-lunar point, the Moon will be directly overhead. The Moon never wanders outside this latitude bracket. But that does not mean the Moon's shadow can't wander outside it. Here's one way it could happen. 

After searching through many videos, I finally found one that shows, from the perspective of low earth orbit, the Moon transiting the horizon. It is actually a Moonset, but it shouldn't make a difference. The Moon does not appear to change its color, neither gold nor red. This contrasts with my understanding of atmospheric effects. Here on Earth, the Moon does appear more yellow (and when halfway or less above the horizon, even red) during Moonrise. The atmosphere tends to scatter blue light, leaving only yellow and red behind. So why isn't this happening in the video? From orbit, we should be seeing the Moon through even more atmosphere. But I can't detect a trace of red or yellow in the Moon. Granted it's not the best quality video that it could be. It could be more zoomed in. But it was the only video I could find that showed the Moon transiting the horizon from space. 

Given that we've only measured about 1% or less of TNO orbits, how can we be sure we have a good random sample to say that a massive body must have aligned these orbits? In other words, all the other orbits might be randomly distributed, which would be compelling evidence that some giant body is not "syncing" orbits or else way more than 1% of them would be "synced". If I recall my statistics class correctly, 1% is not good enough for a random sample. The border-line good enough area starts at 3%, but there's still a catch: It has to be a random sample. There are still observation-bias questions here because obviously we've only mostly discovered the "nearby" TNOs, because they are easier to discover when they're "nearby". That certainly would not be a random sample even if we had 3% of them. TLDR: There are at least 100,000 distant objects, of which less than 1% of them have some kind of aligned orbit as far as we know today. Is this actually good evidence that something has aligned them? EDIT: Another analogy that might help. You have a bag of 100 marbles. You reach in and pull out 5 from the top of the bag (notice I didn't say any random 5!). They turn out to be 4 red ones and 1 black one. Is this actually good evidence that about 80% of the whole bag is red? 

I'm sure Caltech has answered this in some way, but I think it's a good question have on this site. What good evidence exists for the 9th planet as spoken of by Caltech? As I see it, Caltech has apparently looked at the orbital parameters of many Trans-Neptunian-Objects (TNOs) and noticed that the lines between their perihilion and aphelion (i don't know what the technical term might be) all run more or less in the same direction. This is evidence that some large body has gravitationally "synced" these planets over millions of years. Except that alone isn't good evidence. Here are two stats first: