Probably somewhat painful, depending on how much you age. I would think the more prevailing sensation is weakness of limbs and a sense of lethargy as energy is sapped out as well and your cells, bones and body parts age prematurely. 

I am writing a story where a species undergoes devolution. Is there any scientific or plausible way to do this? The process can be instantaneous or may take ages, I do not mind which as I need to weigh my options at this stage. To be clear, the devolution I am thinking of is like taking a human being then devolving him/her to the primate stage, so lets say about as far back as Orrorin tugenensis or Paranthropus where they are in the midst of evolving from primates to Homo erectus. Please note I used human beings as an example to give context but the species undergoing devolution may not necessarily be human. Based on the answers, "devolution" does not exist so had the word in quotes to reflect this. 

Humans, animals and various devices only have 2D vision: that is, we see a 2D projection of light reflected from various 3D objects in the direction of our eyes (and processed by our brains). I would like to describe a 3D vision, but without being fancy 5+ dimensional beings. Questions are both: how can it be realized and how would it feel to have such a vision? I want to keep all the limitations of our usual vision: finite resolution (amount of pixels), finite field of vision (area and distance), finite time resolution, finite spectrum and spectral resolution, etc. Of course I don't want to keep is to rely on electromagnetic spectrum alone. Better have a combination of scanning instruments, including various elementary particles. 1) One way is to have a million nanorobots (or organic analogue) with sensors floating in space and communicating with each other / some external processing device. If they are tiny enough they can even 'see' inside living tissue or some porous materials. The processing needed to 'comprehend' such image in real time is enormous though. And also, it will not be a higher-dimensional analogue to our vision, because we won't be able to 'turn our head' and see another 3D projection of a 4D object, we'd be more like a right hand circle in this 2D space: 

Quad or more legged mechs could be used to climb up terrain that is difficult for normal or heavy off road vehicles, specially if carrying a large artillery gun or cannon. Weakness is that once a leg is shot off, speed and mobility will be reduced increasingly by the number of legs destroyed. As another option, you could have wheels attached to the legs so they gain the same speed and mobility as wheeled tanks and these can switch out to climbing legs so that they can embed themselves much better in mountain or cliff-sides. Think along the lines of climbing axes or spikes. Also if say a quad legged mech gets one or two legs destroyed, they can theoretically still move about with the wheels attached to their legs and if you are up to it, maybe put in some wheels on the under-carriage. This way you get the best of both worlds? 

2) On the other hand a complete analogue the vision I want would be a usual 3D being seeing in 2D space: 

As a way to travel fast, my Earth-like planet is going to have a special train, circling it (the axis of the 'tracks' is aligned with the planet's axis of rotation). The thing about this train - it never stops and it doesn't end - there is no first or last car, they are all joined in a circle. Moreover, it's actually several trains, going parallel to each other. The first one travels at the speed of 5 km/h, such that any healthy person can get on it. Then the second train travels at 10 km/h, and they are close enough so it's no trouble to step from one to another. The next travels at 15 km/h, the next at 20 km/h, etc. I think about 200 trains should be enough to provide the means of fast travel around the planet. Of course, there is the matter of travelling to and from the tracks. As for the 'other side of tracks, we just need a second set of slower and slower trains. The problems with this concept: 

How can a population or civilization develop empathy to the point where they feel another beings emotion if they are only a few feet away regardless of species and even if they are familiar with the emotion or not. The only limitation is that they cannot broadcast emotions, just receive them. The level of empathy ability I am looking at is above what humans have today. More in line with strong telekinesis or telepathic abilities. 

They could manufacture agricultural items such as plows and digging tools. It does not need fuel to work which they need. They can do repairs as well. Basically fulfilling the roles of blacksmiths. This of course depends on the overall technological capabilities of the surrounding communities that trade with them. They can also do assembly of machinery given the specs are available or in the overseer's memory/database. Additionally they can trade information in manufacturing and calculations as well such as how deep to dig a well given certain parameters etc. This could prove more valuable than tools. 

(!) Important! The only thing I'm handwaiving is the tracks construction. Let's say we somehow managed to do it, despite the mountains, bodies of water, etc. Maybe under the surface, but I won't elaborate further. 

Specifics: the magical ability is genetic, very rare (about one in ten thousand people will be born with it), and no mage can be too strong (no destroying mountains, drying lakes etc.). Also, the nature of magical spells is fundamentally different from any technology or natural phenomena (i.e. laser beams or lightning), even if the effects can be similar. In other words, think Harry Potter kind of magic (not literally, but close enough). But there is a third group of people, who have a genetic ability to resist any magical effect (be it physical or mental). Their numbers are approximately the same as for people with magic. In other aspects, they are normal, with no special abilities. Let's call the groups mundanes, mages and insulars (the third group). Some of the effects: 

You can also explore the possibility of increased gravity. Creatures from a world with a high gravity would be either become smaller or larger. See this Reddit ($URL$ It really depends on how you want the outcome to be. If the stronger/higher gravity was not sudden then life would evolve to fit the environment and that would include denser bones, probably larger lungs and multiple hearts to support the body, muscle density becomes higher and would make creatures larger. I've read a few books I think it was Pip and Flynx by Alan Dean Foster (don't quote me on this) where one of his species was large and strong due to living in a higher gravity world. 

Since you are in a fantasy setting anyway, why not make the material strong but light like elven chainmail? You can make a sword like Clouds (FF7) and it would still be light and strong. 

In the end, I would like some help in fleshing out both options 1) and 2), possible ways to desribe them, and related problems and maybe some references to similar ideas? There's a similar question here Would a 4-dimensional being be able to see inside other people? and one of the answers describes something similar to what I want $URL$ but all of it is not science based. 

I hope the question is not too broad, I will accept partial answer as well. Probably the only question: how to make this means of travel feasible? I want to make this believable enough so the real fun about the societal implications could start. Can you imagine working as a conductor on this train? 

You can use terrain to your advantage. A gorge with a width opening on the enemy side narrowing down to a small opening will help to make the waves manageable. If its a flat plain, a fall back, ranged strategy might work if the plain is big enough. Couple this with area attack weapons such as mortar, bombs, mines etc. Air support (not sure what your tech level is) would also be good as they can soften up and even wipe out waves without having the ground troops go into it. Mortar, artillery etc. basically keep your distance. If your tech level permits it, then automated weapons towers could work even better and they can fire off pulses of electricity, streams of fire, or plasma etc. 

Question: In a modern setting with total population about the same size and the same level of technology/medicine, how would the three groups coexist realistically? We assume that around Middle Ages everyone knew about magic, or at least suspected. 

In this image purple lines is what the blue ball sees: projection of a 2D space at different moments in time. Since I don't want extra dimensional beings, let's say we are all 4D (including time) and go from there. Now it's much more complicated to realise, since 'turning our head' we'd be able to see a projection of 3D space existing at several moments of time simultaneously in the past and in the future. I can't even begin to imagine how it would feel and how it could be processed.