All conditioned-own-made is painful. All conditioned-own-made is impermanent. All things are not self (Everything is not self, Nothing is self) 

What does the Buddha mean by 'the all' (sabba) as found in the suttas? How is this perspective categorized philosophically and how does this perspective compare with other modern philosophies? I have a good understanding of the early Buddhist perspective but am clueless as to the academic philosophical context. Is it for example both a rational and empirical way of seeing the world, is it one among other similar perspectives, is it defensible? 

(Everything) that is (own-created and thus conditioned) (is painful). (Everything) that is (own-created and thus conditioned) (can be changed, or broken down into smaller parts). (Everything) that is (everything is not self). That is what the Buddha taught. 

Wikipedia does a good job of summarizing the four stages of enlightenment, which are stream-enterer, once-returner, non-returner, and arahant. They are distinguished by their remaining attachments such as clinging to rituals, self-view and doubt to an arahant who is fully released. There are no objective standards for determining the stage of another individual but there are certainly clues. For example, any expression of self-view is undeniable falsification: Insult their mother and see how they react. However, the stages along the path are subjectively but entirely testable and in minute granularity. All schools of Buddhism recognise the authority of the nikayas/agamas, in which the Buddha describes the dhamma and practice in detail. While many factors are enumerated, in whole the path and attainments are not linear. For example the four material jhanas are sequential but the eight-fold path is better described as cyclical such that the development of each characteristic reinforces the other characteristics of the path. Wisdom, virtue, and concentration are developed in parallel. Some traditions emphasise an instantaneous enlightenment (chan, zen), some hold a view of a prior enlightened Bodhi nature that must be revealed, while traditionally it was presented as a methodical process. But I don't think it would correct to say that different traditions have different notions of enlightenment. I hesitate here on certain teachers, particularly in Tibetan/bon traditions, who assert the rebirth of arahants. The rebirth of enlightened worthy ones contradicts the Buddha's own definition of nibbana/nirvana, which literally means unbinding, fading out, the end of rebirth, not entering any womb. But rebirth is difficult to objectively test without some fancy super-mundane instruments. 

The idea that our minds and bodies work according to some physical (as opposed to supernatural) laws is often sourced to de La Mettrie, though of course as with any major idea it's hard to give one source. The Wikipedia page on materialism lists thinkers going back as far as 600 BCE; the Cārvāka thinkers had ideas I think Anderson would find quite suitable, for example: 

Yes, of course. This idea is most famously discussed in Nick Bostrom's Are You Living in a Computer Simulation? Note that "Roko's Basilisk" is doing no real work for you here – you don't need any esoteric forms of decision theory to accept Bostrom's argument. 

I found that Diamond and Koopmans have booth done some interesting work in this area. The blog post Kill the young people has a discussion of Diamond's paper, and Koopmans' "Stationary Ordinal Utility and Impatience" can be found here. Basically, they investigate the idea of "impatience" (valuing things which come earlier more) and show that under some reasonable conditions, population ethics must be impatient, a very counter-intuitive finding. It is often mentioned in the context of environmental ethics. 

Suppose we believe the "thirder" position of the Sleeping Beauty Problem. That is, we believe that . Applying Bayes' theorem, we get 

While it's a big area, John Dewey has to be near the top of this list. Experience and Education probably serves as a good crash course. Since you specifically mentioned ethics, his book Moral Principles in Education may be of interest. The basic summary is that education should teach not just things like algebra but also "how to live a good life", which would include education about ethical reasoning. 

Among the enlightened, there is a semantic distinction between buddhas, arahants, with residue and without. A buddha is self-realised while an arahant followed the path of a buddha. An enlightened one with residue is still supported by the khandas (he has a body and is alive) while after death (paranibbana) an enlightened one is not supported by the khandas, not supported by a body, is dead and will not return to any womb. Perhaps a more useful question, if I may: "How does one choose a worthy teacher?" 

All translation is interpretation of some sort; What is a good practical method(s) for seeing through the bias of translators and teachers to arrive at the best understanding of the original meaning and presumably lead toward truth? 

According to the Mahayanna tradition 'emptiness' refers to the conditioned inherently not-self nature of things. The Buddha himself never used the term 'emptiness' in this context but the underlying idea (anicca, anatta, [dukkha]) is consistent across all Buddhist traditions. It may be useful to realise that when the Buddha refers to 'the all' (sabba) he is referring to only what you can perceive. When he refers to 'being' and 'existence', he is not just describing conditioned but also an identified/personified/unified/own-created delusion (sankhara) that supports our consciousness (vinnana) and maintains our false sense of self (an/atta). So there may be a car in front of you. You may perceive it as red. Your neighbour may say it is red. But what do you really know? You perceive the colour through your eyes and you hear your neighbour through your ears and you interpret the meaning with your mind. Let's say the car exists (the Buddha discouraged and was himself careful not to engage in speculative discussion of whether there 'really' is a car or not, he stuck with what you can know, test, and what is conducive to liberation). You experience a red car and you experience a neighbour confirming its redness. That is really it, the all, sabba, the whole shabang. 

I don't think I fully understand your example about CH (it seems to me you could indeed go quite wrong assuming that CH is true with probability 1/2...) but I would encourage you to check out The Philosophical Significance of Cox's Theorem. It highlights some domains in which Cox's theorem could be plausibly said to fail. (One of which is, as you say, when the law of excluded middle fails.) On the other side of things, Quantum probabilities as Bayesian probabilities demonstrates a link between Bayesian probability and quantum probability (a domain in which the distributive property doesn't hold). So this idea is quite robust, even in the bizarre world of QM. 

Cody and Joe gave good answers, but I'd like to add that a common form of argument that you find in philosophy and not so much other places is a Syllogism. This is an argument of the form "P implies Q, P, therefore Q." As an example, a simple form of the argument from marginal cases goes like: 

I emphasize "morally relevant" since it is a question for biology to list the anatomical differences, which is of course an important thing to do, but off topic here. Phrased this way, this is the argument from marginal cases. Essentially, the claim is that so-called "marginal humans," such as those with severe cognitive handicaps, have mental capabilities similar (or inferior) to some non-humans. Quoth Singer (from Animal Liberation): 

Nanotechnology and problems with super intelligence were the two most likely reasons the experts gave for human extinction in the next century. You might also believe that that humans will go extinct before becoming "post-human" simply because post-humanity isn't possible (e.g. it simply isn't possible to simulate a human mind on a computer chip). The second fork of the trilemma seems harder to argue for: perhaps people will view this as unethical, or perhaps simulations will be extremely expensive, but it seems harder to argue for this. 

The goal of the Buddha's doctrine is said to be the eradication of 'dukkha' variously translated as anguish, stress, unsatisfactoriness, pain... what is the definition of this term as given in the suttas? What is the intended scope of this term? 

The word you are most likely translating as 'desire' is tanha (taṇhā), literally thirst. A better translation might be 'craving'. Without desire how could one follow the Buddhist teachings? ("I might like to study the suttas, practice meditation, cultivate loving-kindness, but frankly, I don't desire it." -- is inconsistent with the Buddha's teaching). While the Buddha discourages superficial spending sprees on oneself, he encourages all to give generously. If a society took this teaching seriously, there would be no shortage of consumption. It might interest you to know that certainly not bad karma, but neither is good karma the ultimate Buddhist goal. The goal is the elimination of all karma (pali kamma) or intentional action. But until that is possible one should accumulate good karma to calm the mind. In a similar vain, neither abject poverty nor opulent wealth is a Buddhist goal. The Buddha taught a middle way. 

Is Buddhism a philosophy (love of wisdom), a systematic approach to analysing experience (subjective science), an ethical and logical framework, a theory and conclusion that can be tested? Yes it is. Does Buddhism challenge fragile beliefs held without empirical evidence such as notions of a vengeful creator god, a sense of self or soul? Yes it does. Is Buddhism a religion as undefined by Wikipedia, "an organized collection of belief systems, cultural systems, and world views that relate humanity to spirituality" Probably. respect for what is sacred, Yes. reverence for the gods, Not particularly. obligation, the bond between man and the gods Absolutely not. Latin religiō, ... *le-ligarean ... lego "read", "choose", "go over again" or "consider carefully" Yes. ligare "bind, connect", ... prefixed re-ligare, ... "to reconnect," Yes as far as a community. No as far as the ultimate goal is nibbana (nirvana) which means 'unbinding', release, detachment, blowing out. Are you likely to find Buddhists argue with you even if you do not engage them in debates of theological speculation? No, I do not think so. 

There seems to be an equivocation between "rational" and "believes only in things which are 'true.'" This is not at all what "rational" means: 

There is a view known as "reductionism" which is often attributed to the Vienna Circle. The strictest form of the view (which is the one most attributable to the Vienna Circle) is that non-reductive statements are in some sense meaningless. From the paper you have linked though, I think you may be asking about a weaker form of reductionism: 

Confucius is sometimes considered to have promoted a form of social contract theory. He would be an exception, having been born into poverty in rural China. 

I think you really need to understand what "utilitarianism" means to Mill. The caricature of utilitarianism as "the greatest good for the greatest number" is good as far as pithy sayings go, but it leaves a lot of complexity out. You might consider Mill's famous claim: 

His home page has links to papers written about this, with reference to science and mathematical beauty. 

By the definition of the problem, , and similarly since it is just the marginal over heads and tails. This leaves us with . So does that mean the thirder position implies that the prior probability of getting heads is 1/3? I.e. that even before the coin is tossed, we should assign a probability of 1/3 to heads? 

Dissenters from this argument generally embrace the view that the question is misguided: ethical value doesn't come from having some set of capabilities, but rather arises through a shared contract etc. Carl Cohen defends this view, for example. Entire books have been written about this, if you are interested to continue researching it. On other fronts, you might be interested in the work that Varner, among others, has done to describe the likelihood that various species feel pain which can be roughly summarized as "vertebrates feel pain; insects possibly not so much". And Dan Dennett expresses some uncertainty as to what extent non-humans are conscious, but of course he is quite skeptical of most accounts of human consciousness as well. 

What the later tradition is emphasising with the term 'emptiness' is that what is perceived should not be personified, there is no thing there that is the self, neither the perceived nor the perceiver. It is not the car that is necessarily an illusion or unreal, but your sense of self and ownership. Yourself, your neighbour, your admiration of a car; these are the conditioned, own-created, identified concepts that are inherently unreal, that are impermanent and lead to pain. 

The sangha, the community of beggars or monks, is an ideal environment for pursuing the Buddhist path. The parisa (parisā) or Buddhist community, necessarily includes the monks, nuns, laymen, and laywomen. The sangha is entirely dependent upon the lay-community, the householders, the money makers, for material requirements, just as the layity depend on the monks for spiritual inspiration. A society is weaker without these four supports of the entire parisa. Suppose one is not prepared to abandon the householder life or has family to care for. He or she must do what they can, no more nor less. That realistic middle way is taking Buddhism seriously. The Buddha offers much advice for the laity. Beyond moral precepts (do not kill, lie, steal, sexual misconduct, intoxicants), the closest thing to a requirement that impacts economy is probably right livelihood. 

Even if an individual took the Buddhist teachings as seriously as if his pants were on fire, he would still have to create a moral and material environment that is conducive to the path. Abandoning a starving dependant family is not conducive the path. Going into the forest with insufficient clothing, shelter or means to obtain food will abort the path in short time. Many householders wealthy, poor, and in between followed the Buddhist path to the goal. The serious Buddhist path is seriously practical. It would likely look much like our present society, but without war, more equality, cleaner nature. If all members of society took Buddhism seriously, we would all be vegetarian not because the consumption of meat is forbidden, but because the slaughter is. This world you imagine is of course an ideal world. There would be no need for police, people would probably work less or on projects that most interested them or which had the most benefit as they saw fit. Material productivity might go down but happiness would certainly go up. And what should be the ultimate goal of any economic system? (my hyperlink references were denied due to my newbie-nature) 

With your edit I will venture a guess as to a more specific question, which hopefully is similar to what you want to know: 

At the end of the second section of On Liberty, Mill gives a summary of the four reasons why there should be free speech: 

I'm interested in sources discussing the obligations we have to be "beneficent", e.g. through charitable donations. Famine, Affluence and Morality is one of the more famous articles of this type. SEP has an overview as well. I am more interested in utilitarian-based reasoning, and things discussing what the "common man" can or should do, as opposed to things like medical ethics. 

Dennett talks about this as "Skyhooks" vs. "Cranes" A Crane is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on simple, fundamental principles. This is like evolution. A Skyhook (a crane hanging from a helicopter) is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on no firm foundations. This is like creationism. Some of the criticisms you bring up have been brought up by others who say that Dawkins doesn't differentiate well enough between these two in his Boeing 747 Gambit. He may not have presented the argument perfectly, but others have made it more rigorous. 

I am going to focus solely on Bostrom's argument for the simulation hypothesis, as opposed to metaphysical skepticism in general. First, note that Bostrom himself doesn't find this overwhelmingly likely: 

A harder question to answer would revolve around defining 'truth'. We might suggest that to assert "X is true" means something like "it is useful for one to believe X". We could point to an increased sense of community among believers, for example, as evidence that belief in a divine being is useful and therefore true. This is a (poorly phrased version of a) tack that James took.