Labour unions are pushing for wage increase but what is maximal theoretically possible wage increase here and now - without restructuring production, processes and without introduction of new technologies? As far as I can imagine then the decrease of dividend (profit) is the only possible source of wage increase. So - how much wages (in percentage terms) can theoretically be increased if profit is reduced to 0% from invested capital? On can start the calculations with estimating the average wage share in the expenses of average company and go on... Of course - another source of increase of lowest wages is the redistribution of the wages, lowering highest wages in enterprise and there can be great opportunities. 

This is a common area of study in Development Economics. There is for example the Dual-sector model, first developed in 1954. It is very well explained in the link provided, but basically: 

Blundell, et. al (2014) offer an explanation. According to them, the UK economy experienced a positive labour supply shock over that period. First, they present the facts in a very intuitive fashion (graph taken from the working paper version): 

leads also to an ordering from lowest to highest in occupation B? Absolute advantage? Positive correlation? leads to the exact opposite ordering in B, i.e. from highest to lowest? Comparative advantage? Negative correlation? produces no particular order in B? 

Contrary to the common view, the physics is all about models, there are no such thing as law of nature, because every physical law has its applicability range and therefore all of laws as models. But any physical law derives from one principle - $URL$ - any particle theroy (there are hundreds of them) is written as the model Lagrangian and then variational principle is applied to arrive at dynamical equations and observable quantities that can be corroborated in experiments. My question is - is there similar approaches, theories, most general models in economics from which every other model or economic law can be applied. If there are such models, then the automation of economics can be achieved (assuming that the automation of mathematics will be completed, e.g. with project $URL$ I have heard definition - the economics is a tuple <...> but I can not remember the book or article or the content of this tuple. Usually such tuples contain t]general mathematical objects: sets of agents with preference functions, set of interaction mechanisms (market system, competition patterns (monopoly etc.)), sets of external shocks (endogeneous factors) and so on... I am seeking more for literature references, trends, keywords, not exhaustive answer. I can further research question by my own, but I should be informed from where to start my efforts. Macroeconomics can (and should) be derived from the microeconomics, therefore I am seeking the model that states first principles - general microeconomic model (from which the general macro models could also be derived in the best case). 

A working paper on this question was just published, albeit the document is in Spanish. The abstract is in English though. The report is solely concerned with inflation. Here is the abstract: 

If you want homogeneous, long and wide coverage, the best option might be the World Bank Development Indicators for science and technology. Some of them have been mentioned above. See the database here, and here is a paper using them to study their importance on technical change. A dataset which is also quite popular at the moment is that of robots, compiled by the International Federation of Robotics. The logic is the same than that of using ICT (notice both of these could be considered as capital too). For example, see here. The authors state: 

So - my question is - how economics and policy planning is responding to these trend. Are there research trends, topics, journals, important monographs with such perspective? I feel that the current developments put the developed nations in the situation that is somehow similar to developing countries - in need to increase competitiveness and in need to correct social issues raised by unequal social development. So - these topics should be researched. I know that I have raised many different topics in my question, but my aim is not to receive separate answer on any of those topics. My aim is to get the name and references to the research trend which answers those questions. 

As Brian said, international organisations are a good place to start. For example, the World Bank publishes periodic economic outlook updates on each country. For Egypt, see here. There is a pdf link to the right of the page. They covers aspects like GDP growth, inflation, financial and fiscal accounts, and also some prospects on ongoing, pro-business reforms. Another source is the African Economic Outlook reports. Here is the one for Egypt. This is a bit more broad, including analysis of debt, revenues and spending, monetary policy, governance, natural resources management, and the social sphere (poverty, social protection, gender equality). See also the website of the IMF dedicated to Egypt. Finally, having worked in the financial sector for a few years, I know that most of the investment banks produce periodic reports on every country their clients might have investment interests, reports that usually include a lot of forecasts. Albeit most of these reports are not available to the public, some googling still yield some results. For example, here is a very comprehensive analysis for Egypt from Deutsche Bank, published two months ago. Other asset management companies also produce such reports (e.g here). 

In our country we have 25% personal income tax on labour, 15% corporate tax on corporations and 10% personal income tax on income from capital (e.g. dividends). Pundits in our country are saying that we have flat tax rate across all types of income, because - they are saying - 15% corporate tax and 10% capital income tax amounts to the 25% tax on the income from the capital. Are their analysis correct? This question leads to the following question - does return in capital (after taxes) depneds on the corporate tax rate? What empirical analysis and models are saying about this? From the one hand - it seems that corporate tax have impact on the gains after corporate tax from the other hand - maybe free market reprices the capital in such manner that the return on capital (after corporate tax) does not depend on the corporate tax rate? Does the tax system of our country is just, normal, appropriate and similar to for the developed Western democracy country? I feel that to speak about flat (equal) taxation we should have 25% tax on all the types of income and we should not take into account the corporate tax when considering personal income tax. How this analysis proceeds in Western democracies? Or should we speak about price/earning share ratio as the most sensible measure of return on capital - does this ratio depend on the corporate tax? 

Which add up to billion Rials (this includes Oil production). To translate this into $USD, which is the metric of the World Bank data, you would need to assume something about the exchange rate. Do you use the average over the quarter? Over the year? For example, the same official statistics website above offer a measure of GDP in USD for the Gregorian calendar (see here): Unfortunately, they do not mention which exchange rate conversion was used. Meanwhile, the World Bank offers a slightly different one: 

Now, the firm hires workers, to which it pays $w$, and uses its technology $F(\cdot)$ to produce $Y$ goods within one period. These are sold at a unit price $p$. Therefore, from an accounting point of view, the firm's profits at the end of the period are: $$ \pi_c = pY - wL $$ Then, it follows that the rate of return on equity (RoE, or $R$) is: $$ R \equiv \frac{\pi_c}{K} $$ Additionally, since the opportunity cost during the period of production of the capitalist was $rE=rK$, economic profits of the firm are: $$ \pi_e = pY - wL - rK = \pi_c - rK $$ Replacing the RoE in the above yields: $$ \pi_e = RK - rK $$ Therefore, the firms make positive economic profits whenever the rate of return on equity is higher than the opportunity cost rate (the govt. bond yield). It is expected that in competitive markets/long run, the price of the good will be adjusted so that the RoE equals $r$, where there are no economic profits ($\pi_e=0$). With this conditions, any capitalist is therefore indifferent between buying the government bond and setting up a firm. 

Developmental studies usually is field of reasearch whose object is developing countries and industrial policy studies similarly are attributed to the developing countries or the things of the past. But still I feel that issues researched by these branches of economics are becoming more and more relevant to the economics of developed countries: 

There are folklore stories that investments in human capital have saturation level beyond which the marginal return decreases to zero. My questions are - are there measurements how closely the saturation level has been achieved in developed and almost developed countries and have the developed and almost developed countries exhausted all the necessities to make investments in human capital. I.e. my question is - why there are so few investments in human capital in developed and nearly developed countries, do the decision makers believe that the saturation level has been achieved and there is no expected return possible for the further investments? My feeling is that the current decision makers are not fair and that there can be really great return from the additional investment in the human capital but such investments are not being made due to some factors (e.g. due to lobbying efforts by primitive businesses which need primitive and cheap labor). Therefore I am seeking scientifically sound view on this problem.