You don't say what training you are currently doing, or where you are losing time? Is it towards the end of the 400m? Do you happen to know your 200m split? Is this a race or during training? If you can supply a little more information, I will try to make the answer specific to you, but with the information that I have, here is my answer. To run a good 400m you need speed/endurance. This means that you need to run a good speed for the whole distance, but it is too far to sprint, therefore you need some endurance as well. What I would recommend is to train once a week, under distance. Say 200m, but do lots of them, making sure your pace is faster than that of half of the 400m. So for you I would suggest around 40 seconds or there abouts. Do 5-6 200 metres with no more than a minutes rest(maximum) in between. Then in the same week I would train over distance: 3 times 600 metres or 800metres The first session will make you faster, the 2nd session will help you maintain pace. A very common problem for 400m is to fade badly in the last 100m, this is caused either by lack of endurance training or starting too fast. If you running the 400m on you own in training,you may find if you bring someone to training with you that you are able to beat your time now. There's nothing like a bit of competition to get the best out of yourself. Regarding technique, in the last 100m or so, when you are getting tired, concentrate on keeping your running form, make sure you are pumping your arms. You could definitely gain a few seconds if you do that. I hope that helps, and good luck with your goal 

Firstly congratulations on your marathon, and I hope you are pleased with your result. What I'm going to suggest is hard for marathon runners to do, but honestly it is the best thing to prevent injury and help you recover quickly. The best thing for you to do, is to stop running for 2-3 weeks. This is what people like Paula Radcliffe do, and we all know how hard she trains. Instead of running, you should walk or swim. This will help pump the blood round your body to speed the recovery process without taxing already sore muscles. So many people I see get injured in that first month after a marathon, because they are on a marathon high, and continue to pound out the miles. Enjoy your rest, spend more time with family and friends, then return to running slowly. 

It very much depends on the injury and the extent, but, I normally find there is something I can do. If I can't run, maybe I can cycle or swim. Maybe, I can only do upper body weights, and abs. There are usually alternatives, but you do need to listen to your body, and medical advice. Sometimes, it's nice to be a little imaginative, and try something you haven't tried before, it also depends on how you feel about missing weeks of training. If you're okay with it, then enjoy the rest. For me, I'd rather do something else, than missing lots of training. 

I don't think it will have an adverse affect on your fitness, but it will cause a dip in your energy levels, and make you more likely to reach for the wrong type of foods later, as you will be so hungry. What foods have you tried at lunchtime that are making you sleepy? Pasta, or anything that is too heavy is likely to have this affect. Try A salad, a wrap or a bagel these shouldn't have the affect of making you sleepy, and will keep your energy levels more consistent throughout the day. 

You should start to see weight lose within a week, if you are doing it properly. A couple of pound a week, is realistic. Look at your diet, and exercise program. There are app that will help you count calories, and help you workout how many calories you require to lose weight. Myfitnesspal is pretty good. Don't go lower than recommended, otherwise your metabolism will slow, as your body will think its being starved. Good luck 

I think it would be a good idea for a physio to have a look at you to see if you truly have a muscle imbalance. If you can afford to pay, see if you can find a sports physio. If not, go to the doctors, and explain that it has been suggested that you have a muscle imbalance and ask them to refer you to a physio. If you have an imbalance the physio would be able to tell you the exercises to do to strengthen the muscles that need strengthening. 

I would do internal and external rotation exercises with a resistance band. For internal - Fix a band around a fixed point. Start side on to band. With arm closest to band, fix elbow into waist. Take hand/forearm across body and back, keeping elbow at 90 degrees. External rotation - again fix band. With arm furtherest from band. Start with elbow fixed to waist and across stomach. Stretch resistant band, keeping elbow at 90 degrees and into elbow. There is a YouTube example here. I have only watched first 2 exercises mentioned here, so can't comment on the rest of the clip. $URL$ 

I would say there isn't too much difference. You probably go slightly lower on the press using dumbbells. So arguably this could be deemed harder. Personally, I think you would get more gain from putting your feet on a raised platform which will bring your weight more forward(this would be harder than normal or dumbbell presses) 

I'm not entirely clear from the question as to whether you are looking for a program to correct an imbalance or prevent one? If you are trying to prevent one you could use supersets. This is where instead of having a rest inbetween sets. You work the opposite muscle. For a muscle to be working, the opposing muscle must be at rest. So for example. You could work biceps immediately followed by triceps. Back followed by chest. That way you can make sure you are working back and front equally. If you are looking to correct an imbalance you would need to be more specific in your question. Form is very important for many reasons. To prevent an imbalance, to get the most benefit from the exercise and to prevent injury. 

If you go to a decent running shop they will be able to analyse your gait and whether or not you under or over pronate. They will also be able to recommend the best shoes for you. This is usually done on a treadmill with a camera, and you won't have to pay extra for it. Unless you are a top level or shorter distance track runner (where running style can affect speed) I wouldn't worry too much about your style, unless it is causing you to get injured. I hope that helps 

It sounds like you were pushed just that little bit too hard, but like others have said, it shouldn't be anything to worry about. Maybe you could get to the gym a few times without the trainer, to help increase your fitness. I'm sure after a few weeks of training this sickness will ease off. For a beginner it's ideal if you can train 3 times a week. Even if a couple of sessions are just 20-30 minutes. It all helps. 

I would suggest the answer is goal setting. If you have a goal of losing 8 pound by the end of a month, and at the time agreed that it was realistic. You will be focused on your goal, and will think a little more before reaching for the donuts. There are things you can do to help yourself. When you know that healthy food isn't readily available, take yourself some health food, snacks. Look at menus before you are ready to eat, to see if there is a healthy option, if not try somewhere else. I personally wouldn't try to lose weight on holiday, but if you eat healthily whilst you're away, and have the occasional ice-cream and a couple of glasses of wine each night, you shouldn't put yourself back too far. So I think my message is this. Set a goal, to keep your focus. Plan what you will eat, when and where, and limit the alcohol on business trips, as it's full of empty caloies. I'm not saying it's easy when you are training, but it does come down to you, and how much you want to achieve your goal 

It depends on how high the blood pressure is? I would be very cautious about starting a exercise programme without clearance from the gp. If the high number of the blood pressure if over 145, a gym will refer you to the Doctor and they will require a letter back from your gp to say it is safe for you to train. I would not recommend weights, as this can elevate the blood pressure further. Definitely, no weights above head height. If all clear is given by the gp, I would start them on walking programme, and swimming. Whilst exercise will help to bring the blood pressure down. It may need to be brought down with medication before an exercise programme can begin. I cannot stress enough how dangerous it can be to workout with a very high blood pressure! 

I think Yoga would be a great idea to help stretch out your tightness. However, I would suggest that you also, need to do back, chest and glutes specific strengthening exercises to address the imbalance. As Dan Andrew said Yoga alone will not fix your imbalance problem. You have to stretch the shortened(tight muscle) and strengthen the weaker muscle to get things back in balance. 

The advantage of training first thing, is that you have started to speed up your metabolism for the day No problems with training later in the day, and you would still get the after burn. Depending on how late you go, I think getting to sleep may be more difficult, as normally the metabolism slows when you go to sleep 

There are some great exercises you can do with TRX. In particular you can put your feet in the stirrups, bringing your weight more over your hands, and giving an unstable base, to do pressups, up and down planks etc.. Lots to do, but think you would still need the weights. A great piece of kit to enhance a home workout though. 

The ideal scenario is to test your breakfast during training, as the last thing you need is to eat something that upsets your stomach. I'm not a triathlete, but have run several marathons. For me porridge with honey worked well, with a banana nearer the start time. Personally I wouldn't have the fruit salad, but everyone is different. If you have tried carbohydrate drinks prior to training, I'd also sip that prior to the race, but trying something new on race day, is not a good idea. Good luck with your race 

I presume from the tone of your question that you are normally pretty active and that you are getting frustrated with lack of time to train? Presuming that this is the case. There are a few things I can suggested that will maximise the training effect with the time and equipment that you have. Regarding your weight sessions, it sounds as if the weights you are using are too light for you. Generally the maximum of one exercise you would do is 25, and then you would increase the weight. So an ideal scenario would be for you to buy heavier weight, but if this isn't an option, I would suggest change to more advanced versions of the press ups - you could put your feet on a chair(whilst maintaining a good position). This will bring the weight over your shoulders and thus make the exercise harder. The other thing you could do, is Keep all the exercises using the same muscle together, so muscles are tired before starting next exercise. As for your overall training the week, I would add some Tabata training once or twice a week(not consecutive days). This is very high intensive circuit style training with very strict timed work/recovery. You need to select 3-4 (preferably multi-muscle exercises, ones that are not dangerous if you start to lose form. Burpees would be a good example. You could also do lateral lunges. Lunge to one side bring feet together and shoulder press, then lunge to the otherside(repeat). Tuck jumps, and lunges(alt legs)with or without weights. The 4 exercises make 1 round. You need to do between 4-8 rounds. I would suggest 30 seconds work/followed by 10 seconds recovery. I would change the running long run on Saturday to be interval training. This could be fartlek or something like the following:- warmup for 10 minutes. Run 1 minute hard/followed by 1 minute jog. Repeat 6-10 times. Then do 10 minutes cool down jog. There are many different sessions you can do like this. I would stick with Sunday 1 hour run. I think these small changes could have a big impact on your training 

It sounds to me as of you have weak glutes. This is a common problem for runners. What tends to happen is the hamstrings take over. You need to do exercises that activate them. Dead lifts are quite good for this. Or balancing on one leg and touching the floor in different positions. These 2 exercises exercise the maximus glutes. You can also, stand on one leg, keeping hips in line squeeze buttocks muscle and raise other leg to side(foot slightly turned in. This will engage the glutes medius. As will good mornings, and kb swings(when performed properly) 

I think breaking 3 hours or better for a marathon or 1.20 for half is very unlikely on training just at the weekends. Of course it depends on your starting point, and if you do lots of other cardio work during the week. Even if you are extremely talented, you still have to train to get the good results. I know many people who run sub 3 hour marathons, and have done so myself on a number of occasions. All train hard with a minimum or 4-5 training days a week. The marathon is to be respected, you can't just turn up and expect it to be ok. 

If you are reading, or watching tv your body isn't completely switched off. This is resting, which is beneficial, but in no way can or should it replace sleep 

Yes protein from beans, pulses, lentils and nuts. I wasn't sure on the amount, but found this link $URL$ Which I think you may find useful. It says about 1 gram per pound of body weight for example a 200lb bodybuilder requires 200gms of protein a day. This is not my area of expertise, so it would be great if someone could comment, and confirm if this sounds about right. Thanks 

Aerobics won't make you taller, however at age 15/16 you are still growing. Girls are still growing until around 18 and boys i believe is early 20's. it's hard to say how much more you will grow and when, as everyone is different. A combination of eating a good diet and exercise will help you lose weight.