1) I don't recall exactly those experiments, sorry; I only remember reading about it, but no doubt they involve exponentially increasing effects (i.e. chaos, in its mathematical meaning, more informally the butterfly effect) and inspecting ever more fine details. 2) I almost used the acronym SDS, Heinlein's Super Duper Snooper, with a footnote explaining it, but then I thought better of it. 3) Can't leave this without mentioning Charles Stross' “Accelerando” universe and “Glasshouse” novel. 

Well, the idea of a directly programmed intelligence, one where each main function of the mind was implemented by a programmer, was common in the 1970's. But while it's nice as a goal to gain better understanding of how e.g. vision processing works, it's wholly impractical as a way to create an intelligence. As already Alan Turing (1)noted in 1948 or so, the most likely way a machine intelligence is created, is the way that a human intelligence is created, namely by growing up and learning – with some basic instincts and abilities in place, of course. So a first answer is that the question as posed doesn't make much sense, because it's very unlikely that a machine intelligence will be of the directly programmed variety, that there will be any programming (except of basic functions such as edge detection in vision processing): I'd guesstimate that it's about as likely as a crocodile emerging up through the asphalt in the street, deftly stealing your wallet, only to be hit by a giant iron hippopotamus accidentally dropped from an airplane passing above. However, running on a digital platform means the possibility of making copies, partly or completely. It means the possibility of trying out things in simulated environments. Not the least it means that explorations of possibilities can be really, really fast. Currently the electronics is some millions times faster than our brain stuff, and that difference increases exponentially, which it's kept on doing since 1965 or so, roughly a doubling every 2 years. So we can expect some really fast evolution as soon as machine intelligences start creating new ones. 

The proof must have been carried out in some kind of formal system, otherwise it's not so much a proof as a persuasive argument. So, we have a proof in some system of the statement 1 + 1 != 2. Philosophers in the subject of logic, and mathematicians, would look closely at the details of this proof. Since all formal systems that anyone is interested in prove the opposite of this statement, also proving this statement demonstrates that whatever system was used, is inconsistent. So that system could no longer be used for serious work. Therefore, logicians would have learned something extremely important about that particular logical system, and they would want to know what other systems the same technique will prove inconsistent. The universe could not be "thrown into chaos" unless one believes in some kind of (dare I say it: magical?) effect by which the motion of stars in the Andromeda galaxy is significantly affected by what markings you make on a piece of paper on Earth. A solipsist might, I suppose, believe that the universe is sustained solely by their personal belief in logical consistency, and hence that the universe would be fundamentally altered by their reading this proof. Most people have enough faith in the existence of an external reality, not to believe that the universe has any interest in what proofs humans do or do not produce. I expect that philosophers not interested in logic and formal proof systems would mostly ignore the result, at least until the logicians explained to them exactly under what conditions they (the non-logicians) are actually using the same flawed system that proves 1 + 1 != 2, and therefore what reasoning it is they need to stop using. Of course it also depends to an extent on what you mean by disproving that 1 + 1 = 2. One might imagine a "physical proof" rather than a formal logical one. If you mean that someone has proven that they can place one orange in an empty bowl, and then place another orange in the same bowl, and no other oranges have been added or removed, and that the bowl now contains some number of oranges other than 2, you might say they've proved 1 + 1 != 2. But everyone's expectation is that actually, some kind of previously-unknown physical process involving oranges is involved. So while you've discovered something that really changes our notions of the nature of reality, that's not because of the "most fundamental equation" being logically wrong, it's because oranges (or physical objects in general) apparently don't obey arithmetic any more, and therefore the equation is no longer applicable to them. Naturally, this would be extremely troubling, because humans rely all the time on being able to count things, and so human society might well be throw into chaos. 

In purely formal logic Joe's and Alice's claims are invalid. In the real world, when the existence of something would very likely have caused evidence about it to be available, and no evidence is available, then that is a strong indicator of non-existence. This is what's implied by Bob's claim when it's interpreted as being about the real world. That's because you know that in the real world the existence of unicorns would likely have produced a lot of evidence about them. There would have been a whole industry providing unicorn pictures and stories etc. to fans of unicorns. I.e. the feeling of different strengths of arguments stem from interpreting the claims not as pure logic where the statements are all that is, but as real-world claims, with associated facts and inferences. To formalize this I think one would need to replace the word "evidence", which has different meanings in the real word and in pure logic, with e.g. "reports". Then one can say (P1) if unicorns exist then the probability of having seen at least one unicorn-existence-report would be >0.998, (P2) if unicorns don't exist the probability of having seen at least one unicorn-non-existence report would be <0.001. And with these (or other better) probabilities one can reason about the above Joe and Alice claims. 

The religious person might argue that "what your mama told you" might be morally incorrect, and therefore is not a moral center. For example, for all we know maybe she approved of stealing. But functionally as long as it's consistent it will serve as a source of moral imperatives, and so if the religious person argues this then they have been disingenuous. They are not really arguing that ethics is impossible without a religious text, they're arguing that true ethics is impossible without their religious text, the one they hold to be correct. Simply put two such religious people, of different religions or different doctrinal inclinations, in a room together, and leave them to rebut each others' arguments. The former claim, "morality requires a fixed moral center" might ultimately boil down to a particular definition of morality. It does seem reasonable that ethics must progress from some set of imperatives, but it might be that the words "fixed" and "center" are being imbued by the religious person with some sacred aura that a non-religious imperative can't, in their mind, compete with. If the religious person ultimately is defining morality to mean, "following the commandments of a religion" then logically speaking they're absolutely correct, atheists aren't moral, but you can get into their axioms with them in order to establish that they're begging the question. None of this is deep philosophy, but when the argument we're supposed to be rebutting contains the statement, "[atheists could] justify killing other humans on the basis of their actions or beliefs", as if this is something only enabled by their atheism, when in fact we observe many religious people who support war and/or the death penalty, then I don't think the philosophical big guns are really required. The argument you're presenting to be rebutted is pretty weak, and an expert could present a stronger version :-) 

Not quite arbitrary association 1: PβQ≡Q can be viewed as a special case of an indexing operation choose(F,P,Q)≡Q and choose(T,P,Q)≡P. I.e., the first argument decides which of the two following arguments should be the result. All binary logical functions can be expressed in terms of such indexing, e.g. P∧Q≡choose(P,Q,F). And this connection is used in many scripting languages to represent the result of a logical expression as one of the argument objects. E.g., in Javascript, IIRC, 

according to the Wikipedia quote above it was a mixed response. Some people, including Carl Hempel, “continued support of logicism”. Assuming that they didn't fail to understand the import of Gödel's work, one must conclude that these people did not see Carnap's “universal language” for reducing mathematics to logic, as essential to the logical positivism, whatever they then defined it as. 

The argument you want to rebut seems to come in two parts, the second of which doesn't get much attention from your idealised religious person: 

To add more context, this quotation is his response to the situation he's chosen to consider in this section of his essay. "Whenever I go into a foreign country or a prison or any similar place they always ask me what is my religion". The difficulty here is not about his beliefs, it's about how he can accurately answer that question when posed by some official or other. So, he's not changing his beliefs, he's changing the label he uses when describing his beliefs to different audiences. Russell assumes that to a philosophical audience the word "atheist" means "a person whose beliefs entail the non-existence of God", whereas "agnostic" means "a person who thinks there is no conclusive argument for or against the existence of God" (he explicitly states here that he thinks there is no conclusive argument against God. He has let it go without saying that he thinks there's no conclusive argument for God either). Therefore, to a philosophical audience he uses the word "agnostic" to describe his beliefs. He can't present a proof of God's non-existence from his own priors, which is what a "pure philosophical audience" would understand by the word "atheist". Then, Russell assumes that to the ordinary man in the street, "atheist" means "a person who does not believe in God". By this definition, Russell is an atheist, since "God exists" is not among his beliefs. Basically he's advocating talking to people in their own language rather than getting too hung up on the proper philosophical definitions at all times. Therefore that there's no contradiction in describing himself as an agnostic in one context and an atheist in another. In particular he sees no contradiction in publicly describing himself as an atheist and nevertheless believing that one cannot prove the non-existence of God. By raising the Olympian Gods as an example I think he is also teasing those who want to draw what he believes to be an overly-pedantic distinction between agnosticism and atheism. He asserts (rightly or wrongly) that there are many things other than the Christian God in which we don't believe, and which if absolutely pressed we would acknowledge can't be disproved either, but we don't go around in everyday life saying that we're agnostic on the subject. 

1) Mainly section 9 “The cortex as an unorganized machine” of his 1948 technical report “Intelligent Machinery” (the link is to my transcription of photocopies of the original manuscript). 

If you want an expression that involves P you can just choose any one before the first simplification where P disappears, or you can construct such as one. E.g. Q ≡ Q ∨ F ≡ Q ∨ P∧¬P. IF you want a symbol for it you'll have to define one, because there's no commonly used symbol. E.g. you can define PβQ ≡ Q, or whatever. 

can not entirely be understood this way, because of the word “hence”. I suspect that something’s been lost in translation here. 

No, he's saying that because he describes himself in everyday language as not believing in the Olympian Gods, and because (he says) his disbelief in those Gods is of a kind with his disbelief in the Christian God and every hypothetical God, that he should also describe himself in everyday language as an atheist. He's not describing anyone who disbelieves in the Olympian Gods and believes in the Christian God, and he's not saying that just because a person disbelieves in the Olympian Gods then they should be an atheist. 

I think the latter can be directly rebutted. Atheists could have an externally-delivered "fixed moral center" from a source other than a religious text, for instance: 

This is called disjunctive normal form, because it's a disjunction of individual conjunctions of the possible combinations of terms. You do not have to define each such table separately. 

if it is rephrased as “challenged” then the Wikipedia quote above applies and the answer is a clear yes. However, if you mean whether there is still a challange going on, literally “challenges”, then that depends on what exactly you mean by logical positivism for the present, and I have no answer. Presumably, though, a continued challenge based on some evolution of the concept of logical positivism is not an issue, or else it would surely have been mentioned. 

I happen to believe that this concrete instance of the argument form is valid. But I may be wrong – the conclusion is after all in line with my views on the matter, so I may tend to only see that which supports my views.