He shortened the chain, screwed the adjuster further in and used the adjusters on the cable stops near the front of the bike to tune it and everything is now silky smooth 

When you're on the road, the quickest and easiest way to get you back on the road is to use CO2 cannisters. They are not that cheap though and the CO2 will leak out of the tube faster than air (mostly N2), requiring topping up over the next few days. 

I work for a medium sized company (about 200 people). We have a small but reasonably active BUG (Bicycle Users Group). I've seen corporate cycling gear before and have some friends who can get corporate gear cheap. I'd like to propose to my company that they subsidise some corporate branded cycling gear, but I'm not sure how to pitch it. I've created a short survey on SurveyMonkey and know there is definitely some interest from my colleagues. From my perspective, the pluses are: 

At this point you should have the indicator reading 1 when you are in the first gear... a good start! Next try changing gears and adjusting the "Adjusting barrel" until you're getting good clean shifts. Finally change up to the highest gear and then tighten up the high gear limit stop so that you can't accidentally get the derailleur tangled in the spokes by over shifting. 

I've shown this technique to a number of people who have been instantly impressed with how effortless it is. It feels a bit weird the first time but very quickly feels natural. 

So it sounds like you've purchased brake calipers with the incorrect reach for your bike. You'll either need to put your old brakes back on, or purchase some calipers with the appropriate reach range for your bike. 

With this information we can give you some advice. Just as an alternative, you can also replace the cassette at the back to change your gear ratios. 

I now have my whisper quiet bike back, but the investigation took a lot of effort and skill. I'd suggest trying to find a better bike shop that specialises in servicing rather than sales. 

I commute to work regularly. I find that on some days when there's no perceivable wind, I feel like there's almost no air resistance at all and it's so easy to ride at speed. It's also relatively quiet without the wind roaring in my ears. On other days when there's no perceivable wind, it feels like I'm riding in soup. It's really hard to get any speed up and the air is quite noisy in my ears. I've discussed with my co workers and they often say they have the same effect on the same days as I've observed. Although they're also travelling in the same direction as me, so I can't rule out a very slight headwind causing the perceived difference. Possible explanations: 

You can use the Strava website to find categorised segments. You'll have to register for an account and I'm not sure how "official" the categories are. 

If you're replacing it with a similar range (1-2 teeth at either end) you should be fine. I wouldn't recommend changing the gear range significantly. I replaced my cassette with a much smaller biggest (in terms of number of teeth) gear and it wouldn't shift into the top couple of gears. I believe the length of the pivot arm on your derailleur is tuned (to a certain degree) to the range of your cassette. I agree with prototoast that you should probably replace your chain at the same time. 

Energy gels such as GU Energy gels are a pretty common quick acting energy source. For a more natural source, you could try honey 

Maybe you could use a surf board rack and try to slot the front wheel into the hooks somehow. The idea started when I thought maybe some kind of horizontal loop attached to the bike rack that you could just slot the front wheel in. It's hard to describe and my drawing skills are awful! 

I upgraded the standard Tektro brakes on my SE Lager to Shimano 105s. The braking performance is vastly improved. I also have Charge Plug wheels, rather than the stock wheels. However I've noticed that there's not quite enough adjustment in the calipers to position the pads correctly. Even at the lowest position in the caliper arms, the pads are still very slightly too 'high' and overlap the upper curve of the rim. Is this a problem? Is there anything I can do to solve it? 

This page contains a table with improvements that can be made with various aero clothing and equipment. Unfortunately the baseline is already a cycling jersey, not a standard cotton t-shirt. Given the improvements that clothing can provide though I would suggest the bike jersey would make a pretty big difference. For me, though the big improvement is in comfort. A sweat wicking jersey is so much more comfortable than a wet, heavy cotton t-shirt. 

Are the mounts the kind where both wheels stay on the bike, or the style where the front wheel is removed? If it's the kind where the front wheel is removed, then if: 

In many countries all helmets legally sold meet a certain minimum standard. So there is no "too cheap" option, as the cheapest helmet you can buy will be considered safe enough. In this case spending more gets you a lighter, better looking (subjectively) and more comfortable helmet. The USA also has a mandatory standard. For information about the standards and also plenty of other information and studies about the safety benefits of wearing helmets, see this wikipedia article 

You might be able to either do the work yourself or find someone locally who can convert an existing bike. It sounds like a fun project! St Kilda cycles (yes, I know they're almost certainly not convenient to you) can convert an existing bike to be belt driven. I just gave them a call and they cut the frame at the rear stay and insert a joiner, then replace the chainring, rear cog and chain for a belt. They're quoting $850 to $1000 (AUD) for all the parts and labour - the variance is because depending on the frame they can use an off the shelf frame joiner or whether they have to machine one up themselves. Here is a video of someone doing a conversion. Here's another thead discussion options and pros/cons 

This page (which is actually related to the ride I'm doing) suggests that I'm close, but should rest on Friday and do a short ride on Saturday. Some information about my training: 

then the bike might get flipped over by the wind and either fall off or damage your car. If you mount it facing fowards then the wind will be keeping the bike in the right position. So I'd recommend mounting it facing fowards. 

I have a Garmin Edge 200 GPS unit. I commute from the center of Melbourne CBD, where there are many tall buildings and not a good line of sight to satellites. I park in an underground garage, so there isn't an option to turn on the GPS for a few minutes before I set off. I've found through experimentation that if I turn on the GPS as soon as I start riding, it takes longer to get a satellite lock than if I wait until I have clearer views of the sky and then turn it on. So if you consider the first 5 kilometers of the ride, if I turn it on at kilometer 0, it can be 5 kilometers (or even longer) before it gets a lock. But if I turn it on at kilometer 2 (when I'm clear of the tallest buildings), it will get a lock almost immediately. Is there any basis to my experience? Am I better off waiting until I'm a bit clearer, or is there another strategy I can use to try to capture my entire ride? Update: I've experimented with a few things, and have found that the most reliable method seems to be to turn it on and then not move until I get a fix. This works quickly regardless of the buildings around me. It seems that temporarily blocking a satellite by moving makes it take a lot longer. 

I'd like to know if I can put standard drop bar brakes, similar to these (ignore the interrupter brakes and bar end shifter for now). 

Sidi make a wide fitting version of their shoes. I have a pair of Sidi's and they have been the best fitting, most comfortable shoes I've ever found. From their website: 

I installed a new sealed bearing in my bottom bracket. Unfortunately after tightening it most of the way, it jammed and I realised I'd cross threaded it. I then removed it and reinstalled it. It tightened up no problems and seems secure now. I went for a short ride and it appears to be working fine. I am going to use this bike as a fixie build and am planning to put a fair amount of effort and expense into the frame, so I don't want to continue with this bike if I've damaged the bottom bracket significantly. This link indicates that I may have done irrepairable damage. So my questions: 

I've used rivnuts to create mounts for bottle holders. It requires you drilling into your frame and then tightening up the rivet nut, but once you have done that you would have effectively the same mounts that are present on bikes with the cage mounts pre-installed. You would probably want M5 size rivnuts for compatibility with other bottle cage/fender bolt thread sizing. Beware This may compromise the strength of your frame. Don't do this on carbon fibre or thin walled metal frames. 

What else should I emphasize in my pitch? Has anyone done this successfully and if so, how did you go about it? 

Update I ended up doing a slightly longer ride on Thursday, but other than that I stuck to the schedule above. I did feel more rested at the start of the Sunday and I was grateful for the day off on Saturday. I also Carbo loaded. Given the variables I'm not sure what helped, but I did feel strong for the ride and didn't 'bonk', which was a definite improvement over previous years. 

When I'm riding with my friend, I notice that he rolls down hills significantly faster than me. We can be riding next to each other, both in a similar aerodynamic position, but if we both coast he pulls away from me surprisingly quickly. I'm a fair bit taller than him and probably weigh a little more (but only a few kilograms/pounds). Our bikes are similar. We both tuck into a similar position. Apart from our size/shape, the main difference I can see are wheels. I have Campagnolo Khamsin and he has a set of American Classics that he purchased after he got the bike and spent about $800 on. They have a much deeper V than my wheels. My main theory is that the wheels are what's making the difference, possibly with aerodynamics and also better rolling resistance in the hubs, but I'm not sure how to confirm or deny this. 

I have an old 10-speed bike (likely 80's vintage) with a threaded fork. Can I replace it with a modern threadless fork with the style of stem that slides over the top of the fork and clamps on? I know I'd need to replace the stem and handlebars too and am happy to do that. What do I need to look for? Is the diameter of the head tube different with newer bikes? 

About a year ago, I got a pair of Oakley Fives with transition lenses. They are brilliant. Really good range of vision, even when shoulder checking. Plus with the transition lenses they always provide an appropriate level of shading. The features that I like about this frame are: 

As @Chef Flambe mentions it can be more economical to buy a kit containing many of these tools. This will give you a head start and you can buy the specific tools you need for your bike, as well as upgrade to better quality for the tools you use frequently.