The answer is no. It is not necessary. You can understand without doing this. It is only necessary to be motivated to stay searching for understanding. Understanding becomes the road map and that map becomes clearer the more you understand. Start with one thing that is available, some book, some web page, some class or some video or whatever, that you do understand and begin the journey. 

The question is how does Plantinga resolve “the conflict between foreknowledge and free will” with his free will defense? The OP accepts that omnipotence means being able to do anything that can be done. It does not include doing absurd things that are impossible such as creating free people that are incapable of doing evil. This agrees with how Plantinga describes omnipotence in God, Freedom and Evil (GFE, 18). Regarding omniscience, “God knows about every evil state of affair" (GFE, 18). However this does not imply he knows what a free agent will do or not. Plantinga also does not accept compatibilism of free will and determinism. (GFE, 31-2) One can look at omniscience similarly to omnipotence which may be how Plantinga sees it. Omniscience could mean knowing anything that can be known. That would not include knowing what is not knowable, just like omnipotence does not include doing impossible, absurd things. What the precise free act of an individual agent will be is not knowable in advance. Based on this view of omniscience “part of the future is hidden from God’s knowledge” much like the precise future result of a quantum measurement is hidden from a human experimenter. It is not something that can be known and so it does not count against this definition of omniscience. That appears to be Plantinga’s position, however, I will have to see if I can find something more specific confirming it. 

Don’t non-scientists do the same thing? Drivers of a car systematically observe road conditions and other vehicles. They measure distances with their eyes or using a GPS. If they want to change lanes they experiment in the process of changing lanes. If another car honks or they see another car move into the same lane at the same time they do, they modify their hypothesis that they are safe to move into that lane. This is someone driving a car, not someone doing what a scientist, as a scientist, is intuitively seen as doing. So this description of the scientific method does not distinguish what a scientist does from what people may typically do during the day. It is vague. This leads to at least two lines of thought: First, is there any other description of the scientific method that will allow us to rationally demarcate what is science from what is not science? If we can find this we should be able to say whether psychology, for example, is pseudoscience or not. Popper has proposed falsifiability as an example of a better method to focus on, but using the car example I provided earlier isn’t the driver who sees another car enter the same lane also falsifying an hypothesis that it is safe to move into the lane? One could say that drivers of cars are also scientists, but it does not help solve the demarcation problem if everyone is a scientist. Second, perhaps our motivations to rationalize a formulation of the scientific method should be questioned. Why do we want to know this? Is there any way to make this demarcation that does not degenerate into a political mechanism that helps the current orthodoxy isolate heretics restricting funding resources from going to the alleged “pseudoscientific” research programs? But since funds are limited having some selection criteria even if faulty may be better than nothing at all. 

Jonathan Haidt (The Righteous Mind) and Jesse Graham identify at least five innate moral foundations. Some focus on the individual and others on the community. The tension between multiple individual and communal foundations guarantee there will be conflicting moral paths to choose from. That these are innate means they are present prior to rationalization and culture. One of them is “Sanctity/Degradation”. Wikipedia and YouTube offer overviews of the idea. If religion is restricted to a cultural product, then a specific religion is not required for morality which has an innate foundation. However, because one of those innate foundations include sanctity, a foundation for religion in general is also innate. Religion may be the likely way our species expresses this moral foundation. Other species may do this differently and have different foundations. I don’t think moral foundations theory considers other species. The data comes from our species. However, given morality as innate in humans I think we should allow for the possibility that in some way such foundations may be present in other species as well. Given the above, I would rephrase the question as asking: “Can human societal morals develop with no concept of sanctity/degradation? Then my answer would be “no” based on Haidt’s research because the sanctity/degradation moral foundation is innate. An answer to the original question would require separating religion from the sanctity/degradation moral foundation perhaps by thinking of it more as “purity” than “sanctity”. Although no specific religion is necessary, I suspect some kind of cultural, religious or spiritual, response would be expected since we all share the sanctity/degradation moral foundation and I see no reason for us to keep this to ourselves. 

Shimon Malin’s “Nature Loves to Hide: Quantum Physics and the Nature of Reality, a Western Perspective” offers Whitehead as a 20th century philosopher that might be what you are looking for. Schrodinger and Heisenberg would be others. His book attempts to explain the collapse of the wave function by linking fields of atemporal potentiality with the quantum event as an actualization. Science is limited by what Schrodinger considers “objectivation” which removes the subject from the observation. That can lead to what Whitehead calls the “fallacy of misplaced concreteness” where abstractions are confused with facts and are assumed to be valid outside their valid domains. In this way they criticize science. 

The key question here is “Can a computer think for us?” This can be reformulated as “Will strong AI ever be realized?” Or, “Can human understanding be reduced to a program running on a Turing machine?” There are two answers: Yes or No. If Yes, then a program can produce human understanding. Since philosophy is the result of human understanding, philosophy is merely computation. If No, then a program cannot produce human understanding. Since philosophy is the result of human understanding, philosophy is not merely computation. We will need more than assertions to resolve this. On the one hand there are people who assert that philosophy is not computation. On the other there are people who assert that strong AI is possible. One of those assertions is false. John Searle provided a thought experiment called the Chinese Room Argument that opposed the assertion that strong AI was possible. See “Minds, Brains and Programs” for details. This argument is one justification for the No answer as to whether computers might ever be able to think for us. 

Given open theism, an omniscient being would not know what a free agent will do since what a free agent will do is not something that is knowable until the free agent does it. This does not contradict omniscience defined as knowing everything that is knowable. It does challenge one to be precise about what “knowable reality” actually is. As James Rissler puts it in his article, “Open Theism” (Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy): 

There are two things to keep in mind when arguing ethics. First, people are motivated reasoners more than they are rational. By the time they start reasoning they have already made up their minds about a particular position and are rationalizing that position. Rather than directly make a rational argument one has to appeal to people at the intuitive level where they could change their minds. Second, social mood changes but it can be tracked using Elliott Waves. Social mood likely is encouraging people to support smaller groups than they have in the past and restrict access to outsiders. It is becoming more bearish. After a bearish period, a more bullish approach becomes more likely. One should stay on the right side of social mood to best serve the groups one is a member of. To get more information about the first point search for Moral Foundations Theory. In particular Jonathan Haidt’s “The Righteous Mind” describes political persuasion from a Democratic position in the United States. What he illustrates can be used by any political position. There are at least five moral foundations, innate to us, that guide our ethical lives. To get more information on social mood search see the Socionomics Institute. Robert Prechter’s “Socionomics Studies of Society and Culture” may provide the most immediate insight to your particular problem. The goal here is to see where we are on a bull-bear Elliott Wave to attempt to predict what trend changes will occur in the future. Although this answer does not provide you with reasons to support your current position, it shows you ways to develop the best approach to discuss your concerns with other people and to help examine your position in terms of more general social mood trends. 

Socionomics studies spirals using market charts and other “sociometers” to estimate where we are in a particular “Elliott wave” in order to make predictions. Although a spiral is not a cyclical pattern, it is close to one and allows for expanding evolutionary behavior. The main use of these predictions is for market timing, but they can also be used for any type of social mood trends and trend changes including when ideas, such as the idea of socionomics itself, are more likely to be accepted by a population. The people who developed these ideas in the 20th century, such as R. N. Elliott and Robert Prechter, were traders rather than philosophers. Market data provided and continues to provide the most detailed sociometer available for social mood. It is here where the patterns used by the Elliott Wave Principle were first identified. 

But this is not how those promoting the kalam argument phrase their first premise. That premise goes like this: 

Earlier in the video Ravi Zacharias is taking a question from the audience about determinism and free will. The member of the audience claims that we do not have free will. Zacharias responds, “So the question is: ‘Were you free to ask this question?’” (4:10) Given quantum indeterminism, and assuming an interpretation that permits indeterminism, the only way to get to a deterministic reality is to go with something that John Bell calls super-determinism. It is really determinism, but with the emphasis that if it is true, everything we think or do is an illusion. This is the complete absence of free will. Every choice of which experiment to perform, which quantum interpretation to accept, which truth we accept, which argument we engage in, which “should” we think we should do is an illusion. We are not doing any of that. We are only fulfilling a deterministic Law of Nature that forces the atoms in our body to move the way they do. I don’t know what Zacharias’s view is on this, but it should be noted that it doesn’t matter if what causes the determinism is an unconscious Law of Nature or a conscious God. The result is the same. In the case of the conscious God every act of worship and submission is an illusion as well. We are not doing what we think we are doing. There are two paths to consider. First, if one accepts determinism, then making a “truth claim” is an illusion. One is only fulfilling the Law of Nature’s plan or God’s plan. By not admitting that, the member of the audience who made a truth claim is being irrational: making the claim as a claim rather than as an illusion contradicts the content of the claim that determinism is true. There is no point in saying anything except that one is determined and must say precisely what one has said. Second, if one does not accept this determinism, then it is not inconsistent to make a truth claim and insist that it actually is a claim. The determinist may say one is delusional, but it is pointless for the determinist to do so. So, if a determinist makes a truth claim, as a real claim, not as an illusion, the determinist is admitting either that he is irrational or determinism is false. This is why Zacharias is asking the member of the audience, “Were you free to ask this question?” What I wonder is whether Zacharias not only applies his argument to atheists but also to theists who believe in a deterministic God. The argument goes against both of these positions. For what it’s worth, I think one can have a God (or Law of Nature), even an omniscient God, and not have determinism. One just defines omniscience to mean “knowing everything there is to know” rather than “infallible foreknowledge”. This preserves free will (indeterminism) and still allows for the possibility of a God or a Law of Nature that predicts everything there is to predict. The results of free acts are not completely knowable nor perfectly predictable.