The simple answer to your question is, simply, yes. All objects in the inner solar system is generally assumed to have been impacted by the same population of impactors which is mostly comprised of asteroids, and perhaps up to 10% comets. The outer solar system likely has a much larger percentage of cometary impactors. Of the five main inner solar system terrestrial bodies, the Moon and Mercury have the most preserved crater record, idealized by a death of volcanism early in their histories, no atmosphere to speak of, and therefore craters are best preserved there. Mars is second-best (some atmosphere, localized volcanism over the last few billion years, and water in the first ~billion years). Venus is a mess for cratering (entire planet resurfaced ~400-800 million years ago plus a thick atmosphere that prevents craters <3-5 km from forming), while Earth has the most modified crater record. With the moon next door, it is our best historical record for what also likely hit Earth. The factors that will alter the lunar crater population from what would have formed on Earth are primarily gravity, surface type, and atmosphere. Atmosphere will not only screen out the smallest impactors (and hence not make craters), but it will also fragment less competent objects, changing what could have made a single large impact on the moon into something that will more likely make numerous smaller, clustered craters on Earth (from the surviving fragments). A larger surface gravity will tend to decrease the size of the final crater caused by a given impactor, but the dependence is small (difference of around 35% between Earth and the Moon despite the factor of 6 difference in gravity). Surface type is much less well understood in the cratering community. Earth has stronger, denser crust than the Moon, but it's also ~70% covered by water -- the surface of Venus is like being under 1 km of water on Earth, so any ocean >1 km deep is going to prevent craters $\lesssim 3-5$ km from forming. These all combine for the much longer and more complicated answer of, "yes, but it's hard to figure out." There are lots of knobs in the models that we still don't know how to correctly turn, but we can, to first-order, use the lunar crater population and rate to estimate the population of craters that should have formed on Earth. At the time of writing this, there are 184 confirmed terrestrial impact craters, which is certainly a tiny fraction of a percent the number that have formed over Earth's history. 

It's spread out in time. If a source emits a 1W pule of energy lasting 1 second and the receiver is receding so fast that it is Doppler shifted to a frequency which means the power is just 0.5W, then the pulse will take 2seconds to arrive (since the end of it had further to travel). 

Any moon exerts a tidal force on its primary, tending to cause the primary to bulge outward along the axis passing the moon and to narrow slightly in the other two directions. This effect is greater if the moon in question is larger and/or closer to the primary, but a solid primary may largely resist it, so that it changes shape little if at all. In the case of the Earth and its Moon, the solid Earth moves relatively little, while the water of the oceans is moved quite a bit. As a result, water has to flow from one place to another over the solid crust. That flow causes friction, which causes the "bulge" of water to lag behind the Moon and pull back on it by gravity. This process gradually slows the rotation of the Earth and drives the Moon further away. This process acts, in general to bring the rotation of the planet and the revolution of the Moon to the same rate, so that the planet keeps one face to the Moon. Usually this means slowing the planet's rotation, but a few moons are so close to the planet that it would be the opposite. This process will be less pronounced on a planet which has a deeper liquid layer, since there will be less friction, or on a planet which has a stiff solid structure, since there will be less movement. The number of moons is not directly relevant. To a reasonable approximation they all work independently. 

Singularity means "my theory doesn't work here". In other words, GR is unable to predict what happens at the point, so it calls this point a singularity. The most important thing is not to mistake map for the territory. GR is the map, a real black hole is the territory. GR is the map which allows us to predict what we will find in the territory. If the map says "don't really know about this point" you really shouldn't expect that when you go into the territory you will see an Unmeasurable Infinite Thing there. It's very much against our historical experience. To date, time after time we observed normal finite things in the territory, but we never have seen Unmeasurable Infinite Things. In every case when an old map said we would see infinity, we found that measurements of a territory were finite and so falsified that map (that theory). So it seems we should expect singularity as a word to only refer to the map. You really shouldn't expect to observe a singularity (a map thing) when your actual ship enters a black hole (a territory thing). It might turn out that GR is approximately right about an event horizon, but we already know it is not good enough to describe what is at the center. 

Firstly do not confuse the event horizon with the singularity. Wikipedia gives the formulae for the Kerr metric. There are a number of places where this formula appears to break down because you appear to be dividing by zero, essentially whenever $\Sigma = 0$ or $\Delta = 0$, in the notation of that page, corresponding to the ergosphere and the event horizon respectively. There are two event horizons and two ergospheres but they all have the topology of spheres, one inside another (with some touching at the poles). However those are not singularities in general because you can choose other coordinates for space and time where the division by zero goes away. However you can't do this at points on the equator of the inner ergosphere, which makes those points a ring singularity. It is a ring with zero thickness (at least until quantum effects come in) .There is a helpful picture Flow of liquids doesn't really enter the picture here. One can think of the properties of this metric as a "flow" of space-time, but that's an analogy at best. There seems to be considerable doubt about what really happens inside a rotating black hole, or even, given that no information can escape from the black hole, about whether this is even a meaningful question. 

When you go back in time, take collisions into account. A very highly elliptical orbit primarily leads to chunks colliding at the very first periapsis. Even if they are not chunks but very dense and small objects (point-like), if you extrapolate back in time so far as to the straight line "orbit", what does it mean? Extreme case of objects with zero relative initial velocity going against each other on a collision course - ups, this "orbit" does not have a chance to "decay due to gravitational wave radiation". Two smaller chunks collide and form a larger chunk, which has now a non-zero velocity (probably, if the chunks weren't exactly equal momentum). The chunk won't enter a straight line "orbit" around (towards) anything, but either an elliptical or hyperbolic. Your extrapolation does suggest that initial "chunks" hadn't ideally equal momenta (masses*velocities); that's all. 

Gravitational interactions with stars they pass could strip some Oort cloud bodies, or send then into the system as comets, or whatever Whatever caused this star to become a hypervelocity star in the first place (eg a close encounter with a supermassive black hole) might well have disrupted the Oort cloud, possibly fatally. 

The short answer is "yes" -- the property of being a black hole. Assuming the collision is at a reasonably low relative velocity, the black hole would consume most of the mass of the star, so that eventually you would be left with a much bigger black hole and a certain amount of matter and radiation heading away from the site where the collision took place. The details of how long this would take, how much matter and energy would escape and so on will vary depending on the exact structure of the star and the details of the collision. Essentially you can't disrupt a black hole much by throwing matter into it (if the matter you throw in is VERY dense, like another black hole or a neutron star there will be some temporary disturbance to the event horizon, but it will settle down in a fraction of a second), all it does is absorb the matter and get bigger. Even if the matter is super-hot dense fusing plasma from the centre of giant star. In the course of falling in, the matter gets distorted and heated (much hotter than the interior of even a large star) and sometimes whirled around the black hole, and this can appear as a huge explosion, but in the middle of it, the black hole is sitting there absorbing matter, largely unperturbed. 

The spacetime is a map and not a territory. Spacetime is a model. In other words it is something that exists in human brain, to help that brain exactly predict the future experiences out of previous experiences. For example, the concept of spacetime (in context of the General Theory of Relativity) helps you to predict the effect of gravitational lensing. Your brain would never ever calculate that picture if it applied the pure equations to each photon. 

The Earth's gravity (call it the curvature of space) at the center of the Earth is approximately zero. Similarly, we assume a dense early universe was still infinite and homogeneous, so no worries, the gravity canceled out to approximately zero. There is no evidence that it was a lump of matter surrounded by an empty space, like a black hole usually is. Remember, the Big Bang happened right here where you are now, and all the matter became more and more distant from the point where you are. Simply all the distances increased all the time without matter accelerating or moving into some imagined "outer space". 

It is possible the gravity changed locally. Depending on what the asteroid was made of, and the details of what happened in the collision, you might end up with a lump of denser asteroidal material buried in the Earth's crust under the impact crater. That could produce a measurable (although not noticeable to a human) increase in gravity locally. 

While I agree with all the other answers here that no satellite flare has any chance of being bright enough to damage eyes or instruments there are concerns about them wrecking observations. Wikipedia reports that Iridium flares can reach magnitude -8 or brighter (Venus can be -4, the full moon is -12) and that could certainly be bright enough that scattered light from it would drown out some dim star or galaxy that you were trying to observe. If the flare can be predicted then you can always shut off the detectors for a short period, but some flares come from out of control satellites that are tumbling unpredictably. 

There is no observational evidence that the sun is a member of a binary (trinary, or more) star system, where "star" means an object that is at least ~80 times the mass of jupiter and emits energy/light via standard hydrogen fusion. Some evidence that people point to is that the majority of stars in the Galaxy (perhaps 60% or so) are binary. However, that does not mean that we are a binary system, just that we are among those which are not. There is the Nemesis star idea which was a hypothetical binary companion to the sun to account for periodic mass extinctions roughy every 26 million years (as in, the two stars would therefore be on a 26 million year period, so the companion is a few light-years away). There are two problems with that: First, that a 2010 reanalysis of the data showed that it was too periodic over the past 500 million years, during which time we've gone around the galaxy twice, and so our hypothetical binary orbits should have been perturbed and not be perfect (though others say that the precision of the geologic timescale isn't good enough to say this). But, second, we can see stars out to a few light years -- we can see small, faint stars out to thousands of light years. We have all-sky infrared surveys that should be able to pick up the faintest even star-like objects to at least a few light-years, and yet ... nothing. The other problem is what LDC3 pointed out in their answer: We should see some systematic motion of our own star in orbit around the common center of mass of the hypothetical binary. This would not be a yearly wobble, but rather it would be a slow motion of the entire sky on top of the other >1 year motions that we see. We now have very accurate astronomical records dating back at least a century of star positions, especially close stars. Even if we were on a 26 million year orbit - and especially one much shorter as some people claim - we should see effectively that our star is making a small arc, a part of a circle as it orbits the center of mass of it and the binary. We don't. There does not seem to be any systematic signal in the motions of stars that require the binary star model. So, to summarize: A binary companion simply lacks any observational data; if it existed, we should not only have been able to see it by now, but we should also observe not only the stars in our sky show a systematic motion due to our orbit around it, but we should again see THAT binary star also move very quickly, relative to other stars, as it orbits the common center of mass. 

The first thing you need to recall is that electromagnetic waves do carry momentum as well as energy. This shows up in effects like light pressure. Specifically a photon of wavelength $\lambda$ carries momentum $h/\lambda$. In and of itself, that doesn't answer your question though, since you are asking about the rotation of the pulsar, and changed to its linear momentum don't affect that. However, there are two ways this can happen. First imagine a rotating sphere which is emitting radiation from its equator. Consider a point on that equator. The radiation it is emitting "forwards" (in the direction towards which it is rotating) will be blue shifted (as seen by a stationary distant observer) while the radiation emitted "backwards" will be correspondingly red-shifted. Since the blue-shifted radiation has shorter wavelength, it has more momentum, the net effect is a force on the source which tends to slow the rotation. (interestingly, the same effect is used at much lower energy levels to trap ultra-cold atoms in what is called "optical molasses"). The second effect is a bit more technical. The radiation which is emitted towards the poles of the pulsar has a property called "circular polarization" and a beam of circularly polarized light carries away angular momentum.