In general, warming up your muscles only requires performing the movement with lower weights. It's fine to use sets of 5 and then taper off the closer you get to your work weight. However, if you are having pain in your hand, I would check your form. Is that pain shooting up from the elbow? If so, it's possible that you are putting too much strain on that joint and have developed a bit of tendinitis. Make sure you are exercising the muscles you think you are. For example, if you body is swaying just to get the bar up while doing barbell curls, you need to strengthen your core before you can improve your biceps--which in general is not a bad idea. 

In the squat, the position of the bar on your back dictates the angle of your back. If you squat high bar, the back is more vertical and if you squat low bar the back is more angled. The idea being that the weight of the bar should be over mid-sole of your foot for proper balance and to keep the bar moving in a vertical path. The "safety squat bar" lowers the center of gravity similar to what you get with a low bar squat; however, the bar is sitting on the traps (high bar) which keeps the load on the spinal column more vertical. A lower center of gravity will help you put more weight on the bar, and a more vertical spine is a happier spine. Having squatted both high bar and low bar, I can definitely attest to the fact that you can lift more low bar. You do have to be aware of your knee position and the bar position when you are in the hole, because it is easier to cause the bar to come forward which will force your body into a "good morning" exercise. That's a lot of stress on the back for a simple mistake. I recently switched to high bar (within the past couple weeks) primarily because it has more carryover to the Olympic lifts. It's harder to get back up, but my back remains in a more upright position and I can hit parallel a little easier. My personal recommendation is to stick with a proper bar. It's actually more comfortable than the "safety" bar, particularly with higher weights. Even with the padding, the way the safety bar cuts into your traps on either side of your neck makes them unhappy. Having the load go in the same direction as your traps allows you to handle more weight and is more comfortable. 

Physical security for your training equipment is also something worth considering. I know of someone who had a bunch of equipment stolen out of their barn. At the very least, bring your bar indoors after training, and see if you can get some cable locks for the rack. You might be able to fashion a wooden storage box with a lock on it for the plates when they are not in use. 

In general, between the training and the food you eat, you are attempting to manipulate your hormones. While I'm not a bodybuilder, this reference provides a nice overview of the hormones that play a predominant role in strength training. Those same hormones are also covered in the Practical Programming book. If you are trying to bulk cleanly (i.e. not gain a lot of extra fat), then there are several anabolic diets to choose from, including LeanGains, several on bodybuilding web sites, etc. They all have plenty of protein, an emphasis on less starchy vegetables on rest day, and more starchy vegetables and fruit on training day (bulk of it post training). 

Any of the machines with something to sit on or lay on should be quite safe for you. You'll at least want to get strong enough so that you can have more independence. You might need some forearm crutches to move around in the gym, and you can use them to help you get up and down. Don't be scared of the weight room. Most everyone there is just trying to get stronger or look better. You can make some good friends there. Your initial goal would be to be able to stand up and sit down at will--even if you are using something to help you to transition. If you spend enough time there just putting in work, people will come to respect you. Final Thoughts Disabilities just means some things are harder for you than they are for other people. The challenge is to find what you can do, and what you enjoy doing. Physical therapists help you either regain lost mobility, or make better use of the body you have. Finding a good one will help you be as independent as you can be, and help you live your life as fully as you can. While you have some physical limitations, the biggest limitation everyone has is what they allow themselves to do. Everyone is capable of improving themselves in some way. The more you understand what your limitations truly are, the smarter you can be about improving yourself. The bottom line is that moving regularly in some fashion is going to help your heart work better, use your calories better, keep your blood pressure down, and in general improve your overall health. Find what you can do now, and look to improve on that over time. You might not ever be on the basketball team, but you'll be a more confident person. 

Now, StrongLifts is a beginner program, and you are still in your beginner gains. What that means is that just about any exercise will cause you to adapt. The SL program has more than enough volume to get you to rebuild your muscles stronger. So let's start looking at recovery and fatigue. I have my theory on what is going on, but I'm going to throw this out there just in case: you need 8 hours of sleep a night. Much of the body's muscle growing happens while you are sleeping. Natural testosterone peaks at REM sleep and remains at that level until you wake up. Natural human growth hormone peaks at deep sleep and remains at that level for about 1 hour. So let's look at the other possible culprits: 

Deadlifts have as one of their benefits the strengthening of your grip and wrists. It also strengthens your back, your core, and your leg muscles (quads, hams, glutes). If you don't want to do deadlifts, then you might want to look into fingertip pushups (all five fingers). Essentially, the wrist gets stronger as the muscles around it get stronger which includes your forearms as well as the muscles in the hand. Fingertip pushups strengthen both. Along with your wrist strengthening exercises, you will want to stretch your wrists as well. Here are some options for that: 

Grip recommendations are also a very personal thing. A false (AKA suicide) grip allows you to get your hands positioned wider, but becomes dangerous when you are getting more fatigued. If the bar slips out of your hand, you better have some safeties to protect your chest or you will have some very serious injuries (broken ribs, crushed lung, etc.). A thumbs around grip is more stable, but you won't be able to bench as wide. I personally prefer a thumbs around grip, and still bench in a rack with safeties. You'll find a couple methods of DB benching: palms facing each other, and arms open (as if the DBs were forming a complete bar). Some people start with the DBs with arms open and then turn them so the palms are facing at the end. In either case, you still need to protect your shoulders, so don't raise them during the lift. 

You will be amazed at what you can do with just body weight exercise. Try this challenge for 60 days: 

Bodybuilders work very hard to keep their bodies primarily in an anabolic state, and try to avoid catabolism as much as possible. If you train with sufficient intensity, after about an hour the training stimulus becomes more catabolic. Since they are concerned with increasing the size and refining the shape of their muscle, that's considered a bad thing. Power lifters on the other hand often spend a couple hours in the gym and they get stronger. However, power lifters are not as concerned with the size and shape of their muscle. The outlook is simply more mass moves more weight, and more muscle gives you more room to get stronger. I believe the end result is that the short term hormonal changes after an hour of training is catabolic, the long term effect of recovery overcomes the effects of that catabolism. The key to all of this is managing your fatigue levels and recovery to be able to do more work over time. 

Best thing is not to over-think the training, which is easy to do with many opinions out there that seem to conflict on the surface, when in fact they are arguing about very minor details. If what you are doing is helping you achieve your goals, and you enjoy the process, keep at it. If you aren't progressing toward your goals any longer, then change something. 

There are some variations of exercises where you intentionally violate the guidelines above. For example, breathing paused squats. Breathing paused squats are where you pause at the bottom of the squat and breath while at the bottom. Then you have to exert yourself to get standing back up. They really cause your core muscles to work hard to support the weight, but you can only do them with relatively light weight. As I've matured as a lifter, I've found ways to keep air in my lungs during some long sets. The guidelines above will help you sort out when you need to apply the Valsalva maneuver and when you can do what you need without it. Using the Valsalva First, and foremost don't grab too big of a breath. Your goal is to stabilize your core, not make your head explode. 

Is it terrible and wrong? I'm willing to concede he knows a fair amount more about training than I do with his multiple years under the bar. Bill Starr is also a very reputable source. There are some subtleties that I think are worth calling out: