So re-open your job search, either immediately, or in a few months, depending on what you can tolerate. When you are asked about why you are looking so soon, just say: "I'm in a consulting role right now, but it isn't a good fit for me in the long term." Employers understand that consulting jobs involve less long-term commitment, even if you are a FTE of the contracting firm. In the meantime, do your best to learn and contribute all you can to your current team. Don't do heroic hours, but give a complete effort every day, and keep some hobby projects going to expand your skills. 

Again, what good can come from this? Maybe it's a good play politically for the manager, but it's not something that a good manager would do. My opinion, obviously. 

Not something that any manager should so, regardless of what justification they could have. Does it happen? Sure, but that doesn't mean it's the right thing. This should happen behind closed doors, and it's part of the manager's job to stay calm and professional about it. 

What you've written looks good to me. If there are legal/personally identifiable information (SSN, DOB, etc.) issues, you should definitely check with you company's lawyer if there is one, or consult someone if there's not. I would put this in big, bold letters, at the top of the email's body, so it can't be missed. As for your questions: 

It sounds like much of your unhappiness is with the client company. You could ask for a different assignment, but don't hold your breath. I've tried to obtain a different assignment while in your position, but your employer won't want to put you in a different position without being able to simultaneously back-filling your spot with your current client. Your situation is actually far better than when you took this job. Currently: 

This man is your colleague, he is not your friend, and he is not your brother. While it is natural and often healthy for colleagues that work closely together to discuss non-work issues, you are never required to engage with him on that level. Since your colleague has taken advantage of your willingness to act as a friend, you need to stop being a friend. You should adopt an all-business persona when working with him. If he starts with a gloomy monologue, cut him off politely with "I'm sorry, but we really need to make progress with the X project." If he takes a break for his leering at a passerby, say, "If you aren't able to focus on our work here, perhaps we should move this meeting to a conference room." In short, minimize personal contact with him, while clearly communicating that you expect professionalism from him. 

I wouldn't stand; it probably would seem intimidating, or at least odd. I've been that manager stopping by and would not expect someone to stand. Definitely offering them a chair if they're sticking around is a good thing to do. One other thing I feel I should point out, since you mention a 'beginner' and 'entry level job': make sure to give your boss (or anyone, really) your full attention if they stop by. This is a no brainer for some people but I've known plenty of others who will continue to work, look at their phone, or whatever during a conversation (and I catch myself doing it now and then). When someone stops by, push your chair away from your desk and turn to face them. Focus on the conversation until it's concluded. 

My answer would be that this candidate did not only demonstrate arrogance, but also a lack of understanding of the difference between the things that he knows and the things that he does not know. Such a lack of understanding is crippling when trying to solve difficult technical problems. Since it appears that you role in the interview process was more on the technical side, you should focus on the technical failures. Evidently (and unfortunately) your input on the personal characteristics of the candidate are not being considered. 

Make sure they know how this manager is 'managing' the team. Ask them how you should deal with the situation. 

It's pretty clear to me that your manager is most certainly gathering evidence and working toward getting rid of the other person. Explaining that "we have to let her own mistakes" is not-so-subtle language for "if you continue to help her, I'll never be able to argue that she can't perform her job and get rid of her". Any manager worth their salt would expect the team to give extra help to the 'weak link' if you will, bringing them up to the level of the other team members. The best thing in these cases is almost always communication. I would first talk with HR and ask how they recommend handling the situation. They are already aware of the problem that exists between your manager and the other person, and should be able to tell you if what your manager told you to do is acceptable or not. You should be able to work out with a representative from that department how you can meet with them privately, maybe even on your own time, if you're concerned about how your manager would take knowing about the meeting. Developers frequently make changes that more senior staff are not aware of: it's only an issue when those changes don't go well. I would guess that your manager probably had a similar, painful conversation with their boss, and simply let the 'sh*t roll downhill' if you will. Part of your job as a developer is fixing bugs when you find them, and I doubt that your manager wants to be aware of every small change you make: they've likely got a lot more to worry about. Bugs happen; if they didn't, there would be a lot less need for developers. IMHO, your manager handled this poorly and now has a grudge against your co-worker. Even if you did continue to help your co-worker, it can be difficult or impossible to change someone's mind about another person who they feel has slighted them, as your boss seems to feel after having management talk to them about their 'outburst'. Once you talk to HR you'll know how this is going to play out. Either they will counsel him to tell the rest of your team to disregard his earlier instructions, or they will counsel you to do what your manager said. Either way, as long as you can talk to them confidentially, your manager won't have anything to hold against you. 

You can ask, but it is a long-shot. If they have a standard performance bonus, you would have received it. If they do not have a system of giving bonuses, you can be sure they aren't going to start it for one employee. If they have met your salary requirements, your best bet for further negotiations is to ask for more PTO, particularly if your compensation package has less (or not more) vacation than your previous job. Ultimately, though, there is no non-aggressive way to say: "Thanks for offering the money that I asked for, and said that I would be satisfied with. I'm ready to take the job if you just offer more money." 

Absolutely I would include it. If you look at your 'Edit Profile' page, there is a section called 'Add A Section'. Under this, I would put them under the 'Honors and Awards' section if there are specific awards you obtained. There is also an 'Interests' section where you could put something about your love of music. 

There's no 'standard' format, as warnings can be of different severity from company to company, and depending on the report's content. I've seen companies put a disclaimer at the footer of all emails (auto-generated and otherwise) stating that there could be legal repercussions for distributing to anyone outside the company. I've also, myself, added a CYA of the sort you're using on things I've done. Assess the reason that you feel you need the warning, and that should guide you to the appropriate wording. A potential pitfall: Managers/executives may not like this, if you haven't discussed it with them. You may find yourself being asked why you don't have faith in the reports you've created, or asked to nail down a specific accuracy %. 

My preferred way would be to tell my boss first, then privately tell those people that I work most closely with, allowing a chance to explain some of the reasons for my choice. After those that would be most effected by the decision already know (maybe 1/4 to 1/3 of the team) I would mention it in a daily stand-up meeting. I would speak positively about how I will help in the transition, and make sure to express gratitude for the opportunity to work with the current team. And be brief. The reason I prefer to leak the information slowly is to take away the emotional impact of a "big reveal." 

Despite whatever happened with 'Sally', the OP should not be expected to lie to a coworker (even a slight lie as 'tell her you're busy') at the instruction from a manager. This does not address disciplinary action that should / should not be implemented against Sally due to her own actions. It's entirely plausible that she was totally at fault and should be fired, suspended, demoted, or whatever for violating company policy/protocol; hard to tell from where I'm sitting. Regardless, I don't believe the reaction from management was appropriate. end of edit 

The offer you received was the first step in a negotiation. You can respond by saying you expected the advertised amount, and you can see where the negotiations go from there. Legal rights are almost irrelevant here, because you would almost never want to begin employment by taking your employer to court. 

Your best bet here is to negotiate with the company that made you the offer. Tell them that you really hate giving up seven days of vacation, and ask if they could increase your vacation time in your first year. This is a negotiation, and they have no obligation to do it, but you do actually have leverage with them, where you have none with your current company. If they decline, you could ask if it would be acceptable to push back your start date a few weeks or a month to give you a chance to take some of your days off before giving notice. But asking for the company to do other than their policy with unused vacation days is a non-starter, and makes you look either greedy or naive. Try to leave well.