$URL$ Starlings love suet. Search for "Starling murmuration" and go to videos, in the UK & Ireland this is a common site in the winter - Try $URL$ (nb: best viewed at the size on the web page, rather than made full screen) 

This is basically a copy and paste from an answer I gave here $URL$ There are also links to more info in the other answer There could be a number of problems in play here depending on where you are, what the terrain is like, and what the capabilities of your device are? 

You can access the water without trespassing on private land You have carried out your own personal risk assessment (ie. the water type, the conditions, your swimming ability, hazards, does it smell/look clean?) You do no harm You are not interfering with, or endangering other legitimate users. It "feels" right (6. You don't say that I said it was OK!) 

If someone challenges you, be polite and leave quietly. More than likely no one will notice, or be bothered, and you'll have a lovely swim. 

Here is a good summary of the legal position of swimming in the UK $URL$ I think the opening line is most interesting "The right to swim is a complex issue which, in many cases, is undetermined." and I think that this forms the basis of my answer which is... Go for a swim wherever you fancy (apart from the areas listed ( reservoirs, private fishing lakes etc.) As long as 

There is really two different answers, one if you are dealing with glacial ice, and one for seasonal snow. For seasonal snow and for solids, your best bet is to bring biodegradable bags, pack your waste in as deep a hole as you can manage, and you should be fine. By deep, I mean a few feet at least, or better yet, a deep natural crevasse. For liquids, pick a designated area to dispose of your waste properly, trying to minimize the space. Try to pick an area that someone isn't likely to try and make water from the snow, especially if in a popular back country area... Bushes, trees, etc should be fine if you can manage. For glacial areas, use the same guidelines as above, but in general, you might consider packing it out. Denali in particular, and many other mountains, require packing out solid human waste, and liquid waste in many areas. 

I've heard from numerable places that when climbing Denali, plan on a cup (About .25 L) of white gas per person per day. I would say that this should be a good rule of thumb for your trip as well. You might be able to get away with a bit less, but this is at least a good rule of thumb. You probably won't need this much, but it's a good rule of thumb still. Denali has additional challeneges, with the altitude it has, and from what I've heard, most climbers come down with extra gas. 

If your device uses pressure sensors they may not be physically able to provide accurate altitude readings. Certainly, in a device using typical consumer-grade chips, and sensors, they may not be sensitive enough to read accurately. Instruments that are accurate will typically have expensive components and would require calibrating at a known altitude before being used to take into account the local weather and pressure conditions. If your device is calculating the altitude based upon your location then it could be calculating your altitude above the ellipsoid, which if it using GPS is probably altitude related to the WGS84 global spheroid. This is a mathematical surface that describes the shape of the planet, which is not a sphere, but an ellipsoid. Where the satellites are at the time when the readings are taken will also effect the accuracy of the altitude that the GPS system can calculate. This is due to the errors inherent in the system. The GPS device uses the distance to the visible satellites and their geometric positions to fix a location. So, to put it simply in relation to elevation, when satellites are low on the horizon, the change in distance to a satellite will not change much with a change in altitude; so the error is greater. Multiply the errors across all available satellites and this could explain inaccuracies. This is called geometric dilution of precision (GDOP). 

I have come across wild boars about a dozen times (I admit, not that much), in numbers from a single male, mothers with young upto groups of 30-40 and I've never felt threatened. Sometimes the leading (fe)male might approach you aggressively just long enough for the rest of the group to run away and then retreat too. I usually stay silent and try to observe them, which has upto now not been seen as a thread or provoked any aggression. While this is probably no different than your own experience, I have too always anticipated the "what if" scenario. What I keep in mind is: 

update: It may be worth taking into account that in some places animals can become more agressive as they lose their fear of humans. Here in Europe hunters may feed animals to create artificial overpopulations, which in some places has resulted in the boars affiliating humans with food. Where this is the case, they are much harder to intimidate and scare off. 

I've taken the liberty to bold 2 questions I believed where the main questions of your post. Are there animals that are simply not afraid of much bigger humans? Yes. A variety of animals have adapted to our societies/cities and have adapted, other species may have no other choice than to look for food near or in our ever expanding cities and towns. May it be rats, monkeys entering your home in asia, gulls attacking people for their sandwitch/ice cream/anything in europe (or anywhere else?) or racoons in your own subburb, I think most species can/may behave agressive if they feel cornered, are very hungry or simply if they feel like standing their ground. We're not alone on this planet, and just got to find a way to live together with everything else. I have no experience with raccoons, but I would personally not have anticipated them to "attack", key to co-existance is respect and prevention of what may lead to bad scenarios. In most cases, animals can become agressive/bold if they learn to affiliate us with food, and we become an obstacle to that food. Preventing this relation to become established, or trying to remove it again over time is in my opinion the only solution to prevent this type of (potential) aggression /boldness from animals towards us. Would it have been appropriate (in Illinois, outside of Chicago) to call for animal control ? I do not think calling animal control/police/your local alternative is the best solution. Only in some really rare cases certain individual animals may have truly become more of a risk than the rest of their species and should be removed. In most cases trying to catch/move animals is only a short term solution with little benefit. If conditions are there for animals to live (waste food, trash, ...) or certain behavior to develop, this will not altered by calling animal control. It are those conditions that should be given attention too. 

What is practical is up to you, but I can give you some information to help you make up your mind. Typical rental prices for a satellite phone are $15-$30 a week (According to this site). The cost per minute is in addition to this cost, and is around $0.50-$3 USD a minute. Weight is usually around 400 grams, or just under a pound. Battery life is pretty much comparable to a smart phone, 3 hours talking and 24 on standby. 

So, I just went hiking, testing out a pretty new pair of shoes. The test trail was about 6 miles round trip. I started to notice on the way back that the back of my heel was a bit uncomfortable, like it had been rubbing for a while. Is there anything I can do short of getting a new pair of shoes to help with this problem? 

First of all, you are more likely to hear the rattlesnake than see it. They tend to camouflage themselves quite well, and unless you are paying very close attention, they are easy to miss. I have actually stepped less than a foot from one and not noticed it until I was passing it (It was coiled in a circle, hence my lack of rattle snake bites...) If you hear a rattle from a rattle snake, STOP. Look around, try to see where it is coming from. If it is coming from the trail in front of you, or near the trail, then find the spot. Walk around the area as best you can, giving the snake at least a 10 foot range if you can do it, or as much as you can if 10 feet isn't available, but do not get closer than 5 feet. The best way to do this is for one of the hiking party to act as a spotter, keeping an eye on the snake while the others pass, then someone who has passed the snake keeps an eye out for it while the spotter passes the snake. In the event of a snake bite, treat it for the puncture wound, and then seek prompt medical attention. Your hike is probably over at this point in time, so turn back to your vehicle.