Mathematics overlaps with philosophy mainly in the Anglo-American tradition. In Continental philosophy it is more influenced by literature and theology. Of course there are important exceptions. Plato approved of mathematicians but also warned that its grasp is small. But he also disapproved of poets. Its certainly true that philosophers can do philosophy without mathematics. 

Valery inverts here the traditional opposition between life and death; life being the condition of daylight, and therefore clear; and death as night, and therefore obscure; consider Hamlets speech 'the undiscover'd country ... [which] puzzles the will'; Valery instead positions life as obscure, as mystery against the clear-cut finality of death. 

And this by one of the modern founders of this science; thus under what concept or category do we capture this most successfully precise of the exact sciences? Surely not exactness... 

In evolutionary biology success is determined by the long-term survival of the species. Its not enough that I survive, or my family does but the species does - otherwise there is a drastically reduced gene pool making natural selection ineffective when the ecological environment changes dramatically. Of course when you're talking in terms of millenia, or millions of years the idea of a realistic finely-grained success function doesn't make much sense in any sense. What mathematical evolutionary biologists do - is model coarse behaviour in very simple systems in the hope of discovering new ideas & directions for research. In economics a similar argument holds, except of course the time-scales are much smaller. Typically tens of years. The idea of a utility function, a measure of success is when looked at properly very hard to sustain. How does one measure success when most things in life are not measurable? The idea of an ordering of preference is makes more sense - but is still problematic. How does one for example, measure the preference of the American Poet, Emily Dickinson between God & no-God, as she struggles between faith & loss of faith? To which should we judge is success? In the path-integral formulation of quantum mechanics an electron is judged to travel every possible space and assign it a measure of 'success'. This is then averaged over. These are calculations that one can do and they match experiment very well. But really, should we assign the notion of 'success' to something like this? Is the notion of a path integral an artifact of the theory and suspect? Perhaps a new formulation might remove the need for it. 

And also his orientation as a phenomenologist, and therefore on the encounter; then the notion of an aesthetics situated on this site seems ideal in rethinking the figure, the portrait as an encounter; thereby foregrounding the relation. Perhaps too, landscapes, pastoral and urban as the face of the place; when haunted by traces of presence. Then an aesthetic of alterity, should be, it seems revelatory of a moment of alterity, as an other recognised; but not as exotica, if one is to align with Levinas's ethics of alterity. 

Consider an actual real painting that hangs in a gallery; what organises it as a painting is its frame - within which the painting is hung; and the canvas underneath on which the painting is painted. One is then examining then the frame, and the canvas; the conditions which make the painting possible. Likewise, Kant examines the conditions of possible experience; this is the vantage point from which he looks at the problematics associated with Idealism. 

Of course the full picture is much more complex; for example Milesian physics and Cosmology was almost all speculative. 

To put it crudely he doesn't rely on the notion of an immaterial soul, but as an empiricist only what he can observe by introspection; so on the whole, yes; it wouldn't surprise me if he had been directly or indirectly influenced by Hume. 

Moral dilemmas of this sort are discussed by SF authors, for example Heinlein in his short story By his Bootstraps; and in the main stream of literature where its been influenced by such, ie Tom Stoppards The Real Inspector Hound; but quite amazingly not at all in the most famous time travel story, I mean that by H G Wells - The Time Machine - which is more in the tradition of Victorian high adventure, and earlier the epic. This tradition, despite its intrinsic interest, is unlikely to appeal to practitioners of moral philosophy; as it has no bearing on actual moral problems; or even possible ones; given that the scientific consensus is that time travel is an impossibility now, and in the near or far future. Still, its not an impossibility with enough ingenuity; for example Parfitt uses literary techniques from SF (cloning) to discuss a particular problem in the philosophy of mind (its unity and coherence over time and space). 

Unsurprising. It was my first reaction; and one D+G pick up from Nietzsche; they're using the aesthetics of the transgressive; which in certain fields - ie Art has been reduced to banality; but philosophy with its dedication to Enlightment Reason is virgin soil for such virile techniques. Delueze & Guatarri take language hostage; they use language in a way that is not normally used; thus they require interpretation and commentary; one can then decide whether one can agree with their ideas or not. Gayatri Spivak, post-colonialist critic in her well-known paper Can the Subaltern Speak describes Anti-Oedipus as a brilliantly poetic and radical work - whilst criticising it for preserving the Subject of the West; her own commitment coming from the Marxist tradition is to the marginalised - the subaltern, a term deployed by Gramsci to expand (and globalise) Marxs notion of the proletariat. The use of language by D+G suggests to me the Symbolist movement in literature - which reacted against the realist and naturalist style; one might point out a parallel here to the analytic school (tending towards naturalism, socratic & logical) and the continental as towards the imaginative, pre-socratic and the poetic. There are a couple of articles on wikipedia that are usefully explanatory: Body with organs often abbreviated as BwO. This is lifted from a poem by Antonin Artuad To have done with the judgement of God: 

This is Foucault positioning the Occidental against the Orient; the Occident implicitly taken as the epitome of rational ordering thought; still; I think its worth recalling that we have analytical philosophers incredulous at the the incomprehensible diction of their continental colleagues with its wayward or obscured logic; who are themselves equally puzzled by the logical orientation of the former which hardly touch the 'problems of life'. 

Postmodernism is a questioning and reaction of Modernism; in the same way that Romanticism was a reaction to early Modernism. From some point in the future looking back it may be seen as part of Modernism. Its really too early to say (though of course one does). 

Emptiness or Sunyata, is a key concept in Buddhist rather than Vedantic ontology. It describes the lack of svabhava, a term whose closest parallel in Western philosophy would be essence. The term almost explains itself, if you take the components of the term separately: sva, meaning together with, or self and bhava meaning subsistent or being. Nagurjana is a key thinker in the Mahayana tradition who also expounded upon the emptiness of emptiness. 

Other people think - not A, himself. He identified a properly basic concept of the physical measure of time - but moves no further to it; instead, he gestures towards an analogy. The basic measure of time is the motion of light - as acknowledged in GR; it is that which is both absolutely at rest and absolutely in motion - both ie equivocally; and it's phase moves in a circle, and this motion is uniform. So, the question is coherent; and the basic 'logical speed' of time is always everywhere, in itself - the same; what changes, is to see from here, there; ie relatively, from this place, to that place; and then, dilation or contractions of time ... As though seeing through, a glass - darkly. ie refractively. 

There is in a sense no rebuttal. If someone refuses to accept a basic law of logic (modus ponens), wilfully and without argument; then one can hardly use the laws of logic. Rather then in engagingly in a pointless and long-winded argument that is leading nowhere one can exercise discretion and walk away. Achilles being at the mercy of the Author (and the tortoise) obviously can't. 

Physics in a sense is ultra-finitist in that actual infinities are usually considered to be signifiers of a failure (or aporia) in a theory; and this notion is actually of ancient provenance - Aristotle for example in his Physics argued that only potential infinity obtains in the world. So here you are in good company. There are two ways in which mathematics uses infinity - the infinitely small in the calculus, and infinitely large in set theory; and the normal attitude is either platonic, formal or pragmatic. Pragmatic has already been covered by the response by Sunami; formalism in some sense arises out of pragmatism - since we care only if it works and not if the concepts therein has ontological weight then we need at bottom only be concerned with logical consistency. Platonism, is what might be called mathematical realism where one cares about the ontology of numbers; and it appears that you do - then one needs to think in this space; and I'd suggest that there are two related possibilities here constructivism which allows a number only if it is constructable, ie I cannot just assert its existence; and intuitionism which drops the LEM (Law of the Excluded Middle). 

and he considers them as explanatory principles of an 'inquiry into nature'; an adequate explanation should deploy all four causes; but in terms of explanatory power it is the final cause which stands pre-eminent; and in particular over the efficient (which, in a sense, and in contrast to the final cause, can be seen as the initial cause). The 'variational principle', is as nothing without something to be a principle of; this something is that which is 'subject to change' - ie a system of particles, a pendulum or that bit of physical reality I see before me: this is the material cause. Further, the variational principle, is a principle; and as a principle, it is a principle of change; this suggests that we see it as the efficient cause. Moreover, when Aristotle asks for the efficient cause of a bronze statue, he doesn't identify this as the man who pours the bronze, and shapes it - the artisan - he says it is the art of bronze-casting; thus, and by analogy; and thinking of 'the art of' as the 'law of'; then, in this bit of reality before me, where particles come, and go, and collide; it isn't the collisions that are the efficient cause of their motion on impact, but that which regulates their motion - the aforementioned principle - again. It is by identifying Final and Formal causes as genuine causes of change, that Aristotle in his own opinion, differs from his predecessors, who he claims were content with the material and efficient causes; in his account the Final and Formal often coincide. The question is, whether we can identify such causes here; for Aristotle admits not all natural processes have such: his example is the eclipse of the moon; and it appears that this is the case here. What's been shown is that the variational principle is an efficient cause; but not a final cause (which isn't to deny that such a cause exists at a different ontological level). note I think there is probably quite a bit more that can be said;especially when takes the long view of variational principles; the account above uses modern notions of variational principles; but there are notions too like the conatus of Spinoza (ie 'striving'); and also the maxim of Liebniz: 'best of all possible worlds' especially when Aristotle suggests that ends are to be considered not by what is last but by what is best. 

but it is more than the mere knowledge of putting something to work; ie only or just the work of putting words to work in a poem, or stone to work in carving a statue; for 

The best article I've seen on Mochizukis proof is the one by Ivan Fesenko in Inference - although much of it is over my head, its worth quoting some of the conclusions: 

This suggests to me, at least that a system of Right are principles of Right; that is they have been formed with a specific philosophical end in sight; a modern example, would be freedom of speech whose motivating philosophical principle, amongst others, would be freedom. I take this is what Foucault is possibly describing as a 'legitimacy to be established'; but his perspective is not legitimacy - even when it is legitimate - but 'subjugation'. 

It is outside of time - so that the notion of time doesn't apply to it. It is wholly in time, begins with the beginning with time, and ends with the ending of time. It is overlaps with time: 'begins' before the beginning of time, and 'ends' after the ending of time. 

ZFC is simple enough to axiomatise easily, and be accepted by the majority of mathematicians - some did not - and complex enough to ask good questions that have amenable answers. Once axiomatised and understood sufficiently well, one can look at more complex set theories using ZFC as a base. One angle in more complex set theories is to think of the axiom of infinity. The usual one in ZFC is the simplest infinite axiom. There are a number of others - usually known as the large cardinal axioms - that arrange themselves in a linear hierarchy of proof-theoretic strength. That is you can use them to prove stronger statements, for example Gentzen used one to show that Peano Arithmetic, pace Godel, was consistent. This increase in the size of sets can be seen as including classes and more. Another is loosening the axiom of extensionality, so that sets with exactly the same elements are not the same, but merely indiscernable (in Liebnizs terminology), or in tradtional mathematical terminology - isomorphic. This route is more fully developed in the topos-theoretic version of set theory or ETCS. Further, seeing that ETCS is a specialised topos, one can consider toposes themselves to be a generalised set theory, and it is noticeable that in the category of toposes that the terminal object is Set - which is telling for the foundational aspect of ZFC. But also, that the forcing construction introduced by Cohen takes a geometric form here - one can consider the Cohen topos which uses the topology of double negation - this is the construction that Godel/Gentzen used to embed classical logic into intuitionistic logic to model forcing. Another angle is looking at Choice. ZFC actually is ZF+Choice. Choice has been an axiom that has had controversial implicatons since its introduction. Its at the root of non-measurable sets and of the Banach-Tarski paradox. Its denial leads to the idea of constructive mathematics. Where its not enough to simply assert the existence of some mathematical object - one must also construct it. Generally one also denies LEM - the law of the Excluded Middle. Here one should not operate with sets in classical logic but intuitionistic logic. Interestingly enough, toposes, when seen as generalised set theories, have as their internal logic as intuitionistic logic. They also have a dimension, so higher toposes, and in fact infinite dimensional toposes have as their logic Martin-Lof dependent type theory - which ties it into ideas of computation. Further, a particular flavour of it, intensional Martin-Lof, can be interpreted as homotopy type theory, which then introduces geometry (aka homotopy) into type theory. One notes in this that toposes tie in three strands of modern mathemtics in a native manner - logic, geometry & sets. Finally, one notices that ZFC is a theory of sets together with first-order logic. One can exchange the logic for another. Intuitionistic logic has been mentioned above, but there is also paraconsistent logic (which is in some sense the dual of intuitionistic logic) which by denying the principle of explosion, allows inconsistent statements, somehow the inconsistencies are controlled so as not to affect each other. One then gets inconsistent set theory - and one gets quite interesting mathematical results - like one can assume the existence of a Universal set and the Russell Set - both of which leads to paradoxes in ZFC. As a further positive virtue, it settles the continuum hypothesis (in the negative). All of the above is in the philosophy of mathematics. In Philosophy at large, one notes that for example, the French Philosopher & Maoist, Badiou uses ZFC explicitly in his philosophy of Love, Politics & Art. He calls ZFC the ontology of truth. This is explained in his book, Being & Event, and in the Logic of Worlds he goes onto Topos theory to futher extend his line of thought. Quite how this works I'm non too sure of... 

If you look in Russells History of Western Philosophy you'll see that he posits Thales as the first Western Philosopher; Thales said everything is made of water. Quite what he made of it is difficult to say. Still, Russell suggests that this description meant that there were no supernatural explanations - Thales didn't say that the gods were behind everything. Russell also suggests that it is also a monistic theory, meaning only one principle behind the world; in the sense that everything came from water. This then (skipping a few other philosophers) brings us to Parmenides; who said nothing is not; and using this provides a strong argument (half of which has come down to us) shoring up Thales monism; according to him all is one, eternal and without motion. This now might sound ridiculous: but here is one interpretation - the laws governing physics were many in the 16th Century - Gravity, Electrical, Magnetic, Heat and in the 20 Century a couple more were added - the Strong and the Weak. Now, all of these forces have been slowly combined into one theory - first Heat was identified with motion; and then with energy. The electrical and magnetic force were combined into electromagnetism; and then this with the Strong and Weak force. Quantum Gravity is an umbrella term which combines everything into one theory - or as it was jocularly named - TOE - The Theory of Everything; there are a few results in this direction; but most of it is quite uncertain. Now let us take this progression and look at it with a philosophical eye on Parmenides (and therefore Thales) All is One we see the many laws being slowly eroded in number; so we posit that there is one universal law. There is no motion Not only that, this law must be unchanging - ie without change, without motion (motion was understood differently by the Greeks; if one looks in Aristotles Physics for example - motion in its widest aspect is change). It is eternal Finally one aspect of its universality, is that it must be eternal - that is valid for all time. Thus we've provided an interpretation of Parmenides notion that links up with Modern Physics. But consider now, not an interpretation but its importance. Historically some philosophers were uncomfortable with the vanishing of change, and posited atoms; now each atom is a Parmenidian One - eternal and unchanging; and the atoms move in the Void. This concept, is of course one of the most important ones in Modern Physics - and there has been much work around this notion; so an argument against Parmenides was significant in the development of Modern Physics.