The answer is no - artificial intelligence is not an oxymoron. Artificial basically means "made or produced by people" and therefore artificial intelligence means an intelligence produced by people, which is a reasonable description. "Artificiality (also called factitiousness, or the state of being artificial or man-made) is the state of being the product of intentional human manufacture, rather than occurring naturally, through processes not involving or requiring human activity." - Wikipedia On the other hand "Algorithmetic Generated Intelligence" is not a good name for various reasons; for example, it is long, and its meaning is obscure (what is algorithmetic anyway?). 

I suppose science can give you an approximation to how the world functions, but it cannot tell you the fundamental nature of the world. 

there is no doubt that you can produce an experience, but can you completely describe it as physical (mathematical?) knowledge? so if by simulate you meant stimulate (her own brain) then she might experience color, but that misses the point. on the other hand, if by simulate you meant by using a pen and paper, or a computer, then the question remains who will "actually experience"; is it Mary? I think the idea is a qualitative distinction between a physical (mathematical?) description of neurophysiological processes in the brain, and the correlated subjective (fire breathing) experience which some people (not everybody) stubbornly insist they are having. You can find the original paper here - $URL$ There is a also a later, somewhat different version from 1986. and a discussion in SEP - $URL$ 

I recommend Wittgenstein's Philosophical Investigations. About third way into the book he starts to deal more and more with phenomenology — he approaches the topic through our use of language and mixes in mathematics as well. He is considered one of the greatest philosophers (of the 20th century if not ever) and yet contemporary philosophers of mind seem to ignore his critique with no apparent justification. For example, while he argues very forcefully against there existing a criteria of identity that can be used to compare private experiences, philosophers of mind continue to discuss thought experiments of fading qualia and inversion of qualia as if they have never heard of him. I think it is therefore valuable to read him, before you get carried away with all the rest. He is also very readable and does not use cryptic jargon. 

Looks to me as if you are describing someone like Kilgore - "I love the smell of napalm in the morning" and his philosophical "someday this war is gonna end". Does he deserve a medal or jail, neither or both? It is the lack of a clear answer which makes this unforgettable scene so powerful. 

As a note, his conception of protophenomenal properties reminds me of Leibniz's Monads, and indeed Chalmers kind of splits his time between being a Property Dualist and a Panpsychist. 

I think consciousness and memory are orthogonal; you can have memory without consciousness and consciousness without memory. For example. people can have false memories of events which never took place - clearly false memories were never consciously experienced; for example see the Thurston County case - $URL$ The contrary, consciousness without memory is also possible - think of locking the door to your house at night 2-3 times, since you don't remember doing it the first time; in general we usually remember little of our life; do you remember what you did 20 years ago? do you remember every moment from last week? from yesterday? Nevertheless, dreams involve consciousness; try lucid dreaming and you will see for yourself. 

So Einsteins seemed to believe that an important aspect of the concept of time is outside the reach of science, and if it is outside the reach of science then aren't philosophers entitled [*] to contemplate it? [*]: I mean entitled in the sense of having permission to, not of having a privilege. 

and the class of effectively computable functions (p. 15) (note that effectively does not mean efficiently): 

Given such unfathomable phenomena as existence, consciousness and time, crazy stuff such as the cosmological universe, non-locality, black holes, women, and all the stuff we cannot even begin to imagine, etc... determinism seems as exciting as a game of pool. I mean, any child can understand determinism; given that the universe can be as crazy as it wishes, and so crazy that we cannot hope to comprehend, then why assume it is dully restricted to determinism? Not to mention that we have evidence that it isn't. 

I believe this problem should be understood in terms of opening eyes, not in terms of convincing, as you put it yourself in your original deleted post: 

EDIT - what a crop, one SPAM answer, and a comment suggesting this question belongs in Reddit's stoner-philosophy page. Luckily I found a Nobel Prize winner to (sort of) back me up; in a paper called Two Kinds of Realities, Eugene Wigner wrote: 

Let me offer you a very simple answer. Unfortunately at this time I do not know of professional philosophers who argue for it. However, it possibly resonates with various religious views which I could expand on if you ask me to. The answer is this: free will, to the extent it exists, is simply the name we give to an aspect of ourselves which cannot be understood in terms of determinism or randomness, or any combination thereof. By saying that you have free will, you are saying that you have the capacity to act in a way that cannot be understood in terms of determinism or randomness. And since these appear to be the only two categories by which we can try to comprehend behavior, it also means that it is a name for ones capacity to act in a way that is hopelessly incomprehensible. That is to say, any analysis of ones behavior in terms of randomness or determinism is merely the shadows cast on the wall by something indescribable and unintelligible. Most people, and particularly philosophers, and in particular philosophers of free will, will most probably instantly reject such an idea and would rather pointlessly and hopelessly go on trying to analyze free will in light of determinism or randomness for another millennia as they have done for thousands of years already. 

I would like to challenge the notion that imagining an event necessarily includes the observer. Suppose a time traveler gave you a photo of your own funeral. You watch the photo and contemplate. Does looking at the photo create any problem of being there? Intuitively I do not see such problem. now suppose this time traveler doesn't just bring a photo but a virtual reality recording of the event. In what sense does that technology create a different problem? suppose you get a virtual reality helmet with a live feed from a remote event. Does the problem of being there arise? granted there is little difference between imagining you are participating or just observing an event. But it is an important difference. In one you imagine you are part of the event and in the other you imagine that you are not there. prima facie it seems enough. 

First, you cannot know with certainty that you are awake, and therefore, when you interact with someone you cannot know with certainty that someone has a mind. This is not just (Bertrand Russell's) teapot agnosticism, since there is a reasonable likelihood that you are indeed sleeping right now; you sleep every night, and from my experience with lucid dreaming it can be pretty tricky to realize that you are indeed dreaming from within a dream world, even when you consciously try to determine this question. In fact, Bertrand Russell discusses this directly in his book Human Knowledge: 

And he meant it to be meaningless not in the sense of being trivial or a truism, but in the sense meant by Chomsky who compared such a question to asking whether submarines can swim: 

You can only see all the colors that you can see. If you are color blind (like me) you cannot see all the colors that people who are not color blind can see; just as you cannot see the ultra violet light that some birds and insects can see, and there is nothing it is like for you to NOT see the ultra violet light that some birds and insects can see. Why do you think that darkness is the same as not having the vision sense at all? 

There are several versions of the argument. I particularly like Mulla Sadra's version which appears in that entry: 

Reasons to be confident in opinions you formulate: 1) It is one way to create something from nothing; see this relevant critique of a book by Lawrence M. Krauss by professor of philosophy David Albert. 2) It increases your chance of an interesting chat with Socrates. 3) It increases your chance of actually doing some work; see Feynman's joke on philosophers. 

Can't one explain these cases with failure of memory rather than absence of consciousness? how would you eliminate that possibility? 

That is to say, not being able to define morality or love does exclude you from speaking about them. On the other hand there is a "thing" about which one cannot speak. In fact, it appears that most people don't know what the hell the people who do speak of that "thing" (about which one cannot speak) speak about. It is not an obscure or poorly defined concept at all. It is a "thing" about which one cannot speak because it transcends language, reason, and logic. It is not clear to what extent Wittgenstein was referring to that "thing" in his writings but he does provide many aphorisms that lend them selves to that "thing" perfectly: 

I would argue that Wittgenstein's statement is common sense; he returns to this point in the Philosophical Investigations: 

What if a philosopher mounted a reductio ad absurdum on nature? would he be justified if his argument was sound? Consider for example the problem of free will - one can imagine two philosophers who hold opposing views on free will, and who for many years reject each other's view using reductio ad absurdum; is that not absurd? As an analogy, imagine two mathematicians who reject each other's coordinate systems for a sphere on account of including a singularity point, such as a north pole - let's call it the "absurdity" of a coordinate system - and they fail to realize that you cannot "explain" a sphere with a single coordinate system which is not "absurd" - you need at least two: 

I love the question and the answers by @Conifold and @Not_Here. Suppose a machine learns to classify objects as either capable of thinking or not capable of thinking. Trained in the 80s and presented with the image of another computer it classifies it as not-capable of thinking. Trained again in the year 2100 and presented with the image of another computer it now classifies it as capable of thinking. What has the machined learnt? a definition of what constitutes thinking or the legitimate use of the word "thinking" as it evolves in time? Suppose a machine learns to classify images as representing trees or not-trees. It has learnt a function, say even a sharp boundary. But in what sense is that a definition of a thing? Does it mean that it classifies images into trees or not-trees with 100% accuracy? What does it even mean for it to have 100% accuracy at such a task? I think we can suppose a lower than 100% accuracy for non-trivial problem domains. Say it is 97% accurate, then what about the remaining 3%? it would appear that some members of the community of speakers disagree with the machine. will it learn from them or even teach them as it interacts with them? will said boundary change over time? And what is that boundary anyway? suppose it is determined by some arbitrary threshold, say a score of 50%, and suppose the machine is presented with some input for which the computed score is 50%, and another input for which the score is 49.999%. Suppose these inputs are pictures of school-buses. In what sense is it justified to determine that the first picture depicts a school-bus and the second does not? What if the second picture is obtained from the first by slightly changing the value of a particular pixel in a way that most humans will not even perceive? This example corresponds to an interesting phenomena called "adversarial" images that confuse neural networks but not humans: 

So, the main point of an algorithm is that it is can be specified in terms of steps that are small enough or so called mechanical; sometimes an algorithm is specified in very abstract terms (for example pseudo code in CS books) but under the assumption that in principle each abstract step can be specified in small enough steps if we bother to fill in the gaps. therefore, and in response to your question about hardware vs. software level of abstractions, I think it doesn't really matter what is going on at these levels, as long as we understand that in principle, there is a level in there that satisfied the criterion for an algorithm. for example, a high level language, may be too abstract to count as a specification of an algorithm in the above sense, and the hardware level may also fail to satisfy our requirement since it relies on occult quantum mechanical phenomena, but the level of machine language, somewhere in between, is probably good enough. Now, back to functions: it seems that functionalists believe that the mind can be explained in terms of functions and that according to CTM, these functions are effectively computable. For example, In Absent Qualia, Fading Qualia, Dancing Qualia, Chalmers advocates a principle he calls the principle of organizational invariance, which involves such concepts as the functional organization of the brain and functional isomorphs; he acknowledges your concern that a system may be analyzed at different levels of organization and writes that: 

And if you don't like to have it from Osho, then take it from Chomsky who argues that existence is mysterious in the sense that it transcends our capacity of understanding: $URL$ 

Shameless plug: I raise some objections to his arguments in $URL$ - comments would be appreciated. Note that the particular algorithms to compute these functions are practically irrelevant. As for Yudkowski's belief in mind uploading, that belief is quite common among functionalists. A lot of people, including Chalmers, Marvin Minsky, and Google's Ray Kurzweil, believe that. 

This is similar to Russell's paradox: Let R = { x | x ∉ x }, then R ∈ R iff R ∉ R What is the justification for concluding a difference of cardinality of infinity, rather than concluding a paradox? 

Can you recommend a good contemporary book that is considered a definitive or classical exposition of Physicalism? I have started reading Daniel Stoljar's Physicalism, but while it seems good, it is laid out in such a way that makes me suspect that it is more like his take on Physicalism than a widely accepted exposition. 

Jackson does not claim that for Mary "the entirety of physical knowledge is a priori", but rather that Mary is "forced to investigate the world from a black and white room". Here is how Jackson describes Mary: 

I think that the word void in King James Version is meant in the sense of emptiness, not nothingness. Here is the Hebrew source: 

This question reminds me of an interesting story about Wittgenstein that is recounted in a book by Bennet - The Age and Size of the World: 

Philosophers often use reductio ad absurdum in metaphysics and philosophy of mind to make a point, to justify their position, or a thought experiment, or to reject a position or theory they do not like, but what is the point in all that if nature itself is absurd? Consider this quote by Feynman from page 10 of QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter: 

According to Chalmers the answer is no, CTD does not entail reductionism; he believes both that the brain is computable and that consciousness is emergent. in Strong and Weak Emergence he writes: 

but unfortunately Achilles ends up in an infinite regress. Maybe it is possible to adapt the Tortoise race-course (as he called it) to your question; something like: 

1) Scientists do not know what physical laws apply at the Big Bang (and in particular conservation laws): "Both general relativity and quantum mechanics break down in describing the Big Bang" - Gravitational singularity 2) Scientists do not know what was before the big bang: "It is not known what could have caused the singularity to come into existence (if it had a cause), or how and why it originated" - Big Bang 3) I think we wonder at the existence of the universe mainly because we have difficulty grasping our own mortality; but where the universe is concerned why should we suppose non existence makes any sense?