I do not know if more dangerous rays can trigger the same reaction in the skin as UV light does, but I expect they don't. These people would most probably suffer lack of melanin as well as vitamin D. So they would need some sort of artificial sunlight source. Expect european people to be a bit paler if they do not attend their artificial sunlight exposures, but otherwise there shouln't be much difference. Tanning and skin color have very little to do with each other. One is a reaction of skin on dangerous environment and the other is a genetical predisposition. 

With a wooden shaft the thin light arrowhead would not have enough weight to fall tip first. You would have to add some weight to the tip. Romans used lead to balance their sling darts and javelins, you could do the same thing. Or you could shape the shaft so it has more weight in the front. 

The creature uses leather gloves that only expose the finger tips(for the claws), these gloves have a insulating "bowl/groove" inside its palm or on its knuckles with desired flammable material inside. The heat will not penetrate the insulation, so the creature shouldn't mind. How will it work? You will have some sort of strap holding this device on the hand (this can help you get rid of it quickly if the device fails, so it does not burn your hand) Remeber that the creature has gloves on, so any sparks or hot coals brushing against the hand can not harm it. Next is the bowl attached to the strap, this could be ceramic, stone or even thick or wet wood. It depends on how long do you expect the device to last. I think the best and cheapest and most primitive way would be some hard wood wiped with clay on the inside. Next is the flammable material in the bowl, this could be any solid fuel or a medium doused in flammable liquid. The last part is the most technologically demanding thing (we are talking bronze age or so) You will need wires. They are complicated to make with primitive technology, but they were used both in medieval and ancient eras. And I don't mean like "they could make these", but "They were made for something uselful" Like this. So once you get some wires you create some sort of mesh and you put it over the bowl with the fuel inside. The mesh will allow the air to flow, feeding the flames, when the creature moves its hands around. You attach this mesh on the sides of the bowl. You can drill holes in the sides for the wires. And now your "Flame paws" are complete. Now with the strike of your palm (tiger stance) you shall turn thy enemies ablaze. Apply more flammable substance on your target in case it is not flammable enough. The burning bowls of the Kitty the Scorcher, The searing claws, The doom of the flammable folk! 

In Russian empire convicts were sent to Siberia for permanent settlement, as punishment and a way to identify them, those who commited grievous crimes (quite a wide definition at that time), would often have been cropped ( their ears cut off), and/or have their nostrils teared. Branding face (usually forehead) with hot iron was also common. Cutting off limbs was much less common, as made inmate unfit for forced labour. Provided authorities with difficult to hide way to identify prisoners. 

Global pandemic of virus causing agraphia ( $URL$ ), coinciding with regular kind of global catastrophic event (megavolcano, etc). Should be extremely contagious, but should not kill. As added twist, initially it may provide some kind of evolutionary benefit (e.g., protection from wide-spread malaria, etc), before it became apparent what kind of harm it does. Making written forms of communication impossible or extremely difficult would make recovering lost technology very challenging. 

Zoonotic disease, with large wild reservoir, transmitted by parasite difficult to avoid. Real-life examples would be malaria, transmitted by moskito, or Lyme, transmitted by ticks. Both infect humans, but primary carrier is wildlife. 

As you novel is set in near future, I would guess they would refrain from controversial physical isolation, as modern drugs could achieve the goal of controlling unpredictable behaviour so much better. This would be promoted as "treatment", and, if potential for damaging behaviour considered high, he would have become ward of the state, and be assigned visiting "caregiver" whose responsibility includes ensuring he takes drugs and does periodic visits to psychiatrist for regular assessment and providing authorities with observations and recommendation as to further actions. So to achieve his goal of staying free your protagonist would have to use his deducing abilities to play cat-and-mouse with both caregiver and doctor. Or, if by some miracle his condition was not discovered yet, he might want to play this game with AIs of facebook-like social networks that in your society likely will be tasked to identify "risky" behaviours and flag at-risk individuals. I would not worry too much about handling suspicious neighbours, as today you can avoid in-person contacts almost completely. 

Rust cloaks (red dust of mars) Reds (red planet) (or Communists) Red colour- rouge(fr. But also similar to rogue) There could be a name that derives from their reputation or function. Vultures x Settlers Or you can go with mythology and find names of children of Ares. Amazons, Thrax, Phobos etc. Then there is an option to name them after a first colonisation ship or a first martian settlement. So you can name them anything you fancy. 

In the year XXXX Australia and NZ are released/break off from the states of Commonwealth as the situation in Europe escalates. EU breaks down, as many states start to leave and when Greece says it is not able to pay its debt back, German banks are ruined. Several european states are quickly dominated by foreing economies. Share prices rapidly plummet down and are quickly bought by Russians. Without its buyers China starts to press on USA, to pay back its' astronomical debts. Rich companies start to control USA and large portions of land are sold as a form of repayment. As conflicts in the middle-east start to settle down and I.S. is defeated... Egypt and Syria, ally them selves with The New Persia (Iran and Iraq) and starts to support Russian Federation as the new northern economic power. Without the support of other states Australia has to develop its own industry, the plan is to create industrial zones in the dry main land, the plan is funded by a rich yet mysterious investor from Singapore. As people start to move into the main land, projects for terraforming the desert start to progress quicker than expected. NZ is cooperating with Australia, supplying them with agricultural goods. It is not enough, so Australia looks for partners in Asia. Vietnam and Laos profit from their new trade agreements. Soon other island states start to join in. Japan starts to supply Australia with technology and United Korea (I hope that happens after the olympic games) doesn't want to fall behind. As the small island states grow more dependent on A and NZ, ideas about creating a federation start to pop up and USO is born. With the other former economic giants crushed under their own weight USO, China, USA and RF are only remaining. USO starts to invest into Africa and southern America, creating a new granary for themselves and also supplying their new industry. How is this? 

What you likely need, is a world with iron ore not being abundant or not being within easy reach. There are several ways for this to happen: 1) very prehistoric civilization (more then several million years ago) depleted most easily recoverable iron ore deposits 2) due to peculiar geology, no young mountains on land, or the rest of land was recently (in geological terms) under shallow seas and to reach iron ore deposits you must go down more than a mile, etc. So if the only iron you can get is low quality bog iron, and even that is sparse you'll get the world you want without redesigning laws of physics. 

Actually, it is more likely that you will see chaotic scenes if transport is being used. There would be one (or few?) Transports available, and some crew/passengers would be stationed quite far away from it, and now they have to navigate spaceship with systems shutting down to the boarding gates. While escape pods locations would be, presumably, chosen to minimize the distance each member of the crew has to cover your get into it. 

Realistically, you would use the same approach opposing sides used during Cold War: if you know orbits and time of satellites passing your location, you can plan accordingly, and hide only when satellite is overhead. Then you can dig yourself down, and you won't need to go too deep. 

Weaponized nanobots from last global war, designed to set off powder and explosives spread world-wide and are self-perpetuating, but no technology exists in post-apocalyptic world to neutralize them. You also could add nanobots preventing electricity generation and/or semiconductor electronics, if so required by your story. Granted, nanobots are a somewhat handwavium device, but, on the other hand, at this point we don't know what they are truly capable of. 

As mentioned by Separatrix, basic steam engine was discovered quite some time before black powder. There is commonly accepted opinion among historians, that it's further development was stymied by wide availability and chipnes of slave labour. Make it unavailable or very expensive, and you've got incentive to develop steam technology, and it is worth mentioning that antiquety possessed very advanced theoretical and practical knowledge in mechanics, as evident $URL$ Compared to Greeks and romans, your country would need better knowledge of metallurgy, though. 

Trying to open a volcano before the natural eruption would only help the situation. If you would make a hole into the volcano, you would release all the pressure and heat, it would probably make a lava eruption and cause a huge calamity near the volcano, but no pyroclastic wave. (maybe a nuke would have different results, but then you could use the nuke by itself and just open the volcano to make it seem like a natural disaster for a few days, before somebody would investigate) 

Cold biomes running in an angle could be caused by cold sea currents, however that would mean that warm winds would often come from the south and that would bring humidity to the south-east island, so I would play a little bit with the mountain range, or add some seasonal rivers leading into the lake in the middle. 

Related to my other question. What would be best conditions for a natural super colony of pearl oysters and the best conditions for them to produce pearls naturally. Shallow or deep waters? Slowly decreasing, long shore or rocky waters? Periodic currents around the island or continuous current? (To increase the chance of sand getting into the clams) Warm water? Coud it be combined with a coral reef? Reefs forming circles around the island or a star / squid like layout? I would also like if the conditions allowed the pearls to wash up to the beach. You can have anything you want as long as it can create a paradise for the clams. The conditions don't have to be caused naturally. I have a lot of handwavium to make it happen. (If it would be impossible to do with just one island consider if several islands could make enough glitter. And then I'll join it together with MAGIC or something) 

Far south-west of the main continent exists an island in a shape of crescent moon with dense jungles and slender mountain peaks and a single city named Kalt stands in a place where the islands' central lake opens to the sea. (large lagoon with a big river flowing into the sea) This city does not have any slaves, yet it is rich. The inhabitants mine metals from the lake, where a big volcano once stood. And its beaches are full of pearls. The sand glitters with the iridescent dust from the shells and pearls ground by the sea waves. Could there really be a beach like that? Could the iridescent dust last for a long time or would it decompose? If most of the pearls were collected by the inhabitants, would more wash up to the beach, if there are lots of clams living around the island? 

Fake knows doesn't hold forever, but since time is of the essence it could help. It also won't work in high profile cases where a team of well trusted hindsighters could verify exactly what happened, but it should at least give any culprit some hope of getting away with stuff given a good lawyer. 

Suppose I'm a rich, well-connected psychological scientist with a lot of spare time, and I'm sick of WEIRD science. 

They are not really fire-proof Much like ruining a dishwasher with water, you can burn a dragon with fire - if you direct it to a weak spot. There's no reason why the outer belly of the dragon should be fire proof. Also, when it breathes fire, the fire doesn't stay close too long. It's most likely created outside the body. Fire is much more dangerous when someone pushes it at you. 

Find someone with hindsight and a sketchy character Give them money Have them falsely confirm your alibi and blame the crime on someone else + discredit whoever is condemning you (including if it's the judge his/her self!) Maybe throw in some conspiracy theories for the hell of it Stall the trial, say "we just can't know for sure what happened! So many alternative facts!" Walk away happy as a clam 

You don't know this, but in the program that is your consciousness there are break points. I.e., points in which the program stops, and you have a chance to reflect on it and perhaps change it. The way this works is that you suddenly have an out-of-body experience, in which you realize that time has stopped and you have an ability to change certain things about yourself (see details below). You know that once you 'resume' yourself you will forget that this ever happened, and you don't remember it ever happening before although you are aware it's possible that it had. What you can do: 

By the courtesy of the other dead I don't know if all cultures believe in souls ascending to heaven, so relying on your enemies in battle may not be wise. However, since not all your dead are trapped (those who are reachable can be helped), it could be a matter of courtesy in those cultures to not ascend the minute you are free, but have a look around, especially in times of war, for fellow souls which are trapped and free them before you go. Army units in particular can have it planned ahead that everyone who dies makes sure all the others are alive or descended.