My environment is the following: VMWare 5.5 vitalized server MS Windows Server 2008R2 Enterprise domain and SQL Server 2008 R2 Enterprise. Centralized storage with fibre-channel connection. I have partitions in my . I have 2 : one with live data (FG1), second with historical data (HDG). The second file group is . Each month I make movement in partitions - I add new data (from previous month) to historical data. This process is automatic. We moved our database to a new server. Initially, I had to do the process manually. During this operation my mirror breaks down (after operation 3 - see process flow bellow) with the following error: ON PRINCIPAL SERVER: ROW 0 in LOG: 

Fisrt optimizer takes one of best plans - not the best. This is because when the optimizer works the time for calculating the best plan can be bigger than the time it saves during the execution. And yes, optimizer works based on statistics. So if your statistics is old enough optimizer will create plan suiatble for that statistics - i.e. for the moment of time when the statistics was last recalculated. As far as I know the plan also depends on the amount of data that you have. 

We found the issue. It is a bug in SQL Server. When we set the command is not transfeered properly into the DB. When script start change on the mirror server an error occured. After that the syncronization is ruined and the DB on the mirror is locked (in state). We fix the issue by updating SQL Server to the latest version (our initial version was wiout SP). 

If we use instead of then I receive error, because I try to convert to - this is correct. The problem is that obviously function behaves differenly which is a big issue. 

With backup you have all data. Of course you can generate script for data, but for a DB with 1-2 GB the script will be very big and will execute long time. The best way in my point of view is method. It will preserve the current state of the DB. Of course you can make backup before that. In that case you also have to take into account downtime for transferring database between servers. 

I have a query to compare data between my local SQL Server and linked SQL Server. My problem is that the table I compare contains XML column. I get: 

I don't know how to fix this, because I don't show this column inside the select statement. I though that I can , but when the column is not in the select list what to cast? I see that there is workaround with cast by I can not. So may be I miss something. Any ideas? My test code looks like: 

Of course the code above is not working because I use derived table, which is not updatable. I don't figure out right now how to update. If I use simple CAST without derived table I still get error. 

If you are using SSMS then this answer is for you. I have similar problem when the script have several sections. For Example if you have section then you have shift. But when you click an error you are usually relocated on the place where is the error. So never is not true, but sometimes don't match. And yes, those are lines inside the script - not in the (books online) or some else source. For you have Error number. 

I want to get one post(e.g p_id=8) and all of its comments. how to do that? How to get count(*) from comment table while your getting your post record? 

I have used to generate SSL certification. All the private key, chain and certificate is generated by `let's encrypt. Now to use it in I first merged and into a file called : 

I have a unique compound key like fr(fromid,toid) in the table, when I run the query with explain I get the following result: 

As option separates table files instead of putting all data and indexes of DBs into one ibdata file, is using this option improve speed of alter table? I have a table of 40M rows and when I alter a specific table it takes about 5 to 6 hours. Does this solution help? Is there other ways around to improve alter table speed on heavy tables? 

Why it reports that ? Is there something in between that I have missed? Could someone shed some light on this? 

I want to fill this table with lots of data. Let's say millions of records. How to do this? I need to produce unique emails. Different data for emails. I know I can use but don't know how to produce random data 

NOTE: My mongoDB is a single primary node in which replication is enabled (Use to capture changes on DB) Now when I restart it gives error below: 

When I insert a record I need to return the inserted id by . The problem is that the table is partitioned and in partitioned table I can't use . I run multiple queries at once so I'm in dire need of . Is there a way to accomplish this? 

When there is a unique key in a table (not ) and procedure is running, on duplicate key error the whole process will be halted. I want to resume on error and call the procedure again. The procedure: 

I want to count correct col upon ct_id(course) col. I queried a lot but gained no success. How to query such a thing? for example in SELECT I should have two columns: -correctNo -incorrectNo for each course(ct_id). Note: The last column(correct) is a derived column: IF(selected_answer=answer,1,0) as correct 

Now users in the name of who has been added by uid=60 should not have be shown! The result of this query is empty. I can't figure that out, what I'm doing wrong? 

EDIT 2: The output of in order to remove extra information based on read and write: $URL$ Another result which reached around 1000: $URL$ 

I want to fetch those users that is not in a specific user's circle (Like G+). It means that user has not yet added those people to his/her circle. I tried the below query but it was empty: 

Why is this happening? P.S.: I should note that Horde_groupware database have innoDB tables, when everything is messed up and I I get the error says bad information in .frm file. 

I've seen so many times that we use numbers like 5,6 or 10 at most. What is this concurrency? Doesn't it refer to number of simultaneous users in bench? EDIT I'm not talking about any specific benchmarking tools, I mean in general. In benchmarks for databases OR for apache servers we use low concurrent numbers. why is that the case? 

You update column inside the . It refferences inside the view. From the code of the we see that you update table (). Seeing that you have 2 columns and you have ID \ Name structure of the table. Inside the view you show . So you update name inside table. This is the reason for . When you refresh the view you see new string inside multiple rows inside the view. 

As far as I know - NO. On iMac you can use emulator software, but on iPad there is no such possibility. 

You need your answer to be an application - this is too broad. I try to give basic idea. You need one form which will be saved to the database each time a person fills the list. It must contain 1 text box for Persons names. One List with all cars that are on the show and one empty list. And 2 buttons - and . For each new person operator write his name of the person. Then operator selects cars from fisrt list and transfer its to the second. This can be done by double click or by selecting a car and pressing additional button. This must work in the opposite direction too. Then when pressing button the data will be saved inside database and the form will be reset - first list will contain all cars from the show, second will be empty and text box will be empty. If operator presses button the form will be reset without saving data to database. You can try serach internet how to implement those lists in MS Access 2010. 

I have engine is SQL which uses to run stored procedures. I do that because I need dynamically determine which stored procedure to call and to prepare parameters for that procedure. And I need that logic to be present. So is this a good way to call stored procedure or I have to use or there is another way? I ask this question because I have two timings - 1st is to prepare and to call procedure and call another small procedure and 2nd is the execution of the called procedure itself. It works fine almost all the time - the timings are very close. But from time to time I got huge difference between them - the 2nd timing is the same, but 1st is several times bigger (for example 3ms vs 90ms). I suppose some compilation takes place, but this stored procedure is executed very often. REMARK: I call from , not from . Here is the code how inner SP is called: 

REMARK: I edit "causing error" part because my colleague put a protection check. I remove that part to show the original state of the function (The source was: The call that causes error: 

This will show all campaigns with all emails lists for each campaign. It will show also campaign with no emails list. You can add or remove fields in the select as you need. 

Sorry, may be very stupid question but what is the difference between SQL Server 2012 SP4 and SQL Server 2012 SP3 + CU-10? 

I have one main database () and several client DBs (). I need to start query in and to get data from . The client DB can be found also on linked server. My problem is that I need to do this in a function with , so I can get , but this in not allowed by SQL Server. Is there another way to do that? I need to have code like inside the function: