Violet is your best bet for the strongest wavelengths because a plant that absorbs lots of violet light will appear more yellow. If we focused instead on the green part of the spectrum (where chlorophyll is weakest), the plant would look more red. The increased violet light might make your sky appear more indigo than Earth's pale blue, but atmospheric color is going to depend hugely on what gasses are present and in what concentrations. Oxygen and nitrogen are pretty good at scattering violet light, but our sun doesn't emit enough of it for our sky to appear more violet. So you can probably achieve this effect simply by making the star emit a little more violet light. I'm treading on the limits of what I know here, but you can probably do this by either by changing it mass to be heavier or just changing its chemical composition (its spectral signature). If more violet light is being scattered by the atmosphere, the sun itself might appear a little more orange than it does on Earth. Regardless, sunlight would still be white light just like it is on Earth, and things on the surface wouldn't be colored differently. 

It is a common misconception that the seasons are instead caused by our planet's distance from the sun changing as it orbits. The Earth's distance from the sun does change throughout the year, but the change is far too small to have any effect on the planet's temperature. In fact, in the northern hemisphere, the Earth is actually furthest from the sun during summer. 

The main problem you're going to run into is that complete control of these forces would be, to put it bluntly, mad overpowered. Being able to control any of the forces, even the weak force, would make you a god of destruction. You said "no planet destroying abilities", which in my opinion is simply incongruous with having powers over these forces, any of which have the power to destroy the universe as we know it. However, I'll do my best to stick to more relatively mundane applications. Disclaimer: I am a biologist and a programmer, well, actually a student studying to be those things, so physics in not my area of expertise. Feel free to correct me if any of the science below is downright inaccurate, but also keep in mind I'm intentionally simplifying and not concerned with using the most correct language possible. Notice: this answer has been edited substantially since it was posted, with major rewrites of the sections regard Gravity and the Strong Force. Gravity Gravity is unique among the forces in that it is best described not by quantum mechanics but by general relativity, via the curvature of spacetime. So one interpretation of gravity-based powers would be power over spacetime itself: wormholes, time travel, banishing people into pocket dimensions, etc. However, I’m going to focus on a more conservative interpretation and define gravity-based powers to mean the ability to affect the acceleration experienced by massive objects in a gravitational field. Gravity is by far the weakest of the four forces. You basically need planetary scales to make it do anything noticeable. Unfortunately if we give our gravity-users planetary-scale powers over gravity it becomes trivial for them to destroy the planet. So instead we’ll limit their powers to changing the effects of planetary-scale gravity fields on much smaller massive objects. In other words, they need a powerful gravitational field to already be present, and they can make objects lighter or heavier within that field. I’m interpreting this as the ability to affect weight, not mass. This ability has absurd potential for practical applications, most notably in construction and aerospace. The biggest challenge in designing a craft to reach space is that the fuel that generates thrust is usually the heaviest component of the craft. If you can turn a thousand-ton rocket into a five-pound rocket that still has millions of pounds of thrust behind it, the solar system is your oyster. Forklifts and cranes are a thing of the past on government construction projects: have a Gravity-user make the cargo featherweight, and give it a firm shove, and give the workers on the 20th floor heads up. And when it’s time for the building to come down, just quintuple its weight and get out of the way. Of course, the ability to level buildings with a hand wave also has potential for military use (and more likely, terrorism). A gravity-user could pin soldiers to the ground with 10G, turn them to mush with 200G, pull planes out of the sky and sink tanks deep into the ground. With even a few gravity-users in play, the shape of warfare would change dramatically. No one can risk large forward-assaults anymore, lest they wind up sinking through the Earths’ mantle. Black ops is the name of the game and cyber-warfare reigns supreme. That said, the logistical usefulness of Gravity-users far exceeds their use in warfare in my opinion. While they’re tremendously effective, they’re also a precious resource that dies to a snipers’ bullet just like an ordinary human. If you want your nation to be the most powerful, I think employing gravity users in your supply lines and manufacturing bases would be a much better allocation of resources then sending them directly into combat. They just make so many industrial processes so much easier; the demand for civilian services is so high I doubt many Gravity-users would turn to the military except in times of a draft. Then again, it might only take one to flatten the enemy capital into the ground. I see Gravity-users as practically-minded upper-middle-class people mostly employed in construction. Their abilities are incredibly useful for everyday life, but aren’t particularly well-suited for direct combat, unless their reflexes are fast enough to drop bullets out of the air, but they would serve as a major deterrent to anyone planning an invasion. Because of high demand for their abilities from many sectors of the economy, I imagine they’d be very well-paid and live comfortable lives of productivity and comfort. The increased productivity they would bestow upon society would them icons of the workforce and heroes of labor, but since their success depends entirely on them getting their own hands dirty, I don’t see how they could ever own a business or ever truly leave the middle class. Electromagnetism Unlike gravity, electromagnetism is strong enough at small scales to be used without fear of destroying the planet. However, considering that electromagnetism is what hold atoms and molecules together, it could easily be used to vaporize... well, anything, including the entire planet, so let's set a limit and say that an EM user can only control electromagnetic fields at macroscopic scales. Well, they can act like a magnet, or a lightning bolt. Create a positive charge on bad guy and a negative one in the atmosphere, and BANG!!! crispy bad guy. They could also create radiation, from radio waves to visible light to gamma rays, so you can microwave top ramen, become a human disco ball, give people skin cancer, or just annihilate them with gamma rays. Lasers might be tricky to pull off, but probably possible with sufficient training. You can wipe hard drives with a handwave, and you're every cyborg's worst nightmare. If powers include detecting EM fields, you could see in infrared, ultraviolet (probably not a good idea when visiting public restrooms), and detect all electronic equipment and brain activity around you. If they can manipulate existing radiation, they could curve light around themselves and go invisible. Be careful with magnetism, since much like gravity it's very difficult to contain or aim. It would probably be possible though. EM users are the Supermen of this world: they're flashy, versatile, immensely powerful in traditional superhero fights, and well-suited for public adoration. When your abilities revolve around lightning and lasers, stealth and discreteness isn't much of an option; even if you can turn yourself invisible for the approach, you’re going to light up the sky with fireworks when you actually strike. Also they don't however have any strong defensive abilities though (soon to be a common theme), so they would probably rely on governments to keep them safe and would serve publicly as either patriotic super-soldiers or semi-legal vigilantes. They would be the flaming sword of modern justice, the poster children of the force-users, and the only ones the public would regularly interact with. Weak Force Unfortunately there is no getting around the issue of subatomic manipulation for the next two. Unlike gravity and EM, the weak force has incredibly short range, since the particles that mediate it are massive and can only exert their effect over any distance at all thanks to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. Herein lies a problem: by "short" I don't mean a few feet or a few inches or even a few nanometers, but 1/1000 of the diameter of a single proton. In other words, the weak force can't even be projected from one atom to another, or even from one side of an atom's nucleus to the other side. So, you have two options. Either Weak users can project their abilities over distances or they can't, and can only affect what they can touch. The first option is very problematic since this ability is so stupidly strong, as we'll see shortly. The second option makes this ability stupidly weak (no pun intended) since the distance between the electrons in your hand and the electrons in whatever you're touching is many orders of magnitude greater the weak force's range, meaning that your powers would only apply over your own body. This is problematic because this ability is stupidly destructive, as we'll see shortly. So, problems of range aside, what can the weak force do? Well, it can change quarks (the particles that make up protons and neutrons in atomic nuclei) into other "flavors" of quarks. What does that do? It can change protons into neutrons and vice versa, which can change atoms into other kinds of atoms. Ha ha, you think! I'm an alchemist that can turn lead into gold and bullets into snowflakes! Well, no, because if you change the ratio of protons to neutrons in an atom, most of the time the result is an atom that is unstable, i.e., radioactive. Basically, your power is to turn any substance (or person) into nuclear fallout. If the ability were to taken to its logical extreme (which might be planet destroying territory), they could effectively turn any object into a neutron bomb. So, going back to our options above, our weak user can either make anything, anywhere, radioactive, or they give themselves fatal radiation poisoning. Far more interesting, in my opinion, is to give their powers range over whatever they can focus clearly on, i.e an arbitrary short range of three meters. Given that EM users couldn't control their force at the atomic level, Weak users would require enormous concentration to do so, and would have to be close enough to their target to have some idea of its molecular structure (i.e. calcium carbonate for cement, water for people, etc). Due to the difficulty involved in feeling out and manipulating quintillions upon qunitillions of quarks, their powers would extremely difficult to master, and would probably not emerge until later in life, and perhaps only if they studied enough physics to understand what was happening. Their powers can only be used to destroy, but unlike the Gravity users, they can control and direct them without world-shattering consequences. Their only defense is a crushing offense, but unlike the EM users, their offensive tools are not well-suited to public activity, and aren't accompanied by huge flashes of light and heat. For the average weak user, I'm imagining a cynical and secretive pariah with a very hard life unfolding before them. Maybe they were expelled from college after a particularly bad breakup, when their ex was taken the hospital one day with her flesh melting off her bones, and all her doctors died of cancer within the year. Maybe they wander the streets in rags holding a brown paper bag, muttering constantly about they could kill them all if they wanted to, yes they could, they'd kill them all! Or maybe they're sitting on a plush couch in an imposing skyscraper somewhere, ignoring their host's offers of wine and women, negotiating the price for the deaths of a nation's entire government. Whatever their path, they stay out of the spotlight, hide their powers as much as they can, and use them however they see fit. Strong Force It is really a stretch to make this is not a planet-destroying ability. The strong force is strong, 137 times stronger than EM to be exact. It's also known as the color force, because much like the weak force it acts on quarks, and in addition to "flavor" quarks have a property called "color" that is expressed through the strong force. To oversimplify, in quantum mechanics color always has to add up to white, so a red quark, a green quark, and a blue quark join together to form a white proton or neutron. Also a red quark could temporarily join with an anti-red anti-quark to form a meson. This color interaction binds quarks together extremely strongly. In fact, the energies involved are so large that nowhere in the universe today will you find a free colored quark that's not part of white structure. In fact, this energy, called quantum chromodynamics binding energy, is much larger than the actual mass of the quarks themselves (remember E=MC2). In short, most all mass in the universe is the "mass" of the energy bound up by the strong force as it keeps quarks glued together. It's range is about 1000 times that of the weak force--still far too small to reach from one atom to the next--so let's assume its range mechanic works the same as the weak force. Now, what can it do? By gaining power over the strong force, you have the ability to unleash obscene amounts of energy. The weakest possible implementation of this power that I can imagine is the ability to split and fuse atomic nuclei. If the atom you're targeting is lighter than iron, fusion releases energy and fission absorbs it. Heavier than iron and it's the opposite. How much energy? Well, think atom bombs, nuclear power plants, and well, the sun. E=MC2. again, emphasis on the C2. Let's do some quick math. Every second the sun converts 600 million tons of hydrogen into 595 million tons of helium, with the missing mass converted into energy. So fusing hydrogen converts (600-595)/600 = 0.833% of mass fused converted to energy. Take 0.1 Kg of hydrogen gas, and fuse it by manipulating the strong force. 0.1 Kg (M) * 0.833% * (9.0e16 (C2)) = 7.5e13 J = 90,000,000,000,000 J = 90 Terajoules = around one and a half Hiroshima bombs. And that's a conservative estimate of what you could do with this power. In the modern universe, the strong force holds atomic nuclei together, it doesn't "get out in the open" much, so to speak. When it does, the universe turns into Quark-Gluon plasma. Bad times. I don’t have any numbers to back me up but I’m guessing that even the tiniest spark of QGP would, immediately upon creation, explode with the force of hundreds of nuclear weapons. An EM-user might be able to absorb the radiation from the blast, but not the heat or the shockwave. So a Strong-user, using just the tiniest corner of their power, can unleash energies far exceeding those of the other force users. With a flick of a wrist they can wipe cities, countries, continents off the map. Even if we emplace arbitrary limits on their power to tone it back, they could kill and destroy anything and anyone they chose by creating microscopic nuclear explosions out of any matter at all. Their biggest challenge is not blowing themselves up in the process; to solve this issue, I suggest scaling up the range of the Strong-users’ abilities from 3 meters to 3 kilometers, an increase proportional to the difference in range between the strong force and the weak force. Gravity-users are the industrious workers, EM-users are bold knights, Weak-users are roguish assassins—and Strong users are Kings. Gods, maybe, and despots, most likely. When you hold an entire nation’s nuclear arsenal in your fingertips, it’s not long before you start wondering why you’re bothering with working for anyone else. Also once the government discovers what you’re packing and decide it’s too dangerous to let you live, you don’t get much of a choice. They’re safe nowhere, and that makes them even more dangerous. Their only options are to disappear completely, or to make the world fear their wrath to the point where threatening their life doesn’t seem worth it. Perhaps they’d even start or inspire cultish followings that would populate their kingdoms and worship them as gods. I imagine a world with Strong-users is locked in a cold war the likes of which the world has never seen. Every government with a brainwashed/loyal Strong-user, and every Strong-user who’s carved out a kingdom for themselves through violence and threats of violence, would constitute a nuclear power with an unlimited armament. Mutually assured destruction doesn't even begin to describe it. If Strong-users can be detected at birth, expect very few of them to reach adulthood. 

Standard Anglo-cultures use the direct adoption method. I take my father's surname, as he took his father's surname etc. Just to note; traditionally, Anglo-culture is patrilineal, which is why we take our father's surname. In modern times there is the accepted practice of ambilineal naming, wherein we apply a double-barrel surname (mother's & father's combined with a hyphen). Traditional Norse, Hebrew & Arabic cultures make use of the gender classification method. Here are some examples: Norse: father's given name + -son, -dottir appended. (Still used in Iceland I believe) Karl Magnusson. Hebrew: father's given name + ben prepended. Simon ben Gabriel Arabic: father;s given name + ibn prepended. Ahmed ibn Mohammed 

That depends on how close to the time of the split you are asking from. The closer to the time, the more likely it is to be visible. Once a river finds a new route it will flow in that direction. Over time the majority of water will continue on this new route eroding more material, making it even easier for more water to choose the new route. Eventually the new route of the river would be made deep enough to accommodate the full watershed making the original route obsolete. It would become a dry-river bed. Think about gorges or creeks in this regard. It is very unlikely that both possible routes for the river to reach the sea will erode material at similar enough speeds to keep them completely equal. EDIT: To answer more fully, the speed of the shift from one route to another depends on the comparison of the erodibility of the material that the two routes flow through/over. Old route stone vs. new route stone the process will be slower. Old route stone vs. new route clay the process will be much quicker. 

Define what their collective enemy is. Every person places themselves into a myriad of different categories at different times to help identify themselves. Different situations require them to define themselves in these different ways. Examples: 

Amerindians (perhaps this is a stereotype) traditionally use the 3rd option. They are given names that have no bearing on who their parents are or which community they come from. The Occupational convention was prevalent in early medieval England, which gave us surnames such as Thatcher, Cooper, Shearer, Baker, Miller etc. The lineage convention (most prevalent), has been around as long as any others. It consists of adding an extra name to a person's given name to define their heritage. A simple example of this is by taking your father's surname as your own surname. The Second Layer Once the convention has been chosen, we would need to know how to apply it. Let's work with lineage here because it has the most variables. First define lineage. 

Is this setup a feasible explanation for the seasons of a fictional planet? If so, how would the planet's seasonal cycle differ from Earth's (all other things being equal)? 

DNA is fundamentally a discrete structure (a finite sequence built from a finite alphabet), so at a genetic level, all traits are discrete. However, there may be so many genes involved that there are many, many possible phenotypes, making the trait appear continuous. Also environmental factors like nutrition and sun exposure may play a role in traits such as height and skin color. But at the enzymatic level, all traits are discrete, and since inherent magic probably falls outside the realm of environmental effects, I'm going to assume that having a particularly magic type has a direct correspondence to enzyme activity. The tricky part is coming up with a set of enzymes and enzyme variants with exactly 6 phenotypes. The biggest obstacle to overcome is avoiding the effect of codominance. Perhaps the most obvious solution is to have a single gene with 6 alleles--but remember that humans are diploid and thus, everyone has two copies of every gene. Since every allele corresponds directly a magic type, and every person has two alleles, we wind up with 21 total phenotypes. We can get around this in a couple of ways. We could put the gene on the X chromosome. Males have only one copy and females only express one copy. But this has the effect that males always inherit their magic type from their mother, while females could wind up with either their mother's or their father's type with about equal likelihood. Alternatively, we could reduce the number of alleles to 3, which would result in 6 phenotypes. Each magic type is now the result of the combination of two alleles. For example: 

Consider the hormone Norepinephrine. On Earth, this chemical is produced by as part of the "fight-or-flight" response, that is, when an animal is panicking, anxious, or generally high strung. If your creature evolved separately, it might have a completely different use for the molecule. Instead of making the creature anxious, maybe it acts like an enjoyable drug, or maybe it serves as an essential micronutrient, like a vitamin. It could even be an aphrodisiac. Regardless, it's a chemical your creatures want. In order to actually get the Norepinephrine, the creature would have to induce great stress in a person (most easily by scaring them) and then extract the Norepinephrine from their bodies. They could act like leeches, secreting an anesthetic from their jaws and silently filtering it from the bloodstream, or they could violently rip out the person's adrenal glands (where the hormone is produced)--whatever's to your story's best interests. Unfortunately, it's not scientifically plausible for them to feed* off of the actual emotional state of fear, since that feeling is quite literally all in your head. It would have to be a chemical mechanism. Going straight for the hormone seems like your best bet, although there is some tentative evidence that emotional signals can be chemically imprinted in human sweat. *For commonly accepted definitions of "feed". 

As you can imagine, the message sends the zealots and high priests into a frenzy. Cries of 'HERETIC!' echo down the ships halls, neighbors rat out neighbors, minor scuffles break out ship-wide... The crew would review who tuned in to the sappy pleas from the colonists, and soon the saintly Captain (betrayed by his people's the lack of faith), must, with a heavy heart, sentence these sinners to the ultimate punishment: being sent down to the planet. How do the colonists convince the crew to send supplies with the sinners? Offer the ship an out. The ship's problem is twofold: they can't escape orbit because they can't set destinations, and they can't go on forever because they don't have fuel. The colonists probably don't have the answer to either of those problems... but the crew doesn't know that. The colonists can just lie: 

If enough supplies are sent, they can stiff the crew and just let them die in orbit. If those supplies aren't enough... well, more strife, as they say, must be stirred: 

I see an interesting way of dealing with this (other than the excellent answers so far!). If the supply ships arrive all at once it would change the answer a bit, but it seems like the question asker and many answers here assume that it's not a simultaneous thing. The OP states: 

An itching sensation in the back of the planetsiders minds will stir, a concern they weren't even aware of before. Families will pack small bags of the essentials, and calmly but quickly move towards the space side. Soon what started as a few people will turn into a zero-g stampeed. Everyone planetside will scramble to get to the space side of the ship. Riots and desperate pleas of at least take my children! abound as The Captain declares martial law. As this is going on, the colonists load the shuttles with their police force, armed with what game-hunting projectile weapons they can muster, and head back to the ship... where the docking bay is planetside. With martial law declared and all the ship's security occupied with holding back the planetside exodus, it takes some time for the crew to realize they've been boarded. Confusion reigns. Blockaded doors. A shootout outside the bridge. And at last, silence settles as a ship-wide announcement from the colonist commander crackles over the speakers: 

Some great answers here – want to briefly add my two cents. The TLDR version is: make contraception the norm (free IUDs for anyone who wants them!), give women full rights over their bodies, and create a more egalitarian society where anyone can have long, successful careers in fields that interest them. It does depend on how you define 'manageable population growth,' but below are some knobs you might be able to turn without getting dystopian. Having children is both expensive and dangerous. In fact, pregnancy has always been a leading cause of death for women, especially in poor countries. Combined with the fact that infant mortality has drastically declined with advances in medicine, having a baby in well off countries has become something people do less often simply because they don't need to have 12 kids just to make sure some survive until adulthood. Moreover, with ubiquitous contraception and control over their bodies, women have more choice in when and how often they have children. In most countries these days, this leads to lower birthrates naturally. And it makes sense: if you could make an expensive, large commitment with a (relatively) high risk of death anytime in your life, would it be the first thing did? Or would you get some lower risk, lower commitment things out of the way first? Given the profound nature of bringing life into the world, and having another being completely dependent on you, wouldn't you want to take the time to make sure you're ready and able to do it right? Would you want to take this risk often, or only once or twice? As of 2015, the US birthrate has dropped to the lowest levels in decades, well below 'replacement.' With more access to the things that make that possible, I don't see any reason the downward trend wouldn't continue. Having babies is hard, but in the past, NOT having babies was even harder. Make it easy to not have babies and you're probably most of the way there (again, subject to your definition of 'manageable population growth'). 

Six stars, all orbiting an intermediate-mass black hole, within 20 lightyears? Impossible that we haven't detected it. Even if the system were 100% invisible, the gravitational pull of 315+ solar masses would make it blatantly obvious that something absolutely huge was hiding there. It would be the defining feature of our stellar neighborhood. Also, if a star went hypernova and left a 315 solar mass black hole behind... that planet of yours, all six stars, and the entirety of the earth-sun system are all space toast. Also, considering that the most massive star we know of is itself 315 solar masses, such a black hole could probably only form from the mergers of several smaller black holes. Perhaps instead of a hypernova, the planet could have been exposed to a black-hole merger event? Suggestions: This is a really creative setting and I'd love to see it work, so here are a few suggestions to make the scenario more believable. I see two ways you could make this work: 

This is assuming that your humans are fairly similar to us except that they can generate glucose from sunlight (which probably isn't possible, but you didn't tag this with 'science-based' so I'll let that slip). In reality if a race of photosynthetic humanoids were to exist, it would likely be so different from us that their physiological and societal needs might differ greatly for our own (thus potentially invalidating large parts of my answer). Might make for a good question! 

The Greek Gods were more than humans with an immortality gene: they could shape shift, control nature, and generally do "supernatural" things like give birth from their skulls after swallowing the mother. So I don't think it's realistic to attribute their immortality to a gene, or even to any kind of biology; they're clearly made of "god stuff" beyond the ken of modern science. Indeed, for a god even to impregnate a human woman, he must first change his shape to appear human. If a human were to merely look upon a god in their true form, the human would be destroyed. So the children of gods are mortal simply because in order for a god to impregnate a human woman, he must first adopt a human visage and take human form. Then, the child grows in a human womb where they are nourished by human blood and earthly nutrients. Their body is built from human proteins, not "god stuff." This of course assumes that the the father is the god and the mother is an Earth woman. If the sexual roles were flipped, the child might very well end up being immortal! Assuming that earthly sperm would even have any effect on a godly ovum.