The four-winged falcons would probably have a net disadvantage. Certainly, it is likely that they'd be more manoeuvrable, however having two sets of wings would lead to lower propulsive efficiency due to the overhead of the extra appendages and the increased induced and parasite drag. As a case in point, very few human-made aircraft these days are biplanes or triplanes, other than those designed for acrobatics, and certainly there are no commercial biplanes, as the extra rigging and wetted area increases drag dramatically. The only advantage in a multiplane design is to reduce the wingspan. As for noise, the quad-winged falcons wouldn't even have that advantage. If the two pairs of wings flapped in synchrony, there would be no advantage, but if they flapped asynchronously or counter-synchronously (one pair going up while the other pair went down), there would be additional noise, like that produced by the interaction between a helicopter's main rotor and its tail rotor. Quiet flight (as in owls) is achieved by softer, more flexible feathers. 

In my world(s), there are many varieties of humans. We have what we would think of as normal humans of various races and colours. However, we also have other varieties of human, such as Satyrs and Fauns (ungulate legs and horns), Lamiae (a long snake-like tail instead of legs), Mermen (a cetacean or fish -like tail instead of legs, plus the more fish-like have gills), Lillim (with bat-like wings) and bird people (with bird-like wings), plus more. Each of these races occurs in a number of different non-contiguous places, so they are not identifiable by their place of origin. Each of these variants on humans have their own name, and can come with a variety of heritable skin colours similar to unmodified humans. However, what would all these humans and human variants call what we would consider 'unmodified' humans? They can't call them 'unmodified', since no-one really knows which came first or which has the greater population, and the concept of having been modified doesn't exist. We can't call them 'normal', since typical members of each group would not be considered to be disabled either internally or externally, only differently-abled when compared with a member of another group, each having advantages and disadvantages in any given situation. We can't even call them 'human', since they are all human, and are effectively the same species, able to interbreed, though as some crosses may result in less-fit offspring which are still fertile, they could be more accurately called subspecies of Homo sapiens. So, what do they call what we would call 'normal' humans? 

Travel has been downright dangerous throughout most of human history. The world (particularly wilderness areas such as mountains) is full of predatory animals who are not smart enough to realize on an instinctive, species-wide level that those animals (i.e. humans or other sentient beings) have, in evolutionarily recent times, become much more dangerous to hunt. Climbing mountains risks life and limb from falls, low temperatures and altitude sickness, and is simply very hard to do at all, let alone safely. Even if someone idly tries to climb over a mountain range (and doesn't turn back to get home in time for dinner), very few people can afford to leave their occupations to do so without the promise of a tangible reward at the other side: If no-one knows what is over the mountains, and when they get there they find that it is nothing, it could be a disaster. 

Alice can achieve this goal with self hypnosis. By hypnotising herself, Alice can temporarily make herself believe that the item that she is carrying and the item she is retrieving are equivalent, and that to exchange one for the other is morally neutral, of no more concern than swapping the positions of two bricks in a stack of bricks, or flipping over a pebble on the road. Then, additionally, she needs to hypnotise herself to be concerned not with the object or replica that she is carrying, that the things she is carrying are as unimportant to her as our clothing is to us when we have other things on our minds, and that she is present only to use the temple for its legitimate purposes. Thirdly, she needs to hypnotize herself so that when she sees the artefact, she will exchange it for the one she is carrying and then forget that she did so, as well as not performing this task again, so that the item is exchanged once only, and is not exchanged back. Finally, Alice should hypnotize herself that she will not remember all this hypnosis (only act on it) while she is within the precincts of the temple in question. When she emerges from the temple, she will have the realisation that she exchanged the replica she took in for the original. To the priests of the temple, Alice should sound as if she has the thoughts of the typical worshipper, both coming and going, and should not arouse the suspicions of the priests. Alice will not have the thoughts of a thief, since while she is in the temple, she will have no thought that what she is doing or is there for is wrong. 

The primary problem with industry in a desert environment is that of resources. Obviously, there are many valuable ores that can be harvested, some as simply as shovelling up a wagonload of sand, others may require some pickwork before the shovelling can start. However, that is the least part of the problem. The primary problem is maintaining a sufficiently large workforce. We have an environment with precious little food or water, so much of these would have to be either carefully husbanded, or imported. Fortunately, there are all these valuable ores lying around, and hopefully, trading partners. This kingdom would most likely be trading metal ingots, or preferably value-added metal goods (this is very important! Never sell off your ores when you can sell jewellery instead, unlike some idiot nations that I wont mention but live in - have a mass-based export duty) that can bring in more money and employ more people, for foodstuffs and livestock. The secondary problem is energy. Transporting and processing ores requires energy. Much of it could be muscle power (human or animal), fuelled by food, but heat will be required. While often hot, no desert is that hot, so some other heat source may be required. Since a solar furnace is probably out of the question, we would require some sort of fuel. Fortunately, there may be carbon/coal sands that could come to the rescue (those being capable of being described as an ore), so they could be burned for fuel as well as being an oxygen sink in a process such as iron ore refining. The third problem is building materials. While you may have lots of metals, they can be expensive to work, and stone and wood - if you have it - is easier to work. Expect a lot of stone or brick buildings, since wood would be rare and expensive, and usually imported too. However, given all these ores lying (or blowing) about, waiting to be picked up, with a bit of ingenuity and effort, a very tidy profit could be made, even with the necessity for imports. I would expect the inhabitants of this region to be very conscious of making the best use of whatever they have (since they have so many scarcities), and they would likely not sell raw metals to outsiders when they could sell finished goods instead. These would likely be clever, disciplined people (since those who were otherwise would be sick or dead from metal toxicity) who would be highly protective of their families and their nation, and would bargain hard at every opportunity. I can also see that the temptation to be a slave-owning culture would be very strong. Mining some of these ores would be downright dangerous, and the miners might have short lifespans. Criminals and the indigent could be rounded up and made to do these nasty jobs that a decently industrious person would not want to do themselves, which could lead to defeated invaders being enslaved and sent to the mines, and eventually to slaves being imported. In such a case, there would be no beggars. Anyone who could work would work voluntarily, or would be made to work, or if not capable of working and lacking in resources, would starve in short order to the general approval of the populace. There would need to be a fairly powerful cultural counter-pressure to prevent this. 

With the assumption that spellcasters must perform spells to relieve the potentially harmful buildup of magical power within their bodies, it is likely that anyone with magical ability who was not able to unconsciously bleed off excess power would have suffered some sort of calamity and would therefore be less likely to have contributed to the next generation's gene pool, hence most spellcasters should be able to unconsciously bleed excess energy relatively harmlessly. Some possibilities include: 

If we're talking about new races with different specialities, but are still fundamentally humanoid, probably with a common ancestor somewhere in prehistory, then the most important thing to consider is compromise between traits. If, for example, we have a night-active race, what would it have to gain to be successful in that role and what would it lose? Most likely it would have excellent night vision, and probably better hearing, but as a consequence, it would probably not see as well during the day, it would be more sensitive to loud noises, and it would probably be easily burned in the sun. This race may even have colour vision at night, but as a consequence, have poorer or even no colour vision during the day (one or more of the cone cells in the eyes become rod cells, but retain the particular pigment). They may gain a tapetum (a shiny layer behind the eyes that doubles the effectiveness of night-vision), but as a consequence, their eyes will reflect light, making it easier for light-source bearing daylight dwellers to see the night-dwellers looking at them in the darkness. Another example is physical strength. This can be achieved in two ways - the first by increasing muscle mass, which as a consequence leads to an increased need for food. The other way is by adjusting the lever ratios of the muscle attachments - moving them further from the joint makes the limb stronger, but reduces the speed with which the limb can flex. Taken in the opposite direction, a limb can be made to flex faster by moving the muscle attachment point closer to the joint, but with the consequence that it does so with less strength. Whatever you add to your hypothetical new race, just keep in mind that it will come at some sort of a cost. It is your job to see that this cost is not so extreme that it would cause the race's extinction, yet significant enough to keep things interesting and realistic. Another, related factor is psychology. The psychology of a species is fairly intimately tied up with its physiology, so if you change something physical, you will get a corresponding change in psychology. For example, our hypothetical night-dwelling people with colour night-vision and an eyeshine would probably go about at night quite boldly, and though they may still be afraid in pitch darkness (if they don't have IR vision), they would be more likely to be afraid in daylight. A stronger race would most likely think in terms of strength, while a faster race would be more likely to think in terms of speed. Human psychology is very strongly bound to the specifics of our reproductive system. As a species that is almost unique in being able to engage in sex at any time, this places an incredibly strong influence on our psychology - as adults, we think about sex a lot compared with other species. If we were to alter the exact nature of the reproductive system, very different societies would arise. What if the new race went into heat for only a few days each month - or each year - and was disinterested in sex at other times? What if the new race was more like bonobos, and sex was as ubiquitous (and had much the same purpose) as a handshake or a "hello" has in our society? What if males could also breastfeed infants? What if males - or females - were significantly more common than the other gender? 

The answer to this is that we have the technology right now to modify this object's orbit to guarantee its collision with earth. What it would require is a major, probably unconcealable, launch of one or more multi-tonne unmanned spacecraft which would rendezvous with this object and attach itself (or more likely several sub-packages) to the object. The sub-packages would then fire their own engines to subtly alter the orbit of this object over a period of days or weeks to ensure its capture by earth's gravity well and its inevitable collision with earth. With continued operation, it would be possible to hit pretty much any desired target on Earth. It might even be possible to cause a glancing impact where the object would enter the atmosphere, scrape a city off the map, then bounce back out into space, doing far less than the maximum possible amount of damage. This would take a lot of planning, money, labour and computer time to achieve, and would not be a one-man job, though it is possible that a handful of people (educated lunatics?) with enough money and the right skills could achieve this. While the launch(es) necessary to divert the object would be unconcealable, since undoubtedly the US and Russia amongst others are still looking out for potential ICBM launches, there is nothing preventing a commercially funded overt launch from being a cover for the launch of this project. The commercial launch could then be declared a failure if necessary. The modification of the body's orbit is fairly likely to go unnoticed long enough for an operation to readjust its path to be unfeasible in the remaining time after discovery of its new path and destination. Yes, humanity would probably survive an 860 GT impact, but not much of it at all. This would probably be an extinction-level event, causing major ecological damage similar to the event which finished off the dinosaurs 65 million years ago. A direct impact in an ocean would cause giant tsunamis (as opposed to the normal kind of tsunami), and throw up uncountable tons of dust and rock that would fall to earth as meteorite impacts right around the globe, raising the air temperature significantly for days, before an impact winter set in. An impact in the pacific would wipe out the American western coast cities, as well as Japan, SE Asia and Australia's east coast from the tsunami effects alone, which would likely be a hundred meters or so high when it hit land. Collateral projectiles re-entering the atmosphere would cause global damage. It would actually be better for Earth if such an impact occurred on land. 

So, given sufficient competition for light, if a more efficient photosynthetic pigment or combination of pigments was used, and the wood was strong and light, there would be no reason why a tree couldn't reach a height on the order of several hundred to a kilometer in height, perhaps more. Such trees would have very thick bases and may well live in very wet areas in order to provide the amount of water that would be required. 

It must be able to move under its own power at a minimum top speed of 45 kph for at least 2 minutes before needing to rest (reduce to indefinite duration speed). I.e. capable of outrunning a human on foot at maximum speed. It must be able to move under its own power at 10 kph for a minimum of 48 hours, i.e. capable of outrunning a human on foot over the course of this time. It must be able to live and function on the land surface of Earth for at least 14 days (absent hostile action) at full effectiveness. Bonus for being able to swim. It must be grown to its operational size over any time period of 25 years or less, not constructed, though its first building block/cell/functional unit may be constructed/engineered. It may be gestated in one of its own kind as a parent or in an artificial womb, but must do the work of growing itself, provided with only raw materials and energy. It must be capable of (and inclined to) inflicting significant damage to human infrastructure and populations, using non-biochemically-specific means (i.e. no toxins) over its full effective operational duration. If it is armed with projectile/incendiary weapons, it must be either equipped with sufficient magazine capacity to last 14 days of combat or be capable of in-the-field replenishment using found resources. Evolution is not a concern. These are created beings, so as long as they can be grown from a single unit, they can incorporate design elements not available to merely evolved creatures. It must be resistant to conventional (i.e. non-nuclear) human weapons of the current era (C2016), and must be able to absorb any practical amount of fire from standard man-portable firearms, and at least one direct hit from a tank-based weapon or at least one loadout of any conventional ordinance from any combat aircraft and still remain at least partially combat effective.