If you refer to "data volume" instead of real image pixels, it would be the Millenium Run (25TB of data): $URL$ 

Dark matter is actually matter. Real matter, just that we can not observe it. Part of it is actually cold hydrogen, and even cold dust. Other parts of it are actually different particles that may decay. But that does not mean formation of new Hydrogen. To form Hydrogen you need both a proton and an electron to get bound together, and this implies they meeting, which is very difficult in low density regions like those of extragalactic dark matter. 

The tail particles from a comet are ejected, so they have a distinct velocity than that of the comet. Besides that, they orbit the Sun in an orbit similar to that of the comet when they were ejected, they don't slow down. About the hammer and the feather, it is not the same to just break off than to be ejected. If the hammer blows the feather up while falling, the feather will delay a lot more than the hammer to fall. 

Short answer: No. Long answer: No, there is no truth in that, at all. No body out of our Solar System could interfere in Earth's techtonics nor in Geology in any way. 

If you know distance from Earth to both objects and the angle between them viewed from Earth, it is just a matter of trigonometry. 

It is exactly the point of no return for light. In other words, it is the point (actually more like a sphere) in which the escape velocity from the Black Hole gravity reaches $c$. 

If there were a planet with same civilazion "exactly like us", probability that it were near enough to be detectable are extremely remote. Not zero, but as low as those of trespassing a wall by means of quantum mechanics. 

Changes on Earth: Except for possible tides and possible eclipses, if it were near enough, no. Changes on Earth's orbit: Venus would establish some resonance with Earth's orbit, if it were near enough or in one of the exact possible spots. This will not have a major impact except on year's lenght and Sun illumination on Earth. 

Short answer: both. HUDF is representative on the type of galaxies we can find at that distance (and remember that distance also means time ago). On the other hand, we do not really know how the galaxies are grouped beyond certain level, but we think they are grouped on so-called filaments, leaving enormous empty voids. 

The point here is that sunrise and sunset does not only move towards or away from noon, but noon itself moves around 12:00. There is a difference between "civil time" (the one counted by wall clocks) and "solar time" (the one marked by sun clocks). This difference is called the "Equation of Time" and its geometrical shape is called the Analema. So in order to have the earliest sunset you need a combination of both a short day and a noon moved before 12:00. Same reasoning for latest sunrise. You can see more about the Equation of Time on Wikipedia: $URL$ 

@Hobbes put the formula: $V={2\pi a\over T}$ If you substitute on it $T$ for 1 sidereal day you'll have a one-to-one relation between $V$ and $a$. This seems to imply that you can choose any $a$ and use the corresponding $V$, but this is not true since it does not take into account which force are you using. The formula above is valid of any object in a circular motion, like a stone on a sling, or a car in a loop. It is also valid for satellites around planets. But there is another formula stating a relation among $a$ and $T$ when the force is that of Gravity, so you are not free to chose $a$ anymore. It happens that centripetal acceleration (that of the sling, the Normal force on the loop, or gravity for the satellite) is the Universal Gravity in our case: $a_c={GM\over r^2}$ but it being the centripetal acceleration means $a_c=\omega^2 r$ so we have $\omega^2 r={GM\over r^2}$ $\omega^2 r^3=GM$ $\omega$ is $v\over r$ so $v^2 r=GM$ which gives you a fixed relation between $v$ and $r$ for any planet with mass $M$. 

The radius of the Sun depends highly on which wavelength you are looking (well, taking a photo). In each of them, you'll have a well defined sharp boundary as explained by Zsbán Ambrus in his answer, but it is not the same: it varies with the wavelenght. 

This would be more appropiate at Physics.s.c but here is the answer nonetheless. Your object may be perfectly rigid or not. If the object is perfectly rigid, you would not be able to accelerate it to the point at which the extreme points of the spires reach the speed of light, because when they are approaching it, their mass will increment towards infinity and the energy you will need to continue accelerating will increment to infinity as well. So you will simply not be able to accelerate the whole thing to a rotation speed where the extreme points will reach the speed of light. If the object is not rigid, well, it will simply bend, plus the previous explanation. 

Any body with an irregular mass distribution will experience those wobblings. And more if it is not just irregular but fluid. 

The reason for which water is needed for Life as we know it (and we have not been able to successfuly imagine a different model from that of DNA that has ability to self-replicate, react to the ambient, and evolve), is that water is the "universal solvent". That means that most chemical reactions needed for life happen on a liquid environment, more specifically a water-based environment for most of them. 

If you check 2001 A Space Odyssey saga, Europa is actually a satellite with Life. Coming back to real space, the "comfort zone" for life is approximately from Venus' orbit to Mars' orbit. There, only Moon, Phobos and Deimos are satellites, and all of them are too dry to have any kind of life. Beyond the comfort zone you need some other way for water not to frozen (a commonly referred prerequisite of Life), so you'll need a volcanic or tidal-heatened satellite. There are a few of these. Europa and Io come to my mind just now. Life there could be possible. 

So Lucifer will be four times farther than Sun when it is nearer (six times when it is farthest), and at the same time it is a thousand times smaller. This is approx 40 times more light than full moon concentrated in a tiny point on sky. 

Imagine you are patching a plane with circles, instead of patching the sky sphere with circles (which is the same as filling the space with cones). Now, for every circle of diameter D define a square of diagonal D (D=2d). It is easier to patch the plane with squares, isn't it? So you have squares of side D/2*sqrt(2), and that is exactly your DEC_step, for each vertical sweep, and your RA_step, from sweep to sweep. This will lead to a lot of duplicated examination (in fact you will examinate exactly the same place at the Poles once for each sweep) but you can be sure you'll not leave anything out of your squares. 

I think the image you posted is not quite reallistic. On it, objects are just inverted from some radius on, while what you can expect from a real black hole seen from near enough is a combination of these: a) an accretion disc b) a companion being sucked c) Hawking's radiation d) X-Ray burst from the poles (really starting out of the event horizon) You will not see an actual black circle, as most probably there will be a lot of matter out of the event horizon radiating. 

No, they can't. Gravity waves from a small, simple object moving slowly are very, very faint, to the point of being undetectable with current (or foreseeable) technology. The waves that have been detected come from the merger (a very fast movement in the last orbits) of two black holes (two very big masses). And they were just detected over the noise level. Do not confuse that with the possibility to detect the gravitational influence of such a planet over other bodies. That is how Neptune and Pluto were detected, indeed. 

For the second question: If you know the coordinates of the Zenith, your latitude is exactly Zenith's declination. For your longitude you can not rely on the Zenith: the same star will be at the Zenith at the same sidereous time for every place in the same latitude, so you need a clock besides the telescope. cf. $URL$ For the first question: The altitude of a star that is crossing the local meridian is also quite easy. For Northern Hemisphere, a star that is crossing the North local meridian (that is, between the Zenith and the North Horizon) the latitude is $90-alt=dec-lat$ For Northern Hemisphere, a star that is crossing the South local meridian (that is, between the Zenith and the South Horizon) the latitude is $90-alt=lat-dec$ Same goes for Southern Hemisphere if you change also North Horizon and South Horizon. You did not asked specifically for the Azimuth, but again you need a clock for that. 

A photon like that will simply travel forever, since what it find around (other photons and non-baryonic matter) is hard to interact with. But since Universe is expanding, the photon frequency is decreasing. Look at microwave cosmic background we observe today: those radio photons have been travelling for the entire Age of the Universe until they hit Earth, but they were gamma rays once and are microwaves today. 

Ok, maybe you have some misconceptions. The Universe has no center at all. It looks the same from avaery point, to wherever you look to. It is approximatedly as follows: 

Short answer: conservation of angular momentum. Long answer: The origin of almost any planetary system is a sparse cloud. That cloud starts to contract due (typically) to a pressure wave crossing it. The cloud fragments as it contracts, and each fragment is what we know as a pre-star cloud. Since almost always there is some movement in the matter in each cloud, the cloud as a whole starts to rotate, very slowly. Contraction helps because, due to angular momentum conservation law, when the cloud contracts, the rotation accelerates. Soon we get a protostar with the most contracted matter, surrounded by a protoplanetary disk composed with the less contracted matter. The rotation of the whole system is in the same plane, due to conservation of angular momentum. The protostar becomes a star, and the protoplanetary disk becomes a bunch of planets. Each planet, in turn, orbits the star and rotates on itself, all in the same direction, based on which point of the protoplanetary disk started accreting mass. Later on, interaction among massive bodies disturbs this shiny process by changing some orbits and by having some collisions, but that's minor.