It depends on a number of things. What are we mapping? Even before we map anything, we need to know exactly what we are mapping. Large, easily visible stars? Planets? Moons? Asteroids? Find your cutoff first. Local stars are easy to map, generally speaking, since they tend to be fairly stable, and radiate energy on their own. Planets are harder to map, since they don't radiate energy on their own. Moons are harder still, and mapping every asteroid would be nigh-on impossible, if for no other reason than there are so many of them. Where are we mapping from? If we're on a planet with atmosphere, that atmosphere will get in the way (as will the planet, its moon if it has one, and so forth). If we're mapping from space, but near a planet, we'll still have to deal with the planet being in the way. On the other hand, if we're mapping from a point of "dead space", far from the system, we'll have a full panorama spread out in front of us; not having to wait for day/night cycles, or worse seasonal cycles, will save a lot of time. What are we using? If all you have to map celestial bodies is a basic telescope, it'll take years of careful study, regardless of anything else. If we're using tiny satellites carrying preprogrammed cameras, it will take weeks of taking images, transmitting them, and sending back new coordinates to map - and likely months or years of travel to get close enough to anything to get anything useful. If we are on a scientific vessel designed for just that purpose, however, it's likely we have countless imaging devices for all spectrums of energy, software to parse the images directly, and scientists to put all that information together - all of which will save a lot of time. A major part of the reason it took hundreds of years to map our system is technology; until the last 100 or so years, we barely had anything past telescopes. And now, most new discoveries are made through breakthroughs in technology. So, how long? Forever. No matter how good your equipment is, you'll always have a little more to map. That's just the way of things; stars, planets, and space debris move around, and sometimes it takes a long time before a new celestial body is revealed. However, if you have good equipment, good software, a good vantage point, and limit yourself to mapping easily visible local planets, and maybe a few large moons, you probably could map a system within seconds. As you extend the boundaries of your search, you can map more and more; it's up to you when to stop. 

There are many species on Earth that have "human" characteristics, which humans have no problem eating. I assume that, apart from some humorous (or mean-spirited) situations, half-animals are never confused for full-animals. 

In the future, AI is both powerful and nigh-on sentient. In a standard Earth fighter jet, for instance, an AI would literally fly circles around a human. They can maneuver around obstacles a human pilot wouldn't even register. They can track targets via complex physics equations, to the point of knowing where individual molecules will fly when the ship is destroyed. If they can do all that, then why would you ever need a human pilot? Electromagnetic radiation The Handwave Engines create a massive amount of electromagnetic radiation. Obviously, computers can be shielded from the EM fields produced, but the shielding makes the ships much larger, bulkier, and overall less stable. Instead, ships are flown by a mechanical wire system, directly controlled by the pilot, with a minimum of hardened electrical components. The engine and its electronics are shielded enough to operate, and the pilot doesn't need any shielding, apart from the usual "keep the air in" and "keep the energy weapons out" sort. In fact, the shields can use those very same EM fields to operate. It's noisy (frequency-wise), but that's good for a shield; it stops the ability for enemies to use a jammer or worse, a harmonic resonator, which would amplify the shield to the point of killing the occupant. As an added bonus, most ships will continue to fly just fine after being hit with an EMP, as there is precious little to damage. Near-Light Speed Is Weird At the near-light speeds of space fighters, all sorts of weird things happen in physics. Simulating the effects is possible, but the sheer amount of detail the computer has to know is staggering. A standard computer can barely do it real-time, and the bulky, super-hardened computers in a fighter ship are left far in the dust. Luckily, humans are really good at ignoring information, no matter how important it is. With only a few basic filters, a human can track an enemy pilot through space as fast as if they were both in jets in Earth's atmosphere. Super-Light Speed Is Really Weird Of course, that's at sub-light-speed. Once the Handwavium particles are engaged and the ships move into the mini wormhole/warp speed/hyperspace/a parallel universe (let's call it Superspace), physics really goes out the window. No one really knows what Superspace actually looks like; rather, the ultra-high-frequency energy patterns interact directly with the human brain. As the brain tries to understand the information, it translates the patterns into sights, sounds, even tastes. The pilot can use those sensations to guide his flight, ending up roughly where he wants to: "Fly until you see orange and smell figs, curve left, and keep going until you taste hot blueberries." Certain energy patterns exist around every solar system, allowing pilots to avoid hitting planets or stars; however, each system has its own sensations, which allow pilots to navigate "by feel". A computer, of course, can make nothing of the information provided; the vague energy blasts are gone too quickly to process in any useful way. Granted, a computer can fly from point A to point B; it just has to make all the calculations ahead of time, and fly blind. If something is in its way, it will make a small, expensive supernova. 

A centaur may be able to hold his pants in front of himself, and he may even be able to step his front feet in, but he can barely see his back feet, never mind reach them to pull up his pants. Even an assistant centaur couldn't reach. Barring an embarrassing amount of assistance from a human, the entire act of dressing must be completely different, and thus the clothes themselves must also be very different. However, these pants are solely for looks; the horse part of a centaur can handle significantly worse conditions than humans, so these pants don't need to be warm, and can be made of light, tough material. Additionally, since these pants are solely for modesty, they don't need to cover the entire leg; they'll be more like shorts than actual ground-length pants. Not only do shorts make it easier to dress, they also won't get nearly as dirty since they aren't near the ground. Just before getting dressed, the pants will be open; they resemble a fitted sheet, with two holes at the back. The centaur steps his back feet into those holes, grabs the pants, then slides them up his back legs. When in place, the pants will cover from just above his 'knees' to right against his tail, perhaps even with a short extension over his tail. Then, the centaur folds the sides up and over his back, attaching them with a large zipper that goes all the way to his tail (the zipper probably has a hook that fits a stick, to push it all the way to the end). Next, the centaur folds the two front pant legs around his front legs and middle. They zip as well. At this point, the centaur is dressed, or at least his lower half is. These pants make it difficult to use the bathroom. There may need to be yet another zipper underneath, but that would be difficult to reach. As others have mentioned, a skirt or kilt for the rear portion may make more sense, though it lowers the modesty, especially if running. However, the addition of pockets to the pants will be amazing; pockets on the front and side could hold all manner of things. Cargo pants would allow a centaur to nearly pack all his belongings. Other styles would also be possible; sheer or net material for the non-essential areas (back, chest, stomach), additional material (on tail, or as a full-body skirt, or for longer legs - bellbottoms, anyone?), prints (like on t-shirts; the sides and back would be perfect for designs), and so on. Something tells me that zebra stripes may make a comeback. 

Start with Irukandji jellyfish. These tiny creatures (the bell is roughly 5mm on a fully grown adult) are incredibly toxic. From Wikipedia: 

The ocean is big. Like, really big. It takes up 2/3rds of the surface of the planet, and excluding coastlines and the occasional island, there is absolutely nothing useful out there, especially to low-tech people. Sure, there were groups of explorers that sailed across the ocean, but the earliest explorers stuck fairly close to the coast, and later explorers aimed for a fairly straight shop across. It may seem like an intrepid explorer may be able to see a factory out in the middle of the ocean, but actual chances of that are slim if you take into account what is actually visible; the curvature of the earth hides more than you might expect, especially if all you have is a spyglass on a ship. Use the Pythagorean theorem to determine the maximum view distance of a sailing vessel: $h^2 = d^2 + r^2$ (or $d = \sqrt{h^2 - r^2}$, to solve for visual distance), where $h$ is the height of the vessel plus the radius of the earth, $d$ is the maximum visual distance, and $r$ is the radius of the earth. The radius of the Earth is about 3959 miles at sea level, at the equator; if a ship mast was 120 feet tall, a sailor with perfect conditions would be able to see an obvious object that is nearly level with the horizon at about 13.4 miles. Average ocean wave height is about 17 feet high, which hides just about anything under that height. Basic camouflage (no shiny surfaces, water-colored exterior) would further hide anything. Weather created by the rushing wind would hide it as well, and would also create some weird weather patterns - patterns that a ship would be likely to avoid, or risk being capsized. Of course, if there were only one factory, it would be a circle with a one hundred mile radius to be able to have any sort of effect on the atmosphere. As large as the ocean is, it makes sense to have not one, but dozens, or even hundreds of air purifying machines, floating all over the world. 1,000 air-purifying factories, each with a one mile diameter, could be placed around the Earth, and programmed to move with the tides but stay at least 200 miles away from any coastline. They could communicate, as well, to make sure that 'hot spots' were well covered, and that they were well placed across the planet. It would be almost impossible for any ship to ever find them. And, even if one were discovered, it would be noted as a huge storm over a strange hole in the ocean, hardly something superstitious sailors would ever want to go near. As an added bonus for a smaller size, if a ship does get within a certain distance - say, 5 miles - the machine could simply close itself up and sink below the waves. Even if a ship came to investigate, they would never find it. As soon as the ship moves away (or it moves itself), it could rise and begin recycling again. Finally, if one did fail, it could simply float its way to a charted deep hole and sink to the bottom, where no one would ever find it.