The first one is the experience of "seeing the true nature". I think it can be called "liberation" because the illusory nature of delusions is revealed. They still can appear in the mental continuum, but they do not enslave in that absolute way as it was before. That experience of seeing may be impermanent, because of our deeply rooted habits. It depends. Therefore some people think it's a permanent change (sometimes it happens so), some people think it's a transitory experience that comes and goes. (Usually it is so). It is the first of Ten Bhumis of Bodhisattva. Probably it's the same as the Stream Entry. Mahayana Teachers say that though it's liberation from delusions, imprints of delusions remain (obstacles to omniscience). They are eliminated in the course of Ten Bhumis, and then there is the complete enlightenment. PS. So in general "satori" and "kensho" is awakening (in the first sense). However among Buddhist teachers, Zen in particular, there are many people without real understanding of awakening. They read some books or listen to low quality teachers and form various misconceptions. That's why in fact they use terms "satori" and "kensho" where there's no awakening at all. 

As long as we use many fabrications to build our reality, we may benefit from making certain choices, e.g. how to deal with those fabrications. All these choices can lead to the same goal of realizing the Truth. (E.g. certain choices can help us in cleaning our mind from the processes which recreate illusions). However it's possible indeed to make no other choices than the choice to realize the Truth, and come to the cessation of suffering. 

Did the Buddha teach a single meditation that includes jhāna and insight, or do the scriptures have him separate meditation into different techniques? In what Buddhist traditions is it necessary to qualify meditation as vipāssana or samatha? 

Here the Buddha makes a clear distinction here between 'development of the body' and 'development of the mind', and from MN 119 

Furhermore, Buddhism asserts that the body is constituted by way of material elements, and that a person is made up of the five aggregates. And similarly, a materialist, scientific reductionist understanding posits (quote): 

Where in MN 36 do we find this reasoning? Is there general agreement in Buddhism that this is indeed why the Buddha decided to give up asceticism? 

Differences? It appears Wikipedia tells us that the difference between Buddhist and materialist views on no self lies in karma and rebirth: 

Are Buddhist monks allowed to have prescriptions, or would that be considered an attachment? Did the Buddha say anything of medicine? 

The Second Noble Truth (DN 22), identifies non-attachment ("letting go") as the condition for the cessation of stress. 

I think we can show that the Noble Truths talk about both craving and attachment. We don't have to read them as craving "instead of" attachment. First note that the Noble Truths (DN 22) describe the origination of stress as particular kind of craving, and this kind is 

This question follows from a discussion on the materialist, scientific reductionist understanding of no self, and was posted in a comment: 

Shcherbatskoy wrote in "Buddhist Logic" (translating Dharmakirti's Logic Manual) something like this: 

Ordinary people confuse similar words, not thinking what these words actually mean. Ordinary people think with labels and imagination. That's why instead of correct cognition people have wild fantasies. Nirvana means stopping to stir the mind. It means 

I think Buddha speaks about sincere attention to the process. Without sensitivity (sincere attention), you pretend to spend time in the practice, but do not concentrate the mind, do not abandon corruptions. In Zen it's explained as losing the balance between calmness and alertness. Calmness not balanced by alertness leads to states of dullness, "like a stone that uselessly soaks in water", "like dry piece of wood devoid of life". Correct meditation should have attentive, sincere attitude. Likewise, a skillful cook pays sincere attention to doing everything so that the food will be prepared well. 

Is that so? Yes, this is so. For example, if you are young and healthy, and your life is pretty smooth, you can feel: "My life is well!" But it might be not so well for your parents or friends, or for other beings around; and there are ups and downs, so it's better to be prepared when things will change, and you will get sick, old or down on your luck. Moreover, when you are accustomed to living in shit, you don't realize how shitty it is. You need to experience really pure conditions to compare and to understand that. So what seems to be rather well, for awakened view might be miserable. That's why you were told: there's a lot of suffering, get out of there! I hope it must be clear now. It's normal to feel unpleasant sensations sometimes, so indeed there's no need to become obsessed with the idea that we suffer; however, it's normal also to remove discomfort. Therefore, please, don't fixate on suffering, but also don't remain in it as mindlessly as people usually do. Practice the Noble Eightfold Path and find the liberation and the wisdom. Note also an important detail: if instead of the intention to cease suffering we would call people to chasing happiness, then that would likely lead to developing desire and attachment - i.e., to recreation of suffering. Chasing something is not the way to satisfaction. Therefore the path is not through chasing happiness, but through removing dissatisfaction. That indeed leads to profound easiness, openness of wisdom and harmony. 2. The cause of suffering and the way out. Basically, we are dissatisfied because we left our natural condition of satisfaction. We left it for the chase of desires. Do you understand? Do you accept this idea? It's easy to understand. It might seem even too easy, too primitive. So we don't even try to apply this idea to our life. But if we don't apply the advice, then it doesn't work. We may think that dropping the chase we will lose something. That nirvana is bland or something. But why don't you try? Just try and compare. If you really abandon chasing desires, you might discover something miraculous. Having stopped to chase few things... ...you suddenly realize that all the things are already here. That's because while you wander apart from the natural condition, you have an attitude of chasing, all in struggles and oppositions. The whirlpool of mental energy generates vexations, questions, disagreements... If you let it calm down, the dirt subsides, and everything becomes clear. Instead of problems everywhere, natural field of causes and effects appears - in its silent unconcerned perfection. Therefore, practice the path to awakening by going deeper than mental oppositions and struggles. Explore the mind, rather than stirring it again and again. 

The world is full of ideas. The ideas themselves do not cause wrong view. The solution is not ignorance. Opening one's mind to them, or education, is the opposite of ignorance. The Mind and Life Institute is a living example of doing so by one of Buddhism's most advanced practitioners - the Dalai Lama. 

If there is no self, no "mind" or "I" that can be found, then what does Buddhism call that faculty which exercises personal responsibility? 

What did the Buddha mean by 'development of the body' versus 'development of the mind'? Then, how does one develop the body? 

After 30-60 minutes I am calm and aware, but seeing no further benefit in sitting longer. I don't buy the idea that the Buddha's teachings were only available to the select few who can achieve special meditative states. Are there any teachers or traditions that teach a path that does not rely on long meditations that last for hours? (The closest I know of is the Insight Meditation Society, and while they don't appear to emphasize jhanas, they do hold meditation retreats.) 

What AN 10.92 says specifically about the condition for suffering is a lot of things but begins with ignorance 

I'm energetically trying to uproot the view of self, meaning, the sense that there is a subject of experience. I have read/heard authors such as Sam Harris and Joseph Goldstein say that the self as a subject of experience "cannot be found" or "is not there in the first place." 

A seeker came to Buddha and started to talk about his studies. He tried to seem knowledgeable, worthy a discussion with Buddha. He wanted to get appreciation. He wanted his attainments to be acknowledged. Buddha listened to him, gently smiling. Eventually the seeker had finished talking. He thought Buddha would answer then, but Buddha kept silence. What would you do in place of that seeker? Thoughts jammed in his head. He didn't know what else to say, every attempt to continue the talk he could imagine seemed stupid. What happened next? After some time the seeker respectfully bowed and silently left. What did he understand? Did he understand what Buddha meant by his silence? Maybe he just pretended to have understood, to avoid looking stupid? To answer this, we need to be able to see beyond words, beyond formal ideas. That ability to see beyond words was the aim of Buddha's teaching about the ultimate reality. It was not just to change the vocabulary. Would that be important, whether that seeker talked about shunya or about human beings? Do you understand? Talking about shunya and about human beings for Buddha was not different. His words were always relative truths. The ultimate truth was never in the words, and never could be. That's why Buddha spoke about human beings. Subsequently, many Buddhists misunderstood what is absolute truth and what is conditional truth. Nagarjuna explained that, but even today many practitioners, even many Buddhist teachers have distorted views on that. Be very careful. It's so easy to get incorrect understanding and cling to it thinking that you "know". 

The first draft of this question was partly motivated by the question, "is compassion real?", however, from reading One Dharma: The Emerging Western Buddhism (Joseph Goldstein), my understanding is now that compassion is relative (not intrinsically real), i.e. as Joseph Goldstein puts it: 

But I'm not sure whether this quote is accurate, or a misunderstanding If Buddhist and materialist schools share the same view on the most obvious meaning of anatta (quoted above), then what distinguishes the Buddhist view from the materialist view on no self? Is there a not-so-obvious meaning of anatta which materialist/scientific reductionist schools fail to understand? 

When the terms unconditioned, absolute, and ultimate are used, as in the above and below quotes, do they not mean the same as intrinsically real? Does un-conditioned not mean "independent of conditions" and hence self-existing? 

To better see the relative, insubstantial nature of phenomena, maybe it is helpful to think about this another way, that is, seeing what is not relative, not conditioned, not empty. It has been said that all phenomena are conditioned, not intrinsically real, empty of independent, self-existence. What is intrinsically real? Is nibbāna intrinsically real? 

Is it be more accurate to say that the self as a feeling that there is a subject of experience "cannot be found" or "is not there in the first place."? Since, when an object is known, how do you deny there being someone who has done the knowing of the object? 

What enters the mind of a Buddha when left idle? Suppose a Buddha were confined to a hospital bed or prison cell. One cannot remain within the conditioned states of jhana indefinitely. If one is unconditionally content, even in states of pain, it would seem there is no need to reflect or contemplate anything. Can you cite specific examples from the Buddha's life? 

But does "zero-length moment" have any reality except being our imagined concept? No. Then are we sure that separate moments exist at all - even of non-zero length? What if the world and the time are not discrete at all, in any sense? Then how can we speak of elementary constituents of our perception as discrete momentary things? Did you ever perceive really discrete momentary perceptions? Even a flash of lightning is not a discrete perception, because it has a "tail" of subsiding blindness. So isn't "discreteness of moments" just a mental construction which we use to cut the world in our imagination? I.e., "discreteness" might belong only to our mental constructing, but not to primary sensory data or their sources. Do these questions make sense? Then, speaking about discrete things, are they really discrete, or that discreteness exists only in our modeling of the world? Is the book in my hand really discrete thing, or that is just an illusion, developed in my mind? 

Gradually the mind becomes less and less involved in the circle of samsara. More and more time it remains calm and satisfied, and that is felt as a great relief. Usually we might think that desires such as sex etc. are pleasant, but in fact those desires are typically mixed with dissatisfaction. There's always some tension, uneasiness - even in pleasant experiences. Eventually, when you release those tensions and uneasiness, it feels so liberated and satisfied that we don't need those desires anymore. Simple easiness of liberated mind is more pleasant than worldly pleasures, because they were mixed with tension, dukkha. So that is the way for us, laid out by Buddha. We drop tensions and attempts to force ourselves, to coerce ourselves, to artificially blow desires. Then we realize that our dissatisfaction came exactly from our own forcing and coercing. We let it go away. So forcing and coercing cease, chasing desires ceases, and finally dissatisfaction ceases. We discover unlimited easiness of life without oppositions. It's so wonderful that we don't need anything for ourselves anymore. Everything is already so perfect! So we just start to share our happiness and wisdom, like Buddha Gautama did. We don't just dwell in pleasurable samadhi, as some Hindu teachers think. In Buddhism it would be called dwelling in solitary peace - a condition of highly developed concentration, but not the true liberation yet. Solitary peace is still attachment, still a result of the division between self and others. In true awakening, there's no division, and that is called compassion (karuna). Then we feel no tension, no dukkha - in complete easiness and non-attachment, we just have nothing to do, but what is natural to do - gets naturally done. Our body does that - helping others to find the same cessation of samsara, coming to sukkha of liberation, nirvana.