You don't have a problem of spatial proximity, you have a problem with logistics and management, which is trivial to solve. The key is logistics. Imagine all your ships parked or docked side to side, passengers and noses to the station and nuclear engines facing outwards. When docked, the ships switch to power from the station's own power system (solar/nuclear in its own separate module) and turn off their own power. Result - if only one ship at a time is under power, then all (or all but one at a time) of all those engines are off or quiesced. So for all those parked ships, there is only a lower level radiation in the fuel and engine interior and no (or no significant) emission of radiation into vacuum. So all that's left when parked is residual radiation from the engine's interior, much like a hot car engine still gives of a lower level of heat, and even that is mostly going into space. Also if needed, make all ships in a given dock be of similar length classes. As the ships are long, the forward facing 45 degree angle isn't a problem. Any radiation from the engine exit that doesn't exit rearwards, is minimal anyway, shadowed by your 45 degree shields from any crew compartment or the dock itself, primarily affects the rear of ships, and falls off rapidly anyhow with distance or curvature of the dock. (In space, ships can be long and more fragile to accentuate this effect). The ships can if needed, also be either empty of people, or emptied of people and fragile materials, when parked. You park your ship, you leave it (taking anything with you in a cargo pod if needed for security or safety), and only when the dock is safe and empty again does the next ship move. Your problem is now reduced to having a load of stationary parked ships present (which could be made empty) while one ship parks or departs only. The time taken to travel from say 3 miles away to docked is minimal and for any given ship doesn't happen all the time (perhaps not often), so any exposure on arrival/departure due to being exposed to the rear of these ships is probably reasonably small and doesn't need extra shielding. There are many ways to work with this. For example the docks themselves could also be in small "clusters" around a "parking module" a bit away from the main station and transfer to/from there to the main station (think cruise ships). The ships can leave the dock by a simple sprung pressure (air or other) - they get pushed off, and a few hours later are 20 - 100 miles away and can fire up safely. Think air traffic control. As long as only one ship at a time is moving, its easy to make safe. So your problem in space becomes a much easier problem in time/logistics. 

I suggest a magical binding: Call the local language Local, and the Hero language English. People on the world in need volunteer to learn English, and begin training. The one with the greatest aptitude and progress is chosen, and when the hero arrives, this person's mind is magically bound to that of the hero. It is a form of telepathy; in that what the hero hears in Local, this person translates to English; what the hero wishes to say, this person translates into Locla speech; controlling the vocal tract of the hero. But privacy is maintained: The magical "interception points" are effectively just after the hero's eardrum converts the sound to electrical nerve impulse: that is "run through" the translator's mind and turned into an English signal instead. Then just as the hero's speech center is planning a vocal utterance: The English sounds that would be formed are transformed, by the translator, into Local speech. The magical "communication" between the hero and the translator is instantaneous and impossible to interrupt. In other words, we want the magic to exactly mimic the states of knowledge as if the translator were physically at the side of the hero: He or she does not know what is in the Hero's mind, only what he actually said. And vice versa, if you want any intrigue about the translator intentionally mistranslating something to keep a dark secret from the hero. It doesn't have to mimic the timing of them being side-by-side, but for dramatic purpose you could make this translation cause a slight delay in understanding or replies, noticeable by those that interact with the hero: But not much more than if a non-native speaker, new to the language, were working hard to internally translate Local to English and vice versa. You don't want this to get in the way of your story, and you can quickly move on to not mentioning it at all. Also for dramatic (or comic) purpose, if you have the hero say something the translator doesn't understand in English, maybe it comes out verbatim, or as "uhhhhh..." or a squeak. The hero realizes it did not translate and has to try again in simpler English. (If you don't like that idea, write the hero smart enough to use only English the translator understands; recalling this translator was the best of hundreds that volunteered.) This is an arduous task for the translator; they must be kept in silent isolation without interruption. They must be awake and alert every moment the Hero is awake (magically enforced). They would probably have to eat, wash and eliminate while the Hero sleeps. When it is over, they themselves are seen as heroic soldiers to their people, it is a major sacrifice of their entire social life and every waking moment for as long as the quest lasts. Once the quest is done, the binding is ceremoniously and magically severed; last words and thank yous are said, medals awarded, etc while the Hero still understands. Afterward, the Hero knows only as much of the language as he would have learned on his quest with the translator physically at his side. Likewise, the translator knows as much more English as if he were by the hero's side. One more detail: The Hero talking to himself, even in a whisper, can inform the translator; but this is a one-way channel; the translator can inform those taking care of his needs of anything the hero heard or said: including the hero's own speech. The reverse may not work: The translator cannot cause the hero to speak in Local anything but what the hero intended to speak in English. If you really want a two-way channel; I have stipulated that the translator could lie to the Hero about what was heard: So if the hero gets somebody talking, say a vendor, the translator could make the hero hear something else instead of that speech: A message from those in charge. I might keep that ability (to lie) a strategic secret, however, known to readers and the translator, but not the hero, because lies would be more effective if the hero did not know the translator is capable of substituting anything he wants for what was actual said, including lies. If you devise a situation in which it is absolutely necessary to blatantly reveal this to the hero, it can be a big surprise: It saves his life, but for the hero, upon reflection, a reveal that explains many inconsistencies that all make sense if the translator has been lying to him, say about some war crimes that were committed. 

At least one language has developed sets of diacritic markings specifically for a formal sung notation rather than just tone, see $URL$ . In this case the marks add information about the tonal phrasing of the syllables they mark; it would fit well with a tonal language that needed marking to indicate vocabulary. What is interesting in this case is that the musical /tonal markings themselves have a considerable grammar and meaning (see 2nd half of link) which parallels the question here since it adds meaning distinct from that of the plain words themselves. 

Gas density,absorption, and catalytic properties (and similar) would matter. Suppose the aliens body decomposed slowly by bacteria action and magical whatsits, in contact with some heavy gas or other material in the environment. The extraneous material provides a higher density and the alien body compound is a small part of its relative mass but exceedingly lethal. What you end up with is a gas that may never reach more than a few hundred meters above ground level and won't pervade the whole atmosphere. While this won't reach mountaintops, it will allow much greater ground coverage to start. Then perhaps wind can carry it, and maybe its lethal not by being absorbed, but by some catalytic effect impacting crucial functionality for life, so maybe it isn't lost when a lifeform dies but is eventually re-released. Slower and less dramatic than insta-death but I think this is a way it could be done...? I wouldn't worry about such a trivial threat much, myself... Just spray with liquid helium a bit and place inside sealed cryogenic chamber, then store in a few meters of concrete until cheaply exportable into space (solar-bound orbit preferred). The only thing this says to me is any killing method mustn't let gas out; that's easy. By the way, I'm intrigued by this "wipe out all life on earth three times over" deal. How do they plan to wipe out the 2nd and 3rd time over? 

Surface gravity, as a ratio to earth gravity, is determined by two factors: The planet's Mass (in Earth masses, call that $M$), and the planet's Radius (in Earth Radii, call that $R$). The formula is simple: The surface gravity $G=\frac{M}{R^2}$. Here is a helpful page for that from Stanford. Here is a Nasa spreadsheet with everything specifically Relative to Earth, and another of Raw Metric values. So, for example, The Moon's mass is only 0.0123 of Earth (1.23%), but its diameter is 0.2724 that of Earth. So it's surface gravity is $0.0123 / (0.2724^2) = 0.1658$ of Earth gravity; about one sixth. That computation is on the NASA sheets too. So look at Saturn: It's mass is 95x that of Earth, but because of its huge radius, it's surface gravity is actually less than Earth. What matters is basically the radius; a very high density material (this is measured in grams per cubic centimeter) can have a smaller radius: To answer your question, for the mass of the Moon, you would need that amount of Platinum (or iridium, or uranium) to have a small enough radius to match the gravity of the Earth. But obviously very large planets, with low density, could also have the same surface gravity as the Earth. What you would need to do is pick a size, work backward from the formula to compute a density, and see if there are materials that could be used. If I have time later, I will edit and add some examples. Here are the elements sorted by density. Added: I deleted my error on escape velocity and bow to greater expertise. Recall we computed the Moon's surface gravity at $G=0.0123 / (0.2724^2) = 0.1658$. If we wanted the Moon to have Earth's gravity without changing its radius, we would have to multiply its mass of 0.0123 by $\frac{1}{0.1658}=6.03$. From the NASA fact sheet, the density of the Moon is 3340 kg/m$^3$. We need to convert that to normal elemental densities of g/cm$^3$, so we have $3,340,000~ g/(100 cm)^3 = 3.340~ g/cm^3$. Multiplied by 6.03, we need a material that is 20.1402 g/cm$^3$. Looking at the elements sorted by density, we see five that match that limit: Uranium (20.2), Rhenium (21.04), Platinum (21.45), Iridium (22.4) and Osmium (22.6). Plus many of the strange or ephemeral elements from super-colliders for which we have no density, but are probably candidates too. Platinum and Iridium are non-toxic in bulk solid form (as a dust they might be harmful). But a planet the size of the Moon made of some mix of these very dense elements, with just a small amount of less dense elements (like oxygen) could have exactly the same surface gravity as Earth. It would be difficult to get much smaller than the moon, however. You could get bigger if your planet was made of very low density material; like silicon and aluminum. 

I have a suggestion for a partial answer. The mandragora may have gradually evolved to absorb some forms of nutrition via its skin, in contact with the soil. Some creatures form symbiotic relations with algae and other creatures that live on/in their surface layers and produce nutrition from the environment or light, and our own mitochondria started as separate forms (I think), so perhaps this is plausible. Over time the soil being rich they lost much of their mobility, and became a creature that is largely static and inert, and only slowly moves place to place. Mentally, if they were intelligent before, then they became introvert philosophers, and gradually thought and looked outwardly, less. If they were sentient but not highly intelligent perhaps they regressed. (This would make sense; intelligence no less than other traits, is subject to evolutionary change, it takes a lot of energy and has no special privilege genetically speaking beyond any other survival/reproduction factor, so it may well be lost if the advantages are few and other changes to behaviour, environment, or other matters affecting their species push them in different directions). As their food/nutritional sources became gradually more co-dependent with their symbiotic partners, they developed defences for the photosynthesising symbiotic creatures on what was their heads, and chemical defences in their dermal.layers below ground (slightly but not excessively rooty, and also home to soil converting bacteria/symbiots). In air, acoustic was less costly in evolution terms for reasons of past biology. (Symbiosis often provides defence/favourable environment benefits to one of the partners and food for the other, so this is quite common and would be a sensible and even likely development.) They only move slowly, but they live a long time. They give birth by partuition or external placenta equivalent (maybe that was more common in their ancestral world or life form and wasn't unusual), and as with humans, the young need a favourable environment and nutrients; they form underground. Chemicals given off by their symbiots deter the few underground predators such as moles or rodents that could pose a risk, until the new mandragora splits off and begins its own lifelong and very slow travel. This wouldn't be a difficult adaptation; even among real-world creatures many/most have neonatal stages inside bodies or below ground level. The new mandragorae have all their early needs met from parental nutrient (and warmth if needed, although cold blooded might fit better), and symbiots from their parental dermis quickly colonise their own dermis. Their banshee scream is for multiple reasons: 

I'd go with mad-scientist chemistry, better living through better drugs. You train them the same way we train other animals; with sticks and carrots. But instead of getting physical (electric shocks or mere food), let's use some awesome drugs. First, a knockout dart: He can fire it into a Brontosaur and within an hour or so, it gets sleepy, lays down and falls asleep for a few hours. Doctor Crazy then attaches a collar to the dinosaur with surgical ports, the collar contains a fair amount of drugs to cause three things: Pain, Intense pleasure, or another Knockout (so he can refill when needed). These are triggered "remotely" by whistles (the mechanical kind) of one particular resonant frequency (different for each drug) that makes the membrane holding the drug in its vial permeable, so a dose leaks into the bloodstream of the animal (that's we we needed those surgical ports). Make sure Doctor Crazy invents chemicals that work in tiny doses. Then let the Pavlovian training begin! It works on animals as dumb as flies; it can work on dinosaurs. 

Yes it would work. Sexual excitement in particular shuts down various analytic parts of the brain, making it easier. There is nothing in theory that prevents us from creating realistic robotics and prosthetic sexual organs that would seem real enough to feel like the real thing; since you don't know what that partner would actually feel like. In other words, it is possible to make it feel like you were having intercourse with a real person; and the robot can be programmed to physically respond like a real person. That is mostly muscular action that isn't nearly as hard to emulate as expressions, vocals, eye movement, etc. We can do much of that with the motion dots you see being used when they translate a human actor's movements into a cartoon's movements. Similar recordings could be used to capture a library of copulation movements; and the robot could select to replay what seems appropriate for its physical situation. Programmers would have far more trouble with the face, mouth, eyes, vocal tract, jaw, etc. Although we can capture motion; the actual mechanics of expression and voice are much more difficult to emulate. As for whether it could convince you: Of course not, you know its a robot! But perhaps you can convince yourself that you had experienced what it would really be like to have sex with that person, within some margin of error, which might be enough to stop the obsession. 

A lot depends on the air mix - very deep diving can involve helium instead of the usual gases, as the partial pressure of oxygen and other gases becomes critical. As this is a technical area, the best answer would depend on the gas mixture and the community's needs. These three wiki articles should help a lot with background and resources: $URL$ (Gaseous mixtures used for various depths and circumstances) $URL$ (Overview of breathing requirements and gas mixtures in the context of water depth, and how different depths are generally seen) This of course excludes any acclimatisation/adaptations that may occur, or (in the medium term) evolutionary changes, which may well occur too. $URL$ (May spark ideas by looking at how human biology has adapted in the communities that live permanently in the opposite environment) 

As one answer pointed out, it's worth distinguishing between piracy as a source of external valuables, and piracy as a core part of the internal economy (within the country. External has been well discussed above, but internal is a bit assumed to be impractical. So I'm revisiting that aspect. What is the essence of piracy? It is surely, making a living by taking from others as one wishes, without fair recompense, or without legal standing. In other words, its close cousins to a huge amount that can and does go on in real economies. People get valuables taken from them in ways they feel unjust (but lack any legal route to recompense), only its not usually called piracy once it becomes organised and routine within an economy. And that's what would probably happen - some ground rules would develop about who one may take from (by custom or "as laid down"), and pretty soon it's everyday. Only instead of piracy it's called taxes. Or donations. Or protection or baksheesh or..... 

My grandson is autistic, through him I know a dozen other autistic children. A major problem with autistic children is a failure to understand the needs of other people, the pain of other people, the wants of other people. They don't care because in a way they are incapable of it; they do not have the normal structures that let them feel sympathy or empathy with another. Other people can be objects to them, objects that cry when pushed, but it's like turning on the TV or radio and hearing a car engine or a speech: To them, no emotional impact from the crying, they pushed an object out of their way and that was the end of that. This is not to say they do not have their OWN emotions; they cry, feel pain, and get angry when they don't get their way. They just have a lot of failure understanding that OTHER people have emotions, or don't relate to them well: Once my grandson asked his mother, "Are you mad?" She said, "Yes, I am very mad." He replied, "Stop being mad. I don't like it!" Autistic people would not be good colonists. They can't be good supervisors because they don't understand other people, or how problems affect other people. On their own, if they are constrained and disciplined (without harming them) they can get jobs done. But they DO have their own emotions, wants, hurts and favorites, you cannot just program them like robots. They may not feel a need for the companionship of other people, but they do still need other people. On their own in the wild, they would die: Humans are weak, slow, and easy prey even when fully abled. As colonists, you would have a hundred people on their own, not a team of a hundred people. They don't naturally form teams, they can only be part of one if somebody else is running the show. Autistics (or Aspbergers) are not smarter than everybody else when it comes to social glue and relationships and working together toward a shared goal, that is a defining characteristic of being autistic. If they had that, even in normal measure, they wouldn't be autistic, they'd just get labeled as having an OCD or compulsion or anxiety.