Because they place virtue at the core of their theory of human worth, the Stoic view of human happiness is an extremely active one. Listen to how Seneca puts it in his book On Leisure (1.4): 

3. Passions are Morally Problematic All this said, the Stoics do suggest that you may sometimes have to give up a competitive advantage in order to follow their way of life. In Seneca's famous essay On Anger, for instance, he cedes that anger may indeed sometimes be "useful." But not only is it a dangerous ally (anger, he emphasizes, is extremely difficult to control), but anger is fundamentally immoral: in Greek philosophy, anger is defined as a desire to get revenge for a perceived wrong. The Stoics didn't believe in vengeance. They believed that our response to conflict should be forward-looking: we can act to protect people, or to try and rehabilitate a criminal, but (following Socrates) we should always view even the worst of human beings as being infected by ignorance, the way a patient is infected by a disease. The passion of anger (as opposed to its related proto-passions or healthy passions), for the Stoics, is fundamentally vicious. Since the whole point of their philosophy is that we should never, ever, trade virtue for vice, they are more than happy to sacrifice whatever utility anger offers in order to maintain their progress toward good moral character. The same argument applies to every other emotion that the Stoics condemn. Passions are to be avoided, not just because they are unpleasant, but because by definition they involve a judgement that some external thing is valuable in the same way that virtue is valuable. And that, for the Stoics, is a dangerous idea: once we admit that moral character may not be the highest good—that there might be something of equal value to it—then we open a slippery slope toward rationalizing away our duties and commitments. 

From a general philosophical point of view, a statement about principles of work ethics (or any other particular ethics) would be relative and dependent upon its philosophical assumptions. Philosophy providing more general and absolute meaning of purpose, and right and wrong can proceed to determine ethics for particular areas of life, e.g. work ethics, family ethics, research ethics, etc. For example if cheating or betrayal is established as a moral wrong, then it would be also wrong to cheat in all areas of life, provided that the premise is not conditional or override-able. But if contributing to an immoral cause is immoral (like serving a tyrant or criminal tycoon), then it may follow that 'betrayal' of the superior would be even moral in this context. Therefore particular ethics are very much contingent upon more general universal ethics. 

The cornerstone of Mulla Sadra's philosophy is the theory of "primacy" or rather "originality" (Arabic: "isala") of existence or being compared to quiddity. For Mulla Sadra, existence is considered to be the principle of all things that are perceived and captured by their quiddity or "whatness". Hence things don't exist by the virtue of their whatness, quiddity or essence rather through their existence. So existence is the principle of everything, while things or quiddities are only manifestations of existence. For this thesis to be true, existence has to have a simple, undefinable, indefinite, irreducible reality that happens to be the source of all that is composite, defined, particular, and concrete, features that are captured in their quiddity. Why this is true is very evident: Nothing can be the thing it is if it does not first exist! So quddities be it substances, accidents or qualities etc are always secondary to the existence of things. On the epistemological level, existence is believed to be self-evident as a concept. Self-evident concepts are so precisely because they are ontologically the most basic and consequently the most fundamental realities. Hence a coherent link and harmony is realized between the epistemology and ontology when existence is considered the most original and fundamental reality. From this follows that a most fundamental reality would also be the most intimate reality to our consciousness since if it is really fundamental it has to constitute and therefore accompany everything including our consciousness as a quiddity. So the intuitive clarity of existence is itself a testimony of its fundamental reality as opposed to quiddities as secondary realities that have to be acquired by experience and learning and/then be cast into definitions to become comprehensible and communicable. This contemplation reveals precisely why existence is no more "objective" — in the sense of becoming "object" of anything — than "subjective" because existence as the principle and determination of everything can never be a determination of either the external world or human mind. So the reality of existence is neither subjective nor objective, although as a concept it is applicable to everything but not in the conventional sense of a predicate that adds anything to the subject, since predication of existence is in reality always an inverse predication where the purported subject is in fact predicated upon existence not visa versa! So propositions in terms of "A exists" in fact express the original proposition, "Existence is here and now manifested in A" or rather "this existence is A". This much elaboration I think is sufficient for the purposes of this question as this is not supposed to be an introduction to Mulla Sadra's doctrine of originality of existence and its far reaching implications, a philosophy that brought a whole revolution to both Peripatetic and Neoplatonic philosophical traditions of his time and with an inherent potential to influence world philosophy. Answer Based on the above thesis, the answer to this very reasonable question becomes now evident: "Matter exists" can only mean "existence is manifested here with the attribute of matter." So it is not that matter exists but that it is rather determined by existence. This much establishes that existence or being is rightly not material but also not even immaterial but a reality above both material and immaterial that determines both! Call it God and Mulla Sadra would agree! ;) 

OK, we have a stop condition, it's even god itself. But is the argument valid? Is it reasonable? Now consider this argument: 

This is an infinite regression alright, but it's nonsense as well - humans don't create other humans. Biological processes 'do'. We are merely hosts for a biological phenomena. You have to be careful when using the word create. Does a carpenter create chairs? Language is fuzzy and abstract - a carpenter merely converts one form to another. The end result can be seen as having been 'created', but really, its just about cutting wood and assembling it in a particular way. Now you'd be a famous person had you managed to prove that infinite regress is impossible. For all we know, perhaps the most empirically tested paradigm we have is cause and effect - break it once and science will be reduced to a pile of nonsense. All these talks about initial singularity are based on general relativity, which is by many seen as fit to explain the early universe as Newtonian physics was explaining the orbit of mercury (both are phenomenal theories of unprecedented utility, but neither is all-encompassing). Notwithstanding, lets play along - lets just assume that infinite regress is nonsense. Stop condition A stop condition can be many things. An axiom or justified belief, for example. Now stop conditions are not evil. In fact, they are highly practical. Consider this: 

The Outcome is Neither Good nor Bad, but the Attempt is! It's true, though, that in Stoic theory, it is said that external things are "neither good nor bad." We are taught to value what is within our control, and not to view things like professional success, wealth, or fame as being important to our capital-H Happiness. But the attempt to pursue certain outcomes in absolutely within our control! The Stoics said that external things have a kind of "selective value" (depending on the situation), and that we cannot be virtuous if we do not exert ourselves in pursue of valuable outcomes (namely outcomes that benefit humanity). They were quite serious about this point! In Cicero's De Finibus, we learn that the Stoics thought that people who treated external things as wholly indifferent and rejected even their selective value (namely the Cynics and Aristo of Chios) had destroyed the foundation of virtue. Action matters! Cicero also gives us the famous metaphor of the Stoic Archer: the Archer's goal, he says, is to perform her art well. She shoots at many external targets (which have selective value), but her ultimate goal is simply to do her best. Other Stoics texts make similar analogies to Olympic athletes, pilots of ships, musical performers, and ball players. 

This thesis explains why humans can develop infinite ideas as well as why machines do not since they do not posses mind with which to think and find illumination. Machines can only perform a limited number of seemingly intelligent behavior to the extent of the possibilities afforded by the human design behind it which is always limited. 

The notion of social construct is the central concept of a sociological school called Social constructivism. The constructivist thinkers used the concept to refer to how cultural perceptions of what is right and wrong are shaped by society and its institutions. These perceptions, then, it is believed, shape our real life in retrospect. The adherents of the movement aimed to discredit the norms of classical liberalism and conservatism that were deemed objective and universally valid by their proponents. For a critical insight, following the deep intellectual insights of the School of Perennial Philosophy especially as represented by Rene Guenon, and more importantly the philosophical legacy of my own heritage as a Muslim, I view both of these apparently rival camps as being underpinned by an arguably identical failure in their underlying epistemological foundations. The fact that Classical liberalism and Conservatism may wrongly or poorly argue for some universal norms doesn't imply the radical conclusion that there are NO universal values at all. But indeed, if under the influence of such philosophical perversions as suggested by Kantian subjectivism, you believe that there is now way man can realize immutable metaphysical truths and consequently come to live life according to your own subjective preferences conditioned by your particular cultural circumstances, then constructivists can rightly argue that there are no universal truths and values, and all realities are then just creation of our arbitrary individual and culturally-conditioned whims. On the other hand, if following Classical liberals and conservatives you spouse belief in some pseudo-universal values or universal values without the ability to demonstrate the immutable truths that underlie those values and then be unable to distinguish true universal values from the pseudo-universals, you will be only then be prone to charges of dogma and backwardness by the modern liberals. Worse, then, taken off your poor ideological defense, you and the human society in large will have to bear the quite destructive consequences of social constructivism especially when pushed to its extreme ends from the most radical feminists who argued that not just the female social roles but even the female physical gender attributes is a "natural" construct imposed on them by a supposedly sexist Mother Nature to free Porn advocates who think that sinking in the lowest depths of hedonist lustfulness is great just because of its resulting erotic euphoria and a supposed lack of intelligence by traditionalists to try and realize that! [Post-script] By these latter rather "juicy" examples I really didn't mean to take a hard stance against the said social groups in particular. Neither did I aim to discredit and conflate endless number of particular liberal causes these day many of which of relative merit. But only meant to show how an unqualified attack on the notion of universal norms can result in horrible consequences. And in the long run I also believe the ills resulting from the mentioned fundamental defect in the Modern philosophical heritage will outweigh many particular reasonable positions that societies can after all realize if only through trial and error. 

Use indifference and mindfulness to cope with upsets and stressors, unjust behavior on the part of others, and your own tendency to procrastinate and be lazy or careless. Stoic therapy can help make your situation more palatable, despite the challenges Fortune throws your way. Use a love of virtue to push yourself away from lazy inaction, and instead cultivate healthy emotions that motivate you to kindness, activity, good habits, affection for others, generosity, and overall excellence in your work and craft as you pull the circles of the human cosmopolis closer into your sphere of concern. 

The goal of Stoic life, then—the only thing that truly has real value—is to live a virtuous life. That life may require shooting for any number of specific goals. In particular, we should strive to excel in our roles as a parent, friend, employee, specialist, leader, etc. Doing so is very important for Happiness, love of hard work is a virtue (specifically, a kind of courage), and one of our highest callings in life is to benefit others, including in material ways. These two things together—the indifference of external things, and the importance of working hard to make a positive social contribution—are a potent mix. 

I don't think you need to compare qualities to feel them, i.e. to feel their effects. You only need to compare them when you want to distinguish them from other qualities. Therefore we can say the effects are felt, whereas the differences are thought! This is a key distinction. By the same token, we can say numbers are thoughts, therefore they are known via comparison. But all that is felt and thought is ultimately by reference to our own self (or soul I'd argue). It is the soul that both feels and thinks, hence the ultimate reference. Number one is first deduced from the intuitive unity of our self, and the other numbers from multiplying just that. 

Centuries before Descartes made up that (maybe perceived) fallacy, Avicenna the persian muslim philosopher had already explained why it is a logical fallacy to argue from an issue of the self (in this case thinking) for the existence of the self. Because in any such argument the existence of the self is already presumed as it is impossible to experience any issue of the self (such as thinking) without having first experienced the self itself. The glaring fallacy is manifest even by looking at the apparent semantics of the English translation of the argument that starts with a presumed "I" in the premise ("I think, ") to prove the "I" in the conclusion ("therefore I am."). PS: Even if the famous statement is not meant to be a logical proof (as ChristopherE and Asphir Dom suggested in comments), but a reference to a human transcendental experience (which is supposed to be beyond proof and self-evident); it still holds true that the first object of transcendental experience is not any mental/psychological process (e.g. thoughts, feelings etc) associated with human self but rather the very direct experience of the self which precedes them all. Nowhere this is better explained than in the theory of "knowledge by presence" which was first proposed by Al-Farabi and later refined by Avicenna. In knowledge by presence, it is argued, the subject and object of knowledge are united -- either because of the identity of the two or one being the intimate part of the other --, therefore the subject can directly experience the object of knowledge without any medium. Such a knowledge is thus self-evident, infallible and needless of proof. Examples are human experience of one's very self, one's thoughts and feelings. The theory is very significant as it bridges the gap between philosophy and mysticism, as in the latter most statements of truth are based on direct experience rather than logical proof. This allows objects of knowledge by presence to serve as self-evident premises for philosophy. That's how muslim philosophers for the first time reconciled Aristotelian philosophy with Platonic. 

Impossibility If it is impossibility we debate, then cause and effect couldn't serve as a better example - we have all the evidence in the world such principle is in effect. We haven't got a single evidence that there is an effect without a cause. In other words, infinite regress seems much more reasonable (possible) than any 'natural' stop condition. The same principle is in effect elsewhere (forgive a few leaps): 

Takeaway: for an argument to be reasonable, the premises have to be reasonable, and the argument valid. Infinite regression Let me give you an argument to tinker of: 

It's 3AM, so I'm unsure how much sense this makes. Probably not much. But I hope this helps. Possibility vs practicality In light of your comments, I'd like emphasis a point that so far may have been implicit. I believe your line of reasoning is this: If we'd have to regress ad infinitum, we'd get nowhere. This is absolutely right. To make it as bold as I can, knowledge depends on stop-conditions. Euclid's proof of the infinitude of primes is a proof alright, but only for being based on some mathematical axioms, which are its stop condition. We must stop somewhere on our way in, in order to get results back out. But this doesn't make infinite regress impossible, it is simply impractical. Alice By way of analogy, consider you walk in the woods and suddenly see a door. You open it and see stairs. A white rabbit pops from the bushes and says: 

So there is no basis for the belief in contradiction between Muhammad and Jesus's religion at least from an Islamic point of view. 

As for transcendental origin of knowledge, after establishing its immaterial nature, he argues from the fact that neither human mind by itself nor the external world of matter can be a source for something that neither originally existed in the mind nor can come from things that are of a completely different nature, i.e. physical entities, hence the necessary existence of a higher source that embodies all forms of knowledge and is immaterial too. 

I have not studied St. Thomas but the theory is also discussed in muslim philosophy, that's why I readily recognized the theme. My answer also comes from my knowledge of muslim philosophy but I think due to common origins between Medieval Christian and Muslim philosophy the theories must be identical. Now to answer your question, the essence/potency doesn't have to come from anywhere, because they are nothing at all in the first place! That is, essence as limit of being is itself non-being or non-existence. Because only non-existence limits existence, while the act of being by God only creates being/existence. 

Now. Would going down the stairs be impossible or impractical? If the stairs are indeed infinite, would it be impossible for a thrown ball to fall down infinitely? 

On the nature of science As a closing remark, I hope we have a shared understanding that science is not concerned with deriving at absolute and independent truths - science is about adopting the most rigorous tools at our disposal to approximate patterns. 

It's a bit unfair to take a word like god, the semantic of which is fairly understood, and demote it to something that only constitutes a first cause. What's the point doing this? The concept already has a title - first cause. Imagine I walk in the street and this girl walks to me and say: 

(The skeptics will surely have their say on this, but this is manageable alright.) The commutative low for addition is another axiom that serves us right. Anyhow, with circular reasoning being nonsense, and infinite regress out of the question, all you have shown is that arguments must stop at some stop condition. Let's put this to the test: 

The answer seems so immediately evident to me that it makes me wonder what has made the OP to have doubt in the first place. Just how can there be any language capability without consciousness? One has to be first conscious to use anything and language is no exception! Just look at the newborn and how it learns to associate symbols only after he becomes adequately conscious of the environment and also conscious of primitive communication methods (gesture, voice, etc). 

The fundamental "virtue" of virtue ethics over deontological ethics -- for which Lok123's answer provides a useful case-based analysis -- is that the former centers on what actually constitutes and underpins morality on the essential level (i.e. psychic and psychological) while the latter centers on an arguably "blind" commitment to certain abstract rules that due to their said abstract nature are incapable of accounting for indefinite contextual and relative factors that determine what is truly right in a particular situation. In other words, virtue ethics focuses on the very essential aspect of ethics from which morally consistent decisions and results can emanate with respect to any given situation (a feature that is evidence of a truly "universal" ethics), whereas deontological ethics in its very quest for universal morality fails because of ignoring or dismissing what truly constitutes universal ethics: not abstract mental rules but actual psychic qualities, i.e. the ontological principles of ethics. Consequently as pedagogical implications, in the school of virtue ethics, morality is materialized not merely by popularization of abstract moral maxims that are disconnected from an ontological basis and disregard benefits for the individual itself (that are also key in actually motivating morality), but more importantly by following codes of discipline and conduct that lead to cultivation of psychic qualities that basically makeup the whole character of the individual and consequently determine the moral nature of his actions consistent with the greater good in any given situation. This contemplation may explain why under the deontological and quality-lacking morality of the modern world (and consequently the colonized traditional world in as much as the modern cultural norms have made inroads) despite all the official ethical rhetoric and pretensions, societies are suffering from all sorts of moral ills and most politicians have become basically lying crooks while putting on moral pretensions of saints!