You'd be best received if you can gather support from your coworkers in going to HR. If everybody has the same complaint, then the HR folks will know that the problem's really serious. 

You work in a situation where apparently your tardiness equates to a whole lot of disruption. There is FMLA, if you are in the United States, but I've always had the idea that FMLA is moreso designed for longer-term concerns and not for last-minute lapses. As a single parent, I can relate the frustration you feel when you're in a crunch. But when I'm in a similar crunch, that doesn't obligate everyone else at my job to stop their lives on my behalf. In my current job, I'm glad that I haven't had to raise any serious issue regarding care for my child, and I'm sure they'd allow me to work from home -- for a short period -- while stuff gets resolved. But this is not a privilege I want to take for granted. That said - if your employer can't accommodate you, and there are no work-from-home opportunities, then maybe you'd be best with some other employment that's more suited to your reality. You can't change your employer's policy, and you can't stop your child from being sick, so you must change what you can -- yourself. Best of luck. 

Nine-tenths of the effort to dealing with this situation has to do with how you respond to these jabs. Your manager is intimidated by you, and these little knocks to your esteem are designed to keep you in your place. If I were you, I'd practice with a trusted friend on some rehearsed responses toward your manager. If you practice, then it will be less emotionally taxing for you when you're dealing with the real thing. When you hear the "you're too young to know", respond with, "Hey, thanks for reminding me of that!" and keep on talking as if the manager never made the statement. When you hear "please shut up, adults are talking," respond with "adults are courteous to one another, and know how to wait their turn to speak." ... and again, keep right on talking. In either case: maintain an even tone of voice, and give that manager a quick glance, dead in the eyes, when you say what you say. The goal is to let it be known that you're not intimidated or thrown off emotionally by the ugly statements. It'll be different for you at first, but you'll improve with practice. You may have to, afterward, go outside and take a deep breath. But you can do it! 

Peer review is opinion-based. He's not your boss. You can take the information constructively, or you can ignore it altogether. If he's pointing out things that are objective (i.e. ways to measurably improve performance, maintainability, reliability, scalability) work with those, but with the other stuff you can't let it bother you so much. Someone's always going to have an opinion different from yours. 

I think the most immediate impact will be in limiting some of Bob's access to things. This will preclude his ability to add more gasoline to a fire that you're trying to put out, and give you the ability to do some planning without everyone being in reactive, "emergency" mode all the time. Secondly, put Bob in a position where he has to pair with another staff member for anything that makes changes to your production environment, and this will put your team in a position to cover issues much better than you're in now because Bob will eventually stop being a bottleneck. Third, the planning I discussed above entails changing processes once you become clear on what the current state is. Who starts projects? Who owns them? How is work funneled from management to subordinates? Are developers making business decisions? You might have to fend off new projects until you clarify, and it might cost you in the short term but the long term benefits are legion. 

Three magic words: "important personal business". This is what you mention when you need the time off. Don't volunteer any other information as to what you are doing, because you will end up in a pissing match where your boss and you are competing to determine how important that time is, and with this one you would probably lose. If your boss asks for more details, just repeat: 'it's personal!' Being an employee doesn't mean you can't exercise healthy boundaries, AND you don't have to lie. To avoid any disruptions for the business or your paycheck, offer to make up the time. This is probably the best you can do. Otherwise, you will have to figure out if your other job can move the training time. 

Sheryl, You can't stop anything if this person you know gets hired. However, DON'T agree to be a reference (politely refuse by telling your boss that you aren't in a good position to do so, which is true) and DON'T do any bad mouthing. Whatever happens from that point will never point back to you. That's all that's important. 

Douglas, You have more control in this situation than you think. The first step in this evolution of yours is to learn how to push back and say "no". Here's a good article from Forbes. I'm putting this up because your post is indicative that you're maybe not so great at managing expectations. The very first line, where you're both a data analyst AND a full stack web developer, is the hint. I don't think anyone can profess to do both of these jobs well when the situation requires that both be done. But a lot of the fallout comes from volunteering to do too much, and being too available, and "absorbing" the company's stresses into feeling obligated to be Mr. Fix-It-All. Richard U's answer here lays out the most extreme case. I'm going to bet that in some combination, you may be showing up early, leaving late, not taking lunch breaks, taking calls about work while you're away from the office, and have the general idea that there are things that need fixing and you're the only one with the talent to do so. The behavior and the mentality will put you in a hospital (or graveyard!!!) somewhere. But I disagree with Richard U in that if you've got these traits, you're only going to do the same thing elsewhere if you switch jobs. Sure, you may have a pushy boss, but if you're not exercising your right to say "no" to others' messes, who's really at fault here? Incorporate enderland's response into your daily practice, and learn how to slow down and take care of yourself. If there's more work than time available, your company will hire additional resources at the point where you stop volunteering to be a human sacrifice. But first you must love yourself, because work doesn't love you back. When you've taken a good look at your part in the situation, and made corrections, and then there's no change, then it's time to find something else. But start with yourself. 

The real conflict seems to be that you're a new manager and don't want to rock the boat. You know the right thing to do, which is to sternly set the expectation for Helen. But she's been around a while, and it doesn't seem that you're interested in the repercussions of setting her straight. You're using your own religious views as a semi-justification for what's going on in the workplace. It didn't work for Rowan County Clerk Kim Davis in Kentucky, who was jailed, and it will catch up with you sooner or later. You're leaving the company wide open for legal action. Never mind what your state law allows or not - Helen's actions are wrong, and every single slight against Mark is a notch against you and the company. What if Mark pursued legal action, but decided to do so in federal court??? Do you sit by and try to ignore the obvious, or do you wait for the wrecking ball to hit you? Choose wisely. 

When this happens, ask your CEO to review any recommendations with your boss, and cite the need for everybody to be on the same page as the reason. Or, each time it happens, say that you'll be glad to perform XYZ after the three of you have sat together in a meeting to prioritize your work again. Schedule the meeting ASAP. Do this EACH time. This presses the accountability back between the bosses. 

I think giving you a copy of the dress code early on is the company's way of having you disqualify yourself (not continue pursuing the job) if you can't adhere to it. They might apply it very strictly. I don't get the idea that the dress code bothered you, but we can't assume every applicant's cool with it. If the dress code is an important value for the business, it's better to lay it out early rather than assuming folks will "snap to it" after being hiring. It also gives you a heads-up to consider having to buy the clothes you'll need. Still, anything they hand to you says they're interested in you. But as Christopher Estep has laid out, wait for a formal offer. If you get only a verbal offer (i.e. they don't volunteer right away to give you a written one), it's best for that you tactfully express your need for the written one. It'll potentially save you a lot of headaches. 

No, I wouldn't mention it, as it's nothing to be proud of. You may as well put a post-it on your back that reads, "Kick Me!", like kids on a playground. Given the wrong supervision, you're going to get run into the ground. As the other responses have mentioned, it's a symptom of a lot of poor planning. But it's also a symptom of poor boundaries on your part. There is no shortage of posts here from people who deeply regret, after ten or fifteen years, doing exactly what you're doing, for not much more than lousy health, empty promises, and a deplorable work-life balance. People need sleep. But they also require time to get a good meal and digest it while not under stress. There's also time with friends and family, or time to do nothing whatsoever. You may be in a situation where you don't have anyone else to take care of, so all-nighters don't have much discernible impact on your health. But over time, this behavior will take its toll. You have to allow your body to de-stress, or the longer you go at this, the more pronounced the effects will be. Love yourself. Work doesn't love you back. 

Your boss has told you, in not so many words, that the company owns you. You are a working-class slave. If I were you, I would begin to quietly start planning my exit strategy. You are dealing with a bully, plain and simple. "When someone shows you who they are, believe them the first time." -- Maya Angelou 

Ask ALL these questions! Ethics does come into play. If you're working for your potential employer at the tradeshow, (a) you should be paid and (b) it is a conflict of interest if they are direct competitors. If you have to decline, you may lose the opportunity but you'll preserve your reputation. 

Here's an approach you can use. The RPost registered e-mail service can indicate to you if your message has been received or opened. You could sign up for RPost for free, and then re-send your e-mail through RPost. Add "Revised:" to the beginning of the subject line. You don't have to actually revise anything, unless you really need to; the point is to make the second message you send trackable. Your intentions will be far less obvious to the sender, and you'll know, by way of RPost's back-end, if the e-mail is overlooked. I don't work for (or earn money from) RPost. 

Whoa. You've already set the expectation at $18/hr. Stick with that. If you try to go in for more, you will probably be shown the door. If you want $50, you'll have to go someplace that isn't accustomed to getting the exact same work for $12 - but most likely, the professional standard is going to be much higher!