What I am able to understand from your question is that you want to be shredded, and if that is correct then I think your approach is wrong. 

Pull ups require good development of the back muscles , and you are lifting your body weight. So to increase the number of pull ups you can start doing lat pull downs on machine . These pull downs are to be performed with strict form , with no or least bent in the spine, and bringing the bar to your chins.As you progress and reach about 80-90 % of your body weight on the machine , you will be able to do more number of pullups. I myself was unable to do many pullups , still cannot do more than ten, but have increase the number really fast by focusing on lat pull down. Also doing pull ups on flat rod are more easy then doing pull ups on rod with some angle as they target more of inner middle back muscles .The idea of slow negatives also work very well, and I have started incorporating them in most of my exercises. 

do not give up training. increase protein in your diet and as well as good carbs such as from whole wheat pasta , sweet potato and raw eggs.Do not eliminate fat from your diet.Add fats from fish in your diet. start with light weight and intense training (less time , more training). You might not be able to perform high intensity training right away but with time as stamina develops , you will be able to . My personal belief is that to build good physique these are the contributing factors along with their weight: food : 60% , form : 15% , rest : 15 %, exercise : 10 %. Cutting short on any of these will result in incomplete results. 

You can try crunches on a Gym ball . Doing crunches on a Gym ball requires more stability and let you arch more , than doing on a bench or flat surface, which restrict your movement . Start with doing small range , and as you progress or become more comfortable increase the range of extension. Doing crunches on Gym ball also puts less tension on your back. Other thing you can try and surely works is Power wheel . Done correctly, they really focus on abs and you can really feel the effect . There are many videos on Youtube explaining how to use power wheel properly. You can start with placing yourself in front of a wall and with shorter distance between you and the wall. Slowly increase the distance , and thus working your abs more. But be cautious with the power wheel , as it puts greater tension on lower back as well.There are range of power wheels available in the market, choose which best suits you. There are some models which you can hook to your feet as well and can perform more exercises. 

If you are in US then there is this company called BulkSupplements which manufacture good quality supplements and have heard a lot about their caffeine supplement. 250 mg of caffeine is enough for one workout , and can be increased if you are caffeine tolerant due to consuming caffeine through coffee. 

I think you have a wrong perspective , like many, that gains come from exercise, which is to great extent wrong. Exercising in the gym is only simulating the muscles , the growth comes from providing enough nutrients to the muscles to grow, and from resting enough for the muscle to repair . In the end muscular development boils down to only two things , break and repair . Said that , if you are providing enough food, carbohydrates , protein to the body to support full body exercise three times a week , please continue with this program . What you can do to increase the gains , is to increase your diet, have more protein . Or if you think that you are not having enough nutrients, then please decrease the volume . Personally , I think that doing one body part is better than multiple body parts , or whole body in the same session , as I believe its better to concentrate on one body part at a time , achieve maximum stimulation, and after that I don't really have enough energy to do any other body part, and if I do have energy to do any other body part, then I am not training the intended body part correctly . You can try splitting body parts on different days for some time , and see how that works for you . 

If you are talking about Over Head Presses, I would suggest against doing them, reason being Shoulder Impingement and restriction of shoulder moment due to shoulder biomechanics. Shoulder doesn't performs the function of pushing the arms upward. Rather shoulder raises, front, side and back would be more beneficial without any negative effect. Please look at this video. 

You need to get calories to perform daily activities let alone for strength training. My advice would be to 

Well as other answers have mentioned, stretch marks are due to skin being not that elastic. Skin elasticity differs from person to person and area to area. I consider them to be medals of bodybuilding and strength training, but still it gets me worried because I don't want too many of them.Newely formed stretch marks are red in color and lightes up after some time, but still one can tell them. I found that applying castor oil on the stretch marks and the area that are prone to get streatch marks can help. I am saying this from my own personal experience and didn't did lot of research, although if you will search online you will find people suggesting the same. You can try cold pressed castor oil, which is highly viscous and better than normally process castor oil. Besides being good for stretch marks, castor oil can be used for treatment of acne, insect & mosquito bites, dandruff, and fungal or yeast infection, i.e any external skin problem. Good luck. 

My first suggestion would be to get a membership of a gym having adequate free weights and machines. There are few important things that you should look for : squat machine, Olympic rod, flat bench , incline bench, leg press machine, pull up bar, parallel bar for dips. The idea is to start with compound movements that target multiple joints/body parts. Three primary large body parts that constitute majority of the body are chest , back and legs. Training these would produce more testosterone and help you in gain more mass, but said that small body parts like biceps , triceps , shoulders and trapezius are of equal importance and should not be neglected. Exercises that you should be focusing are : 

One thing that I would like to add is not depending on only one source of protein , as over time your body will form allergies to it, not like you will start having stomach pain or anything like that , but you won't be getting the full benefit of it . From the diet you mentioned if seems to constitute only of chicken as protein source , so would advice to add fish or beef to your diet. Another advice would be not to go for protein powders so early in your transformation. Do so only if you think that it is absolute necessary and you are not getting enough of protein from actual food. Thirdly as your goal is to loose fat , you can supplement caffeine before workout . Most of the fat burners and pre-workouts have caffeine . Caffeine increases fat oxidation, and will also help with alertness in the gym. 

I have trained alone throughout my four years of training, and have twice got in trouble while doing benchpress, which led me to rethink the way I benchpress.Since benchpress is a compound movement, its not always necessary that the pectoral muscle will give up first, at times its the shoulder or triceps that start giving up and making one to stop short of their set or rep. goal. Best way of tackling this is to start with the heavy weight first, then keep on lowering the weight from one set to another by ten pounds (whichever weight suits you). This way by the time you will be on your fifth or sixth set you will be more confidently pushing the weight without much danger of it falling on you and still go to failure. Try limiting your reps between six to eight in the initail heavy sets, and you will find that from third or fourth set the same weight to be more challenging that you were comfortable with earlier. As mentioned by others, swithcing to dumbles is also a good option. I don't agree that switching to smith machine is better, since motion on smith machine is controlled and very rigid, and in my opion not the correct. 

There is no set rule that how many reps or how many sets will work for you . You have to listen to your body for your rest, reps, sets , hydration , diet, exercise etc and go for what best works for you. Getting fatigued as you spend more time in the gym training is normal . Now said that, what you can do is go for pyramid style of training . You start with one or two warm up sets with weight you can do 10-12 reps, and then go to working set , with max weight you can do 6-8 reps , and then decrease the weight from set to set . You will find the same weight more challenging , with which you were comfortable earlier. Don't hold yourself back if you can get few more reps in a set. Also cheating is allowed only in the last set of a particular exercise. Following this way you will be able to do exercises with more weight , get out of your comfort zone and develop those muscles. Also my advice would be to try reducing your rest period between sets , and also scrutinize your diet and water intake. The key here is 

I feel the same when doing Triceps dumbbell kickbacks , and feel that is because you need to control the weight from going down , you are working against the gravity.As one increases the weight , more tension can be felt in the shoulders and the focus shifts from triceps to shoulders. I found this video/suggestion by noah siegel , an optimum nutrition athlete and one of my idol . In this video he is using ropes instead of dumbbells in the same triceps kickback movement.Triceps Kickback using ropes This movement focuses only on triceps and there is no tension on the shoulders . 

But it goes without saying that these are to be performed with absolute form and without any cheating . With time good form will become habit and that will define your gains.Body weight exercise like pull ups won't be easy in the beginning , so perform lat pull down on machine , and as you progress in this exercise you should be able to perform more number of pull ups.Get at least six months of membership of the gym, and be patient, you will be able to see the changes.Limit your cardio , but do not completely eliminate them. Once or twice should be enough. Second suggestion to increase the number of carbohydrates, protein, and fats in your diet.Include whole eggs ,milk, fish, sweet potato , chicken, brown rice, legumes , nuts, fruits like pomegranate, banana , cottage cheese and you can also include red meat like beef in your diet.Make sure that you are having meat at least once in your daily diet . Considering that the fact that you are taller , you have to really focus on the diet and if you get this correctly , then you have won the war. Introduce changes to your diet slowly and not in one go, so that your body can get adapted to it.I won't recommend supplements so early in your diet , but later on , like after five six months later you can go for mass gainer, one that I would personally recommend is the Ultimate nutrition iso mass gainer , which I believe is one of the best mass gainer. Alcohol and processed foods should be limited and are allowed only once or twice a week. Thirdly make sure you are getting eight hours of sleep. Fourth , be patient,and don't give up , with hard work and proper nutrition you will be able to achieve your goals.Focus on proper diet from day one , and you will be able to see the results.Remember that what you are doing , is doing for your self and not for anyone else , so don't compare with others and don't get intimidated by others.