EDIT: Yes, you can stack lenses for extra power in the ocular. If you stack two convergent lenses, so close that they touch each other, having the same focal length, the resulting system has about half the focal length of one lens. If there's some distance in between them, things are a bit more complex. You will notice that power is not everything, and sometimes more power is beneficial while other times it creates problems. It depends on many factors, which you can discover through experimentation. Also read about the various eyepiece designs, which are made for specific purposes - not just magnifying power, but also lack of aberrations and a high quality image. But those require special components to make. $URL$ By all means go ahead and try various combinations yourself. There's a lot to discover. It's a lot of fun. 

If you slam a white dwarf into a main-sequence star or red giant such that the white dwarf becomes the core you'd get... a red giant (or supergiant). Perhaps that sounds odd but basically the cores of low-mass red giants are electron degenerate. They roughly consist of deep convective envelopes sitting on top of (helium) white dwarfs separated by a thin but intense shell of material undergoing nuclear reactions. Of course, most real white dwarfs are of the carbon-oxygen variety, so I imagine what you'd really get is something more like an asymptotic giant branch (AGB) star. But these are also basically red giants too. Off-hand, I can't say whether the second burning shell (hydrogen into helium) will be present. Anyway, composition wise things might be a bit different to ordinary red giants, red supergiants or AGB stars but the overall structure will be similar: a dense, degenerate core shrouded in a big sparse envelope. As for the Chandrasekhar limit, that only defines what happens to a degenerate object. If the white dwarf is massive enough, then once in equilibrium it would presumably start burning carbon and oxygen into heavier metals, just like a red supergiant. As a final note, a quick search didn't turn up any literature on this. I know of material about mergers between two white dwarfs or two non-degenerate stars but I couldn't find anything on WD+MS (or similar) mergers. 

Proper motion appears as a long-term drift of stellar positions that remains even after you subtract aberration, parallax, nutation, etc. There's a back-and-forth-back-and-forth from aberration and parallax, whereas proper motion keeps going in one direction only. You could measure proper motion with relatively short term observations, but it only works for stars that are nearby and are moving fast. If you're willing to wait decades, proper motion is much more easy to measure. EDIT: 

First off - good job for paying attention to collimation. For a newtonian telescope, it is as important as changing the oil on your car. It would help to know a little bit more about the telescope. What make and model? What is the focal length? 

I was reluctant to do an answer because I do not own a NexStar 8 SE, so I can't speak from direct experience. But this information may prove valuable, so here it is. The smaller NexStar scopes (like the 4) can be used tabletop-style. The scope is small enough so that the base is sitting just fine on a flat surface. The 8 might be a little too big for that - I'm not 100% sure. However, if that's the case, there's a simple remedy. Take a piece of plywood or plastic, bigger than the base, thick enough to be rigid, and improvise a way to attach it to the scope base (use bolts / nuts with the same thread as the ones on the tripod). The wider area should stabilize it, and the extra piece of material is flat and easy to carry. At your local home improvement store they surely carry plywood conveniently cut into round pieces of various diameters. Just get one of those, get the appropriate size bolts and washers, and that should be it. Maybe put 3 pads on the bottom of the plywood so it doesn't sit on the bolt heads. Get a spray can of shellac or urethane and give it a nice protective coating when you're done. The NexStar mount should withstand the challenges of travel pretty well. It's the optics I'm more worried about. As others have said, most tables are too wobbly for astronomy. Use a sturdy table, or some surface that doesn't move around, like the wide edge of a concrete balcony or something. 

(This is somewhat simplified but I hope it gets the idea across.) The reactions stop in the core because it runs out of fuel. During the main sequence, the star is supported by the fusion of hydrogen into helium. Eventually, the hydrogen runs out at the centre, so hydrogen fusion is no longer possible there. Why doesn't it start fusing helium into carbon right away? That's because the core isn't hot or dense enough yet. Different reactions broadly rely on the presence of different resonant states in the nuclei and, in the case of helium, such a state cannot be reached often enough until the core temperature is about $10^8$ kelvin. In order to get that hot, the core has to contract and heat up. It eventually does (if the star is massive enough) but it doesn't happen instantaneously. Remember that the gas is still hot and at high pressure, which it exerts on itself and its surroundings. Meanwhile, at the edge of the core, the star (partly as a result of said contraction) is hot enough to turn hydrogen into helium, so it does so. This is exactly the nuclear-burning shell that distinguishes the internal structure of a red giant. So maybe think of it this way. Imagine a star at the end of the main sequence. Where is it hot enough to fuse hydrogen into helium? Everywhere up to the edge of the core! Does it fuse in the core? No, because it's out of fuel. So where does it fuse? At the edge of the core, which we recognize as the shell. 

They're not different. Same principles do apply. You could have secondary, tertiary, quaternary, and so on, mirrors with instruments at any wavelength, either optical, or radio, or infrared, etc. You could also have instrumentation placed directly in prime focus (so no mirrors other than the primary) with any kind of instrument - radio or infrared or visible or whatever. See this image of the 5 meter Hale telescope on Mt. Palomar - there is no secondary mirror in this case, the observer is sitting in a little cage at prime focus, using the primary mirror directly: 

Because planets actually do twinkle. Most people were told that the major difference between stars and planets is that only the former twinkle - but that's an oversimplification. Given the right conditions, planets will twinkle too, it just happens more rarely. Several factors that contribute to it: 

Constellations and asterisms are generally not proximate in space, but rather happen to be nearby only when viewed from Earth. From Wikipedia's article on asterisms: 

A recognizable example of this would be the brightest star in Taurus, Aldebaran. Aldebaran appears in the V-shaped bull's head, mostly formed by stars in the Hyades star cluster. However, while those stars are actually close to one another, Aldebaran is less than half as far away. 

I'm pretty sure that the stripe is there because the two sections of the image have different contrasts. Pluto and Charon are so bright relative to Nix, Hydra, P4 and P5 that to have one contrast, you'd either (a) not be able to see the smaller four, or (b) totally wash out the image with the light from the brighter two. So we simply superimpose two images at different brightnesses (or gains, I guess). 

Other factors that may help: Filters These are the most over-utilized and over-hyped accessories, especially for beginners (most people are too much focused on filters and not enough focused on things that really matter). That being said, some nebulae do look better in some filters. Dave Knisely is one of the foremost experts in the amateur astronomy community in terms of DSOs and filters. Read anything he writes on the subject, e.g. this long article: $URL$ In a nutshell: If you can only get one DSO filter, get a UHC. If you can get two, also get an OIII filter. Of course, dark sky and large aperture should always come first. Don't bother with filters if you're observing from the city using a small aperture. Filters are useful for nebulae. They don't help with galaxies, star clusters, individual stars, etc. Books Find a book called Turn Left At Orion. It's a fantastic introduction for beginners to DSOs. It will help you find the easier targets, and essentially open up the sky for you. Later you'll be able to figure things out on your own. $URL$ 

I thought I'd contribute an answer because there's a very recent paper on the subject: Measuring the solar radius from space during the 2012 Venus Transit It appeared in my RSS feeds this morning! A related writeup is online at the HMI website. To answer the question, this measurement uses the transit of Venus to fit the limb-darkening law of the Sun. That is, the Sun is a bit fainter the further from the centre that you look. As you reach the optically thinner layers near the "surface", the brightness falls off rapidly, towards zero in the vacuum of space. The inflection point of the curve (as a function of distance from the centre of the disk) is a reasonable estimate of the "radius". As pointed out elsewhere, the value changes depending on which wavelength you use, but only by a few hundred km, compared to the Sun's overall radius of about 700 000km (actually more like 695 946 km), so the uncertainty is at or below the 0.1% level. Phil Plait wrote about a similar measurement (by the same team, I believe) that used the transits of Mercury in 2003 and 2006. Finally, the team also used the limb-darkening (I think) to measure how round the Sun is. i.e. the diameter from top-to-bottom versus left-to-right. Answer: the Sun is very very round, with the radii differing by a few parts per million. 

Buy a book called Turn Left At Orion. It will get you started with how to find and observe DSOs, complete with instructions on which time of the year is best for each object, how much magnification (this is a bit subjective), etc. It's a very good book, I highly recommend it. $URL$ I would go with either a sturdy hardcover edition, or the spiral bound one - something that works well out in the field, not some snowflake paperback. A planisphere is a good thing to have. You only use it 5 or 10 minutes each night, but it will quickly get you oriented in the sky when you do. $URL$ When reading the book or the planisphere, use a red light at the minimum intensity that allows you to read. This will preserve your night vision. There are many red flashlights out there made for astronomers, that allow you to dial down the intensity. This is only needed for DSOs. Night vision does not matter for the planets or the Moon. 

Second, you can play around with synthetic line profiles and other atmospheric data with GrayStar, a web app that computes basic atmosphere data. (I'm not experienced with it, so I'm not exactly sure how it works, but you can play around to get the information you want about e.g. the difference between line profiles in giants and dwargs, I think.) 

Your question inspired me to have a look at the data that is used in plots produced by the stellar evolution code MESA. Here's a $\rho$-$T$ diagram showing boundaries of roughly where various nuclear reaction chains kick in as well as a solar model (black dashed line) and the a line indicating the onset of electron degeneracy (red line). 

Definitely radii, with one notable exception... When observers talk about how large an object is on the sky, they usually discuss angular size, which is related to the diameter of an object, not the radius. So when discussing the angular size of, say, Alpha Centauri A (a few milliarcseconds), this is related to the diameter of the star, not the radius.