You turn it down You accept, and fail to improve things like you predecessor You accept, and succeed 

It doesn't matter what you earned before. Pay is not about fairness to the employer, or somehow universal. Pay is how much a company needs to pay you to get and retain your services. If you find a new job after 2 years, great. During the hiring process you will negotiate salary with the new employer; if they don't offer enough, you won't take up their offer. It is unimportant what your salary is before, unless that is your entire personal rationale for changing jobs. The new job could be further away, have longer hours, be less flexible, and you will negotiate on the basis of what you will accept. There is no way to convince an employer to pay you more because of a salary you once got but have since quit. That doesn't matter to them. What matters is how much they need to offer you for you to accept. 

I've heard of people doing this; one guy mentioned having an always-on video conference for remote work, which seems to be the usual context for this kind of appliance. Finally found it: Virtual Camaraderie His take on it - having a separate machine for the video conference - is what you're talking about. [Edit: also Project Stargate] I would make a few suggestions: 

Talk to HR. If the employee is making claims about their disability impeding their capacity to do the job, it is worth bringing an HR representative into play. Your friend is not in a position to judge whether the excuses are valid or not, and making a call either way could be a mistake. An initial chat with HR should clarify matters, and if they agree with the apparent opinion that the employee's excuses are not valid, then he should bring them into a 3 person chat. That way the employee is reassured that they are being fairly dealt with; if they are abusing their status then they may be more likely to misconstrue (intentionally or not) a private conversation between 2. 

Firstly, what are the benefits to working out of hours on this project to prove to your manager that your approach is better than his? I don't see any, if your manager is stuck in his ways as strongly as you suggest: 1) He is probably not going to change his mind simply because you can prove you have a faster way to produce results, since you have already shown him that modern approaches are better suited to your problems. 2) He may be offended that you and your co-workers went behind his back and wrote code to prove a point to him, which implies you are all also talking behind his back about how he makes poor decisions for the team 3) It shows an lack of respect (regardless of whether it's reasonable) for the decisions of your manager. Whether or not your manager has made the right architectural decisions for the software you are developing, it is your job as a developer to follow his instruction. You are of course right in trying to explain to your manager that there are better approaches to solve your organisation's problems, but if the issue has been raised and settled, there is not much you can or should try to do. It is probably not worth the time for you and your co-workers to work off the clock due to the incompetence of your manager, as you will likely not see any positive return for your time! 

I feel your pain, but you need to put some distance between you and your work You work for someone else. It matters to them whether the code they're paying you to build will work, but what should matter to you is whether the time and effort spent is worth the money you are paid. It is not your company, it is not your profit if it works. Your responsibility is to provide the best information you can, and then implement what they decide Management often makes mistakes in deciding what to do. But they are paid to be responsible for those decisions. The best you can do is point out the problems you can foresee, and your misgivings about a particular approach (ideally with reference to decent abstract frameworks like GoF), making sure there is some record in writing that you did so, and then accept whatever decision they do make. Otherwise you risk adding time spent arguing and bad vibes to the situation. If you hide from the project, you are not doing your job They don't pay you to play executioner to their projects, they pay you to press buttons and make the lights blink. If the horse won't go down the road to the asylum, they just shoot that one and get another horse. Don't be that horse. Reframe your activities in terms of what they deliver you Take a minute to write down what you want to get out of your job (and yes, money is one of the things), and what you are currently not getting. Acknowledge where you have opportunities to learn domain knowledge or wisdom from team members, and any niceties of working there. Try to find a path from where you are now to the sunlit uplands you are wishing for; maybe you need more time to learn code architecture skills, so you try to find a way to fit that into your week or your plan. Your current job is just one part of the puzzle, one object in the frame. There are others, there will be other opportunities, there will be other projects. Do the work, even if it will end in the project failing Better that the project fails because of the things you warned of, than that it fails because you stopped trying. Don't sacrifice your private life for it; I would only go those extra miles for inspiring or career-developing projects. Instead, just be a bit more cold and grit your teeth. You're paid to do this, and you are still taking that cheque, so let's get it done with. Spock put his best into a ship filled with emotional humans who made bad decisions, because he was committed to seeing it through Raise your concerns, simply and logically, but if they want to go straight through the asteroid belt, that's on them. Be more Spock. 

Yes and no. I don't think you should worry too much about being laid off as engineer, but you should worry that the culture of your office changing. I don't think it's unusual for C-level execs to leave after an acquisition, the acquiring company already has their own C-levels and the C-levels at the acquired company may not want to take demotions to VP or lower positions. That said I do think you should worry that things will change in ways that will make you miserable and prepare for that. Like the other answer said, it is not possible that nothing will change for you. Things will change, the only question is whether they'll change in a way you can live with. If I were you I would start networking / looking for new opportunities now so you can find a new job quickly if it turns out the way things change at your current job doesn't work for you. Good luck! 

Do not fail a year! That will not be good for your GPA and while some employers don't much care about it, it can be important to getting your first job after university. Employers notice if it takes someone n+1 years to finish an n-year program and it doesn't look good on a resume. Having internships on your resume is important, but I don't think getting just a couple (I'm not sure how many you can do in your final year) is worth the hit to your GPA and making employers wonder why you needed an extra year to finish your degree. I think it would be better for you in the long run to graduate on time, potentially take a job that isn't exactly your dream job, and improve your resume by building your own projects and/or contributing to open source in your free time. 

Your founders do not value you very highly. It is an entirely classic setup for bosses to think they are doing you a huge favour by employing you, undervalue you and underspend on things that would make you happy. Often, that is why people start their own companies. I don't think the problem is that being cheap is affecting morale, or that you are not communicating clearly enough. They just don't think you're worth it. What they want is a set of compliant workers who are just so happy to work at such an exciting company that it doesn't matter if there's no money being spent on them. Just look at the contrast in your question; the founders boast of their extravagant lifestyle, yet expected you all to pay for a team event that they had picked. That is at best myopic, and at worst you are being screwed. Unfortunately, some people work on this level; it's dog-eat-dog, they really only care for what they can take and they will do the bare minimum to stop you all leaving. If they have investment money, they probably barely care if you aren't working so hard; if they can justify the extra expense to the investors, they can get more money. They only care if you leave because it would look bad to the investors. In this environment, where the management does not show any real care for the workers, the answer is to unionize. Unionize for some R&R? What am I thinking? I'm thinking that this is more than the culture, or the occasional trips out being funded: It is about the management taking the workforce seriously. If you do not stand up to them properly (or quit), they will continue to pay you all poorly, fail to look after you, and generally drive you as hard as they dare. What's to stop them, if they don't have compassion for you? You are incentivising them to do just that; they can keep more of the money by just pushing you all harder for less reward. Some bosses do care for their workers, and those are the companies you want to work for. The rest you have to force into behaving better by threatening to strike, leave, etc. Most are just weak and only need you to show some mettle before they will back down and treat you better. They just don't see the world your way, and can't justify spending more money on you unless you might leave, because nothing is as important as their immediate bottom line. 

If you get a phone call from an interviewer about a position you have applied for, and you miss the initial call which regards them telling you that you have been shortlisted and are eligible for an interview, and then subsequently leave you a voice message to tell you; and you subsequently call them back later in the day, is that grounds for a black mark to your name? 

Do many/any companies offer a percentage stake in their organisation as an incentive for software developers to work for them? If yes, what sort of companies and job-roles is this more common in? 

Are there any jobs that you can do that utilise having a Computer Science degree, which also require you to be doing non-desk work; particularly activities that are active or perhaps even strenuous? Things along the lines of radio-tower maintenance (though this is likely more suited to electricians and electrical engineers) 

I am a software developer full time, as well as a wedding photographer on weekends. I normally arrive to work 20 minutes early, and leave 15 minutes late. My lunch breaks are 30 minutes long. Is it acceptable practice for me to work on my wedding business (writing articles, answering emails etc) during my 30 minute lunch break, and before 9am in the office? 

Definitely discuss this with your coworkers and ask them why they are not giving you development tasks. I would also suggest actively looking for programming work to do after you have finished all of your other tasks. This might mean that you'll be stuck doing boring jobs for a little while that no one else wants to do, but you have to be assertive and proactive when finding development jobs to do if your coworkers are trying to keep you out. You should also definitely talk to your manager about how you feel that your coworkers are not allowing you to work on the software side of things. Perhaps you can get your manager to assign you some development tasks if that is a part of his role in the organisation. Don't keep this feeling to yourself though, you need to making some noise around the workplace that you are looking for more development work to do and are happy to perform, that way your coworkers cannot tell your manager that you are being lazy!