Pointing it forward or downwards would be problematic as the lever might get caught somewhere and therefore get opened. Remains pointing it backwards and upwards parallel to the fork. When pointing it parallel to the fork blade, it might touch the fork and therefore not fully close. This might cause the quick release to open by itself unintendedly. One can easily mitigate this if one knows about it and orients the lever a bit different, however, one has to be aware of it. Pointing the lever backwards does not suffer from this problem and therefore is the most safe version (also from a legal point of view) for the manufacturer, as one does not have to be aware of any implications. 

Batteries, especially most types of rechargeables don't work well in cold conditions. The chemical reaction that powers the electric voltage does needs some temperature to perform as intended. If you then have a consumer load that requires a bigger amount of power, they tend to drain rather quickly since they cannot set free much energy when cold. You could try with newer batteries, maybe yours are already a bit exhausted or you can try ones that are based on a different cell type. 

Generally speaking, at least in Germany a solid line must not be crossed therefore the left turn lane begins where the dashed line between the two initial lanes changes into a solid line. That does also mean that you should be on your target lane before the solid line starts, but it is wise to try to be there not too early – if I should give some reference point I would say you should change somewhere around the last dash, if traffic allows for it. Finding out if traffic allows for it is a matter of experience and personal readiness to take a risk. But if traffic is so heavy that cars are driving more or less bumper to bumper so that you can't expect to find a reasonable gap between them when you have to change, you better take the detour over the pedestrian crossing. If you have decided to take the left turn lane, prepare wisely before the turn. About 50 to 100m before the spot where you have to change, start to watch more often the traffic coming from behind to find a suitable gap between the cars. Once you have chosen your gap, occupy it, i.e. do not stick to the edge of the lane you're actually in, but get more to the middle to prevent cars from overtaking you. At this point also start to signal that you want to turn left so that the drivers behind you see your intention and don't get angry at that dumb guy that takes the whole lane because he cannot drive at the side. Then, about at the beginning of the solid line (as mentioned above) switch over to your desired lane, of course after another look over your shoulder to go sure that there is nobody coming fast from behind on your target line. The most important thing in all that stuff is that whenever you are about to leave your current direction, you do it in a way that makes your intention clear to the drivers around you. So don't just jump into a narrow gap between cars or drive in the middle of the lane without signalling. If you change into the middle of the lane, be brisk and occupy the lane so that it is clear that drivers behind you will not be able to overtake you by just slipping past you without making a wide bow. 

As you already suggest the behaviour is not that of a conventional spring. Compared to a conventional spring I would expect it to have some quite high internal damping so it may have characteristics similar to a spring/shock combination. 

With a decent bike such as the one you linked to, it's not so much a question whether the bike can handle it, but it depends on how much you can handle. How fast you can go over a bump depends a lot on your riding technique: if you are able to shift your weight in the right way you can significantly increase the speed to go over the bump. If you are able to do a bunny hop and jump over the bump, there's basically no upper speed limit. If you are worrying about the derailleur, there will be some noise from the chain clonking against the chain stay. However, a derailleur is built to handle such loads without any problems. So yes, I guess you are overthinking this one. 

The question is rather old but as I stumbled upon it, some thoughts: I cannot tell exactly but to me as a physicist this looks like the height curve has just a huge noise on it. From your profile I would guess that you have some programming skills so you could build a nice little tool that tries to flatten the curve a bit for you without the need to upload it to some website where you don't know what they are using your data. So here are some ideas: 

What feels unstable when cornering on hard and smooth surfaces will turn out opposite on soft or structured ground. In this case the pronounced edge of the thread will bite into the soft ground or hook into the structure of hard ground which will give you a better side control than a thread that is just following the roundness of the tire. You can compare it a bit with the shape of the skid of an ice skate: when gliding you want to have a smooth surface that has the lowest possible friction while you want to have a sharp edge on your skid for good control in corners and when actively skating. 

After doing some training rides on courses without bigger ups and downs where I didn't make significant elevation gains, a recent ride was in more rough terrain. Of course, the relief changes the average speed one can achieve and I was wondering, if there are some rules of thumb to estimate the influence of the relief. From hiking I know there is Naismith's rule which allows to calculate the time needed for a certain route based on distance and elevation. I am aware of the fact that with cycling the rule would be less general and require more calibration depending on 

Assuming a decent and well maintained mountain bike it can handle much more abuse than riding up and down curbs or jumping around a bit. Even the most lightweight mountain bikes will not have the slightest problem with that. However, two things are important: Good maintenance and riding technique! Riding on underinflated tires or a badly serviced suspension fork can easily lead to a flat or a bent rim when hitting hard on an edge. And good riding technique does not only make your riding look smoother but also is softer on your bike since it to some extent avoids the hardest impacts on your bike. So go on with your riding, don't worry too much about how much your bike can handle, keep your bike well serviced and try to learn some decent riding technique. 

One of my mountain bike buddys has severe issues with downhill riding technique. By downhill I don't mean downhill racing in this context but riding down trails that are rather smooth but with some roots and rocks or short bits that are really steep and require to take one's heart in hand and get one's buttocks far behind the saddle. He has taken a fall over the handlebars some time ago and since then is even more cautious in those things. By chance I learned that he is mostly braking with his rear brake even on flat terrain because he is too anxious about another rollover. I think I have figured out that this non-use of the front brake is the main reason for his downhill issues as the rear brake does by far not provide enough power and control here. I would like to get him back to using the front brake more and to give him more confidence and fun on downhill sections. Unfortunately I don't know how to do this. I don't know if he's really aware of his problem yet (hadn't time to talk to him since I figured out the problem myself) and I don't think he has time and motivation to do just stupid practicing sessions somewhere in a park or another "boring" location. So I would be especially be interested in small exercises one could easily include into the weekly ride. 

The only thing that I could expect to be different may be that the rubber like band that is included in their ends to prevent them from slipping might work not so well on your tights than on skin. But this surely will depend on the materials involved, so just give it a try. Everything else should not change, besides the fact, that you have two layers of fabric, i.e. more isolation, less heat transport, a bit less breatheability... but that is the reason why you want to wear two layers, right? 

So basically you should be safe and even if you have a spoiled one you should notice that as soon as you taste it – I don't think they will spoil in a way that you cannot notice but will get sick from it. If you are unsure or have to rely on your food on a longer ride do the following: Try one of them at home to see if it's OK and take other food with you on tour as well, so that you can leave the gels alone in case you are not sure about them. 

It depends on how worn out your old chainring and the other involved components (chain, cassette) are. If the chain and cassette are not that old that they would need to be replaced anyway, I would take the risk and change only the chainring first. But there could be another thing that maybe needs to be changed: if you use a smaller chainring it may happen, that the chain will rub against the lower end of the dereilleur cache. Therefore it may be necessary to move the dereilleur a bit downwards on the frame. 

You can do this and there are even bikes that are designed to do so, for example this bike here by a company called Liteville. This bike is not only intended to be used with mixed wheel sizes but does also allow to change the wheel sizes used. So why would one want to do so? Without having explicitly searched for reasons, I would guess that one can use the advantages of the different sizes where they are needed: The bigger the wheel, the less prone it is to change its direction, giving you a more stable ride at high speeds and on not too curvy tracks. A smaller wheel on the other hand is more "wobbly" at high speeds but is stiffer and can handle higher impact forces. If you put those together on a bike with the bigger wheel in front and the smaller in the rear, you get a downhill bike that drives stable on fast and rather straight tracks, that can handle also take hard drop landings on the back wheel. However, if you would try to do this with an average frame by just replacing the fork and mounting the respective wheels, you would quite surely end up with a mess. As the frame is designed for a certain wheel size in the front and back, all the angles between the frame parts are designed to give certain ride characteristics. If you just swap the wheel sizes, things like the head and seat tube angle will change significantly, giving the bike totally different handling characteristics. Normally those new characteristics will not fit into what one would call good handling. To sum it up: one can try such thing with a random frame just for fun, but if one seriously wants to build such a bike, one has to start planing it from the frame geometry. 

I don't think that this should be a problem. The force that is transferred through the seatpost to the bike when you sit on it and ride some bumpy road is vastly more than the stress that your bike might get from hanging on the bike stand. 

In most cases it will be a combination of several of the factors you describe. It can be a tuning problem. In this case normally the gear change will work in one direction but not in the other one. If it is only a tuning problem, it may be fixed quite easily by tuning your derailleur correctly. Also for this type of problem it is characteristic that it can occur in both shifting directions depending on the "direction" of detuning. Unfortunately especially on cheaper derailleurs tuning may not be the only problem. The second one is friction either in the bearings* of the derailleur or of the derailleur cable in the cable hosing or both. In this case the problem is typically much worse in the direction where the the cable is released by the shifter and the spring does the work. Normally the derailleur should jump to its desired position with one sudden step, but if friction comes into play it may creep more or less slowly to its position which might give the chain not enough momentum to jump to the right cog. As cheaper derailleurs are built with simpler bearings they are more prone to such failure. A maybe slightly too weak spring may worsen the situation here. Another point that you didn't mention is the wear of the derailleur bearings. The whole device consists of several linked parts that are aligned to each other to certain axes. If the bearings in the links are worn out in a way that there's some clearance, the derailleur may bend a bit, changing the alignment of the derailleur in respect of the frame and the cassette. In this case the chain may run from the derailleur to the cogs in an angle that hampers the shifting process. *As pointed out in the comments there are no real bearings in the links between the parts. Instead the links consist basically of two surfaces that glide on each other. But there is a huge difference in the quality and durability of those surfaces and in how good they can withstand contamination that causes friction and wear. 

I would say it depends on the bike. About ten years ago I was riding a cross-country MTB with rather slim tires (1.95" I think) and it was fun also on paved roads, even with knobby tires. Its handling wasn't comparable with a road bike but it was okay to ride on roads also for some longer rides. Now I ride a more all-mountain like bike with fatter and quite knobby tires and compared to the other bike it feels like you are pushing all your energy into the rolling resistance of the tires when biking on paved ground. On both bikes I wouldn't go on 30-50 mile road rides if I could avoid it. As you say you have rather light terrain in your area, if you maybe choose a bike with rather cross-country like geometry, suspension lockout and rather "fast" tires (maybe semi-slicks) you could be OK with it. From my personal opinion it is OK to go on such along ride with a MTB if you have to get from A to B and have no other bike at hand, but I wouldn't go on such a long road trip for fun or if I had a more appropriate bike at hand. 

An up-down movement is perfectly fine – that's what suspension seat posts are designed for! For the side movement it's a bit more complicated. A suspension seat post is basically two tubes sliding into each other with some suspension mechanism. This requires two things: the tubes need a little clearance to move within each other and they need a mechanism that prevents the tubes from rotating towards each other – let's call it anti-rotation machanism. The latter can be for example something like a bolt sliding in a notch or tubes with a non-circular cross-section. The bad thing is, those two elements are somewhat conflicting. An effective anti-rotation mechanism requires the least possible clearance, which may inhibit the original purpose of the suspension seat post, which is to allow for up-down motion of the tubes. Therefore, the manufacturers have to find a trade-off between suspension performance and precision. Such precision is expensive and would quite surely also make the seat post heavier. Especially the products from the lower end of the price range might quite surely sacrifice some of the precision for a more "reliable" suspension performance. So to answer the question: yes, some side rotation or wiggle (something like +-2-3 degrees) should be quite common.