First, it looks suspicious to someone reviewing a resume if you include the GPA from the Bachelor's degree but not the other. Either include both or include neither. Next, whether a company will care is not something we can predict. Some will, some won't. The ones likely to care the most are going to ask for a transcript. And the GPA is pretty irrelevant if you have job experience. There are plenty of good companies that won't care about your GPA. You simply need to sell yourself based on something else. As a side note, there will be plenty of people you don't like that you will have to work with. Learn to do so. It is a career killer to not be able to work with whoever you need to be able to work with. You deserved that low grade if you couldn't do it for a class. That was part of what you were supposed to be learning. 

The way Alice handled this was certainly wrong. It amounts to an accusation against Clark. He has every right to complain to HR about it and likely should. If he does, then please be fair to him and tell the truth about what happened even if you don't particularly like Clark. However, knowing that she may have information about Clark's behavior that you don't (She may even have made a complaint to HR previously, you would have no way of knowing that), I do not think it would be inappropriate to at least pay some attention to what is happening in the other room. Women are assaulted and sexually harassed in the workplace more often than you likely think (it is estimated that 75% don't report it for fear of harming their own career, a fear unfortunately that is justified), it can't hurt to keep an eye out for that even being aware that Clark is likely innocent of the accusation. Do not change your option of Clark without evidence that something did happen, but any woman working in an isolated space can be in danger, it can't hurt to pay attention. 

People don't know you write great code. They don't know you solve hard problems that others can't. If you want to be junior your whole life, then visibility is not important. But if you have ever asked why did he get a bigger pay raise or why did she get promoted instead of me, it is largely because they are visible and you are not. No one in any profession can afford to not be positively visible. Of course the worst is to be negatively visible. If you do not promote your work, the only thing people will ever know about you, outside your own small group, are the things that get known because they are problems. And everyone, no matter how good they are at their technical work, can easily get known for being a problem employee. Some examples are written about below. They may not know that you didn't cause project ABC to be a failure, but they will remember that they heard you were on it and they haven't heard anything good to mitigate that, so they will assume you are incompetent. They may not know that your work was good because the users complained it was buggy when it didn't do something that wasn't in the requirements. Often the only thing they know about your work is what other people have said, whether it is true or not, if you refuse to be visible. They may not know your work, but they know that you are the one who causes problems because he doesn't fill in his time-sheet and customers can't be properly billed and PMs can't tell how much of the project hours have been burned already or if they are going to need an extension of hours. And doing something stupid like not filling in a timesheet can cause them to eat the extra hours because they were spent before the client knew about them. I assure you everyone up to the CEO will often hear about that! Without visibility of your good work, you are much more likely to be identified as a problem emplyee and problem employees get the worst performance ratings, get the lowest raises, are least likely to get promoted or get a bonus, and they are first to be on a layoff list. 

@GeoffAtkins has the right idea. Go to your manager and ask him what you should say to her when she asks for help. You really should do that at the time when a manager asks you to do something like this until you gain some confidence in what to say. I would likely have said something to the effect of I was asked by my boss to stay out of the situation (but then I know how my boss thinks and what he would want me to say.). In the future, stop trying to communicate through hints. This is a sure loser over time. People don't get hints. 

I want to approach this from a different perspective. I think the other answers have covered well what you do when there is a major mistake particulaly when complex processes are involved. However, not all mistakes are process driven. People still do the work and people make mistakes that are based on several things: 

Let's face it squarely, he is a personal friend of senior managers. The chance that you will be able to, in any way, influence whether he gets promoted is effectively 0. However, the only possible way to to do so is to play the political game yourself and I suspect you are not very good at it and this guy is an expert. People like this get chosen specifically because they are really good at politics (which, let's be honest here, is 90+% of a manager's job espcially above the first level of supervision.) Others are ignored becasue they are focusing on technical expertise not politics. Is management aware of all these problems that you cite? If so and they choose to promote him anyway, then clearly they are not operating on the same wavelegth as you and your team about what is a good manager. If they are not aware, making them aware might help except for the part about being a personal friend. Likely they will discount anything you say because they "know" he is a great guy and clearly the best for the job. Your best bet here is to learn to play office politics (not for this job but so the same thing doesn't happen in the next job.), become friends with this guy and thus end up as friends with senior management and teach him what you need to have from a manager and learn from him how to politic. And of course you can always leave as soon as you find another job, but use this as a lab exercise in how to play politics in the meantime. 

Clearly you managed to anger someone with a lot of power in your industry. This type of thing only rarely goes on at more than one job. This will not stop until you leave the industry or the geographic area where everyone knows everyone. That's unfair, I know, but you can't keep these people from spreading their tales of whatever happened because they are seeing things from their buddy's perspective, not yours, and likely his view of whatever happened is very different from yours. Are there people in your industry who actively dislike the person you originally angered (whether that anger is justified is irrelevant)? If so, they are most likely the people who will believe your side of things. Try to get a job with them. Or change to another industry and above all the next time you change jobs, do not tell people where you are going. You have to break the chain in this. It may involve the need to go to a lower job and work your way back up. It may involve the need to move to a different location. Basically, you need to escape this particular old boy network. You are on the way out at your current job if HR is telling you that if you complain again you are out. At this point everyone believes the stories about you. You also need to look back at the original incident that caused this. I am not saying you are right or wrong, just that you need to see what happened and what you could have done differently to prevent it from happening. You can;t change the past behavior of others, so you need to concentrate on if there was a better way to have handled whatever the issue was. Likely one thing you need to learn about is how to handle office politics. It is really difficult to tell you more specifically what you need to do differently without knowing what happened to originally get people so mad at you. 

I would not think that would be a positive for most people reviewing resumes to determine who to interview because it proves nothing. If truly you have such proven skills show it with an accomplishments section or in the description of what you did in your individual job descriptions. 

If they were not interested in hiring you, they would have told you that. However, this doesn't mean the job offer will go through. The issue is apparently budget, so you could be in one of these several scenarios: 

You want an answer that first shows you understand the added responsibilities that come with the promotion. Then you want to show concrete examples of things you have done that show you can perform those added responnsibilities. For instance, seniors are expected to mentor juniors in most places, so if you can show instances of where you have helped others understand something complex, this is evidence that you can do the work at that level. You will want to show what you have accomplished from a technical aspect (are you doing tasks that are generally assigned to people at the higher level?) and, more importantly, how your accomplishments have helped the business. Anytime you present your case to management for promotion, you have to remember that they want to reward the people who are actually having a positive impact on the bottom line first. So if you can show you made design suggestions that saved development time or that you created part of the application that solved a persistent user problem or saved them time or money or how your contribution helped turn around a bad customer relationship into a good one (my last promotion was for doing this) or how you came into a project that was behind and looking to fail and got it out on time and right or things like this, then most managers wil be more interested in promoting you. You need to be thinking of ways you can accomplish these sorts of things all the time, not just when there is an opening to get promoted to. 

If he agrees to meet, decide before the meeting how much per hour you would want to be paid and how many horus per week you are willing to work. Make sure this is clear and in writing before you do any work. 

If you want to continue on the team lead track, don't request a demotion, fix the problems. Requesting a demotion is fine if you have decided that being a lead is not for you, otherwise it is running away when the going got tough. In that case, you will never be a succesful lead, because in all honestly, the going is always going to be tough when you are lead. First you need to get a better idea of the problems. Why do your team members not like you? What problems did the other teams have with you? You can't fix what you don't know is wrong. The deadline is the easiest fix. Most likely the problem is that you didn't comminicate early enough or raise the seriousness of the problems causing the delay forcefully enough. To be a lead, you have to communicate well, bad news as well as good news. Bad news needs to be communicated as soon as it is known,. Otherwise you are managing by wishful thinking. If you ever find yourself thinging, "well yeah we are behind right now but can make it up later", you are already in trouble. It is far better to say (3 weeks ahead of time), "We are having a problem with XYZ and it is taking longer than we expect and the deadline will need to move by 3 days" than to tell them you won't meet the deadline on the day it is missed. If the deadline is immoveable for some reason, you need to tell them the problem and negotiate what you can leave off the first deployment to meet the deadline. But the biggest thing is to communicate often and communicate as soon as you know something bad especially. You don't say anything else specific about the problems, so it is hard to address how to solve them but I will add some things I have noticed cause problems for new leads. The first is that they try to continue to code. Once you are lead, coding is NOT your primary job, leading is. If you are still required to do some coding, you need to take on the tasks that are least important and least likely to cause delays. That is because your first prirotiy is helping your team get their work done. New leads are often the roadblock to everyone else because they take on the most difficult/fun stuff and make devs wait when they are stuck because they are too busy coding. Helping the devs when they have a question should be your first priority not your last. Code reviews are another thing that new leads blow off as less important but which cause delays for other people if they can't push the code without a code review by the lead. The problem with the other teams is likely communication again. The view is wider as a lead, you need to be more aware that what you are doing that could affect others and make sure to let them know. 

The person who changed their mind may have never been exposed to ecigs and dismayed to find out that others are affected. In fact, the vapor may affect him or her far more than orginally expected. For instance any kind of a vapor tends to make my asthma much worse. I have never been around an ecig, so I have no idea if it would bother me and perhaps your co-worker was the same. Would you put up with it if one of your co-workers started doing something that caused you physical distress? Honestly the co-worker is in the right here. Go outside to smoke (is that the corect term for ecigs?) or give up smoking. Alternatively, there are nicotine patches that deliver nicotine without bothering your co-workers. Try those. 

A manager has to take any such accusation seriously. However any well-run business will have a process for handling these types of claims. As a manager, he should first go to HR and ask for direction on how harrassment claims should be handled. The main thing is that he needs to make sure the process is followed to ensure the company does not get into legal trouble for how it treats either party in this. In general the first step is usually to have the person directly tell the other person to stop harassing her. If that doesn't work, then you need to have the person follow up in writing. She should come to the manager with a list of dates and times and an account of the incidents. She should be able to tell him exactly when she told the other person to stop it. It is important to document what is happening even if no one can see it. In the meantime the manager should be looking out for how these two interact and see if he can see evidence. In particular, if the woman gets up and then the man gets up and follows her, the manager may want to do so as well. If he hears any sexual innuendo from this person anywhere in the office whether the woman is present or not, he should be told in no uncertain terms that such things are not appropriate in the workplace. Of course, if you tell him that he can't make those kinds of comments, you have to make sure you don't let others say such things without a similar warning. The manager might also consider sexual harrassment training for all of the team, so that it is clear what is and is not harrassment and what actions can be taken if someone complains. You may also want to make sure these two people are not assigned to work together if at all possible until this is resolved. Since this kind of behavior can escalate to actual rape very quickly, the woman may want to make sure she does not go places like the parking lot alone especially if she works late at night. If the person persists after being directly told to stop, then the manager can step in after ensuring the woman does in fact want to make a formal complaint and is aware that the person will be told details of what he is accused of doing and that while you will maintain confidentiality, the person who is accused may not. Then he would call a meeting with the accuseed, usually with an HR person in attendance, and tell the person what he is accused of and ask for his side of the story. Then after hearing his side of the story, the manager can decide what actions to take. It coudl range from no action, to an inofrmal warning to avoid being alone with this person to a warning in his personnnel file to a suspention to being fired depending on what the details are and how much of a threat he seems to be. Any actions taken shoud be only after consulting with HR (Or a lawyer represnting the company of you have no HR). If you have no HR, the manager needs to go to the CEO of the company and tell him there is a problem and ask that a lawyer be consulted. This is to protect the company from being sued.