So prior to the invention of more modern tools used to shear sheep, the wool was simply plucked or combed off when the sheep began to molt. One can also "pluck" wool from the bushy undergrowth which is the natural aid to the animals, which helps them to complete the molt. Thus hacking the wool off with sharp obsidian blades is unlikely - one merely waits for the appropriate season, and uses combs and fingers! Modern shearing is more efficient: takes less time, and gets all of the wool in its best condition, but combing and plucking will get the job done. 

Since we are comparing two civilizations, note that the Spaniards came from a world where money was long used in order to buy all manner of goods. When you had more money, you could buy whatever you wanted -- including lands, titles, and power. Even if you already had all of these, more money is always needed. None of the civilizations of the New World had developed any form of currency; in order to acquire goods one had to hold a position which deserved them. That is, the status of you and your family determined your obligations and rewards. Thus the Nahua would not have seen gold as a form of money, but rather as something that was due to the uppermost members of the status hierarchy. It was not a commodity to be bought and sold, but rather one to be used for display, as with jewelry, etc. So when the Spaniards demanded gold, they at first appeared to be just another form of highly entitled group, albeit from some distant realm. It only became apparent over time that they were merely greedy interlopers. But by then it was too late. The Nahua, and other New World civilizations, valued status; material goods followed status. There is no hierarchy of material goods when all good things come to you based upon your social status. For example, consider Aztec Religion: 

Given the nature of this speech, it is probably not the most reliable source of information - and it doesn't actually claim directly that North Carolina supplied more soldiers than any other state. In fact, if you search hard enough you will also find statements about Tennessee and Texas as the states that contributed the most soldiers to the Confederate army (not backed by numbers). For comparison one would need to at least look at the number of soldiers supplied by Virginia but that number is very hard to find. I finally found the book The numerical strength of the Confederate army from 1912 which lists the stated numbers of enrollment into the Confederate army: 

(Frederick Douglass in the North Star, 1848) It could be that his words were transformed into the statement you heard. 

As far as I know, the important change here was Christianity that spread out in Europe. The common justification to condemn homosexuality is the biblical Sodom and Gomorrah story. The dominant Christian interpretation of the story views homosexuality as the sin that caused the destruction of these cities. 

In his famous 1872 book "Русская история в жизнеописаниях ее главнейших деятелей" ("Russian history in the biographies of its main actors") Nikolay Kostomarov writes (rough translation): 

Maybe your source was National Geographics. However, it completely fails at explaining where this theory comes from and which facts speak in its favor (it prefers to present it as a fact). This BBC article does only a marginally better job, it lists some evidence but one is bound to ask whether a different interpretation of the same evidence wouldn't have been possible as well. Harvard Magazine manages to do it better (the interesting stuff doesn't come before page 5). To sum up: 

The horses of the Great Plains Indians escaped from New Mexico during the Pueblo Revolt of 1680, in New Mexico.. The "native" horses of North America became extinct shortly after the paleo-Indians arrival. This site describes the spread of horses on the Great Plains. French traders operating out of St. Louis first reported that the Cheyenne Indians had horses in 1745. 

Bedouin refers to people who make their living by means of stock raising, specifically on the marginal steppe lands not suited to sedentary agriculture. Their characteristic behavior is to take their family and belongings with them whenever they need to move their flocks to different pasture. This change of pasture is seasonal, and follows a pattern which leads the bedouin to an annual migration between a series of locations where the family groups can congregate; there is usually one site and time each year where the water and pasture can support a larger gathering, where a greater portion of the tribe can get together. This is often the time for celebrations and marriages. The point is that the nomadic life-style is marked by regular, seasonal movements - it does not include aimless wandering. For in depth information on bedouin see this. 

The Lakhmids controlled the north-eastern part of Arabia circa 300 AD; this region was later invaded by the Persians. The entire region was invaded and conquered by the Ottomans. 

Bearing in mind the dates already mentioned in the OP, and the fact that the British evacuation of New York City did not occur until November 25, 1783, there was no functioning government of New York during the negotiations, nor had there been since the evacuation of Manhattan by Washington's army on November 16th, 1776. Vermont was a center of fighting between the colonies and British Quebec due to the water route through Lake Champlain. The exigencies of war lead them to organize themselves, in 1777, though the Continental Congress refused to recognize this self-generated status due to complaints from the exiled government of New York. The Haldimand negotiations(1781) went nowhere, and Haldimand said Mr. Allen was evasive, and the British concluded that the Vermonter's were primarily interested in gaining leverage in negotiations with the government of New York over future statehood. In the meantime, British and Indian raids were stopped. Returning to the negotiations, which were conducted by a committee of three in Paris , none of the colonies were directly involved in the negotiations. The committee represented the interests of the Nation: here is a transcript of the treaty. The states are listed in article 1st; no mention is made of Vermont, for the Continental Congress never recognized it as a state; it only achieved this status years later, in 1791. The boundaries are listed in article 2d, and are geographical. Many of the boundaries were slightly revised by later negotiations, especially following the Jay Treaty of 1794 (signed 18 August 1795). By the terms of this treaty the Indian Wars of the Northwest Territories were ended, and the British evacuated Detroit and many other western posts which were to have been evacuated according to the terms of the Treaty of Paris (1783). But the affairs of Vermont had been concluded earlier, and the British were to return to their area during the War of 1812. 

For us this means: If you look at the "official" numbers then the state that supplied the most soldiers was Virginia. The sources claiming otherwise apparently took the statement "North Carolina supplied many soldiers" and turned it into a superlative. As to the real numbers: I'm not sure whether they are known by now, I couldn't find anything resembling a reliable source. 

Your examples don't really count. Yes, polytheistic religions don't consider all gods as equals. But that's simply the hierarchy of human societies applied to gods, it comes naturally with the human psyche being what it is. Nevertheless, polytheism seems to be the more obvious form of religion: a single almighty god is very abstract and hard to imagine, a number of gods each with his own area of responsibility is a simpler concept. Particularly if you consider that religion originally sought to explain nature - it was logical to imagine a different cause (god) of each phenomenon as opposed to a single cause for all of them. In fact, even Christianity today sometimes seems to have the same polytheistic properties: at least in the Russian Orthodox Church it isn't uncommon to direct prayers to saints rather than to god. Regardless of the church's official position, many people prefer to view saints as subordinate gods with their respective areas of competence. 

I couldn't find any numbers for the Soviet army, merely the continuously repeated statement of unclear origin mentioning 15,000 delivered messages. Compared to the numbers above this would mean that the Soviet army barely used homing pigeons. I also couldn't find evidence for any significant use of homing pigeons by the German army in WW2. You can see how the pigeons were used by looking at the "celebrities": 

So Moscow had lost population following the GPW, and the conurbation of Moscow had shrunk back towards it's center; to increase the official size of city it absorbed 150 nearby villages in 1960. These two statements imply that the land area of the City of Moscow included many not-so-urban areas, and would have appeared very different than a similarly sized city in America, circa 1960. Some of the statements attributed to Heinlein as "proof" don't stand up to even cursory analysis: why should shipping on the Moskva River be comparable to that of one of the busiest river systems in the world, the Rhine? Are Heinlein's outlandish conjectures realistic? No, they are not. But the situation he observed was indeed that of a city that had suffered during the recent "Great Patriotic War", and should indeed have seemed a bit hollow in 1960. Moscow's official population was pumped up by incorporating 150 villages just that year - at 10,000 per village (a typical number for the very urban Germany), that would add 1,500,000 people! So if the official population was 5 million, then the inner regions held only 3.5 million. Today it is over 11 million, with over 17 million in the larger metro region. Additional note: The Soviet Union conducted a new census in January of 1959; footnote 1 links to a detailed analysis of Soviet census falsifications, but does not discuss the census of 1959. The 6th footnote is a report on the census of 1959; it states that the first preliminary results were published in May of 1959. The analysis provided is worth reading. Footnote 7 reports on the migration from rural to urban areas: 33% urban in 1939, increasing to 48% urban in 1959. This means that all cities were growing rapidly, despite the loss of population from GPW. 

The book goes on to compare these numbers with the actual population and comes to the following conclusion: 

I think the first time he is mentioned as "Alexander the Great" (at least in the sources known to us) is Quintus Curtius Rufus' "Historiae Alexandri Magni Macedonis", this "Magni" has been translated into English as "Great". Here it clearly refers to his talent as a military leader which allowed him to build up a huge empire. Quintus Curtius Rufus was a Roman historian, this book is considered to be written in the 1st century AD. Btw, Russian historians tended to focus on the word "Macedonis" which is why he is better known as Александр Македонский (Alexander of Macedon) in Russian. 

And the two stage elevator mentioned in Te Aroha News was built by Edoux and had a capacity of 60 persons. The book doesn't tell whether people were seated in this elevator and the illustration sadly doesn't help because it shows the passengers while they are changing elevators midways. However, the official guide of the Eiffel Tower (printed in 1893) says the following about this elevator: 

The answer is apparently: this border isn't defined anywhere. As you correctly noted, the result of the Potsdam Conference was the Oder-Neiße-line as Poland's western border, without any exception for Stettin. The sources that I looked at agree that the Soviet Union violated that agreement and gave the area around Stettin to Poland in July 1945. It is unclear what prompted this decision, I couldn't find anything in the Russian sources. Most likely this was simply additional compensation for the territories Poland lost to the Soviet Union. Neither could I find any reaction from the other allies - it seems that they didn't consider the matter important enough. There is lots on this in the German sources however. In particular, there is a documented parliamentary debate in West Germany following the Treaty of Warsaw in 1970. I will try to give a rough translation: 

Battle of the Alamo is certainly remembered in Texas, and they certainly lost that battle. Pearl Harbor was a major loss to the United States, and is still commemorated annually. In these two cases the prior losses became rallying cries in future battles, which were victories. The Romans lost the Battle of the Caudine Forks, 321 BC, for which the humiliating surrender was remembered for centuries. The direct result was that the Romans fought the Samnites harder than ever, to retrieve their honor. The running theme is to remember your martyrs. For a less famous battle, consider "Remember the Raisin!" which was the battle cry of William Henry Harrison's Northwestern Army, War of 1812; in remembrance of the Battle of the River Raisin, January 18-23, 1813, and the subsequent massacre of the wounded, was seared into the American memory for a generation. "Remember the Raisin!" was the Kentucky militia's war cry at the Battle of the Thames, Oct 5, 1813, where General Proctor's British and Indian forces were dealt a heavy defeat, and the Indian leader, Tecumseh was killed. A contemporary report on the Raisin River Massacre. 

In 1877 Japan joined the Universal Postal Union, which specifies cooperative rules for international mail. The UPU’s history can be traced as far back as 1863, when then United States Postmaster General Montgomery Blair called a conference in Paris, France, to lay down a number of general principles for mutual agreements, but delegates failed to agree on an international postal agreement. 

Some societies use sunset as the end of one day, and the start of the next: this is recorded in Genesis, chapter 1; for example, the Athenians, or see the Jewish civil day Some traditional agricultural societies start the day with dawn, but Roman civil society defined the day as beginning at midnight. The day was divided into ante meridiem (am) and post meridiem (pm), where the meridian refers to local noon. Twelve hours later is midnight, the sixth hour of the night, and the beginning of the next day. 

Germany's current geographic shape was largely formed in wars. One can go arbitrarily far into the past here but it will get very messy - unification of Germany is probably a good start, there were relatively few changes after that. 

It is unfortunately far easier to prove the presence of seats than their absence. The newspapers worldwide covered the Eiffel Tower in great detail and I decided to check what they wrote about the elevators (which where obviously a particular point of interest). The National Library of New Zealand puts historical newspapers online and makes them searchable, that's what I looked at. One typical description comes from the Otago Daily Times, 14 December 1889: 

The Arab-Israeli conflict didn't start in 1948, it has a long history and was particularly intensified after the British government promised Palestine both to its Arab and Jewish population in the course of World War I. The first armed conflict is apparently assumed to be the Battle of Tel Hai in 1920. As a result, while Israel didn't exist before 1948 there was already a number of Jewish paramilitary organizations like Haganah, Irgun, Lehi. You can read the details in Wikipedia's history of the Israel Defense Forces but the point is: the army didn't come out of nowhere, it was created around existing organizations that came out in the open. Obviously, these were reinforced by a mass conscription once war broke out but there were existing structures available to integrate new arrivals in. As to the military equipment, there was apparently a lot of it smuggled into the country over the earlier years. France was also an important source of weaponry, at that time it was the only country to sell weapons to Israel (later replaced by the United States).