I've been listening to BBC's "In Our Time" on Wittgenstein here, but I can't seem to understand why Wittgenstein thought that "a proposition can't picture the pictorial relationship." One of the commentators in the video used the similarities between a mother and her daughter as an example. But why can't you make the proposition "the mother and the daughter have the same eye color," for example, to depict the property that creates the resemblance between the two people? Can someone explain this to me further? 

It is a very common opinion in my circles to either hate sports or invalidate it as a form of entertainment. None of them play sports, and those who do/did don't/didn't enjoy the experience. Now I've been keeping up with and watching rowing recently, and I must say that I find it quite entertaining (I was on a rowing team for a time). However, my peers think otherwise. They object that all sports are meaningless activities of movement of matter (getting a ball in a basket, kicking it back and forth across the field) for a goal with no ultimate value (finishing 1st, new best time, etc.), and therefore liking/doing sports is irrational or even a waste of time. I don't find this criticism particularly worrying, because all things considered, every act is reducible to absurd atomic descriptions, and the goal of watching sports is to provide entertainment, and my goal for doing sports is to improve my physical condition and work ethic: two things that I doubt anyone would discount as wastes of time. Even if you're some absurdist/nihilistic physicalist, all actions are brought to the same level of pointlessness; this would defeat the same criticism. The more worrying objection regards the justification of (specifically) watching sports. I've thought at one moment that my liking to watch rowing was justified because, as it was a form of entertainment, I was being entertained. However, you likely would not call someone who finds entertainment value in slowly squeezing people's lungs until they die justified for their proclivity. Thus liking to watch a sport on the grounds that it's entertaining alone doesn't seem to be a sufficient justification. Let's say that Bob enjoys reading, specifically encyclopedias. His justification for liking to read is that he gets to increase and fine-tune his knowledge base. Now this instance seems to me to not really be about the activity. It's about the ends of the activity (e.g. expanding one's knowledge base). You're not reading for reading's sake; you're reading for the sake of the attainment of knowledge. However, this makes the unfortunate distinction between liking something for what it is in virtue of itself and liking something for what its consequences. I don't think there's really any activity that's done for its own sake, and fundamentally, all forms of entertainment act as vehicles for happiness/fulfillment of desire: the ultimate bottom-line(s). So the only things that differentiate Bob's justifications and a sports-watcher's justifications are the "in-between" attitudes and reasons. Why might the expansion of one's knowledge base be a better justification for an action than the suspense of competition in sport? Now let's change scenarios to something that a friend of mine would likely endorse: Bob enjoys watching movies because he is fascinated and inspired by the motifs and symbols used. The problem with this seems to me that Bob is justifying his affinity for movies by appealing to his affinity for something else. It begs the question as to why Bob is "fascinated and inspired by the motifs and symbols used." The original statement can be reduced to something like "The reason Bob likes to watch movies is because he likes clever storytelling devices." It's not much of a justification. Perhaps sports are intrinsically fun for some of us the same way apples are intrinsically desirable for apple-lovers. If this is the case, then there's really no significant justification to be given for watching sports. However, I doubt that this is the case for anyone, and this might seem to fall back to the example with the sadist who finds entertainment value in choking people to death. Anyway, that was a long-winded path to ask: 

The quotation means the following. From the workmen's perspective, the quality with which one does something extends beyond traditional notions of quality, and may involve the pursuing of other actions which may promote an immoderate desire for the possession of things. 

Noting that mathematics is, at its core, the study of structure, the study of systems is thus called mathematics. 

One such basis is to reduce the world around us to a finite number of indivisible pieces, which is more manageable than a continuous infinitely divisible structure. 

This depends on the definition of "foundation" at hand. If one uses this term to refer to the historical development of both fields, then both have helped and contributed to each other hand-in-hand, at which point your question becomes equivalent to that of the chicken and the egg. If, on the other hand, one uses this term to refer to the inclusion of one in the second, where the second "builds upon" the first, so to speak, then since there are aspects of one not in the other, neither is included in the other, so the answer to your question is neither. 

A "belief in God" refers simply to the adoption of a set of assumptions involving a "God", whereas "gambling with the truth" is a statement involving a system, relative to a definition of "truth", which is another system. The first refers to a description of a single structure, the second refers to the relationship between two structures. 

This makes logical sense if and only if you maintain that saying that the will is not free doesn't necessarily imply that one has no freedom at all over their will. It would thus be wise to modify that part of your speech to include this disclaimer. 

This, from the outset, assumes the existence of a "present reality", which undermines the rest of the argument. 

In your question you use the term "perfect" in two different ways: as a property of God, and as a property of the unicorn. If God and the unicorn were perfect in exactly the same way then they would be the same (assuming the definition of "perfect" in question allows for the existence of only one perfect thing, much like the maximal element in a fully ordered set). However, the "perfectness" of the unicorn is understood to be bound to the form of the unicorn itself, as imagined by the observer in question. Thus, the answer to all your questions but the second is no. 

Here, the logical meaning is not "produced" by the adverb. The phrase "only if" is to be regarded as a single lexical item with an accepted meaning, the one you mention in your question. 

"Logic" varying does not mean that it is unreliable. What we have seen in the question is that there are different forms of logic which correspond to different mathematical structures. Contradictions only arise when one attempts to identify one with the other. Mathematics is thus universal in describing these structures unambiguously and finding their links. 

First, other sciences can have their concepts explained without math. There is something like physics without math. It is called conceptual physics. However, the aim of it is not to explain the whole field without math, just to introduce new students to physics and to provide them with a solid conceptual foundation. Conceptual physics is by no means less scientific than the rest, but it is very limited, and if you want to solve any problems, math will be your tool of choice. Second, biology can imply lots and lots of math. Just start sequencing the human genome or analyzing interactions between proteins. You'll be nearer computer science than to traditional biology. 

When we left back frames of reference like being an aristocrat, or religion and nation, or what kind of consumer and of what brands we are, what is left? How do we self-identify in the XXI century? Do contemporary philosophers treat topic about how the present day human defines himself? Note: not completely sure if philosophers deal with such topics, but would like to know some concrete names of authors if possible. 

Was the concept of "mindfulness"/"being present at the moment" only known to the Indians/Easterns and the Greeks did not learn about it? Did the ancient Greek have a concept for mindfulness? Did they meditate (in any form)? That would be just as the opposite case to the Indians who did not learn about Greek geometry until somewhat later. 

Depending on the orientation of your ethical system, the answer could be one thing or the other. A little bit of sacrifice could be absolutely necessary for some ideologies, and it would be difficult to find a way out. But even a little sacrifice would be met with indifference or even aversion by others, more individualistic perspectives. However, on a more pragmatical note, I have to say that your implied belief that doctors save lives or help more people is clearly flawed. If you become a computer scientist, and do so much as Bill Gates for public health, you'll end up helping more people than any average doctor. And if you discover as a biologist something like penicillin, for example, a cure for AIDS, then, you'll definitely save more lives. Conclusion, choose what makes you happy. That would make you better at it and more productive. There's no medicine without basic science, and lots of professions help people. 

Indeed, I cannot find a source for this concrete story, other than the non-Buddhist source you provided, but stories of the enlightened hitting the non-enlightened followers, who were curious about enlightenment, are not uncommon. Take for example $URL$ "Hakuin used to tell his pupils about an old woman who had a teashop, praising her understanding of Zen. The pupils refused to believe what he told them and would go to the teashop to find out for themselves. Whenever the woman saw them coming she could tell at once whether they had come for tea or to look into her grasp of Zen. In the former case, she would serve them graciously. In the latter, she would beckon the pupils to come behind her screen. The instant they obeyed, she would strike them with a fire-poker. Nine out of ten of them could not escape her beating." However, even if the story is typical, I wouldn't call it a koan. Not every teaching in Buddhism is a koan.