I was an international consultant and an expat for 7-8 years. The idea/impression I have got by your tale, is that you are being taking advantage of in order to take from you a negotiation leverage. Stalling tactics, misrepresentation about your importance in the project/representation, hiding details about the importance of a project and often huge sums of money involved, and even flat out lying about limitations/problems in the terrain, are more the norm than the exception on these cases to minimize the compensation and maximize the profit. The general idea is committing you to a project, and once you are in and abroad, out of view, and reporting to the customer, you cannot back out. I would insist in coming back in your allotted flight, if not to prepare mentally your immediate family and yourself, and to bring stuff/suits more suited to a long stay. As for compensation, usually, abroad and international positions are very well paid for technician consultants, and more so to sales people. I was a technical consultant abroad, and I got complimentary flights home to visit family (that could be converted to another location or given to family), at least 2.5x my salary during the stay abroad, pocket money to spend, car, gas, accommodation, and often full expenses paid, depending on the project. I was also handsomely showered with training courses. Senior/sales people often got 5x the salary, commissions on top (I have no ideia whatsoever of the value of the commissions), and often monthly flights home when kids and wife were involved. Being abroad also entitles you to extra holiday days. Cant remember how many, it was significant, however it varies from country to country. The market is not as strong as it used to be, however I doubt things have changed much in that respect...and you mentioning big organisations involved makes this answer much more relevant. Usually there is also a vibrant expat community around/expat forums where you can try to double check the normal conditions offered to people in the same conditions. I have lost already a relationship, and almost lost another due to these shenanigans, however it was my own personal choice. Do not let this happen to you, especially when you are not having any material gain in the process. Do not embark in this without having a face-to-face conversation with your partner, and even then be wary of it. These projects tend to take longer on time, speaking from experience. e.g. it won't be only 4 months. Usually when in a committed relationship, this is not a decision to be taken only by yourself. To get it down to earth. If I was being paid above 150k-200k I would not mind in professional terms to be moved overseas; if bellow, and without further compensation and an extended time overseas, I would fire myself. I would not linger for the end-of-year review. When we were proposed to move overseas in my company, people were very clear about the numbers and due compensation. Bottom line: You are doing business, not messing up your life for the benefit of others. P.S. For the benefit of other future expats; beware of offers without home OR without factoring the cost of a local home in the salary (for instance upwards 3K-5K Euros in Luanda for an apartment, 20K-30K Euros for a Villa per month or 300 Euros/night in the few decent hotels). 

Your employer has specifically asked you not to undertake an activity, they have stated the reasons why they do not want you doing it and continuing to do so they will terminate your employ, you have stated to your employer that you disagree with their request and will endeavour to find ways and means to do so and still be visible to them doing it. At some point a decision will be made, either by you to leave because this is disagreeable to you or by your employer as you are will-fully disobeying an explicit instruction. 

You cannot help future employees. It's their choice to take the employment and their choice to stay or leave. You state that your former employer is litigious ("super sue-happy"), any criticism in a public (and even private) setting could lead you to being litigated against. Put it behind you as a lesson learnt and stop enquiring into the fates and fortunes of any of his employees as all it appears to do is to make you want to do is continue some form of involvement, which by the sounds of what you've said, won't do you any good. 

a huge shortage of specialized labor; Huge issues with brain drain, as soon people get experience they go to better paying countries, Singapore or maybe even USA. 

The probation period in several European countries works both ways. Usually contracts also cannot subtract rights that are written in the law, and such clauses can be indeed deemed illegal in several countries. I would never accept a one-sided probation period nowadays. On the other hand, I was an expat a few years, and I know first hand that it can be customary to apply one-sided probation periods for people going abroad for covering their investment. However I was working in Africa, and I am confident quite a few European countries enforce a dual sided probation period. I would let it go and accept the probation period because you need to focus on other issue. A six month notice period is pretty abusive, and again almost all the same comments apply, excepting that is not that common. In practice, if enforced, it can deter you from changing positions. Most employers arent willing to wait six months for a new prospective hire. Try to negotiate it down to at least 3 months if it is not common to your industry. You are not obliged to accept all the terms on a proposed contract and you can and are expected to negotiate it; if in doubt, talk with a lawyer specialised in European work law. Be aware how the six-month notice clause is worded also. Depending on the wording, it might prevent you for getting another position for a significant period of time in the remote possibility they use the probation period. Or it might hide a non-compete clause in some other legalese. Ask for a copy of the contract(s) before signing them and show them to a lawyer instead of asking random people in the Internet. I also agree with the comments bellow the biggest no-no on this contract is the lengthy notice period; do not sign anything you might regret on your future. If hired in the US by a firm with an American subsidiary: 

Read up on your target change and start some home projects in the target programming environment, to start to get comfortable in working in a technology new to you. Imagine your going to learn the piano, reading up on music theory and learning to read sheet music (eg the keywords and syntax), doesn't give you the ability if you don't lay your hands on the keyboard. Next find the most common theory and practice in your chosen target technology. Writing the sequence of notes on the keyboard isn't going to be that useful if you join a band or orchestra that rely in sheet music - in other words learn the basic rules of your new programming language, the code conventions and standards, the design patterns most prevalent. Join a few meetups, groups and forums and engage in them. Practice, practice, practice - that will help grow your base confidence and give you the necessary pointers to look for help when you lack confidence. Try to find a mentor and get then to give you friendly code reviews and pointers. Next look at your cross transferable skills. You already know your current technology environment, what can you take from it to your target environment. You can transition your current workplace skills to a new one. 

Instead of inconveniencing people, buy all the stuff online and ask for delivery at your place. You will arrange for it to be delivered around early morning time, so you can manage a backup plan on the possibility of something going wrong. The small extra added cost is well worth having a store doing the delivery. Eventually if the firm is big enough, a local family store may be even more than happy than receiving an automated email asking for such stuff. PS. I used such services in 2016 xmas, around a time of a surgery, and bought in a big super market chain pretty much all the food, cakes, drinks for xmas, 200 Euros of goods that were delivered at my door at an arranged day and hour. The extra cost of delivery was between 4 and 6 Euros, depending on the time of day. 

Having a job that pays above average is not necessarily bad. Wether it is a trap between you and more experience, is up to you to decide. I also worked a lot in places were I was the most technically experienced person - I still do, again. Having seniors around also does not mean they have the time or inclination to teach you. Likewise, being the most senior around and it also means you face hands on interesting projects and it is you that are going to important conferences. Besides the required self-learning, ask for: 

From what you've described I would see it as the standard negotiation and barter that goes on in offices on a day to day basis, which results in compromise. Reading between the lines the only person out of the three of you who has an issue with what you did and what happened is yourself. You express a frustration at two other people having differing opinions and basically faffing around making a choice. That's normal, that's ordinary that's the basics of making any decision. It's subjective whether you did the wrong or right thing. The outcome appears to be amicable and satisfactory and I feel from what you've said is that the only person who appears to be dwelling on the situation and possibly tuning it into an issue is yourself. So to answer your question it's neither right nor wrong but rather the middle ground between the two. Sorry it's not a binary answer, but there are things that will always be on a spectrum of answers. Finally its always right to have your own opinions and put them forward in a consistent coherent way and arguing your point is OK. I would say that your headline question is it OK to argue is at odds with your context. 

I think the answer of "Mr. Positive" covers much of the other angles. As for dressing, have you noticed how your interviewers dressed? That should be a pretty good clue of the company culture for starters. However, better be safe than sorry, ask them. I have been interviewed by technicians often, over skype and in person, and the way they dress is a pretty good clue; I have people interviewing me usually with casual wear, a couple with jeans and sandals, some with t-shirts. As a general rule, and considering than the UK is still part of the EC: In the UK, there are exceptions in more relaxed companies, however using white shirt, and a black, or at most a dark grey suit is still a thing. Better ask. In pretty much of Europe, if the industry is banking/financing, or consulting, or a primarily customer facing role, usually you will have to suit up. As for the rest of the software industry in Europe, usually the stance is pretty casual when it comes for how you dress for it. As again, ask your interviewers, and if they say casual, a safe bet would be high-street, expensive clothes for that trial interview and your first days at the job. As for suits in continental Europe, we tend more for darker colours especially in the winter time (black, grey, brown, blue - I personally do not favour much blue). In Southern European countries, lighter colours in the summer time are usually acceptable. Beware of (very) cheap suits, they may not look like good on you. I also prefer an European/Italian cut to an American cut. As a last piece of advice, even if is a casual wear environment at the job, I would invest on at least a good suit. It might come handy for a formal party or a meeting with an important customer. P.S. When in the UK, due to the cultural connotations with a work uniform, going to a party with a black suit and white tie is not particularly seen as smart dressing. 

Its your choice to share medical information. Somehow the notion of continuous employment is still prevalent as well as the "job for life". There are many circumstances that take people out of the employment market. Travelling is a legitimate reason for taking time out of work (some people are fortunate enough to turn it into means of income - travel writers for example). Having children, long term illness, return to education even being in prison are all reasons why people are in and out of the labour market. Resumes are presented to employers as a linear timeline to explain how you got your skills and experience. Your references don't necessarily have to be from former employers, but common convention dictates that there should be a continuous timeline and reference from current employer. It also makes it easier to slot someone into a new or existing role if they are currently doing that role somewhere else. For example if an employer has a vacancy for high altitude, deep sea welding its easier for them to take someone if they are currently employed as a mountain top underwater welder. If you choose to be fraudulent on your resume to cover the gap because a friend has recommended you do it because they have a common convention view of traditional resumes, then you may get caught out and have to take the consequences of your choice. Alternatively, embrace the lifestyle choices that occurred and see that it nothing to be ashamed of. The only issue I could see from presenting a gappy resume is that it may take longer for you to find an employer who is prepared to see past it. 

IMO, the form idea also doubles as a psychological effect of reducing the frustration of people leaving because you do not have time for them; I would leave there a field for Comments, or even service evaluation for people to vent their frustrations there instead of doing it on you. 

Being involved in the past in several complicated contracts, I can pretty much tell you what you feeling is normal when going for a new job. If the contract was worth it, I would probably tell you it might be worthwhile reconsidering listening or not listening your gut feelings. As you say it is a lowly position, I wont go that way. Given you already having a written trail and at least a signed document, I would talk with them and put in writing you are not going through with the job. Whilst while talking, I would mention I do not feel at ease, depending on the conversation tone, in writing on would mention anything more than being sorry, but you feeling you are not a fit for the position. As you have not signed any contract yet, and have not yet started worked for them, nothing more would be required of you in principle. I would have a look at the wording of any paper you signed. Some documents have a set number of days, either specified or by default in law for you to repudiate them. (for instance, I can repudiate a written contract in 8 days without any compensation clausule going in effect). Nevertheless, besides the contract dates, there is also the experimental term. I would not feel bad about not starting, there is also people that starts and then gives up for similar reasons. Consider the experience a dodged bullet. 

I joined my current employer almost two years ago. They usually offer pay raises once a year. After my first year I was offered a very moderate pay raise of 5% while being offered a leading role in software development. "Let's see how this will turn out" I was told. Now with the next annual pay raise talk coming up, I am unsure of what to demand. I think my work as the lead developer (which I de facto had already been doing 6 months before my first pay raise) was very good, if not extraordinarily good. As a result of that I got transferred to a new department earlier this year. There, they wanted me to build a completely new software from scratch which I currently am doing and doing well. I don't have a team any more in that position. By changing the department I got a different boss, too, who is not familiar with my field, but still in software development. I feel underpaid at the company and would now like to request a really high pay raise. I am also about to be eligible to become a senior developer and would like the company to honour my accomplishments in the last 1.5 years + my becoming a senior in the future. Can I have both factors be a topic in the talk? How can I tell/convince my new boss of what I achieved in the previous position (the old boss left the company btw)? Can I request a pay raise of 20-25% or would that seem offensive? My qualifications are pretty exceptional for that company and such a pay raise would definitely make me one of the highest paid developers there. The company is rather young and there are only few senior developers around. 

Actually I've realised the only way to deal with this is be blunt. State my circumstances, two young children with dead mother, if I have to explain further then, there is more serious issues with the job than worrying about having to stay late 

I'm being treated for depression and I'm "cursed" with honesty. The titles I held with former employers and my specific job roles I held don't match what I want to change to. In many of the roles I've had as senior developer & technical leader, I've written realistic project plans, lead scrums, written project documentation, done the actual project management work of resource allocation, timelines, meetings, negotiation, task allocation, epics, user stories, managed sprint planning, standups and retrospectives and designed effective sprints so that networking,infrastructure and operations are factored into the development plan and kept up to speed with where they fit in and are required. Often I've either been asked to do that by the actual project manager or "helped" to write realistic plans to match the actual work to be done and manage the team doing it. I know I have the skills to do project management, but I have a block when it comes to re-writing my CV to remove the development aspects and (in my mind) dramatically change what I have done to focus on Agile Project Management. I feel very dishonest about changing the official job titles on my employment contracts from my former employers as they mostly include the programming language (senior c# this, .net team lead that) and the descriptive text in my resume is written to back up that title. I've been tasked by my psychologist to re-write my resume to better reflect the roles I would like to do and jobs I want to apply for. I feel very hampered by my employment history and that's also compounded by not having any agile or pm qualifications and my MSc is CS as well. Frankly, I feel typecast and as recruiters with my existing resume keep on phoning and emailing me for programming roles - I'm finding it hard to see how to get out of the trap. In my mind if I was to leave in the official job title and focus on the leadership, agile and PM duties then there is a screamingly obvious mismatch between title and duties.