I have a Camelbak Kudu 12 ($URL$ backpack. I've tried riding with it a few times but it's just not working. Whenever I ride down a trail, the backpack hits the back of my helmet. Because my helmet has a click to tighten on the back, whenever my backpack hits the helmet it undoes it, making it bob around in front of my eyes. I cannot ride when I'm using this backpack, I've tried tightening the straps fully and everything. Any tips? Cheers Edit: this is the tension control on the helmet, as you can see you push it and it loosens. Update: I've cable tied the tension control together, so that when the backpack hits it, nothing happens. works great! 

This is not a "one size fits all" solution. It will depend on the number of dogs (pack mentality) and breed (some are more agressive than others). My unsuccessful attempts have been to try to use my frame pump or pepper spray -- try doing this while pedaling for your life and you will wreck, which the dogs will love. I never try to outrun a dog unless I have a gigantic head start. The one solution that has always kept me alive is to get off my bike, use my bike as a shield, maintain eye contact with the dog/s, and walk out of its territory. That's what this is all about -- you are in the dog's territory. The dog/s don't hate you for who you are, but for where you are. How dare you trespass in his territory! 

Some people use a screwdriver and a hammer, tapping the nut in the direction you want to go. I personally have not done that, and I don't recommend it. But some people do this, and it seems to work for them. Not ideal, but could get you out of a bind if you have limited $ at the moment. 

Car tires are specified with wheel size and aspect ratio ("height" of the tire). Bike tires are not, specifying only the wheel size. Never heard this to be a problem in bike land though... 

This is a fairly "short ride", depending on one's individual fitness. One tip is to know how to fix a flat tire. They occur at the worst time possible :) 

This here is my 16" bike which I'm going to at least try restore. I've put some wider bars on it, fixed loose things etc. My friend removed the pedal back but I don't think he has put it back together properly because if you pedal backwards it goes backwards... Does anyone know how to fix this? Feel free to ask questions! Cheers 

I personally would say yes, if you're running a business that is. With all those feautures there's a lot that comes into play (not just the end product). Its pretty much a moving shop. So yeah $7000 is a hefty investment but if you were serious and knew what you were doing you could make that back quite easily :) 

Don't over do it. If you over tighted your front or back QR, you can squeeze the bearings too much and cause damage -- unless you left your bearing adjustment slightly loose to compensate. You can experiment by using your QR in the wheel with washers on each end, instead of inside the fork of the bike. On the other hand, you don't want front or rear too loose; I was attacked by dogs one time and when I stood up to pedal, I locked the rear tire against the chain stay. My normal position of the clamp is 90 degrees from the bike when it gets snug - then squeeze all the way in. It should be enough to leave an impression in your hand but not enough to damage your bearings. 

I have some Fox Float 32 Evolution 140mm travel forks on my 2015 giant trance. I ride very aggressively and it's a bumpy ride down a lot of the tracks I do. Keep in mind I do technical tracks, over roots, drops etc. Today I rode a bike with 150mm pikes and I didn't feel a thing at all. I'm wondering if getting kashima coat on my forks would: 1. Make them less bumpy (smoother)? 2. How much would it cost? 3. Would it just be more worth saving up for some pikes? Feel free to ask questions! Cheers 

How do I make the brake lever harder to pull so I don't pull it all the way to the grip? How do I adjust the actual U brake to be a little closer to the rim? 

Going to a wider cassette also means having to spread the rear triangle apart. I have done this for one additional gear. But for two gears on a 8 to 10, sounds like that is pushing it a bit. Oh- when I did this, it was with a vintage friction shifter bike. All I had to do was adjust the derailer to expand the range. Shifters have been indexed now for awhile, so this could be a problem. 

You may have unusable combinations. For example, you might not be able to use the large front chainring with your new large 30 tooth cassette cog. This combo consumes more 5 chain links, and a medium rear der cage probably doesn't not have enough range to cough up 5 links. But maybe you won't miss that combination. I'm guessing you'd use the new 30 in low gear situations- with a small front chain ring. So will it work? Yes, with some qualifications. This is an old road bike- will be used as a beater on a college campus? Or, are you wanting to not spend much on it? If you can deal with the limitations, it should be ok. 

Dogs are territorial. Get out of its territory. I have tried spraying and missed, swinging my pump and missed, and each time almost wrecked. If I'm not fast enough, I just get off my bike and walk out its/their territory while using my bike as a shield. 

Because of a herniated disc in my lower back, I was forced to NOT PULL with my hands on steeps. Surprisingly, I found that by concentrating all of my energy below my belt, I could climb much better and faster. This was definitely a "lemonade from lemons" kind of discovery. Try this and see if it helps. 

I never have "snake bites" in my road or ATB tubes and I've been riding for over 40 years. When you install a new tube, make sure the rim strip is centered. Coat the new tube and the inside of the tire with baby powder (talc, not cornstarch). Inflate the tube to about 30 psi. Deflate. (This removes any pinches.) Inflate to the max and ride. 

"Former used some black grease while the latter used a green, jelly-ish one. I'm confused, do they need different types of grease?" I'm not aware of different grease on the same assembly. My guess is that the black grease is just contaminated green grease. The green grease could be Phil Wood Waterproof Grease. It is green and jelly like. It is "tenacious" as PW calls it, which is to say it sticks to the metal surfaces. The opposite would be grease that just spins out of the mechanism. It comes in a large toothpaste type squeeze container, tiffany green color. Mr Google shows that many net places sell it. As to what grease you should use now, there is no consensus in net land. Everyone has their $0.02, and many threads on many forums on this over the years. Some people use automotive wheel bearing grease, others use special bike grease. Some even use a thin version, which isn't really grease. Do you ride in wet conditions? Then perhaps a waterproof one like Phil Wood.