In his "The French Revolution, a History", 3.3.II, Thomas Carlyle writes the following: "for all battle is well said to be misunderstanding" He is speaking in reference to the terrible conflict between the Girondins and the Jacobins, after the execution of Louis the XVI in 1793. Both sides envisioned a grand Republic of France, but according to Carlyle, they fought to the death because they misunderstood each other's visions of how that republic should be implemented. I am troubled by this passage: I understand that many 'battles' are indeed the result of misunderstanding - often our words or actions do not accurately reflect our thoughts and emotions, or are misconstrued by others. The result is often conflict. Perhaps that was indeed the case with the Girondins and the Jacobins. My gut reaction to Carlyle's assertion is that he's unquestionably wrong: There are many battles, perhaps the greatest battles that have been fought, that are not due to misunderstanding, but arise from deep seated conflicts of interest or world views that are in direct opposition: "Good vs Evil"; "Haves vs Have Nots"; "Conservative vs Progressive", etc. I found that Kant in "Metaphysical Elements of Justice", states: "in the right of nations to go to war and to carry on hostilities is the legitimate way by which they prosecute their rights by their own power when they regard themselves as injured; and this is done because in that state the method of a juridical process, although the only one proper to settle such disputes, cannot be adopted" This point of view seems clearly at odds with that expressed by Carlyle: Can we say that "the legitimate way by which they prosecute their rights by their own power when they regard themselves as injured" can be interpreted as simply a misunderstanding? A state regards itself as injured because it misunderstood the intentions of its enemies? If State A cuts off the water supply of State B and State A goes to war with State B because of such, what misunderstanding is there? Nietzsche: Ecce Homo - "It is nothing but fanaticism and beautiful soulism to expect very much (or even, much only) from humanity when it has forgotten how to wage war." Can Nietzsche's assertion here (and in many other places) that the waging of war is a fundamental and essential component of the human spirit be resolved with Carlyle's contention? Carlyle's opinion seems quite clear: if people would simply take the time to sit down and talk to one another and clear up their 'misunderstandings', the conflicting points of view that lead to conflict could be resolved - 'understood' - and there would be no need for 'battle'. It seems that Carlyle longs for state of affairs that Nietzsche would deem "nothing but fanaticism and beautiful soulism". One quite graphic historical example that seems to fly in face of Carlyle's statement is WW II: Hitler's belief in Aryan supremacy spawned in him endless ambition and a sense of entitlement, and so he set out to conquer Europe and eventually the USA, in the belief that such was the destiny of the Aryan Nation. There was no misunderstanding about it: Hitler's idealogy (his madness....) spurred him to attempt to conquer the Western World (eventually the entire world...) and if other nations did not go to war against him, he would have proceeded to do exactly that. I could cite numerous other examples from History. Thought Experiment: Two adjacent states, one in the north, and the other south of the first. There is a river that runs north/south and supplies water to both states. Over time, the population of the northerly state increases such that they deem it necessary to dam the river to supply water to their growing population, thereby cutting off the water supply of the southerly state. As a result, the southerly state wages a war against its northern neighbor, to prevent it from damming the river. How would Carlyle explain such a conflict? Where is the misunderstanding that caused this conflict? The actions of the northerly state are in direct conflict with the interests of its neighbor to the south, simply due to its own need to supply its grown population with water. There was no misunderstanding that seeded this conflict. (And I believe that my thought experiment is far more than just that: Throughout History, wars have been waged due to exactly such circumstances) From what I know of Carlyle, his roots and outlook were decidedly Christian. Is his assertion a reflection of a Christian or Utopian point of view? The longing for a day when there will no longer be 'misunderstandings'? Do the lessons of History refute Carlyle's assertion? Who expresses a philosophical position in direct opposition to Carlyle's? What is the basis for their position? 

Limited as Google is as a tool for lexical research, the fact that Googling the phrase fails to turn up anything beyond this question suggests it's unique to the author. I don't think they've used it as though it's common, though; it's simply a reference to a relatively well-known visual paradigm shift. 

As has been pointed out already, if you are using logic to talk about apples and oranges you have already provided some model (say, a is an apple and o is an orange - formally speaking you've set up a function from constants in your logical language to objects or types or fruit or whatever). So I'm reasonably comfortable that the following proof is no less rigorous than what you've got already: let P (a one-place predicate) be assigned the meaning 'needs to be peeled to be eaten'*. Then Po is true and Pa is false, so then clearly ¬(x = y) holds. *obviously if you don't peel your oranges feel free to substitute some other predicate that fits 

Empirically we observe that things in the world seem to act towards goals or purposes despite not being intelligent entities. 

Q1: From your experience how can mathematicians deal (or how they usually chose to behave) with this huge mathematical universe and be satisfied from a philosophical point of view? Generally, the same way most people deal with a huge universe; they don't think about the philosophical underpinnings. Almost everyone handles reality perfectly comfortably without confronting questions of whether possible worlds, universals, temporal parts and so on exist, or whether their conception of the world corresponds in a meaningful way with reality. Mathematicians have the structures they work with, and on the whole don't necessarily interrogate their assumptions about in what sense those structures exist and so on. Q2: How can a mathematician interested in the foundation of mathematics be satisfied by an always partial knowledge of the mathematic? I think someone interested in the foundation of mathematics actually has a good reason not to be troubled by their incomplete knowledge of mathematics: they are working towards a theory of the foundations, not what is built above them. Just in the same way a particle physicist concerns themselves with the fundamental constituents of matter and doesn't worry about their inability to predict the flow of chaotic systems, a foundational mathematician has no reason specifically to worry about their inability to solve some complex problem elsewhere in mathematics. 

I have always believed that they are indeed one and the same. My own observations, acquired through years of working in the world of big business and finance (Wall Street) support this. But to take this a bit further, and perhaps to counter Dzmitry Tsapkou's learned and astute contention, 'The Law of Jungle', as one might call Hobbes's principle, has produced a very balanced, albeit savage, ecosystem: In the rain forest, and in the natural world at large, we do not find that monopolies develop. Instead we find that many organisms live together, both in competition with one another and in symbiotic relationships, each finding its own niche and means of survival. Perhaps this is the best example we have of 'perfect competition'. I object to those who claim 'capitalism' and entrepreneurially oriented economic systems come about 'by design' and can be replaced with others, such as Marxism: Smith's model is simply 'the natural order of things' when groups of humans congregate and engage in business and commerce. 

Your assumption (1) is a certainty - it is so, by definition. Therefore 2: 'I'm not certain that I cannot be certain of anything', is invalid. 

I do not know Sanskrit, but from the context and nature of the discussion taking place, I do not believe that corruption here means 'sexualy fallen'. This sounds like a modern and rather coarse interpretation, put forward by someone what fails to recognize what is undoubtedly a metaphorical reference. I will attempt 'transpose' from Judaic Kabbalistic tradition, with which I am intimately familiar. Many scholars consider this tradition closely related to Hinduism - either derived therefrom or springing from the same source: In very general terms, 'women', the feminine principle, represent 'Earth' - the physical manifestation and implementation of the stage God erected to afford Man the opportunity to Act. 'when women are corrupted': when the tenets of 'the natural order' and innate morality are violated (call them "the Laws of Earth"): 'Disorder is born in society’. Edit: Michael Dorfman has weighed in with what is apparently an authoritative Hindu source that translates the verse differently. Based on that translation, my interpretation here is incorrect - although the foundations on which I based it are not. 

Therefore there must exist some intelligent entity which directs the universe (or everything in it) towards goals, and that entity is God. 

If something isn't an intelligent entity, the only way it can act towards a goal is if some intelligent entity causes it to. 

As has been said, this is not a philosophical question. However, a few issues off the top of my head: 

In mathematics there's a type of book, bordering on the textbook but slightly different, that compiles examples to demonstrate the necessity of various conditions on theorems and the correct directions of implication. For example, to show that a connected space need not be path-connected one can construct the topologist's sine curve. My question: are there any similar compilations in the philosophical literature? For instance, in epistemology the obvious set would be the Gettier cases (to show that JTB is an insufficient analysis), along with Armstrong's (?) barn facades and fake towns (to show that context seems to be important) and so on. In ethics we have Nozick's experience machine (the limits of hedonism). Further, potentially-not-site-appropriate question: do people think such a compilation would be in any way valuble in philosophy? 

If an almighty god is some entity which can cause any proposition to be the case, then if such a god existed it would be possible for it to express pi as the ratio of two integers. I would take that to be a pretty strong argument against such an entity existing, but I imagine there have been views to the contrary historically. If an almighty god is some entity which can cause any possible proposition to be the case, then since it is not possible to express pi as the ratio of two integers such an entity would not be able to do so. So yes, the answer relies on what you think an almighty god is. But not in an especially novel or interesting way, in my opinion. 

Times change. Likewise, the definitions and lines of demarcations of various academic and artistic disciplines. Perhaps "Philosophy" needs a "shake up"? A "wake up"? 

Punishment for murder is meted out for the action, the deed, of killing someone, not for the intent to do so, demonstrated by the attempt to murder: Intent to kill is reprehensible, but no physical harm has been inflicted on the intended victim. So morally, the iniquity is less than when the deed has been committed and the intended harm is inflicted on the victim. Therefore attempted murder is a less severe crime. As a less severe crime, it is moral and just that the punishment for attempted murder be less than murder itself. 

If you wish to live an examined life and you interact with others who do not, you must of necessity examine their unexamined lives - neglecting to do so represents a deficiency in your own examinations of your life. 

The first philosophers had no sources and no vocabulary other than what their own powers of reason could muster. But the attitude many on this site seem to take regarding "philosophy" reminds me of the attitude of classical musicians: Anything that does not fall within their accepted tradition and uses their accepted terminology is not worthy of serious consideration, ignoring the fact that much of what is today considered "classical music" was once "popular music". (Beethoven as a pianist might be categorized as a jazz musician today, based on his inventive and improvisational approach.) It seems that such an attitude endangers the pursuit of "philosophy" and risks bring about its eventual extinction - much as classical music today is limited to a very small audience relative to the population as a whole. This is a loss both to the public at large and to the 'classical community'. To quote the well known jazz musician, composer and critic Leonard Feather: 

Losing a limb really hurts. That's a crude but not unreasonable criterion for parts of our body we consider to be our body (skin inwards, basically) and parts we don't (hair, nails, dead skin). We get sense impressions that build up our knowledge of the world from organs with sensory receptors; we don't get any of that from hair. While the 'importance' answer above explains why we care, that's strictly a different issue - if I had dreadlocks that had taken me years to grow and style I might plausibly be as upset about their loss as I would about losing a less important extremity, but I don't think I'd feel like I'd lost part of my body. 

Clarification: I used the term 'counterexamples' since that's the popular term in maths; I mean what I've hinted at in the examples above: a case which establishes a conditions or bounds for a theory. 

To generalise a little, in case the moral of the above isn't clear, we 'prove' that two objects are distinct by providing some property that holds of one but not the other. It's an open question in metaphysics whether distinct objects can share every property (contenders might be the object of 52 cards and the object of the deck, I guess). Within logic, though, if two elements of your domain are distinct but the same predicates hold of them there isn't a way to prove that they are distinct - you could show that rigorously in a quite straightforward way; proof systems for first-order logic use (roughly) the above method for proving inequality. 

Note that it's not exactly a strong argument, both in terms of logical structure and its empirical claims. 

The question is definitely not philosophy, but whatever. I also don't think you're going to get a particularly interesting answer; we spend early childhood being shown a huge array of animals, and we get pretty good at telling when a new object is similar to an animal we've seen before. Most vertebrates have roughly similar structures (eyes, a head, limbs) and textures (fur, feathers, skin) which aren't similar to most non-animals. And there are very clear cases of our failure to recognise life (think of fungi or mould, which we have to be convinced is technically life). As for your specific case, it's a squid grafted onto a mouse walking almost identically to how humans walk; I don't think you should be surprised we see it and assume it's a living thing.