This article goes into some detail about the state of cooking in the Union and the Confederacy during the American Civil War. One of its interesting claims is that the South was suffering from a lack of salt which greatly limited their ability to cure and preserve meat. It states that much of their salt had previously come from Wales, but that had been cut off by the Union naval blockade. Why would the South be getting its salt from across the Atlantic? Why wouldn't they make salt from seawater in the coastal regions and ship that to the various parts of the Confederacy? 

J. Edgar Hoover knew perfectly well that organized crime existed before 1957. In the 1940's he had been known to sit at the same table in upscale clubs with known underworld figures like Meyer Lansky (source: J. Edgar Hoover: The Man and the Secrets, by Curt Gentry). He preferred to not acknowledge the mafia's existence so he would not be obligated to assign FBI agents to build cases against them. He chose to assign his agents to cases like unorganized interstate crime ("Pretty Boy" Floyd, John Dillinger, "Baby Face" Nelson), infiltrating the Communist party, and spying on and harassing civil rights leaders. It was only the blatant publicity of the Apalachin Meeting, after it was raided by state and local police, that forced the FBI director to admit that the mafia was an actual organization. 

It is of course impossible for the Israelites to have no ancestors. It is also impossible to know their ancestors with absolute certainty. I give you here several quotations from "A History of the Jewish People", chapter 3 "The Dawn of Israel" by Abraham Malamat, edited by H.H. Ben-Sasson, from Harvard University Press to provide a modern historical answer. "The genesis of every nation and tongue is enshrouded in obscurity, and generally there survive only a few vague recollections of limited historical value. Israel alone among the nations of the ancient Near East has preserved any organic, ramified tradition - as exemplified by the Pentateuch and the Book of Joshua - recounting its origins and vicissitudes prior to its crystallization as a true historical entity." "A cardinal question immediately poses itself and is the basis for any proper assessment of the historical beginnings of Israel: how is the biblical tradition (or, more precisely, the biblical traditions) to be evaluated from the standpoint of historical authenticity? The problem applies to the historical sketch in its broad outline as it emerges from the biblical account: the origin of the patriarchal family in Mesopotamia and its migration to Canaan; the social and religious modes of life followed by Abraham, Issac, and Jacob; the bondage in Egypt and the subsequent Exodus; the desert wanderings and the ultimate conquest of the Promised Land. Can this entire account or even a portion of it be viewed as faithfully mirroring historical reality?" The book then goes into contrasts of various schools of thought from the radical denial of the biblical tradition to a blind respect for it, concluding with "In the subsequent sections, we shall employ a dialectal approach to the biblical material - in contrast to the one-sided radical methods noted above." After discussing the difficulty of dating the Exodus we read: "Attempts to determine a comparatively accurate date for the Patriarchs are themselves doomed to failure, for in fact it is difficult to speak of the so-called 'patriarchal period' as a well-defined chronological entity, even where one accepts the biblical tradition as such. It would seem, rather, that imbedded in this narrative cycle are reminiscences of centuries-long historical processes that may hark back to the West Semitic migrations within the Fertile Crescent that made their way ever westwards and reached their apex during the first quarter of the second millennium [BCE]. These extended time spans were telescoped in the biblical narrative into a mere trigenerational scheme - Abraham, Issac, and Jacob." Later we can find: "The Aramean element in the patriarchal stories is seemingly a later anachronism. There is thus no basis for the current scholarly contention that the Israelites were of Aramean or 'proto-Aramean' extraction. The Hebrews are, rather, to be linked with an earlier West Semitic stratum known in scholarly terminology as the Amorites (derived from the Akkadian designation 'Amurru', to be distinguished from the biblical usage of the Amorites), who first appeared in the Fertile Crescent towards the end of the third millennium [BCE]." There is much more, bringing in extra-biblical material such as place names and archaeological finds, but the above is the crux of your answer. For more details, I recommend you get this or a similar historical work from the library. 

According to a 2002 article by Joel Jacobsen, Potter Stewart's undergraduate degree was a Bachelor of Arts in English. A pdf file of this article can be found here. 

I have read that there was a disturbingly common practice of American soldiers in the Pacific theater of WWII to take the skulls of dead Japanese soldiers as trophies to take home, give to girlfriends, etc. A Wikipedia article on this can be found here. My question is: In the years after the war, where did all these skulls end up? I imagine that as the wartime fervor subsided and Americans realized how the Japanese had been dehumanized, there would be a growing revulsion to keeping these human remains in their possession. What did people to with the skulls they had: bury them? throw them away? Was it talked about, or was it a dirty little secret that people disposed of quietly? 

From The World of Jewish Desserts by Gil Marks: "The earliest cakes consisted of fried patties of mashed legumes or grain flavored with honey. After yeast breads developed, bakers added honey and other enriching ingredients to create lighter, more versatile cakes. Middle eastern baking became further refined with the popularization of sugar, first grown in the region in the fourth century CE and having largely replaced honey by the seventh century. Soon bakers began to beat eggs with sugar, creating lighter treats such as sponge cake, and utilized a host of spices and nuts. The situation in Europe was vastly different, marked by relatively primitive cooking techniques, coarse flour, and the absence of sugar. The early Ashkenazic dessert repertoire included fluden (layered pastry), obliet (a waffle cookie), boonyish (doughnuts), various honey cakes, a cake made from the skins of fermented grapes, bird-shaped pastries, and baked apples. Medieval leavenings, such as wood ash, left a disagreeable taste, requiring the addition of copious amounts of spices and resulting in heavy cakes such as lebkuchen (gingerbread) and lekhach (honey cake). Middle eastern baking advances, along with sugar, first reached Europe through the major ports of Italy in the twelfth century, during the Crusades. Italian chefs adapted these new baking techniques to create light, airy cakes called torta (Latin for "a round bread"). Sponge cake was transformed into genoise, named after the city of Genoa. By the thirteenth century, torten reached western and central European Jews, as first mentioned in the Tashbetz, a work by Samson Ben Zadok, a student of Meir of Rothenberg. The first record of these desserts in non-Jewish German sources, however, is dated some two centuries later, in 1418. Subsequently, Sephardic exiles brought their cakes and techniques to the areas in which they found refuge, throughout the Mediterranean, as well as Western Europe and even America. In the seventeenth century, the popularization of sugar in Europe due to cheap sources from the Caribbean resulted in a new era of cake making. Flavors became more refined, and baking techniques more sophisticated. The English invented a cake lightened by beating butter with sugar, which evolved into the still-popular pound cake. When someone baked a pound cake batter in a thin layer and then spread it with jelly and rolled it up or stacked it, they produced the classic jelly roll and the first layer cake. The advent of baking powder in 1856, around the same time that the cast-iron oven replaced the brick hearth, marks the beginning of modern cake making. Soon a large variety of elaborate layer cakes appeared. In the 1930's, the first cake mix, for gingerbread, was created. With the advent of World War II, mixes gained unprecedented popularity, partially because they were not included in rationing. For many households, cakes made from scratch became a memory of the past. Still, nothing compares to the taste of a homemade cake." 

Are there any ancient texts that show or imply that their authors knew that certain diseases were spread through sexual activity? It seems like sexual contagion was recognized in the 16th century during the height of the syphilis epidemic. I have even read that it contributed to closing of some brothels and the rise of Puritanism. I am more interested if anyone in Rome, Greece, or the Middle East realized a connection between sex and disease during the Bronze Age or the Classical period. There were plenty of commercial brothels in the Roman Empire and plenty of temple prostitutes in the ancient Middle East. Is there any evidence of STD epidemics from then? I realize that germ theory would not be around until the nineteenth century, but a ancient historian or philosopher still could have noticed a correlation. 

Revolutions and uprisings tend to occur when youth population booms coincide with political or economic oppression. Ireland had a post-WWII baby boom like many Western countries and the 1970's was when enough of those people were in their twenties and unhappy with the situation they were born into. There is something unique about being between 15 and 30: the energy of youth, not having the responsibility of children yet, the desire for mobility whether the system you live under allows it or not. You can read a brief summary of the "youth bulge" concept in this article from the Council on Foreign Relations. You could also read: $URL$ or $URL$ There are numerous articles out there that apply this concept to everything from the 2011 Arab Spring, to the uprisings of 1968, to what many expect will be coming up soon in Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the Pacific Islands, and Africa. 

The most persuasive answer to this that I have read recently can be found in "American Nations: A History of the Eleven Rival Regional Cultures of North America" by Colin Woodard. It has been a few years since I read it, but if I remember correctly, he posits that different cultural patterns that were set in the first few generations of settlement got propagated and reinforced, so that even newcomers to specific areas acclimated themselves to the unique regional culture. In the case of the South, it took two wrenching national interventions (the Civil War and the Civil Rights Movement) to get their racial assumptions to move as far as they did. Other Southern characteristics that were not specifically targeted against have carried on unimpeded (honor culture, Protestant Christianity). I do think that your question as currently worded carries some implied bias in that the North should not be portrayed as more "noble". There was plenty of racism throughout the North too, in both the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. Abraham Lincoln had to walk a very fine line to not get ahead of northern pubic opinion about black people, and later, plenty of northern unions worked to keep blacks out of good positions. Admittedly, this a hard subject to discuss without bias. I could relate anecdotes from work talking with people throughout the country, and I can certainly see a different style of work and set of values between a New Yorker, a Southerner, and a Upper Midwesterner. These general impressions are real but hard to quantify. What unit of measure does one use to say that a New Yorker values speed and competitiveness, Southerner values personal relationships, and a Midwesterner values honesty. How do you discuss the negative traits without being offensive? How to you calculate an average of a region given the person-by-person variation? Hypotheses regarding climate causing different traits in the population have been around at least since Montesquieu, but they often run into a problem of proving causality instead of just correlation. Like any social science, you do not have the luxury of setting up experiments with proper controls solve questions about human behavior. Regarding your supposition that certain types of people gravitated to "like-minded" areas, this does not seem to borne out by history. Most immigrants in the period 1820-1920 moved to the North and West because that was where labor was in demand and better remunerated, due to industrialization. The labor shortage was less in the South, enabling institutions like sharecropping. It is possible that the "Northern work ethic" could be related to the fact that getting better rewarded for work makes one work more, whereas poor rewards teach a more lackadaisical attitude. Most of these observations cannot be "proven", but they do provide fodder for discussions of what America is and can be. They also show that there is not consensus on what America "should" be.