You must not (and cannot) look at the Sun, even for the most fleeting of moments, once the Sun gets above 10 to 15 or so degrees above the horizon. The only time you can look at the Sun, even briefly, is when the Sun is low on the horizon and air mass is high. We think the Sun is yellow (or in some civilizations, orange or even red) because we cannot see the Sun for what it truly is, which is nearly white. What bit of off-white color sunlight does have when the Sun is 10 to 15 or so degrees above the horizon is offset by the blue light from the sky, aka "diffuse sky radiation". The color of the light from the Sun and the sky when the Sun is high in the sky is about as white as light can get. There's a bit of physiology going on here as well. To those who have lived their most of their lives inside buildings, bright sunlight is a bit yellowish and a bit too harsh. To those who spend much of their time outdoors, the fluorescent lighting that now dominates the urban landscape is a bit bluish and a bit too harsh. What city dwellers who rarely ventures outdoors thinks of as white light is not very white to those who spends most of their waking hours outdoors, and vice versa. 

You are missing several points. Point 1: "Clearing the neighborhood" does not mean getting rid of every last spec of mass in the vicinity of a planet. The concept instead addresses the ability to somehow "clear" the vast majority of the mass in the neighborhood of a planet. The total mass of all of Jupiter's Trojans are less than a millionth of Jupiter's mass. By whatever mathematical expression one uses (there are three), that qualifies as clearing the neighborhood. Point 2: "Clearing the neighborhood" is as much about the future as it is the present or past. Pluto is not a planet because not only has it not cleared its neighborhood, it will not do so while the Sun is still shining. Jupiter is a planet because by whatever objective measure one uses, it cleared its neighborhood shortly after the solar system formed. Point 3: There are three competing objective definitions of what qualifies as "clearing the neighborhood" as opposed to the unrealistic concept of having eliminated ever last spec of mass: Alan Stern's and Harold Levison's $\Gamma$, Steven Soter's $\mu$, and Jean-Luc Margot's $\Pi$. For an overview, read the wikipedia article on clearing the neighborhood, and follow the references therein. Point 4: There are several ways a planet can clear its neighborhood. The most obvious are collisions and ejections from the star system. Less obvious are capturing them as moons or stable pseudo moons. Stable Trojans are an example of the latter. 

Number of stars in the observable universe There are about 100 to 200 billion galaxies in the observable universe. Galaxies range in size from a few billion to hundreds of trillions stars. Using 100 billion galaxies and 1 trillion stars in a galaxy yields 1023 stars in the observable universe as a rough order of magnitude estimate. (After getting this result, I found multiple sources that give answers ranging from 1021 to 1024 stars in the universe.) Number of words ever spoken We're talkative, but we also sleep and eat and listen. Assuming we talk for the equivalent of 3 hours per day and we speak at about 150 words per minute, or about 10 million words per year. I recall 100 billion as being a rough estimate of the number of modern humans who have ever lived. Many of those people died during or shortly after childbirth. Assuming an average life expectancy at birth of 25 years (generous), that means humans have spoken 2.5×1019 words since we first gained the gift of gab. That might be off by a factor of ten, but it's not off by a factor of ten thousand. There are a lot more stars in the observable universe than the number of words ever spoken by humans. 

Per the IAU (Resolution B5, adopted by the 2006 IAU General Assembly), there are five supposedly mutually exclusive categories of things in the solar system: 

This question makes no sense. Look up in the sky during the day. What do you see? You see the Sun. Look up in the sky at night. What do you see? You see the Moon, the planets, stars, and if you live in an area with low humidity and limited light pollution, you even see other galaxies. With your naked eye. The only difference between light and FM is frequency. Both are forms of electromagnetic radiation. Electromagnetic radiation travels unfettered through empty space. 

There's a bit of confusion in the nomenclature here. This is very important: The nomenclature for labeling largish objects in space was developed before scientists knew anything about fusion. Stars on the main sequence fuse hydrogen to form helium. Except for extremely massive stars, every star on the main sequence is a so-called dwarf star. These main sequence stars are called dwarfs because they aren't anywhere near as large as are the giant stars. Our Sun is on the main sequence (i.e., it's fusing hydrogen into helium) and will remain so for another five to seven billion years. Star-sized objects leave the main sequence when they've consumed all available hydrogen. Stars that aren't too small will eventually start fusing helium after they leave the main sequence. Despite the common word "dwarf", white dwarfs form a category of objects that is very distinct from dwarf stars. White dwarfs are objects that not only have left the main sequence, but have also fused every last dreg of fusible material available to them. This necessarily makes white dwarfs very compact, and temporarily, extremely hot. Note well: "Temporarily" to an astronomer or astrophysicist means something very different than it does to everyone else. Once again, the nomenclature was developed over a hundred years ago, well before nuclear fusion was known to exist. It would perhaps be nice if the International Astronomical Union would come up with a working definition of what constitutes a "star". However, I suspect they have had their fill with naming conventions given the huge controversy over their definition of what qualifies as a "planet". 

No, it does not. The giant impact hypothesis says that the Moon formed a handful of Earth radii from the center of the Earth. The Moon currently orbits about 60 Earth radii from the center of the Earth. This means that whether the Moon's initial orbit was highly eccentric or almost circular is irrelevant with regard to the Moon's current orbit. 

Not really. The interstellar gas clouds that eventually collapse to form stars are very large, very massive, very cold, and very tenuous. The best way to understand them is to understand them directly rather than looking for a poor analogy. There's nothing on Earth like them. 

The implication of the question is that this extra 1000 miles should be added to Pluto's radius. The answer is no. For all of the solid planets, it's that solid surface (or solid+liquid surface in the case of the Earth) that counts, not the outer reaches of the atmosphere. The surface is a clear-cut, non-arbitrary boundary. The atmosphere? They can extend a long way out. A non-arbitrary boundary is always going to be preferred over an arbitrary one. That's not possible in the case of the Sun and the giant planets. A somewhat arbitrary boundary is needed for those bodies. That somewhat arbitrary boundary explicitly excludes the upper reaches of the atmosphere, which extends out for many thousands of kilometers. For the giant planets, some use a tenth of the Earth's atmosphere as defining the arbitrary "surface", others, one atmosphere, yet others, ten atmospheres. That factor of 100 variance in pressure amounts to about a hundred kilometers. That's not that much considering how big the gas giants are. 

Image credit: SOHO (ESA & NASA) A better view of a coronal mass ejection became available once those satellites had the ability to send more than an image per hour back to Earth. The image below portrays a coronal mass ejection that occurred in 2001. 

Holsapple, "About deflecting asteroids and comets," Mitigation of Hazardous Comets and Asteroids: Vol. 1, Cambridge Univ, 2004. 

Selected reference material, sorted by date: Hill (1900), "On the Extension of Delaunay's Method in the Lunar Theory to the General Problem of Planetary Motion," Transactions of the American Mathematical Society, 1.2:205-242. Vallado (1997 and later), "Fundamentals of Astrodynamics and Applications", various publishers. Other than the hole it punches through your wallet, you can't go wrong with this book. Efroimsky (2002), "Equations for the keplerian elements: hidden symmetry," Institute for Mathematics and its Applications Efroimsky and Goldreich (2003), "Gauge symmetry of the N-body problem in the Hamilton–Jacobi approach." Journal of Mathematical Physics, 44.12:5958-5977. Wyatt (2006-2009), Graduate lecture course on planetary systems, Institute of Astronomy, Cambridge. The results of the Lagrange planetary equations are presented on slide 6. Ketchum et al. (2013), "Mean Motion Resonances in Exoplanet Systems: An Investigation into Nodding Behavior." The Astrophysical Journal 762.2. 

Degeneracy isn't an on/off switch. It's a quantum mechanical aspect of pressure that is always present, just as is thermal pressure. A substance is highly degenerate if degeneracy pressure completely dominates over thermal pressure, non-degenerate if degeneracy pressure is negligible compared to thermal pressure. 

It goes into heating the Earth and the Moon. That heat in turn spreads out into the universe. While the Earth-Moon system comes very close to conserving angular momentum, it does not conserve mechanical energy. In fact, that angular momentum transfers from the Earth's rotation to the Moon's orbit means that the total mechanical energy of the Earth-Moon system is necessarily reduced. Mechanical energy is only conserved in isolated, non-dissipative systems. The tides in the Earth's oceans, in the Earth as a whole, and in the Moon as a whole means that the Earth-Moon system is dissipative. 

A good starting point would be <insert name of some scientist from long ago> planetary equations of motion. For example, there are Lagrange's planetary equations (sometimes called the Lagrange-Laplace planetary equations), Gauss' planetary equations, Delaunay's planetary equations, Hill's planetary equations, and several more. The common theme amongst these various planetary equations is that they yield the time derivatives of various orbital elements as a function of the partial derivatives of the perturbing force / perturbing potential with respect to some generalized position. In general, the only words that can describe the result of this process at first is "hot mess." A hot mess did not deter those brilliant minds of old. Via various simplifying assumptions and long term time averaging, they came up with fairly simple descriptions of, for example, $\left \langle \frac{d\omega}{dt} \right\rangle$ (apsidal precession) and $\left \langle \frac{d\Omega}{dt} \right\rangle$ (planar precession). You can see some of this in the cited 1900 work by Hill below. While these techniques are old, these planetary equations are still used today. That sometimes you do get a "hot mess" is okay now that we have computers. People are using planetary equations coupled with geometric integration techniques to yield integrators that are fast, accurate, stable, and conserve angular momentum and energy over long spans of time. (Normally, you can't have all of these. You're lucky if you get just two or three.) Another nice feature of these planetary equations is that they let you see features such as resonances that are otherwise obscured by the truly "hot mess" of the cartesian equations of motion. 

One way to look at it is from the perspective of probability and statistics. Think of position and velocity as random variables drawn from some continuous probability distributions. Given some position vector, the velocity vector has to have a very specific value to yield a circular orbit. The probability of drawing a specific value from a well-behaved continuous probability distribution is identically zero. An even better way to look at it: Even perfectly elliptical orbits aren't possible. Kepler's laws are an approximation that result from assuming a universe that obeys Newtonian mechanics and comprises but two point masses. Newtonian mechanics is only approximately valid in the real universe, objects are lumpy and can only approximately be treated as point masses, and there are a lot more than two objects in the universe. Suppose that by some fluke chance, an object appears to have a perfectly circular orbit at some point in time (to within measurement error). The non-Newtonian nature of the universe, the non-spherical mass distributions of the objects, and the multiplicity of objects means that a moment later the object will no longer appear to have a perfectly circular orbit.