Your valley could be 3 miles wide and 3267 miles long. (3.737 times the length of the United Kingdom) Picture for comparison with Australia in there for good measure: 

Entry 22, day 102 "We were travelling the gulf when we came across a rather quaint thing. We could neither decide on plant or creature - but from here on we shall describe it as a plant. Details on this shortly. "As we had encountered it, the plant was floating above the water at a degrading altitude. We caught it before it had become submerged and thoroughly inspected it. "Its stems were knotted and bulky, yet tubular and empty like plumbing pipe, perhaps like a succulent bamboo - which made capturing it with the barge hook from the port side of our boat an easy task. On its apex, a single, withered grapevine split like hollow veins to encapsulate a partially filled ballooning membrane. On the dexter side of these veins, small holes with wrinkled grape-like valves which must have, in a previous evolution, been stomata. "After our analysis and samples were taken, Charles released the plant into the water - at which point this seemingly dead plant sprung back into life. "The roots and stems began to swell (you could see the water being drawn up through the pipe-like stems) and the outsize plant stomata began viciously gulping air by action of their fluctuating turgidity. The weather-balloon at its topmost point began to inflate and it was not long before (now laden with water) the plant began to ascend into the firmament. "It was only later on this trip that we discovered this plant to be a juvenile, as indicated by its nut-hatchings and partially discarded shell. Fully grown plants, in our experience, might reach the size of a small continent - given that it does not drown itself under its own weight first." TL;DR: Strange mechanical action is sometimes stumbled upon in nature - the valves of the heart, the undulations of jellyfish or, even in the plant world, the exploding cucumber or the sensitive plants. 

TL;DR: Really, really big (exact numbers below) Seeing the wall "crossing" is hardly the issue. Seeing the outer wall bend even slightly toward the inner wall - looking as if the hallway gets narrower further on - and the point at which that visually happens moving ahead at the rate at which you are moving already breaks the illusion of a straight surface. That is not to say it cannot be done, but it is made much harder by the fact that you have TWO surfaces that need to appear to have the flat trait and appear parallel to each other. Apart from the above, this is what is known as a horizon problem. Imagine the logical alternative: instead of building your round corridor on a flat plane, you build it along the axis of the planet. Depending on the height of your corridor, even this will be noticeable after even a short while. It will likely have a much lower ceiling than for example a tunnel meant for cars, and the horizon problem is actually a structural concern for the longest of those already. 

The shell could also have the same chemical qualities as a mood ring. The creature flushes blood around that section of the shell to change its colour. Finally, given that your creature has a whole day to prepare, it might use versions of camouflage other than colour changing. The assassin beetle, for instance, is covered in small barbs. It kills its prey, then wears the bodies on its shell. 

Remember, your valley could be wider and narrower in places, riddled with caves and be a tangled, winding shape as is natural for gullys cut by rivers. If this were the case, it could easily fit within the silhouette of the UK. In actuality, this would not be such a stretch of the imagination and could, potentially, exist were Antarctica a little closer to the edge of its tectonic plate. 

The main issue you seem to be neglecting are the carriers of pollution. Flows of water and air and even the local rotational velocity of the earth (higher closer the equator) are vital factors in determining your answer. Air and water flows are mostly governed by climate and geographical features (which all in turn also influence each other, of course. Nobody said this would be simple). Interestingly, in real life many factories have smokestacks SO high that it is no problem at all for the communities they are serving, but the pollution actually comes down hundreds of kilometers away to cause smog. If your climate, flows and geography are relatively neutral and we ignore friendly-neighbor-policy smokestacks we can (greatly) simplify our models by assuming all plants pollute in a perfect circle with quadratic fall-off based on distance. At this point the model is so simple, unfortunately, that real-life data simply fails to accomodate. This does lend itself to heatmapping the area, and you can still use recorded smog and water polution levels in real life cities as reasonable benchmarks for tolerance. 

Firstly, I don't think your humanoid creatures would have troubles with predatory arthropods larger than 1cm by the fact that they'd be just too small to be viable prey - which cuts down the size of the enemy they'd likely be facing. A five centimetre tarantula, for example, has fangs much too broad to cause any damage to a 0.2mm creature. To the tarantula these may as well be parasites. Assuming they are warm-blooded and potentially mammalian, your creatures could live in a cold climate where arthropods would be slowed by the low temperature. They would likely build into a defensive structure such as a rock wall or earth, much like ants, where they are able to control the access points and the temperature of their dwelling. An alternative option is to become a parasitic host to a large mammal, such as a dog or a cow, where they can live in relative warmth within the fur of the creature and even harvest its blood/flesh for food. By tying the hair into barriers and shaving large clearings of hair around their safe area, they can create barriers to other parasites. Another alternative would be to dig a burrow into a narrow tree where they can set up splinter barriers against things climbing up - or down - the bough of the tree. Keep in mind that the biggest enemy to your creatures is not predators, but the environment. Sudden changes in temperature, flooding (a small population can drown in a single drop of water) or fire would be enough to kill a population that would fill a small country. Finally, addressing the most core of your question - if they have access to spider silk it is most likely that they would set up a series of complicated webs to trap and hinder any arthropods that would trespass on their territory - though setting up such an area would be a massive undertaking for a people so small. 

But, you provide a stipulation that may make this a little easier: the light limit. Science Focus tells us that the smallest discrepency in visual data the human eye can perceive is two points that are 0.01 degrees apart in the field of vision. Therefore, the tunnel must bend less than 0.01 degrees over the proposed 20 meters visual range. Therefore, the tunnel would need to be (360/0.01)*20 meters in length, or 720 kilometers. This will put the inner radius at about 115 kilometers. Have fun walking! EDIT For completeness sake: In humans, visual resolution at point blank range (comparatively the only one that matters) is up to a factor 1000 times higher than tactile resolution. Therefore, any solution to this problem that will fool the eye will fool the hand (which, if in doubt, a coarse wall texture will resolve this without this extra data). Auditory spatial resolution is even lower, so echo will not be an issue. 

"...It was on such a day that we came into contact with the war-like people of Phlogiston. On arriving in our dimension-hopping machine, we stepped out and immediately began taking notes. "The planet seemed to act like an outsized hive - with various specialised members of the race taking part in this or that aspect of society. Accounting, transport and socialites were the first to greet us - shortly followed by those dedicated to cleaning the streets and waste disposal. "It seems they had never seen outsiders before - indeed they seemed started to find that they were not alone in the universe. It was at this point that they bought forth what I can only analogise as their racial equivalent of 'soldier ants'. "These great, hulking creatures had been gym-trained and fed on sport. War had become as a game to them - much like the javelin and boxing is a sport to us, theirs were laser weapons and neck-break. They'd engage in 'friendly' rutting rituals which encouraged the survival of the strongest of the species and the withering decline of their weaker cousins. "A later analysis of their culture showed particular dedication to the heroes of their classical era - their fighters of monsters and slayers of dragons. "This last point - on which we shall end on - was our root cause for concern. A pair of bearded Victorian gentlemen in full dimension hopping gear, such as we were, must've been a frightful sight for such hairless brutes - and they reacted much as one might expect an Argonaut might. "It was a good week before I could calm Charles from his shaking and convince him to return to gather notes." TL;DR: nobody in the army actually kills anyone in basic training to be trained with a gun, and many of our games and sports reflect the survival instincts we as humans were born with. War may even be a hobby interest for your species - and they've just been waiting for the right targets to practice it on. 

As someone who medically lacks depth perception, I can assure you there's several ways your brain learns to automatically compensate: Scale of distant objects gets matched to the 'known' scale of such objects to roughly get the distance. 

LOOTING! You need to get on the ship to gather up the booty efficiently, lest it all just scatter into space. It'd still be possible to collect in that state, but much more cumbersome. 

It depends on how you define steam power Allow me to explain with the best example I have: Must nuclear reactors are extremely energy dense, but they ultimately use water-steam conversion to make practical use of the nuclear power in order to convert it to electrical power. In most cases there is a measure of steam recovery to close the cycle and either active or passive cooling of the steam to be able to re-use it. Is a nuclear powered cross-atlantic flight possible? Absolutely. So, in essence, that means a steam powered flight is. It just uses a far far less obvious fuel source. 

Entry eighteen, day 52 "Being low on supplies, Faraday called the suggestion that we make anchor on a nearby island to collect water and food. It was on gathering from a selection of fruiting trees that we detected a foul odour on the breeze - something akin to sulphur or decay. On checking our baskets, we found none of the fruit to be bad, nor could a place be found for the smell's origin. "As the weather closed in and took a turn for the worse, we gathered underneath a branching tree. Overhead, a large, dense cloud drew in, carried on the breeze. "It soon became apparent, however, that it was not a cloud, but a continent-sized growth of lichen - wiry as beard-hair and as light as spider webbing - which descended upon us like a snow. Light wisps at first, followed by large clippings. It soon threatened to engulf us, and we had to make a concerted effort to prevent it from compromising our shelter. On attempting to shift it with our bare hands, we found our skin to become rashed and chemical-bitten. "As the wind picked up again, the lichen was blown away in large patches - the hairy barbs caused it to clump together and take with it patches of fruit and bark from the nearby trees. It would appear that this is how the colony of lichen fed and received moisture, moving across the land like a travelling blight or cloud of locusts. "Large patches were left like carpet in the aftermath of a barber's shop, where the dry lichen had become too damp or laden to be carried by the wind. On the return journey to the ship, we were careful to avoid contact. Indeed, we saw some creatures which had not been as lucky as we had been to find shelter, and they had died of their afflictions." TL;DR: a lichen which, when dry, can be borne on the wind in large quantities resembling a mobile island without need for a root system