Finally, the true weakness is the time-stopping itself. You just have to go backwards in time to kill him. His defense will render him completely blind to an attack from the future, since the time-stopping will prevent the attack from even existing until his shield disengages. (The simplest would be a magical bomb that detonates backwards in time.) 

'Mountains' effect on climate is that they block moisture from passing over them (or severely limit it.) You can see this quite clearly in the USA as shown here: : Everything that has a mountain between it and the ocean is super dry and the area right in front of the mountain is super wet. That's what mountains do to climate. However, your island/continent is not like Washington. You have ocean on four sides like this: 

Okay, so that gets the biggest lethal stuff out of the way. Now let's focus on quality of life while you're still living. 

This works because I assume that we don't count touching corpses or touching through a spacesuit kind of thing. Also, if you want to prevent even touching corpses, you'd have to add that the environments also instantly dissolve/obliterate the inhabitants of the other environment (kind of like the matter/antimatter idea which seems prevalent so far.) If you want that, you've gone beyond the scope of "already exists on Earth", but anti-matter+matter could still do it for you. I like this reason because it also gives a very solid reason for the two species to be antagonistic - their living space is exactly the opposite of the other species' living space, and if one side manages to spread its environment totally, it will mean the utter annihilation of the other species. Now, to be fair, it's not a guarantee that deep-sea fish will explode in our pressure. That's okay - we just need them dead, we don't need spectacularly dead. 

In Star Wars, they shoot plasma made of energized gas (Tibanna). Plasma travels significantly slower than the speed of light, so the human eye can perceive it as a 'bullet' kind of thing. Making a laser bullet isn't feasible with upgraded versions of modern laser weaponry, since a true laser travels at light speed - every shot would appear to be a line between target and source unless the distances involved were enormous. Even if that's okay, you still have the problem that lasers are only visible because of light scattering off of things in the way. Vacuum wouldn't have enough to make this significant, and enough scattering to make it visible would probably result in blooming, which would prevent the weapons from being very effective. Now, if you want something a lot like the Star Wars style, you can take off your skepticism hat and look into the Marauder project. If The internet is to be believed, there exists technology (as of 1993) which can launch hyper-projectile rings of energy. If you were far enough away for the relative velocity to appear to be less than ~60 mph, then you would perceive it as a laser bullet kind of thing. (NOTE - the project seems 100% real - the skepticism is in whether or not it really achieved what it claimed.) 

There are many components to the western front situation, so I'll recoup some: 1/ After WW1 the French were unwilling to go to any other war, since the bleeding was so terrible for them 2/ The British Army was as usual a joke, with the British Navy and Airforce being the sole expression of British military capabilities, especially the Navy 3/ While the German Army was woefully underequipped compared to the French, it had succeeded in drastically evolving from the WW1 mindset, where trenches and massive artillery usage were the deciding factors of the war. The French meanwhile had not. (it is not very well known, but all the way to the battle of France and during the totality of the German-Polish war, thr majority of the German army was relying on horses, not cars or tanks. Most of the artillery in 1940 was still carried around by horses and not modern weaponry) Counting on point 1, I would first assume that the French would not attack German territory no matter what. I've heard rumors of the French Army being pressured by the British to not enter Germany under threat of seeing their oil supply lines cut (as those were almost entirely under British control back then), because the British plan would've been, as is typical with them, to sink their "ally" and enemy altogether by ensuring that both sides remain about as strong, thus dragging on the war to impoverish both. However even if you take these rumours seriously, the French would never have attacked any way. The French Third Republic was a weak system where governments changed often and party alliances were necessary in all situations, and popularity for the war was so low that when the war was started, the speech made in the National Assembly did not even dare to contain the word "War", simply requesting "extraordinary military credits" rather than demanding national mobilisation. The French, all too scared after the bloodbath of the Great War, would've probably stayed put and tried to shoo the German away with their big Maginot Line anyway. With that option out of the way, there are a few ideas: Before the War even started, it was imperative for the French High Command to evolve with the times. Tanks weren't the WW1 tanks, and allowed for high power assaults that trenches wouldn't be able to hold back anymore. Aviation had also greatly evolved and needed to be taken along infantry and armor, which is what the Germans did. The Blitzkrieg was a fairly simple but modern tactic of uniting infantry with armor along with air support, whereas the outdated vision was to use them separately. The French did not understand the value of mixing all three, except by some like then Colonel De Gaulle, or Marc Bloch: During The Phony War (39 to May 40), more military pressure should have been put by both British and French on the German border. While the Germans had almost all their divisions in Poland, France alone could muster about 80 divisions against the 30 German divisions that were guarding the border. Even if you don't consider a full on assault, skirmishes and pressuring the enemy was tremendously important, especially when the Germans were advancing quickly in Poland and needed to be stalled for the Polish Army to recover footing (at the end of the German-Polish war, 80% of Polish soldiers were still standing, but it was a military checkmate because the Germans had taken vital parts of the nation due to their speed and execution with the Blitzkrieg tactics). In that same period, had Sweden not decided to simply let the German Army walk freely to Norway, the stalling of the Germans could have prevented them from getting full control of Norway before the British-French expeditionary corps had taken control themselves. During the War itself: 

Well, you can say what you want about society and stuff, but I'd prefer to focus on improving the life of the individual, given this wizard's powers. Therefore, let's focus on removing some of the worse problems. 

Tl;DR - Creativity and aesthetics are the reason - machines can do the job, but they can't make it look good, and you're trying to make a planet for people to live on, eventually. Summarizing your problem: The destination environment is a total unknown and the HE-MUU's goal is to set up the industrial base and core infrastructure for the planet, in preparation for human colonization. Sounds good, but guess what, humans hate living in ugly places and machines are bad at guessing what humans think will look good. Most humans are too, for that matter. What I'm saying is that there's no way to make a computer that can guess how to turn a completely unknown planet into something humans will find appealing, so you need at least one human to figure out how to make this new planet look pretty. Why only one person then? Let me ask: have you ever painted by committee? Have you even tried to make a small website by committee? That's how you get ugly, and preventing ugly is the main reason to send a person anyway. So, you have to send one person because even just two people is too many cooks in the kitchen. Finally, if they do a bad job, then you can try and repair it, but you still want to leave creative license in the hands of one person even then. Meanwhile, I think it'd be relatively easy to find artists who would be willing to spend a decade with an entire world for their canvas. Maybe it could be the apprenticeship for some super-exclusive artist guild. Train for a few years, then spend a decade building your ultimate masterpiece, your legacy, your eternal contribution to the universe!! Billions of people will know that your artistic genius is why they have those fjords! You could even win an award for those fjords! And then after your decade, you come home to a really, really nice career doing whatever you want and never need to work another day in your life unless you feel like it. Heck, I'd probably be willing to do that if I got to call/write home occasionally. 

The rest is a long string of rather pitiful but unavoidable situations. The French had superior weaponry in every way, but lacked both modern tactics and proper communications. I don't know why communications were so poor, but there were actual articles in the news about 4 communist sympathisers that were tried and executed for sabotaging tank radios in the factory(since back then, Hitler and Stalin were allies). How prevalent was the sabotage, I do not know either. But in general, the Germans worked with efficiency, mixed troops, and a goal to advance as fast as possible so as to continously hustle french forces and never let them form a frontline. It worked so well because the french were constantly at a loss as to where the frontline was, while it moved every day, they sent infantry or tanks alone against mixed troops that would just break through any defense fairly quickly, and they did not have powerful enough communications to ever mount a solid counterattack. I hypothesised that had the Belgian Front held, or had the Ardennes been properly defended, or had the British held their line, things would have been different, but in reality I am not so optimistic. The fact is that the Blitzkrieg will only be properly countered with somewhat modernised tactics only by 1943, after Stalingrad. From 1939 to 1942, the only thing that saved anyone from the German Army was Winter. Nothing else stood, except the Channel I suppose. To last longer against the German forces was to win in the long run, essentially, and neither Polish, nor French, nor British, nor the USSR, stood the Blitzkrieg in its prime. Let me remind you that Moscow was only saved by Winter, with very little land left to conquer in 41, and Stalingrad was actually taken before being turned into a mass grave during the winter of 42. I've also let out a ton of details as this post is already extremely long, such as the replacement of the Top General of the French Army at the worst possible time, or the fact that after the 1st Army was lost in the Dunkerque pocket, the French were pretty much left with their pants down and really couldn't stop the German Army no matter what anymore since the other forces were less well equipped, experienced, and France had lost a lot of manpower after their best army was gone and a ton of British material was left freely to the Germans. But to me the real problem will remain the outdated tactics, misunderstanding about the nature of the war, where positionment wasn't as important as speed, where mixed units weren't even considered, and where the French High Command was completely incompetent at realising its mistakes from start to finish. Heavy military reforms before and during the war, or stalling tactics like harassment, were absolutely necessary and would've turned the tide in many ways. But since neither were done, the only important thing was time. The Germans were so advanced militarily despite inferior heavy weaponry that it took 3 years for anyone to catch up and beat them head on.