25 December is very close after the winter solstice. That has significant meaning in many religions. 

Forget any notion of 'muslims kept knowledge alive'. That's not true at all. The renaissance began after the fall of Constantinople, when scientists fled from Constantinople to Italy. It is no coincidence the Renaissance started there and almost immediately after the fall of that city. The Byzantine empire wasn't there any more. In the years before the fall it controlled only the city and a few out of the way places in Greece. Muslims in general had very little interest in science. Most inventions ascribed to muslims were in fact taken booty by them, including the scientists. For example, the concept of zero was invented by the Indians. Not by muslims. They took it as booty when they conquered India. The didn't invent algebra, just came up with the word. That is not the same thing. ;-) There are many claims by muslims, but very little proof of it. For example, there is a claim that the microscope or telescope was invented around the time of Charlemagne by a muslim. They just didn't didn't do anything with it for a millennium. Until it was 'reinvented' during the Renaissance. Another point is the lack of religious oppression. The Renaissance moved to northwest Europe (France, England, The Netherlands) because the economy shifted to that region, and religious oppression (inquisition) was much less strong there. in other words: people could afford to spend time on tinkering with new ideas and didn't go to the stake or were beheaded. For example, Galileo was silenced. But he wasn't executed. Had Galileo lived in a muslim country, he would never got away alive. So short story: fall of Constantinople. Scientist flee before the fall and after to Italy, because it was close by, they were welcome there and the economy thrived (Italian city states were rich). About 50-75 years later the economy moved north, Paris, London, Bruxelles, Ghent, Antwerp and Amsterdam became centers of commerce, so many scientist moved to where the money was. At the same time, religion was not as strict enforced there. Which made it possible to ask awkward/difficult questions without an automatic invitation to a public bbq. Galileo had to withdraw his words, Copernicus was clever enough to publish his works by testament. Please bear in mind that the inquisition at its very worst was a good deal more lenient than islam ever was. 

De jure? No. The Republic of the United Netherlands became officially independent in 1648 at the Peace of Munster. De facto? Yes. The VOC was formed just before the 12 Year Truce, in which Spain acknowledged informal independence but not formal. One of the reasons for this 12 year truce was precisely the VOC. Both parties realized the revolt was effectively over. Spain wanted to grant full independence, but on the condition that the VOC and the WIC stopped raiding on Spanish and Portuguese ships and territories. (The WIC was active mainly in South America and raided on Portuguese territories). As the Dutch were winning and building very successfully their own colonial empire in Asia they weren't interested in that kind of a deal. The WIC is the Dutch West Indian Company, they operated not in Asia but the Americas. Mostly South America, in Brazil in particular. The VOC was a trading company, the WIC was much more a privateer company. The VOC had the monopoly on Asia, the WIC on the Americas. The VOC traded in everything, the WIC shipped slaves from Africa to the Americas, and was the company that took the Spanish flota booty by admiral Piet Hein. If both parties had reached an agreement there and then, the 80 year war would have ended in 1609, not in 1648 and of course be known as the 41 year war. 

That's kind of very hard to imagine, as this was completely contrary to what society found acceptable at the time. You're looking at the past with the mindset of today. That won't work, and it's a very common made mistake. An example of that are gladiatorial games. I've heard lots of people say that they found them to be horrible, incomprehensible, repugnant, etc. That's looking at the games as we see them now, with our morality. Back then our morality hadn't been invented yet. So if you are a real sport-fan today, you would be in Roman times. Consequently, you would love the gladiatorial games. Those two teachers, are they of the same sex? If yes, they could share an apartment together to save costs. They would have to have separate bedrooms, or at least two single person beds. Family, friends or the landlord would not accept anything else. They could put them together in the evening, or have a guest room with a twin bed in it, 'for guests'. But they would have, in that case, two separate rooms with a (single) bed in it for the partners. Some gay couples lived their lives that way, where society turned a blind eye, mostly because people simply couldn't imagine gay people living together. It didn't enter the mind. Two men or women living together to save money was quite common, and completely accepted. Another ruse used was one of the partners being the secretary of the other, or lady in waiting. Teachers didn't earn a lot of money, unless one of them was professor. So living together to save money is your most likely option. Are they a man and women? Then they would in all likelihood not live together. Almost all landlords strictly forbade it. Their respective families would put great pressure on them to get married real soon. Common behavior at that time would demand chaperons being around, and one of them would have to leave in the evening. Sleeping overnight was usually not allowed in boarded lodgings. A teaching couple living together would not be acceptable to the school management. I can give you an example from the early 1990's when I was teacher: I was asked what my religion was. I don't have any, and was raised Roman Catholic. Sorry, the Dutch reformed school said to me. All our teachers must be Dutch reformed, and practicing it. We don't want a Catholic teacher, and certainly not an atheist. The fact that I wasn't married was also questioned. You are not married? Are you engaged? Why aren't you? I told them my last relationship had just ended. Which was technically correct. I didn't tell them I was gay, of course. (I don't think I have to write I didn't get the job. Nor did I want one, giving their interrogation. Yes, this was even back then exceptional in The Netherlands.) That was in the 1990's. Now imagine that during the 1930's, with MUCH stricter morality. -- After my lengthy answer I see that you want them to stay in a hotel room. Oopsie. Not completely an oopsie, because the above applies as well. In that case, they would book two single rooms. Or a larger room with two - single - beds in it. Very likely the management would see in their passports or ID cards they aren't married. Many hotels would not accept an unmarried couple booking a single room with a twin bed. As teachers they cannot afford a large room or suite with two twins in it. Most hotels would book them automatically in different rooms. Many of them would (intentionally) place them far apart or on different floors. A quiet and generous tip might come in handy, to change that. Living in a hotel room infers - to me at least - a more permanent stay. Not a holiday or a weekend trip. Living in a hotel was only affordable for the very rich. Certainly not for teachers. 

That's extremely unlikely for two reasons. First of all, the smell and lack of hygiene. Imagine several hundred or thousand people urinating in a theater during a performance. On a hot day in summer, which Athens has a lot. That really stinks to the sky. Just that alone would be a good reason for not doing it. But urine was a very valuable commodity. It was used in many chemical processes. For example, tanners needed urine - lots of it. It was used by launderers, for whiting textiles. And much more. Urine would be collected. Shops and taverns had bowls where you could relieve yourself in. The contents would be sold to the above industries. That was such a profitable business that Vespasian taxed it. I don't think there would have been any real difference between the way Greeks or Romans behaved here. Urine was just as valuable for Greeks as it was for Romans. If a Greek theater didn't have a place to relieve yourself, entrepreneurs would make arrangements for that next door. 

I'm not to sure about both world wars. Certainly not for the better part of the first one. In documentaries I've watched, German military leadership after WW1 did give much flexibility to all ranks, including the lower ones. Given the very small size of the Reichswehr between the wars and using the during WW1 developed storm trooper tactics it was a necessity and an innovation. This was unique for the German army, as far as I know no other army did it in this time period. Between the wars only the very best veterans and later most promising recruits were allowed in the Reichswehr. (A certain lance corporal Adolf H. wasn't, for example.) All ranks were trained to replace their immediate commander and the rank above him. For several reasons: 

That's not possible. One uses money, barters or do a bit of both. Corvée, duties one has to do in order to fulfill obligations or gain benefits are a form of barter. As far as I know, no society gives anyone what they want without the use of money or barter. Resources are always limited, and what one wants or feel they absolutely need cannot be met indefinitely. 

I've read the books of Stephen Dando-Collins extensively. He makes a very compelling case that Roman legionaries were enlisted together, served their term and then were discharged together. In the time between, no legionaries would be enlisted. The legion would of course loose troops due to war, diseases, other causes, and shrink in size. But until the day of the discharge, no replacements would come to that legion. Except under very special circumstances. Most often, auxiliaries would be hired to make up for the lost numbers, until the new recruits came in. Which could be many years in the future. I'm very much taken by this theory, but do have my doubts. The legions did have specific recruiting areas. And many legions fought as a legion under their own eagle, even when it had only one or a few cohorts. But recruiting a couple of thousand strong young men would be a serious drain on the available manpower in that region. Tax-wise, that would not be a good idea. Meaning that the harvest of that year and the next couple of years would be a lot less. Those now ex-farm hands would be serving in army, instead of working on the fields. How did the legions manage their recruitment? Is Dando-Collins correct? 

No. One of the reasons why Germany had to attack the USSR and as fast as possible was their lack of oil. They were running out of it, fast. America didn't need to ban oil sales to Germany. The British navy did that. Germany was, as in WW1, blockaded. Neutral ships were not allowed to transport strategic goods and war materials to Germany. The USA was neutral at that time, but neutral in favor of Britain. Neutrality was bend as far as it could go and then some more. When you read about it, it seems contradictory to me that the USA would support the allied cause as much as possible and still ship oil (how?) to Germany. It makes no sense. Before the attack on the USSR, that was Germany's biggest supplier together with Romania. Germany probably knew the USSR was rebuilding their army fast after the purges. They could have opted not to attack the USSR, but that meant future attacks would be impossible. That was for Hitler not an option. 

I can only partially answer your question. The British used teak wood for want of better. Teak wood is far more durable than oak, but it splinters much more easily, and those splinter wounds fester more often. Why did they resort to teak wood? Most of their timber came from Scandinavia/Eastern Europe which was blocked by Napoleons continental system. Or from America, with which they were at war in 1812. 

Microsoft went for the users, at home. Not companies. That too, of course. But conquering the home market was the priority. Their strategy was that once people start working with MS Office products at home, they would ask for it in the company. This really worked. Word Perfect missed the step from DOS to Win 3. Lotus 1,2,3 was the default spreadsheet for most companies in Win 3. Ami Pro was their word processor, and very, very good. Then Win 95 came out. The Lotus company did the opposite of Microsoft; they completely re-wrote their software and focused entirely on business usage. so much so, that even I thought: well, if I have to learn everything all over again, I might as well switch to MS. Probably lots of people thought the same thing, because Lotus vanished in a short time. Microsoft did rig the odds very much in their favor: third parties didn't get all the information they needed to make competitive software. The real goodies were kept for MS Office products. Microsoft rigged whatever was possible. For example, their browser was, initially, separate from the OS. When they tried to kill Netscape (Now Mozilla) by giving the browser away for free, they ran into trouble. This wasn't allowed. So they re-engineered the browser to integrate it in the OS. Problem was that it didn't work on the first congressional hearing. Senators are usually dumb as shit, so they allowed another hearing to give MS the opportunity to work out the bugs. In effect, it was like giving a burglar a second chance to successfully get away with the loot. 

As far as I know: no, that was not an issue at all. At best people said 'Don't be a slave. Own one!' Spartacus never mentioned he wanted to abolish slavery. In fact, he set Roman senators up as pairs against each other in gladiatorial games himself. Slavery is of all times and all cultures. As long as people are hunter/gatherers they don't have the necessary surplus to support slaves. Slaves have to be guarded, fed, cared for. Hunter/gatherers live on the edge, they can't afford it. Almost every agricultural society kept slaves. Conditions varied enormously, of course. Roman house slaves could be pretty well off. Some could buy they freedom or obtained positions of power (in the imperial household). Mine slaves, not so much. They lasted about or less than a year. Slavery was less common in China, where the government had other ways to make people productive. Why make people slaves if you can tax them? Works just as well. In Mediterranean societies slavery never was an issue. Of course they knew that nobody wanted to be one. Of course there were revolts and rebellions. But all of them were crushed. Not wanting to be a slave means not automatically working towards abolishment. The ex slaves of the two revolts on Sicily simply changed places with their ex masters who were now their slaves.