I'm helping some native English speakers to learn Swedish. I have a large list of sentences which I wish to organise by linking each sentence to its associated set of meanings. For example: 

What is the technical term from a group of consecutive words with a single associated meaning? For example, phrasal verbs like: "get out" and idioms like: "on the other hand". 

So in other words, will a native English speaker easily map "I believe on it." in Swedish with its English equivalent or if it is better for them to associated "think on" in Swedish with "think about" in English. 

returns . And if a word has multiple parts of speech associated with it then multiple values are returned by the function with the most common association listed first. I program in python put can a number of other languages also. 

What are the steps invoked in producing a dictionary? I am primarily interested in understanding the role software plays in the production process. Obviously a corpus for the language is first produced and this corpus needs to find a reasonable balance between technical terms, fiction, slang etc. Then I'm guessing the size of the dictionary needs to be decided on and consequently the number of words it should contain. Then I'm presuming the most common words from the corpus make it into the dictionary and the rest are ignored. But what happens then? Suppose I need to make the entry in the dictionary for the word "of" and I have 20,000 entries for this word in the corpus. How do I proceed? How do I keep track of the senses covered? 

For the parts of Asia where many tonal languages are spoken (China and mainland Southeast Asia), it’s very hard to find examples of languages just losing tone. Thomason and Kaufman, in their book ‘Language Contact, Creolization and Genetic Linguistics’, mention a language called Wutun, which belongs to the Chinese language family, but has borrowed many grammatical features and much vocabulary from Tibetan, and has also lost phonemic tone. “According to the Wutun speakers’ own oral history, they are descendants of Chinese immigrants to the region who were forced to assimilate to the surrounding Tibetan culture. Few now speak another Chinese language, but many/most speak Tibetan as their second language.” So in this kind of special contact situation, it’s possible for tones to disappear and a “tonal isolate” to arise. Otherwise it doesn’t seem to happen. I only know about Asia though, not about other world regions where many languages have tone. It’s quite possible that you could come up with some “tonal isolates” elsewhere. Swahili? There’s a lot to say about Mon-Khmer languages. There are small MK languages all around mainland SEA, and the diversity within the family is much greater than for Tai. The linguist ML Shorto produced a dictionary of proto-Mon-Khmer, and it’s possible that he reconstructed a breathy/modal phonation distinction for the protolanguage. While Khmer doesn’t have either contour tones or phonation distinctions, it does have what’s called ‘register’, basically a vowel split. Khmer consonants belong to one of two series, which determine how the vowels are pronounced. Khmu (spoken mainly in northern Laos) is another MK language that has undergone tonogenesis, but only in some dialects (I think the wiki page on Khmu explains this in detail.) I was taught a few words in Khmu while trekking around Luang Namtha – I think what I heard there was breathy phonation rather than tone. 

Så since "Känner till" is a phrasal verb, I do not associate sentences containing it with either "Känner" or "Till", but rather with "Känner till" as this is the meaning of interest. However, take the following sentences: 

How did the word "they" come to represent "he or she"? For example, "They forgot their coat" can be used to represent a single person of either sex. 

Furthermore, artists from non English speaking countries might well "adopt" an accent depending on where their music style is based: American sounding Swedes: - $URL$ English sounding Swedes: - $URL$ 

But even in more pop like forms you will hear people embracing local accents: Very clear English Northeastern accent: - $URL$ English Northern: - $URL$ Irish: - $URL$ 

I am producing exercises for my language students and I would like to complement the sentences involved with visual cues. Google Images is useful but I'm interested in exploring alternatives. 

Female names are lenited, while male names are lenited and slenderised with Dòmhnall becoming Dhòmhnaill. 

What theories do linguists have with regard to the best methods for learning new words for a seconds language? Previously I have used mnemonics which I think are ok but when I learn new words in English I do so without even thinking about it. Words like facebook, Obama, noob, bling, pimped, twitter, ISIS, wasted, Pussy Riot and linked-in. I didn't consciously learn these words. 

他的話很對 or 他的話是對的 ‘What he says is correct.’ Other things like the number of syllables will affect how Mandarin adjectives behave in collocations and as predicates. P and R discuss a number of distinctions that affect how adjectives are used syntactically – qualifiers vs. quantifiers, gradable vs. non-gradable, derogatory vs. commendatory etc. Introducing the notion of ‘copula’ into this would probably just confuse things, I suspect. By the way, in Classical Chinese 是 meant ‘this’. Thus its use as a copula in Mandarin is a case of grammaticalization, although according to P and R this is only one of its many uses. Cantonese uses 係 (pronounced haih, the Mandarin reading would be xi4) as a copula in sentences like 我係美國人 ‘I am an American.’ I would be interested to know in what ways the usage of Cantonese 係 parallels that of Mandarin是 and where usage differs. 

Let’s say I’m going to translate an old man’s memoir about growing up in a Thai farming family. My general strategy would be to aim for a style that is not too formal or academic. But when I turn to the text itself, I find that the writer has made mention of different plants and animals that are common in Southeast Asia, but not generally known in the West. How do I go about translating their names? For example, an edible snail – should I make up a descriptive term in English, keep the Thai word, use the scientific name, or just say “a kind of snail”? This is a decision about detail. If I try to avoid any exotic or scientific terms, I will be sticking to my strategy regarding tone, but something will be lost. If I decide to add footnotes with more detail about these things, that would mean revising my initial decision to keep the tone informal. So there is a kind of back-and-forth going on – it’s just common sense really. 

Does anyone know of a database or tool that can be used to produce or find images that help describe or reinforce the meaning of a given sentence? For example: "The car was going very fast." 

When I learned Swedish I noticed I went through two phases of learning with regard to understanding the language. First I had to learn the meaning of common words. For example, "mening" means both "meaning" and "sentence". Secondly I had to associate meanings with groups of consequtive words - idioms, phrasal verbs etc. So the difficulty for me involved a word or a small group of consequtive words. Once I knew them, I could understand the sentence. Is this the same with all languages? For example, if I learned the meanings associated with every word, idiom, phrasal verb etc, would I understand every sentence? Or can there be other complexities at play which effect the meaning of the sentence? Word order differs accross languages but when learning Swedish I still heard a command when I heard "Nu skall vi gå!" instead of a question "Now shall we go?". This is due to how we tone the words in the sentence. But maybe this toning is different or missing in certain languages. Anyway, my guess is that the word ordering is so fundamental to any language that you will learn it at the very beginning and that it will be consistent thereafter. 

While as far as I know there are no surviving records of earlier versions of the language that did not exhibit this feature, we can infer that what was originally a pronoun came to do double duty as a gender marker. And the reason for the innovation – contact with Indo-Aryan languages in the region – can also be inferred. 

To expand on snailboat's comment above, you might want to consult Laurie Bauer’s ‘English Word Formation’ (Cambridge UP 1983) for some background here. Quote (p. 87): 

You might want to check a paper by Nicolas Tournadre called ‘The dynamics of Tibetan-Chinese bilingualism: current situation and future prospects’ (2003). There is a section of the paper on ‘the sociolinguistic context and Tibetan-Chinese mixed speech’. This mixed speech is an urban phenomenon, and Tournadre claims that ‘many young people in the urban areas are incapable of forming a sentence in Tibetan without using Chinese words.’ He goes through some categories of words that frequently appear in Chinese. Numbers are one of the main ones, which is interesting. since numbers are part of the core vocabulary and thus ought to be (we might assume) more resistant to change. Tournadre doesn’t mention any borrowing of grammar or syntax, but there are some examples of code-switching and overall he seems to cover the sociolinguistic side of the issue well. You can find a pdf of the paper on Tournadre’s website, $URL$ His ‘Manual of Standard Tibetan’ is an excellent textbook (co-written with Sangda Dorje). Addressing the question, I’ll add that he also mentions that there are equivalent terms in Tibetan for all of the vocabulary that appears in Chinese in these code-switching situations. Most speakers know these terms, but choose not to use them for sociolinguistic reasons. It’s not that the Tibetan language is changing and acquiring new words or structures from Chinese, as your question seems to imply.