we used to have Exchange on the SBS 2003 server inside our AD environment. Earlier this year we moved to outside Exchange provider but for the time being our local Exchange was still up&running and forwarding email to the new email accounts. Now the time has come to turn it off and I'm not quite sure what that means for SBS environment and how to proceed. Specifically, there is a local e-mail account associated with every user in the domain. Can I simply change the e-mail address of every user to their outside address, or should I first delete the Exchange account for every user + their Mailbox, and only then update the e-mail address? What do you suggest? How do I proceed? TNX! 

SITUATION: A larger company acquires a smaller one. IT infrastructure has to be merged. There are no immediate plans to change the current size or role of the smaller company - the offices and production remain. It has a Win 2003 SBS domain server, Win 2000 file server, linux server for SVN and internal Wikipedia, 2 or 3 production machines, LTO backup solution. The servers are approx. 5 years old. Cisco network equippment (switches, wireless, ASA). Mail solution is a hosted Exchange. There are approx. 35 desktops and laptops in the company. IT infrastructure unification: There are 2 IT merging proposals. 1.) Replacing old servers, installing Win Server 2008 domain controller, and setting up either subdomain or domain trust to a larger company. File server and other servers remain local and synchronization should be set up to a centralized location in larger company. Similary with the backup - it remains local and if needed it should be replicated to a centralized location. Licensing is managed by smaller company. 2.) All servers are moved to a centralized location in larger company. As many desktop machines as possible are replaced by thin clients. The actual machines are virtualized and hosted by Terminal server at the same central location. Citrix solutions will be used. Only router and site-2-site VPN connection remain at the smaller company. Backup internet line to insure near 100% availability is needed. Licensing is mainly managed by larger company. Only specialized software for PCs that will not be virtualized is managed by smaller company. I'd like to ask you to discuss both solutions a bit. In your opinion, which is better from the operational point of view? Which is more reliable, cheaper in the long run? Easier to manage from the system administrator's point of view? Easier on the budget and easier to maintain from IT department's point of view? Does anybody have any experience with the second option and how does it perform in production environment? Pros and cons of both? Your input will be of great significance to me. Thank you very much! 

I would your suggestions for an effective solution for a person, who needs to access resources in two Windows domains and wants to use one computer. It's about our CEO, who has accepted a second position in another company. Accessing files and folders isn't big problem. The greatest challenge I see is that he wants to conveniently access Exchange accounts in both companies; he would like to send and receive mail in single Outlook if possible (two profiles?) There is also a challenge with calendars: he would like to have one calendar for all activities from both Exchange accounts. Creating a POP3 account for accessing second Exchange server is a last resort, because obviously there is a problem with scheduling meetings and other calendar related tasks. Forwarding and receiving all mail/tasks on primary Exchange server is inconvenient because simple replying to original sender is disabled; and also when manually changing the recepient, he will receive mail from the wrong address. We were considering Virtualisation, that is setting up an instance of virtual machine inside existing installation and then joining this virtual computer to a second domain. Then installing another MS Outlook. This would of course mean two different Outlook accounts, two different calendars, but would at least enable our CEO to access all information from a single laptop. Does anyone have any other idea? I know setting up two domains on a single computer is a no-go (without much hacking at least), but effective workarounds are appreciate. The thing I am looking here is high usage/efficiency/productivity, but also as elegant solution from the administration point of view. Thank you very much (if you managed to read this through, this is a good sign ^_^ ) 

Further comments: The larger company is planning to implement seconnd solution internally for accountants and other "office" PCs. The infrastructure isn't there yet, but people with experience in this area will work on it. The smaller company would then also have about a third of its computers virtualized and put up on terminal server. 

I have a standalone Win 2003 server with Windows Sharepoint Services (WSS3) running on it. I had to rename the server and I had bunch of problems resulting from this. Note that the server is not in AD environment. I fixed the problems with Sharepoint (directly related to a rename) by using steps 1 & 3 from this site (TNX) Nevertheless, there are still strange references to old server name all over the place: in registry, in Windows Internal database, in Sharepoint Central Administration... Most disturbing problem is that Sharepoint isn't able to send email notifications to participants. This is IMO due to the fact, that Simple Mail Transfer Protocol service is still "answering" with old server name. When I try to telnet locally to the mail server (SMTP), I get a response: 

After you have created this value, and/or changed its data, you need to restart the machine. You should NOT do this on a production server, it will cause problems. The registry value LogBufferSize overrides the default logging buffer of 64 K. This can be done to reduce memory consumption (but will increase CPU and hard disk use). 

kind of backwards but here is a doc that shows a full length PCI card can fit into a 345 $URL$ and another doc states that "Full-length PCI cards are 107mm (height) X 312mm (long)." 

having been involved in a lengthy (and very expensive) ad migration project, i have become a fan of having an internal ad that is "generic" with regards to your business name. if you are in a business that may be bought or merged with another business, you may find that you don't necessarily need to change your ad domain because of a business decision. for example if you are in the shoe business you could purchase a domain name like corpshoe.net and only use it for active directory. your corporate website and email can stay the same as your regular domain names, and if your company changes, your ad doesn't have to. i also believe that you should own your ad name in the external world. it just makes everything easier. 

i would install DNS servers on the machines that you are going to use as domain controllers and let the domain controllers auto-populate the srv records so that you have a copy that you can give the bind admins. after that, it sounds as if the zone data may be fairly static and you should be able to tear down the windows dns servers. the way you word your question makes it sound as if there may be other Active Directory based forests on campus. How are they solving their DNS issues? any chance of joining an existing domain / forest? 

20Gbps and 2000GB per month are both measurements on the exact same yard stick (both measuring amount of data per unit of time) -- it is just that 20gbps is way faster than 2000GB per month. 20 gigabits per second vs. 2000 gigabytes per month. pretty simple to convert : 

getting ping to work is the first step. you have a segment connected to 3 computers. you also need to have an interface connected to the corporate lan. in addition, the router that you have connected needs to know where to send packets that are not local. setup a default route to the default gateway on the corporate lan. that will get packets to travel to the corporate lan. to get packets to come back, the router on the corporate lan will need to know how to route packets back to your router. you will to add a route to corporate lan router advertising your 192.168.1.x network (assuming that network doesn't exist somewhere on the network already). 

in iis 6 (windows 2003) you can try : the following was taken from ($URL$ The IIS 6.0 logs are handled by HTTP.sys. For performance and scalability reasons, HTTP.sys buffers the logging for a while before it writes to disk. By default, the buffer time is one (1) minute, and the buffer size is 64 K. When debugging, and this depends on the log files, it could however be great to not buffer. There is no supported way to do this, but an unsupported way is to create the registry value DisableLogBuffering and set it to 1. 

in you sql server maintenance plan, you can delete the previous backup (however, it won't know anything about your archive) 

the first part of this batch file deletes the past archive the second part of the batch file renames the current backup from sql server to one that has a date and adds the file name to a file that you will need the next time. then you can do your compression with 7zip. note that i didn't test this but the concept should work. 

if your app on 5555 is web-based : create an "A" record in dns for crm.mydomain.net to point to xxx.yyy.zzz.www on the machine that is xxx.yyy.zzz.www setup a website on port 80. use redirection (from the webserver or from the default doc) to automatically do a html redirect to $URL$ in a defualt doc, it would look like : 

script the backup to run normally. ignore the exit code of ntbackup. scrub logfile for interesting parts. send status to nagios via send_ncsa. profit. the following from MS technet : Windows 2000 Backup (Ntbackup.exe) does not have a command-line parameter to specify the location to which reports are saved after a backup operation is finished. The backup report is saved in the profiles folder of the user who performed the backup operation. You can view the reports by clicking Report on the Tools menu in Backup. Backup keeps only the last 10 backup reports. The corresponding Backup##.log files are located in the "Documents and Settings\User_Name\Local Settings\Application Data\Microsoft\Windows NT\NTbackup\Data" folder. 

it sort of depends are what you are trying to accomplish. high availability file sharing is usually accomplished using microsoft clustering. this requires some sort of shared storage (i.e. SAN, shared scsi, etc). another option for file shares is DFS. using dfs, you can get server to server replication and has fault tolerance. 

try a traceroute to your ftp server. the network that exists between each hop between your pc and your ftp server allows for a possible sniffing point for someone (or gov't agency) to see your cleartext credentials without your knowledge.