Due to this being a startup, and everyone being on the same level on the playing field, you may want to see how the other team members feel about his expertise. Based on the comments made it seems as though you have a problem with this individual and the advice he gives, but no mention of this being a disruption to any others in the office. Secondly, are you in the role in which you "should" be critiquing him? It may just be that you may be stepping on toes. It's a fair assumption to make that when things like this happen in the office, that the best way to go about solving them is to put yourself in the other's shoes. The above two statements do that. I had one particular colleague at my previous company who acted pretty much this exact same way. It took multiple teams sitting him down in a meeting and explaining to him that, while he was quite knowledgeable and we respected him for his accolades, that he wasn't as Subject Matter Expert in everything and his attitude towards new ideas or ideas that weren't his own was leading to a high tension environment. We basically explained to him that no one liked talking to him and we only did so because he was a coworker. After that he began to work on his behavior, mostly due to peer-pressure (no one likes a whole group of people disliking them). In the end, a year or so after, he's a genuinely nice guy. He still has reserves about meeting new people and still questions everything, but in a much more professional demeanor. So, I'd find out a couple of things: 

First, if he says anything negative to you that you don't appreciate, bring it up immediately - "John, I don't really appreciate it when you say things like that." Second, if he says anything in front of others, see if you can take him aside and bring that up as well - "John, if you have an issue with something I've done, I'd appreciate it if you told me in person, rather than calling me out in front of the group." Third, ask for some time for a sit-down with him, now that he's the manager. He should be able to tell you what his expectations are for you (in terms of day-to-day processes as well as a long-term goal), and you should lay out your long-term goals as well. If it's just the two of you, it could give him the chance to tell you about some things that he noticed about you when he was a consultant, but now he has to act on them since you're reporting to him. This could be a chance for both of you to clear the air, and you'll have a better idea about what to expect in your work relationship with him. 

Short Answer - You still have a chance. Based on the multiple interviews you went through, and them telling you that they were impressed, then I'd say you're still a top contender. They did state, however, that you were the first interviewed. I wouldn't be surprised if it took a couple of months for them to get back to you on the decision. Ultimately, the hiring manager makes the decision - and HR doesn't know when that decision is going to come. The hiring manager may decide to interview a few more candidates whose resumes have impressed them, or interview every candidate that they get a resume on. It's also possible that you are either under-qualified(but impressive) or over-qualified for the position - I don't know your skillset - and they may be interviewing to see if they can find a better fit. If not, you still have a chance at securing the job. Either way, I would suggest sending a hand-written thank you note to the senior members/hiring manager that interviewed you. While sending a card/note to HR is fine, sending one to the hiring manager is going to keep your name in their mind. Also, do not send gifts. Most companies have policies regarding not receiving gifts in these situations. Personal Experience Every company has different hiring processes. For example, the company I'm currently with took nearly 5 months from the initial phone interview, to having a contract that I could sign and officially call me apart of the company. My previous employer only took about 3 weeks from initial interview to signing on. It's different everywhere you go, never count yourself out unless you know for sure you're not getting it. 

I have been in my current role for 4 months, and I want to move to a different team because the career track my manager has laid out and discussed with me does not work with my career goals and aspirations. There was some confusion before I joined my team, and I was told that I would be in a different position/track than the one I ended up being in (my manager agrees that there was confusion around the position I was coming in to). What can I do if I don't want to waste a year of my life in this position, but also don't want to lose relationships (I don't hate my work or my coworkers, and my manager has been great about listening to and implementing my suggestions, however the work I am doing is only half of what I thought I would be doing when I joined). 

It's also nice to mention that due to it being a startup, you could wager this as being part of your confrontation for having him recognize the criticism. Startups are risky as it is, but it takes a certain level of input and creativity to truly flourish into a blossoming company. Explain to him that everyone's input should be encouraged and options weighed. 

I have the same problem. However, based on my area - these recruiters all stem from about the same half dozen firms or so. I usually will keep one good contact with each firm, and if someone else from the firm messages me I will forward them to the good contact that I have at the firm (this shows my, albeit lazy, loyalty towards this particular recruiter). There are a couple of reasons for me doing this. They will build a profile for you, and watch you more closely if you keep in contact with them. This will allow them to see/know your current employment, the length of that employment, and any future promotions you may gain while in contact with them. I let them know that I am currently not looking for a new company to go to. At this point, they will usually ask a question to the point of "What will it take for you to leave?" - I set the expectations really high. Much higher salary then what I'm currently getting, and more senior position. That way, if they do ever contact me with a position meeting this description I know it's going to be an offer I can't refuse. Another, more selfish reason, for staying in contact with a few recruiters is most will take you out to lunch or dinner for free every month or so - and I don't know anyone that doesn't like free food. 

Recently (2 mos. ago) joined a data analysis team at a large U.S. corp. This team is an interesting mix of technical and not very technical people. My boss and I are more on the technical side- can code in various languages, can employ different tools etc. Co-worker A and B are responsible for analysis of specific data and products- while they cannot code, they have knowledge about their subject matter and can utilize a data visualization tool effectively. I respect that we all know different things and are experts in different ways. I always try to get my co-workers' opinions on things they know more than me, like their data sets, their products or the company. The problem is this: I feel like I rub my co-workers the wrong way when I want to be more technical in the way I do things. I get this impression because Co-worker A has told me on more than one occasion that "this team is about X" and "we do things like X". Here's my issue with that- my hiring manager is happy to have me utilize whatever skills I have to my disposal, and this team knew what I was about when it was hiring me. In fact, we talked about how I like to supplement my work with code or want to do "Y" type of analysis to our data during my interviews. Maybe this wasn't conveyed properly. My boss's boss is also happy with the direction I take with tasks- he is excited to see me do things that are new for this team. Because of this he invites me to meetings that either co-worker A or B, or both, may not be invited to. This I think is another sore point for both of them, me being new and all- evident by not responding to my friendly IMs, like hey how are you. I would like to have a good working relationship with both coworkers, but I am unsure how to overcome the "resentment" that may arise because of these issues. I call it resentment for lack of a better word. More context: co-worker A has been at the company for 3 years, has a ton of friends here, and I think doesn't like that I am not truly a subordinate to him (I think I am, I have told him on more than one occasion he's the expert on X and I trust his on judgement on X etc.) He doesn't want to teach or mentor me, but I think is more interested in maintaining his power and status; this is evident by him complaining about me asking too many questions to someone from another team. This co-worker is also quite gossipy and may even tell tall, negative tales (though not sure about this). Problem to solve: how do I survive in this kind of team dynamic? 

Honestly, I would say don't say anything about the technical questions; at this point, you're an interviewee who got nervous and missed a question you might have gotten right in a better environment. If you respond back at this point, though, then you run two risks: a) you look a bit obsessive, like "I have to let them know that I knew this answer". b) you've waited long enough to respond that it could look like you looked the answer up, and you don't gain anything with a right answer. If you want to do anything, just respond back with a general thank-you, and possibly add a caveat: "I was so pleased to meet with you yesterday. I'm sorry I was so nervous and missed a couple of questions I should have answered correctly, but I look forward to hearing from you again." Also, find a way to reiterate your interest in the position; add in some things you learned about the company from the interview.