oh holy beans. I'm about to go radical here and diverge from the dalai lama's take, but I can't speak from someone else's perceptions, so here goes. a system based on ever-increasing gains from a finite thing is inherently unsustainable. and lookie! does it kinda seem I'm right? I'm fine with making a living (and more fine just living) but not with profit. because I would prefer to continue rather than dwindle from lack of food, water, and liveable weather, and prefer doing so among healthy people whose basic needs are met. the bible doesn't like profit either. it calls profit "usury." nutshell: profit is taking more than you give. profit is the essence of capitalism. you are looking to "capitalize" on what you encounter, to take from it to make yourself "bigger" if you will. my experience in Buddhism and related things is that there's no need to fret over abstract things that are basically the water you, little fishie, swim in right now. if you keep meditation, continue to refine your clear seeing of yourself and others, notice what happens when things are/aren't done, and how differences in doing/not doing get different results, notice how you feel after doing/skipping the things you do .... your views and habits will change to naturally reflect where you are at any given time. just as they change when you don't meditate, but in ways that are more random and that you may not even like. the only universe, the only sentient being, you can directly and fully perfect is you. and you are the system. whatever it is "you" are, that is what touches and changes every single part of our world, aka "the world," reality, life. as my teacher says, "just do your practice." people are all sorts of things. balance for living beings is a state change that suits conditions at the time (homeostasis). with clarity comes being more of what you are, be it student, statesman, horse trainer, layabout, kite maker, baby maker, musician, pizza guy. the title, like the name of a system, is just the moving form that contains a slice of life. as a living being you will naturally be happiest with things that support life rather than suck it dry. if capitalism furthers living, how is it against Buddhism? if it does not, how will it continue to exist? beings are expressions of life. with clarity life flourishes. systems support life or fail to. our awareness is what decides. 

'ඒතං සන්තං ඒතං පණීතං - යදිදං සබ්බ සංඛාර සමථෝ සබ්බුපධි පටිනිස්සග්ගෝ - තණ්හක්ඛයෝ විරාගෝ නිරෝධෝ නිබ්බානන්ති.' එයම ශාන්තය එයම ප්‍රණීතය. සියලු සංඛාරයන්ගේ සමථයක් ඇත්ද, සියලු උපධීන්ගේ පිළිනොගැනීමක් ඇත්ද, තණ්හාවන්ට අක්ඛය වීමක් ඇත්ද, විරාග වීමක් ඇත්ද, සසර පැවැත්ම උදා නොකිරීමක් ඇත්ද, සසර බැම්මෙන් නිදහස් වීමක් ඇත්ද, එයම ශාන්තය, එයම ප්‍රණීතය. Etan santan etan paneetan, yadidan sabba sankhara samato, sabbupati patinissaggo, tanhakkhayo virago, nirodho Nibbananti [“It is the only peace, the only happiness: prevent sankhara from arising by eliminating tanha and excess greed, and thus stopping the arising of defilements, which is Nibbana“.] 

You are concerned about what happens when a person dies. Of what I’ve read, this is what takes place. We have three types (some say four) of bodies. One is the physical body that we leave at the time of death. The other two are the two parts of the mental (astral) body. This never dies, and gets transformed into an energy form (that is beyond time and space) at the time of Parinibbana. Vinnana is always out looking for nourishment for the continuation of life from existence to existence. The food that Vinnana gathers get stored as a cittaja force, or as kamma seeds. These in turn become food for the sustenance of the vinnana. I’d call this the astral body of ours. This astral body of ours (you may call it the vinnana) is always conditioned by the sansaric habits that we acquire from one bhava to another bhava. Also mainly three types of Cravings (Asava) and temptations (Anusaya) that lie dormant in us until the conditions are right and ripe. The three Asava (that are steeped in Avijja) are: Ditti-asava, Kamasava, and Bhava-asava. These are deep rooted attachments that we have for certain views, for sense pleasures, and for existance. As long as these factors are there we will forever go in this sansaric journey. Once you get into the Path, from the Stream Entrant Stage onwards, and as you go upstream from one stage to another, the ‘asava’ will start to lessen their hold on this astral body, and eventually get reduced to nothing. The way to go about this is the Noble Eighfold Path. Sansära (or samsara) = san + sära (meaning fruitful) = perception that “san” are good, fruitful. Thus one continues in the long rebirth process with the wrong perception that it is fruitful. Sammä = san + mä (meaning eliminate) = eliminate or route out “san”. Thus Samma Ditthi is routing out the wrong views that keeps one bound to sansara. Tthe significance of “san” is illustrated in the verse that Ven. Assaji delivered to Upatissa (Ven. Sariputta before ordaining): 

There have always been Masters like that all over the world. If you look for them, you will see there above lies your United Nations. Spirituality unites or actually reminds us its all one.. Union.. Yog. Ego & material nature of human beings draws lines & divides us into Nations. 

Which is the reason why people traveled to spread the word. Its also the reason why the missing years of Jesus, it is said he was in Bharat, in an area called Kashmir where his name has been found mentioned as 'Isa' or 'Issa' {pronounced: Eee- Saa - h} 

Given my time with the reading & practice of Zen, Buddhism & Sanatan dharma with a lot of spiritual people, I'll answer this from a different Point of View. Jayarava's answer is perfectly accurate to say why people in various places and cultures portray the enlightened Master the look up to in different ways. 

There are five doctrinal “innovations” of the Mahayanists that have been listed by Edward Conze. They are: 

Skillful activity is getting your head and your heart to respect each other, and in being mindful as you go about in life. Then your head and your heart can take each other far when you can remain mindful, even amidst the hustle and bustle of everyday life. Your heart needs the help of your head to generate and act on more skillful emotions. Your head needs your heart to remind you that what's really important in life is putting an end to suffering. They need each other. When you come to this realism, you will dwell in “kaya passaddi”. To explain the above, I must give you another meaning to words like “Kaya”. Such words come under Adhi-vacana – meaning - the same word has different meanings depending on the sutta, and how it gets used. Here “kaya” refers to action; action of the mind. So, “passaddi” refers to serene, tranquil nature of action. Actions of mind become tranquil only when the mind is devoid of “heat”, resulting from the existence of defilements such as lobha (greed) and dosa (aversion). There is a tendency of mind to grasp objects. The action of mind (kaya) is always to grasp something. When one’s mind reaches the stage of passaddi (quietude, serenity), the action of grasping takes place in a tranquil manner. A person who has developed this quietude of mind discerns greed or aversion exactly at the time that these qualities appear in his mind. This discernment which synchronizes with the arising of greed or aversion in mind is the correct way of “anupassana”. Anupassana means “discard according to the principles learned” (“anu” means according to and “passana” means to get rid of). Let’s take an example where a youth coming face to face with a pretty girl. The sight of a pretty girl is a sensuous sense object for a young guy. If this guy is one who cultivates good or worthwhile qualities in the mind, then, he sense the arising of greed at the sight of the pretty girl. Therefore, he applies “anupassana” in respect of the sense object. Likewise, if this girl walks past the boy completely ignoring him, that could cause anger in him. If the boy could note the anger in his mind, then, he applies “anupassana”. As his sole objective was to maintain a wholesome state of mind, devoid of greed and aversion, he was successful in doing so at the sight of a pretty girl. This is meditation, if you take it in its truest sense of meaning. When you conduct yourself in this way, in whatever you do, or wherever that you go, then you experience that more often than not, your body calms down and your mind is completely relaxed. Your brain's thinking is slower, your mind is clear and you may even feel slightly drowsy or idle. But worry not, as this is “being intelligent”. Being intelligent signifies being able to exist with a happy, blissful mind. Happiness is the tranquil nature of mind. Happiness arises in mind. It manifests through bodily and verbal actions. Such a person will go about things in a happy, blissful way. However, such a mental state is shrouded with our own suffering if we cannot get our head and heart to respect each other, and in being mindful. Once this is done and once the suffering is eliminated, dormant happiness begins to surface in a mind. Then anything that you do constitutes skillful activity. 

India, or I will refer to a more accurate word for the region currently labeled by the British as India; Bharat by its name & history has been the center of spiritual evolution & wisdom; flavors of knowledge & wisdom have emanated from that region. Each person & place has to play a role, something special to play its karma in the universe. So, while Americans always fight off alien invasions courtesy of their Hollywood machinery and brilliant influence on world pop culture, silently the spiritual flavors of ancient wisdom have been reaching the corners of the world over centuries or more. 

That which is formless & beyond all attributes cannot be 'sensed' or perceive using a Sense of the Body (or even an Xray or Infra red vision). That which has no form, is infinite & all pervasive cannot be measured like an physical object with 'defined' dimensions. It 'comes' as an experience. :) It's not something you can switch on, on demand; Unless you are enlightened - Then you already know that everything is infinite. At that point your senses & your body and everything else is just a virtual construct. 

If this is not done, then… Forms seen causes loss of mindfulness if one dwells on their after-thoughts. Sounds heard cause loss of mindfulness if one dwells on their after-thoughts. Aromas smelled cause loss of mindfulness if one dwells on their after-thoughts. Flavours tasted cause loss of mindfulness if one dwells on their after-thoughts. Tangibles touched cause loss of mindfulness if one dwells on their after-thoughts. Mental objects cognized cause loss of mindfulness if one dwells on their after-thoughts. I just thought that this may help you in your meditation. 

The ones who are fully established in this Dhamma Path are not an arrogant lot. We all make mistakes in life. For any significant change to take place in our lives we must first develop a sense of humility to admit to our mistakes. It is this knowledge that we all are prone to make mistakes that we say: 

In becoming a Bhikku with an idea of performing the practice of breathing towards samatha and vipassana (calm and insight) without first attempting kayagata-satipatthana (mindfulness as regards the body), resembles an owner who yokes the still untamed bullock (an adult bovine animal) to the cart or plough without the nose-rope. Such an owner would find oneself unable to drive the bullock at his desire. Because the bullock is wild, and because it has no nose-rope, it will either try to run off the road, or try to break loose by breaking the yoke. So first and foremost comes the practice of Mindfulness of Body – Kayanupassana. Practice of mindfulness of body is to overcome the drudgery of binding concepts and views that we form about it. To see the body as it is and to realize what it actually is. So instead of looking at this body as a beautiful body, ugly body or eternal body a person learns to look at the body as it is and avoid the mental pains that are caused by looking at it otherwise. There are four major sections in the satipattana sutta. In Anapanasati – one gets to these steps in its correct order: (1) mindfulness of body (kayanupassana) (2) mindfulness of feelings (vedananupassana) (3) mindfulness of mind (chittanupassana) (4) mindfulness of mental behaviors (dhammanupassana). Within the first major section on mindfulness of body there are five meditation methods. (1) mindfulness of breathing (anapanasati) (2) mindfulness of postures (iriyapatha) (3) refelection on internal and external impurities and other vital parts (kunapa) (4) analysis of four elements (dathu) (5) reflection on nine stages of a dead body (nava seevaththika) In Anapanasati, with the development of kayanupassana the meditator is in a position to bring vedananupassana to completion. Contemplation of feelings is nothing but becoming mindful of feelings: pleasant, unpleasant or neutral. Here he remains focused on feelings in and of themselves, ardent and mindful. By concentrating on anapanasati to a higher degree, he then brings the cittanupassana to its culmination. Now he would start to develop dhammanupassana (contemplation of mind contents). To explain how to go about practicing each of these factors is not possible as it will take a lot more than a paragraph or two for each.