Although not a very common occurrence, this phenomenon does feature quite a lot in test matches (especially on the bigger grounds like in Australia or England). Hence, there is almost no extra media attention whenever this occurs. Also, ball-by-ball information is not available for a substantial amount of test matches. Hence there is almost no way of answering your question quantitatively. 

In contrast to a lot that has been said above, the heavy ball could possibly have a physical reason behind it. Two balls, despite having the same 'bowling speed' and despite pitching at the same location could still rear up differently. Hence the two seemingly-identical balls bowled could still seem different to the batsman. In my opinion, a heavy ball could be delivered by a tall bowler by releasing the ball from a higher height than normal. Also, by varying the ball release, seam position, release height and release distance, the bowler can extract more bounce from the pitch. This leads to the feeling of a 'heavy ball' to the batsman. The case in point is not a simple 2-D linear mechanics situation, but one that is complicated by the presence of different pitch restitutions (due to seam positions) and can hence have different apparent ball speeds. As for the basketball analogy, it is certainly incorrect for this case. While the height to which your centre of mass can travel is dictated by your jumping ability, you can indeed change your hangtime by moving your legs and hands. (Note that the height to which your centre of mass rises still remains the same) Good jumpers tend to use these small ideas to extend their hang time. Their body position also gives an onlooker the apparent notion of an extended hang time. 

If a single no ball is bowled in an over, there will be 7 deliveries in the over, not 8. Free hit just means that the batsman cannot be out of that ball (except run out, handling the ball, hitting the ball twice, obstructing the field), it does not mean that delivery is not counted (unless, of course, that delivery too is a no ball or wide ball). For example: Delivery 1: Legal delivery ==> Count: 0.1 Delivery 2: No-ball ==> Count: 0.1 Delivery 3: Legal delivery ==> Count: 0.2 

The above expression, however, will always equal zero, because (a) the total number of runs scored equals the total number of runs conceded, and (b) the total number of balls faced equals the total number of balls bowled. However, that is not what happens when you calculate the sum of net run rates. In other sports such as football, the sum of goals scored and goals conceded by all the teams in a table will be equal, but that doesn't happen with the net run rates in cricket since there is division involved, and not just simple addition. For convenient reference, below is an actual points table as an example. It is the points table from Group 2 of the Super 10 stage of ICC World T20 2016 at the end of 25 March 2016. 

Which team holds the record for the earliest substitution after kick-off in an official football match? I personally have seen games where players have gotten substituted within the first twenty minutes. But how early does the record stand? It would also be great if you could include the earliest non-injury substitution too. (I do agree this one might be tougher to come by) 

The corresponding record holder for men's football is Ahmed Hassan with a comparatively paltry 184. Is there a reason for this difference? I wondered if it was because the men's football calendar is packed with league fixtures leaving very little room for international matches. But, I believe England and several other countries have professional leagues for women footballers too. So, is there some other reason for the discrepancy? 

I observed players of different skills and I noticed that one repeating mistake is in the fact that it is hard to throw the ball straight up, I have the same mistake. When serving with the ball going straight up, serving becomes far more consistent (not hitting the net and not going over). I simplified the serving to the serve like in Pesäpallo (i.e. you go down in your feet while your hands are at the constant height, not to get the release of the ball in circular path so only trying to get vertical velocity). Now my couch said it does not look like tennis even though the shots became far more consistent. So: 

I remember someone asking me about this. Is there any first-class cricketer who played before WW1 and after WW2 ? 

Not at all ! A hattrick is just a fancy informal term to describe 3 wickets taken in 3 consecutive deliveries by a bowler. And the bowler doesn't get any extra ball for a hattrick ! 

West Indies, being a confederation of Carribean nations, obviously do not have a single national anthem. The West Indies Cricket Board (WICB) has instead adopted David Rudder's 'Rally Round the West Indies' as their anthem. David Rudder is one of the most successful Calypso artists in the region. His song 'Rally 'Round the West Indies' captures the feel and emotions of the region and hence seemed to be a good enough pick for the WICB. 

1 To make this more realistic, spread out the Retired Out, Timed Out, and Mankad Run Out between the other dismissals off legitimate deliveries instead of lumping them together before the start of the over, and add some drama. For example, one batsman picks up a fight with the fielders, which leads to aggressive arguing and swearing for a prolonged duration. The batsman then storms off and is declared Retired Out. A couple of balls later, someone is dismissed in a controversial manner, and the tension flares up again leading to more ugly scenes on the field. This spills over to the dressing room where members of the batting side (and maybe the reserve players and support staff of both teams) keep arguing loudly. Amidst the commotion, the next batsman forgets to step out and is declared Timed Out. One or two balls later, with both sides brimming with rage, a Mankad Run Out happens! You can imagine what happens next. :-) In this scenario, it is easy to imagine the Umpire miscounting the over. 

Cricket has its origins as a gentleman's summer sport as opposed to football which has traditionally been a working man's sport. Cricket has hence had high clothing and cricketers have been very well-dressed since its nascent beginnings. Moreover, cricket during its early stages was not a very athletic game like what football is. Hence there was no acute need for athleticwear over options like trousers and a shirt. Also, it was originally played in England where it often gets quite cold to play in. By the nature of the game, there's not much continuous physical activity for the fielders so as to keep them warm (as in football). 

An incomplete slalom moves list can be found in Wikipedia. Breaking for Safety and Deep lunges to survive falls Drag and powerslide breaking is extremely useful for getting full-stop fast 

where you see the back pointing towards the back of the field after serving, good. Is the back direction after serving due to bad center of mass? How to fix it? And what is causing it with the red player? 

Which is a correct and safe volley grip aka serving grip in Tennis? One where hand is clearly on the handle or the one where some fingers are resting on the handle? Images screenshot from the video here. I trained very intensive weeks tennis where my baby finger and ring finger got damaged/painful/non-flexible due to holding the racket so that only 3-4 fingers on the holding -- video about training here -- this was because I used more the grip where some fingers were not totally on the grip so strong swing put intensive stress to the baby finger and ringer finger. Initially, physiotherapist said that it is only tight muscles so 1 week's rest. Now I realise that my right-hand muscles are far stronger on my holding hand and that the tension is getting lower and morning hardness is becoming less. Yet the feeling in the serving hand is not the same as in the other hand, this may be a good (muscles/bones getting stronger used to playing tennis or I am using a wrong technique). Now I am uncertain: