We like tailwinds as the effort to ride at a given speed is lowered. In the same token we like slight downward slopes. If you base your riding on effort, rather than a fixed speed, you will automatically utilise a slight tailwind. If you however ride at a fixed speed, you simply had an effortless ride. In other words, you missed nothing. 

The foam protects the head from impacts by deforming. The plastic cover obviously protects the foam from wear and aging. However it also serves safety aspects in most helmets: A good helmet has a smooth outer shape, preferably close to a ball, to allow it to slide over tarmac or other hard surfaces in an accident. The hard and smooth plastic outer shell helps this by reducing friction and it prevents snagging. A reason why we want the helmet to slide rather brake ones horizontal movement is to prevent rotational acceleration of the skull. Due to its inertia the brain resist that acceleration. This in turn exerts a force on the brain (warning, oversimplification the brain is in large parts mechanically decoupled from the skull by a gap filled with fluid). This so called rotational impact is thought to be an important contribution to concussion (cf Kleiven 2013). 

The main detail you will have to watch out for (as indicated by Kibbee) is whether the two cranks use the same bottom bracket. Crankset attachments are standardized; however, to paraphrase Tanenbaum, there are many standards to choose from :-). To check whether a specific crank and bottom bracket match, you'll need to know some details about the bottom bracket, such as shaft length, attachment type (square, most common, or spline) and chainline. There are compatibility charts online to help you; a good one is Sheldon Brown's Bottom Bracket Size Database, which also lists the Shimano Sora and Ultegra. Also, check whether the new crank is compatible with the chainrings. There are different attachment mechanisms in that area, too, so you may need to swap the chainrings along with the cranks. If you want to play it safe, it's best to buy the part at a local shop. They can tell you whether it matches or not, and, most importantly, if they tell you it definitely matches and are wrong, they'll have to take it back. Also, they'll be able to answer your questions about mounting it - or mount it for you for a fee. Finally, note that for some attachment mechanisms, you will need a special tool for removing the cranks, called an "crank puller". I think you don't need one for the Shimano Sora, as it is "self-pulling", but better check to be sure. 

Soft steels (ie ductile, austenitic steel) are often at risk to SCC when subject to chlorine. (Wooden truss roofs over swimmingpools are notorious for collapsing because of bolts failing due to SCC.) While the environment in this case is not particularly corrosive, previous over-tightening of the bolts might considerably increase the susceptibility of the material to SCC. A corrosive source may be salt, which is very common on roads in high concentrations in cold climates. Several other causes of fastener failure are discussed in an article by Hudgins et al [[3]]. It also shows and explains the surface where the fastener broke off. You might compare your fasteners with the pictures to identify typical structures associated with different failure modes. In all cases you ought to be able to see the ductile overload happened, ie the last bit holding to the head. tl;dr A form of corrosion might have damaged the bolts such that they rupture easily. This is more likely to happen when tightening fasteners with too much torque. trivia There's an old German proverb that fits here: "Erst fest dann ab!". An approximate translation is "First its tight, then broken". [3]: A Hudgins, B James, FASM, Avanced materials & processes, August 2014, 18-22 $URL$ 

While there are jeans specifically for cycling (see Tom77's answer), they are still a compromise (and can be expensive). I found the best option for longer rides (> 2 km or so) is to change trousers. That way you can wear bike trousers when biking, and nice trousers when you want to look nice. This also avoids problems when you get dirty or wet during the ride, and lets you adapt your bike trousers to the weather (insulated in the winter, shorts in summer). At most destinations, there is a washroom where you can slip in to quickly change trousers; I did this for years every day before and after work. If that is not practical, you can get slightly bigger cycling trousers and wear them over your regular trousers, so you can put them on and take them off without any indecent exposure. Or just change trousers in a quiet corner... 

FAG bottom brackets (BB) with plastic mounting rings are very common in Germany. The cartridge bottom bracket is really good and resilient, however the polyamide (PA) mounting rings are horrible. As you found out there is a tool to turn the splined outside (rosette shaped). It is inexpensive and easy to get in Germany (< 10EUR). However, unscrewing the PA mounting rings often fails. The polymer material conforms to the thread and all its imperfections and thus has too much friction in the thread. The bulk of the material is not strong enough to transfer the momenta needed to overcome this. As a consequence it is very easy to simply twist off the entire outer part of the cover including the splines or mangle the splines. I had to remove such brackets before. In one case I could remove the mounting ring on one side of the bracket with the tool. It is easy then to take out the cartridge and get out the other shell. If one side fails, be very careful with the other one. Try to use penetrating oil, use plenty of it and give it a lot of time to enter. Make sure you turn the correct way. both mounting rings stuck failures Recently I had a bike where both mounting rings were stuck*. In my case the mounting rings were pressed in. My frame had no threads whatsoever in the bottom bracket shell. I will briefly describe what I did and then continue with how I think it could be done better. Starting with my entirely futile first attempts. 

No, you most likely did not. Bicycle chains are very strong (and chains on children's bicycles are usually similar to chains on adult bicycles). Plus, if a chain is really overloaded, the links will separate (i.e. the chain will tear) before the force is great enough to actually stretch the chain material (which is usually hardened steel). Note that bicycle chains do get longer due to wear on the material. This is often referred to as "stretch", but that is misleading - the chain does not lenghten due to being pulled, like a rubber band, but because the friction in the links wears down the material. So something else must have happened to make the chain sag. The most likely explanation is that the back wheel was pulled out of its dropouts, as indicated in BillSkiCO's answer. It is also possible that the chain was already sagging before, you just did not notice. On bicycles without a derailleur, chains can sag quite a bit without causing problems. 

The frame geometry of a bike influences riding a lot and cannot easily expressed only by reach and stack. But you can compare frames directly. It takes only very little effort to enter the frame geometry into a CAD programme. Use the bottom bracket as coordinate centre for each bike and compare the frames. This allows you to compare the geometry you know from your bike with that of the endurance bike and the performance bike. You may also part with different stems without incurring costs. There are many free CAD programmes. For example the free and open source project FreeCAD. It uses a constraint based approach whichch is convenient when one retrieves the geometric specs from a data sheet. 

Yes, that's the tricky part. I obtained a thin plastic tube (about 1mm diameter), and bent it to form a sort of archway above the computer. I threaded a flexible wire (naked wire used for fastening, not electrical wire) through the tube. This wire provided stability to the arch, and its ends were wrapped around the handlebar left and right of the computer, to fix the "archway" in place. I cut a small hole in the side of the plastic tube, and threaded the two electrical cables into the tube, one from each sides, so they came out at the hole. Then I soldered the LED to the two cables. Finally I gently pushed the legs of the LED into the hole (one to go left, one right, following their respective cable), so the LED sat in the hole. I finally fixed the arch to the handle bar using the wire ends. The result looked like this: 

Rolling resistance depends much more on the tread, the shape of a tire, and the suppleness of its side walls. A few points to explain this: A tire with a very pronounced tread will roll less smoothly over hard roads and requires more energy than a slick tire of same width. A ballooning tire that is considerably wider than the rim will have to deform more as it rolls. A stiff tire dissipates more energy for these deformations. If you like to reduce rolling resistance, you might try to get a slick tire, or a tire with small treads. (There is by the way no aquaplaning concern with slicks for bicycles.) This will bring by far the greatest gain you may get. Marginal improvements may be had if you get a tire that is only slightly wider than the rim and is supple. However, the trade-off for the latter are a higher risk of flats, less comfort, and considerably higher costs per tire. Also note, in general a tire that is narrower has to be used with higher pressure in order to avoid pinch flats. Estimate If you like to calculate how much a reduction of rolling resistance may bring in a best-case scenario you could use this calculator. Enter your weight desired power. Also increase the cross sectional area to something closer to 0.7 m^2 to reflect the more upright posture on a hybrid. The rolling resistance coefficient 0.004 assumes very well running tires. Calculate the speed once with this value, then double and tripple it. Example calculation: For 100 kg weight, at sea level on a flat, and 200 W power I get 9.15 m/s, 8.53 m/s, and 7.82 m/s for coefficients 0.004, 0.008, and 0.012, respectively. For lighter riders rolling resitance matters less. Further reading: Sheldon Brown, tread patterns ibid, tire width and pressure Jan Heine, suspension losses