Gets you "oh yeah, I see it, no worries I just change this, this and this, and then I - oh ha ha, that's a common misconception, just make that a reference - and yup, there you go, all set. In contrast, 

I bet this feels kind of mean. So at the same time, try to really ramp up the positive feedback you give him on other things. When you ask him to do something for you (test a fix, for example) say please. After he's done it, say thanks. If he gives you a phone message or tells you about a meeting, look as pleased and happy as you can while thanking him. If he tries to make small talk like asking about your weekend, join in and participate for a few sentences to help him feel accepted and to have a connection to you. And hold your ground on the "jokes". He may find a level of joking that you can live with. He may stop trying to tell jokes. He may get better at jokes. He may tell you that your jokes don't work either. You may end up having a long private conversation about humor in the workplace and "lightening up" vs being able to focus on hard things. But don't start with that. Start with shooting down the distracting thing instead of ignoring it or pretending you like it. 

Whenever you answer a question, it's important that you understand what the interviewer is trying to find out from it. Let's say I am interviewing for a chef for my French restaurant. I have a number of culinary-school graduates whose resumes say they have worked in restaurant kitchens before. I ask each of them "Why do you want to cook here?" and they say: 

Do you not care what the job pays? What the hours are? What you should wear to work? If people typically work in only one department or move around as needs arise? How you know the answers to customer's questions and what backup you have if you don't know? Three of your four questions are "am I likely to get this job?" or other non-questions. Stop and think about being a Customer Service Specialist at BestBuy. Do you know how these people spend their workday? Do you know why (other than the paycheque) you want to join them? Is there really nothing you have wondered about the position that isn't clarified in the job posting? Nothing? Then how can you possibly want this job, as opposed to "any old job that will take me"? Stop fussing about whether you're doing well in the interview and start thinking about using the interview to learn about the actual job you are offering to take. 

I have had interviews cancelled because the candidate has already accepted an offer somewhere else. This doesn't require much protocol: you can call or email, and you're only cancelling an interview. If you send a nice paper letter, you may be thought well of by the people involved, but you don't have to. However getting two job offers is a little trickier. Once someone has given you a job offer in writing, declining it should at least get the same treatment. If the offer was in email, you can reply in email. Be nice. Tell them why you are declining, in as polite and vague a way as you need to. When I send "sorry, but you didn't get the job" letters to candidates, I say "we have made an offer to another candidate, who has accepted it" so you could say "I have already received and accepted an offer from another company". Most firms are going to be a little annoyed. Maybe they feel you shouldn't accept that offer right away but should somehow let them know someone else has given you an offer. Maybe they feel you held back information in the interview. This isn't very logical: none of us would tell our children to stop applying for jobs just because they've had an interview, and after all the firm is interviewing lots of candidates. But people aren't always logical. So write a nice letter or email and do it as quickly as you can, so they can make an offer to the second place person while that person is still on the market. Email is good for speed; you can follow up with paper if you want. 

The NDA will let you know whether you're allowed to disclose that you've signed it or not. I've had some that prevent me from disclosing the client's name or the existence of the relationship. However in asking whether you can show the NDA, you're asking the wrong question. You are asked if you have signed something that would limit your ability to work for the new employer. Is being constrained from telling anyone the plans, products, and proprietary details of a former client going to constrain you from working for someone? Really? The first thing you need to do is read your NDA carefully to understand what it prevents you from disclosing. I have NDAs about pre-release software, for example. Before the product is released, the NDA allows me to learn the software but not tell anyone else. That won't restrict my ability to, say, write code for someone with the current version. I have NDAs about client's customer contact information. I can't use what I know about their customers to help someone else approach those customers. That won't restrict my ability to provide good advice about software architecture, team dynamics, and customer needs. Are you really sure your NDA restricts you in any way? If not, and my bet would be not, then your answer is "No. I've signed NDAs, of course, but none will restrict my work for you." 

I don't ask people where they live or how long their commute would be. I also don't refrain from hiring people because their commute would be too long, though I wouldn't be surprised to hear that some employers do, worrying they would eventually lose you and the investment they'd made in you. But even those employers won't distinguish between "lives two minute walk from work" and "lives within a reasonable commute distance for this culture" - say an hour of driving or public transit if you live in Toronto, presumably less in other places. However if you want them to make that distinction, then show it to them yourself to make it a positive for you. Some examples: 

In addition to planning your day, tidying things up, and just plain leaving early (to make up for staying late other times), let me suggest something that probably seems very counter-intuitive: 

Even though it doesn't appear on the surface to be a technical question, you can give a technical answer. The only difference between the first two answers is the type of cuisine - but what a difference it is! (For a programming job, imagine C++ and PHP, or the like.) Many of these questions are simply prompts for you to talk (on a technical level) about what you're good at and what you like to do. Yes, they want to know if you'll be motivated and a good cultural fit. But they also use these questions to get you to talk in a very free form way about the technical things that matter to you. And even if that wasn't their intention, it's a great way for you to run with the question. Give a technically-focused answer explaining what it is about the opportunity (doing research, working in the X field, solving real customer problems, some sentence from the job description basically) that appeals to you, and why you're good at that or want to do that. 

It's important to distinguish among your rights, what you can demand from your employer, what it's smart to demand from your employer, and what it's smart to offer your employer. Legally, can your employer refuse you PTO regardless of the urgency of your need for it and the urgency of their need for your presence? I don't know. (US labour law is not an expertise of mine.) However, a much better question is is it smart for you to demand PTO for trivial reasons during a crunch at work? Certainly not. I would hope that if you had a true crisis, such as a dying relative, your house burned down, or the like, that your employer would step up and free you from your work commitments (perhaps without paying you if your PTO was all used up) so that you could deal with your crisis. You want that from them, I'm sure. It would not be a time for stickling over the rules. In the same spirit, if you being away is going to ruin a deadline, a planned release date, or something else vital to the company, and your PTO reason is postponable, it sure would be nice if you were to postpone it instead of demanding your rights. I can't force you to be nice. I can't fire you for not being nice. (I may be allowed to, but I hired you for a reason and firing you just because you're a little selfish and thoughtless is not in my best interests, whether I have a boss to answer to or own the company.) I probably won't promote you just for being nice. But it helps, right? Some employers are always having "a critical time" and you'll never get your days off. So it's not a long term strategy to postpone things, and especially not to cancel days off you had already requested. But to come and request new days off, for no important reason, at a crunch time -- it may be within your rights, but it kind of isn't nice. And you should understand that perception when you decide what to do.