A recent problem is that my boss is more worried about how our actions make him appear to the rest of the company than he is about the actual results of our work. For example he is willing to deliver a poor product on time so that he looks good in the eyes of his superiors (having lots of on time deliveries checks a lot of boxes for him) However this is negatively impacting on myself and my coworkers as we are having to be overloaded with the additional work of fixing the problems that rushing to meet deadlines causes. This, in turn, is leading to high tension, lots of stress and mistakes and poor reviews for the employees because of all the mistakes that rushing is invariably causing. I'm fairly certain that if this is prolonged it will lead to the resignation of a few key people in this team which would make this problem much worse. He seems to be aiming to meet goals that pay off for him in the short run (on time and good appearance to upper management) that are causing a loss in the long run (lots of bugs, high tension, annoyed customers, annoyed employees) How can I convince my boss that aiming only for wins in the short run will cause him exponentially worse problems in the long run? Is there any way to convince him of this or is waiting for his failures to catch up to him the only way he is likely to be willing to change? 

The key to most of these is compromise, but to get to that point you are probably going to need to talk to one or more people about it. 

It's only a good idea if everybody agrees to it otherwise it is likely to cause some issues with the team dynamics. Consider these scenarios: 

I would say yes if you are comfortable with that. This way it at least proves that it IS your linked in profile and that you aren't trying to use someone else's profile who is qualified, to try and get a job with the company. This way you at least have that backup of being able to say no its definitely mine, see the picture and myself are identical. 

The disadvantage of this is that not everyone measures novice and expert the same as every one else. So this hints at nothing than that you might have used that skill. 4. Just Skills An alternate method is to just list the skills you have and not provide a metric, for example a list might then look like 

Seeing as there are no alternate answers popping up for this, allow me to elaborate on my comment. Rather than list every single project under one company list the few most relevant to the job you are applying for. For example you may wish to list the 3 or 4 most recent projects that you found challenging or where you learnt something new. You may wish to pick the 3 or 4 which show you have a diverse knowledge of many subjects, for example you might choose to list one where you had to use one technology to do one thing and a completely different technology for another. This shows you have a diverse and useful skill set You might wish to be specific, and instead choose to list the 3 or 4 that most accurately show your knowledge in a certain skill set, for example a particular technology that you used frequently, and wish to keep using. You might choose to eliminate the ones that were just menial, day to day tasks that dont show off what you are capable of. Remember the point of your CV is to show off what you can do, in a short and concise manner, you want to show the recruiter you know your stuff, but you dont want them to get bored with an overly long 'previous projects' section. Keep it short, keep it sweet, keep it relevant. 

What you signed up for I am not a lawyer, nor have I seen your contract, but most of them have clause along the lines of 'and other tasks as required', which means that contractually you have agreed to do other work for him if required. Progression Now that the disclaimer is out of the way let's get to the real stuff. It's a fact of life that sometimes you have to do things you don't want to do. Maybe the boss doesn't have anyone else who he thinks can do this piece of work, maybe he thinks you should learn these new skills required to be able to do it, without really talking to him who really knows. Sometimes what is good for the company isn't good for your career. At these points you have a few options. Blatantly Refuse Sure you could just tell the boss 'No, I don't want to do this'. However I don't see this going very well, some might call it a 'career limiting move' by which I mean, depending on where you live, you could find yourself terminated rather quickly. So this isn't really an ideal option. Accept it and do it Another option would be to suck it up and get on with it like millions of other people in the world are currently doing. You might learn something new from this, you will get the opportunity to learn the new technologies, you will get the opportunity to work more with GUI stuff and you will get the opportunity to further your skills, this could, in time, help you to get a new job. Alternately you could just be miserable for the entire project depending on the kind of attitude you approach it with. Whether or not you do this option is definitely your call. Will the new skills be worth the potential dislike of what you are doing. Present a case for someone else O.k so maybe you aren't the right person to tackle this task, maybe one of your co workers is itching to do this kind of work, maybe they already have experience doing this kind of work. If you really don't think you are the best person for the job then you can talk to the boss about someone better suited doing this. This is a very risky choice however, as you are drawing attention to the fact that you lack what might be required skills and that you lack the motivation to help the company if it isn't in your own best interests. Move on to greener pastures I hate suggesting this, but I will do so for the sake of completeness of your options. You could quit, this shouldn't be your first choice though. Maybe you tried suggesting someone else and blatantly refusing, maybe you gave it your best shot and its just not for you. Maybe your boss knows all of this and just doesn't care. If it's not working out and you are consistently doing things you don't like doing you can move on. This is also very risky, as you cannot guarantee another job, or even that you will enjoy working for that other company. Plus you will have to realise that even in that new company there will be the potential for you to be given work you don't like. But if the company wants the work done, someone needs to do it and you cant always get the stuff you like. Conclusion Essentially you have a plethora of options to take, each with their own flaws. I won't pretend to know what's best for you, only you can know that. Personally I would at least give it a try, you never know what you might learn but the choice is yours. Good luck in whatever option you choose! 

This has the advantage of the two of you, perhaps even the team, to be able to get together and discuss the design, if there are flaws, they will be out in the open and the team can discuss them. If there are no flaws and you just misunderstood the reason then it is likely that the rest of the team also made this mistake, and the opportunity for you all to learn why it is being done could be an advantage to the team as a learning opportunity. 

Truthful answer? You don't. The people are an integral part of the Project, there is no project without people. You've been tasked with managing these people and their deadlines in order to deliver your product on time. You need to be able to know what they are doing and why they are doing it, you need to know when they are meeting milestones and you need to know what is stopping them from working effectively. Despite it being called a Project manager you don't manage a project, you manage the people who work on the project! So you're going to need to make sure you know as much as you reasonably can! The more you know the more effective of a PM you can be. The more you understand their problems, their issues and their weaknesses the more effective you will be at finding solutions and removing obstacles for them. If they are losing time due to other phone calls for other projects then talk to the other Project Manager of that project. The system we have is a sort of time share system, where people will be booked to say do Project X for 3 days a week and Project Y for 2 days. That way their time is split fairly and you can then know when they should definately be working on your project. See if they need to be fielding client calls or if thats something someone else is meant to be doing or capable of doing. Currently its an obstacle, see if you can remove it, if not try and improve the situation, remove as many obstacles as you can so that when they are working on your project they are working efficiently and effectively 

with no indication of proficiency. The interviewer can determine that in the interview themselves through questions. The disadvantage of this is that you give no indication how good you might be in any of these skills. Obviously 'better' is going to be highly subjective. The purpose of the question is instead, which is more likely to provide a relevant measurement of my skills without appearing to be less skilled comparative to people using other methods 

Eventually you find yourself needing to draw lines. Is it the last person to turn up who has to pay? Is it the person who wasn't on an urgent call? Is it the person who wasn't doing something for a client? What about those who are ill? Busy? Swamped? Caught by a more senior person for a talk in the hall on the way there? There are too many rules to remember, too many situations that work or don't work. At the end of the day you are avoiding the cause of the problem. Why aren't these people on time? Priority Perhaps it's not a high enough priority for them. If they are working on more than one project and they are nearing the end of a section of their work people find it more acceptable to finish that work then go to the meeting. This prevents people from losing their trail of thought. Not to mention that actual work on a project is usually prioritized over a discussion about work for a project. It's just common sense because it has the highest Return on Effort. Purpose Maybe these people feel they don't have a purpose in the meeting. Why are they there? Are they able to contribute properly to the meeting or have you dragged them along because there is a potential for them to be useful for 5 minutes, maybe. This causes people to zone out during the meetings, then be less inclined to even turn up on time, they feel their time is wasted. Workload Maybe these people are too busy. If they have 5 on going projects, all with short deadlines as well as a plethora of meetings to attend and documents to review and estimates to give, then of course they are going to be late. Organisation Maybe these people are just poorly organised and forget when things are. In which case, is the company / manager doing as much as they can to help? Providing time management tools for example. Hell, even Outlook is capable of dropping meeting reminders and storing flags. At the end of the day you're trying to punish people for being late, rather than trying to remove the obstacle that causes them to be late Which is the equivalent of whipping a donkey for falling to the floor, ignoring the fact that it fell because you loaded it up with more than it could carry. So in conclusion I don't think its appropriate, you're trying to impose a punishment to stop something that has already happened, rather than trying to stop it from happening in the first place. You want my advice? Simply ask them why they are late. You'll find they will either give an answer, which aids you in solving the root cause, or they will repeatedly say "i dont know" which allows their manager to take more appropriate actions. 

If everyone's eating habits aren't catered to, then you are unfairly segregating those people. You could argue that the higher costs for needing to cater to everyone is even more likely to encourage being on time. But what about the first scenario? When it isn't their fault? 

I think the best approach you could take here is to talk to your manager, just you and him. Build an understanding It's clear that your manager is sometimes giving you conflicting advice on what to do, so what you might find useful is to have a sit down meeting with your manager and discuss what your role in these meetings are. What are you supposed to contribute? How are you supposed to contribute? When are you supposed to contribute? When are you supposed to leave it to your manager? Clarify Beforehand A meeting 5- 10 minutes before the actual meeting can give you and your manager a chance to discuss between just yourselves. This helps bring you both on the same page so that one of you isn't saying one thing, whilst the other is saying another thing. This also gives you a chance to clear up any confusion between you and your manager which can aid him too. During the meeting During the meeting you should keep your contributions short and simple. Offload only the information they need to know in simple terms, cut out as much techno speak as you can. They already have decisions to make so may as well give the information to them simply enough to understand.