This is a pragmatic decision of the compilers and editors. Space matters, and the time to compile the dictionary matters, too. For compound words they usually stop with stating the components, for derived words with the derivation, and for basic words the deeper relations are noted. You will often find notes see this or that lemma for more information. 

From your examples it looks like you are looking for terms (as defined in Terminology). You can use several tools for term extraction to find terms in a corpus, or you can look around for terminology databases. 

Note that the term root is language dependent, for Semitic languages it usually consists of three consonant without any vowels. Also for stems there is some leeway in the definition. Both root and stem are product of the analysis of word forms, and often there is a canonical way of doing this, but sometimes linguists may disagree. 

Does "any other method" include manual work? Then I recommend to train some students to annotate the coreference chains. Take care that every text is annotated twice by different annotators, and compute the inter-annotator agreement (e.g., by determining Cohen's kappa). 

Onomastics¹ has a big overlap with linguistics, specially with historical linguistics (derivation and meaning of names, sound shifts, etc.). Some valuable historical linguistic information is only available by the study of proper names (several languages are otherwise completely undocumented). It is traditionally seen as a branch of linguistics. However, there are non-linguistic aspects of onomastics: The study of historical professions (giving raise to modern surnames in Europe), cultural and religious practices reflected in proper names, taboos. The synthesis of all those fields makes onomastics a fascinating discipline, but there are very few posts for researchers in onomastics out there. ¹ I link to German language wikipedia because it is much more informative than the English version 

What periphrastic verb form are attested in the Gothic language, the oldest Germanic language we have substantial records from? Skimming through a grammar of Gothic I found that for the past tense passive a periphrastic construction was used (which is remarkably identical to the Modern German one, using the Gothic cognate of Modern German werden and the past participle; Gothic also has a be passive comparable to the English one). I have not found any traces of a have perfect but this may just be outside the scope of the grammar and is maybe attested in the Gothic corpus (similarly, short Latin grammars probably don't mention probatum habeo as a periphrastic perfect active form). Are there periphrastic verb form other than the passive I have already mentioned attested in the corpus of Gothic text we have? This question is inspired by Where did the use of the two auxiliaries in the Romance languages come from? and its answers and comments. 

The most convienient way to search for corpora is the Virtual language Observatory (VLO), a service by the European CLARIN project. Enter "Arabic corpus" in the search slit and you'll get (at the moment of this answer writing) 1863 hits, among them the following: 

You are looking for Knowledge Extraction, a task that goes far beyond Named Entity Recognition. It is an area of ongoing research, don't expect ready-made tools for this right now. 

When you want to test mutual intelligibility you need to do experiments with test persons. Note, that the mutual intelligibility is not a symmetric relation, in general there is a difference in the intelligibility of language A to native speakers of language B vs. the intelligibility of language B to native speakers of language A. Tanja Augustinova has done a lot of research on mutual intelligibility of Slavonic languages, her publication list can be found here: $URL$ 

Maybe we can see a (semi-)opening of the personal pronoun class in English just now: There are not only a lot of suggestions of an epicene pronoun floating around (this would extend the closed class by one member, but is in itself not an opening), but there are also a bunch of new pronouns on the verge for a "Third gender", going as far as allowing every individual to chose Eir own pronoun. 

I think, the answer is yet: We don't know. The capital cities of Mitanni aren't localised nor excavated. The accounts of Mitanni come from the Hurritic city of Nuzi and from external relationships. 

In a conlang, you can essentially try out whatever you want. When you want to go for a naturalistic, but simple case system, there are are languages with just two cases termed nominative (for the subject of a sentence) and oblique (for everything else, including direct and indirect objects as well as nouns in prepositional phrases). 

The ISO codes were directly taken from The Ethnologue. This work also contains a language classification, e.g., 

The last surviving reduplicating verb in modern German is tun, past tense tat, past participle getan. It is cognate to English do, did, done which also shows traces of reduplication (but this is no longer obvious, because in English -ed is the standard past tense suffix, and did can be reanalysed as d-ed). German tat clearly shows reduplication, because 

The term p(i) cannot mean anything but the frequency of the i-th type, obtained by dividing the number of occurences of it by the total number of tokens. The frequency equals the probability in a bag-of-words (or more general, a bag-of-types) model. 

There is another aspect not yet mentioned in the other answers: While speaking, your hands are free for other tasks; you can carry some things, use tools, stear a car, or work with your hands. All that you cannot do while signing. 

Here is an example from German and its dialects to see the process in action. High German has two distinct allophones of a phoneme written as ch, the so-called Ich-Laut /ç/ and the Ach_Laut /x/. The realisation of ch in High German is completely determined by the preceding sound; it is Ich-Laut initally and after e, i, ö, ü, and consonants and Ach-Laut after a, o, and u. We have in High German the two words Leiche /laɪçə/ "corpse" and Lache /la:xə/ "puddle, pool". Now there are some German dialects, where the diphthong /aɪ/ developed to /a:/. In those dialects, the outcome of the two words is something like /la:çə/ for Leiche and /la:xe/ for Lache/ creating a minimal pair for /ç/ and /x/ and boosting them to phonem status. 

From Germanic languages, both High German and English developed the same diphthong au in the words Haus/house and Maus/mouse independently, while Low German keeps the original long u. English and High German also both diphthongised the long i to ai, e.g., in mein/my where Low German keeps the original long i. 

The phenomenon you are talking about is studied under the label language attrition. Searching for this term with your favourite search engine will bring up a good wealth of references. 

A method for introducing variation in language data is round-trip translation to a different language and back. Shalom Lappin used machine translation for this purpose (and noted that Google translate is already too good for this purpose and he had to resort to a 2007 version of MOSES). 

For every Romance language, the fun is spoiled by later borrowings (from Latin, Greek, English and other languages). Spontaneously, I'd vote for Italian because it simplified many medial consonant clusters by assimilation (like prodotto "product"). But it has acquired new initial consonant clusters (like /zbr-/ in sbrutto) from simplifying the prefix dis-. In a conlang, you can go for an even simpler phonology, I think. 

I suggest to use more than one tool. When you have three different tools you can use majority voting to determine your tags. In case of ties, a human arbiter can fix the tags. Also note that the tools can be trained. When you can afford to create some tailored training data from your corpus you can improve the accuracy of the tagging significantly. 

the answer is: It is classified as a variety of English like British English, American English, or Australian English. All varieties of English have regional dialects and other kinds of lects and slangs. 

Even weak verbs dont have a final -t in the 3rd sg. past, see, e.g., er sagte "he said" vs. ihr sagtet "you (pl) said". 

Note that there is always a grey zone between suffixes and compound words. Arguably, all suffixes were independent words historically, but lost their independent meaning (in German verblassen "to bleach out"). So we have at any time some things that are still recognisable as words, but half-way on becoming a true suffix. This things are called suffixoids. 

The entropy formula as quoted has some ideosyncrasies making it different from standard Shannon entropy 

For the 6th century CE, the answer is a definite no, there weren't any speakers of Celtic languages on the iberian peninsula. The attested inscriptions in Celtiberic and Gallacean end in the 1st century BCE. There might be some speakers around after the last inscriptions, but six centuries later is a rather long time. 

Obviously not: Swedish is a Germanic language and proto-Germanic was a trigendered language (masculine, feminine, and neuter) as modern German still is. I don't know when the masculine and feminine gender fused to the common gender in Swedish—in Old Norse in the medieval times the trigender system was still intact. Also, modern Swedish and Danish dialects differ in the number of genders they have (everything from 1 to 3 occurs). However, it is definitely not a planned language change to enforce gender equality. It developed naturally (the previously distinct endings of the definite forms fell together in one form for masculine and feminine). EDIT: The introduction of a common (gender-neutral or epicence) pronoun into Swedish in indeed a modern innovation and can be seen as an act of language planning. For details, see the Wikipedia article hen (pronoun)