J. J. Gibson began working on the problems of visual perception with his future wife and collaborator Eleanore J. Gibson whose major extensions of J. J. Gibson’s work was her deep research into perceptual learning. E. J. Gibson extended J. J.’s work reflected in his The Senses Considered. Her first important book was Principles of Perceptual Learning and Development. Later her collaboration with J.J. on ecological visual perception inspired her magnum opus An Ecological Approach to Perceptual Learning and Development. Sensory ‘Illusions’ as a Species of Functional Isolation and the Argument from Pathology Returning to the issue of sensory illusions, the most important concept to realize is that no theory of perception can be built on theories of perceptual or sensory illusions. Why? For the very same reasons that no theory of biology or physiology can logically be built on the basis of biological functional pathology. Pathological systems are by their very nature malfunctioning systems. Pathology is explained as corruptions of healthy or properly integrated and functioning physical, biological or psychological systems. Illusions are the consequences of the carefully contrived ‘unnatural’, ‘deficient’, ‘constrained’ or ‘restrictive’ presentation of isolated visual (tactile, auditory, etc) sensory ‘stimuli’. It is the very fact that these presentation techniques prevent adequate exercise of the subject’s full perceptual capacities that leads to the ambiguity and vagueness that characterize so-called sensory illusions. When inadequate sensory information is presented to the subject, it should not be surprising that the resulting experience is to that very extent non-veridical and always associated with the feeling of ambiguity and uncertainty. Similarly in the realm of neurophysiology, experimenters typically isolate some part of the nervous system (often using severe isolation) so that only the most primitive sensory-motor phenomenon can occur and be accurately observed and measured. It is a methodological illusion to believe that the results of such anatomical/physiological isolation, such as the extensive experimental work on ‘the reflex arc’, represent the primitive bases for and are revelatory of the neuromuscular principles underlying normal integrated behavior. This approach fails to recognize and appreciate the implications of The Integrative Action of the Nervous System (Sir Charles Sherrington, 1906) . Similar errors occur in the study of embryological development, where local isolated phenomenon are mistakenly taken for fundamental biochemical elements of biogenesis. See the work of Paul A. Weiss, an innovator and mentor in the field of neurophysiology. Weiss once wrote: “Of what do we deprive a system when we dismember it and isolate its component parts, whether bodily or just in our minds? Plainly, of the interrelations that had existed among the parts while they were still united.” – from Paul Weiss, “One Plus One Not Equal Two” in The Neurosciences: A Study Program, pp. 801-821. This fallacy of construction by structural or functional decomposition permeates much of science, particularly biological science leading to may false doctrines and theories. Underlying this general methodology is the dogma of mechanistic reductionism and functional or elemental reductionism, which holds that a system can be fully understood as the additive product of the actions of its individual parts. Isolating sensory receptors thus preventing sensory exploration and proper sensory function can only lead to sensory-motor inadequacy and the common phenomenon of sensory ‘illusions’. We conclude that this method of sensory isolation commits the same methodological errors cited above, leading to fallacious conclusions regarding the functioning of our sensory-motor systems. 

The question itself has been already discussed by the previous answers but I think that understanding the history and the purpose of mathematics and how it differs from other sciences would be of great help in general : As someone studying mathematical logic/meta-mathematics I can assure you that the purpose of mathematics is not to describe the universe, and mathematics do not describe it, physics does, chemistry does, biology does, natural sciences in general do but mathematics certainly doesn't. We consider that both writing and mathematics (through counting) were created around 8000 BC as a way to keep trace of agricultural goods. Nowadays mathematics are a way to express, understand and share complex ideas in general. During antiquity there was no such thing as logically constructed mathematics (that does not mean that mathematics were not constructed that way but rather that they were not consciously constructed that way). For example, if someone argued that 1 + 1 does not equal 2 he would be have been ignored for being stupid and not understanding 1+1=2 but no proof of 1+1=2 would have been given. Any proof would just have been a speech in natural language that would have convinced the majority. As a consequence, most of the work done until Renaissance was not much more advanced than what can be done with an abaccus and ruler & compass maths. Around the 18th/19th century mathematicians realized that both mathematics and natural languages were too complex, that proceeding that way lead to errors and misunderstandings. They worked on a way to guarantee that a proof was correct and they could understand each other properly. At that point mathematical notations and logic were created (Leibniz and Peano played a major role in this and despite being hard to read by today's standards I would still recommend to everyone to read their books/papers). Notations allows people to universally understand exactly what we are talking about, and logic is a rather simple tool that allows us to make proper proofs. The base of formal mathematics is axioms : a set of rules that we take for granted. Axioms cannot be proven, they have to be extremely carefully chosen. As long as we assemble, mix the axioms following a set of rules, the result is guaranteed to be logical, error-less and the whole proof is a coherent thought. But if the axioms are not chosen properly we can prove nonsense. For example if the axioms used consider two opposite propositions to be true then everything can be proven according to those axioms. In maths we arbitrarily define rules basic enough to build upon in a safe (logical) way. But nothing prevents you fomr creating a custom set of axioms and build upon them to create a description of the opposite of our universe. In physics (and other natural/experimental sciences) we chose a set of axioms basic enough not to allow us to make errors and try to define an equation describing some natural phenomenon. Then we do experiments trying to show that the equation we built was wrong, if we fail such a high amount of times that we can consider the equation to be sufficiently accurate and reliable we use it. Maths is a powerful tool to describe complex things in general. But it is just a way to describe cognitive abstractions is a standardized format. Also mathematics have a limit. Gödel's incompleteness theorem states that no matter how full and complex the set of axioms we chose is, there will always be things that we will not be able to prove despite being true.