She: getting drunk, hitting you and lying about it He: Hugging a drink female colleague and hitting you and lying about it You: Making some joke instead of leaving them alone 

Everything depends if the employee actually was stupid enough to tell that e was fired. normally there is no reason to disclose the fact that somebody was fired at all. If it comes to light in the team that he was fired then the only explanation should be that keeping him in the team would not have been good for the team, together with the instruction not to speculate about the details. 

Personal/private mobile numbers which are read on the weekend or will disturb anybodies dinner or family life are only for emergencies, which require immediate attention. Using these for anything which can wait is nonprofessional. Using these for indicating how important your concern about your coworker is, is plainly inappropriate. For your own sake, seek an advisors help. 

What does you boss need to know? He/She needs to know about the problem this may cause. It's not so much relevant for why there is a shortage but that there is a shortage. Briefly inform him that on that day you will need to shift some work, and (depending on the nature of the business) customers will have to wait/not be served, a project will be delivered late, deadlines will be missed etc... Be specific about it so that he can estimate the impact. It sounds like he is not only the boss but also the owner of the company, so he can make up his mind if loosing a customer or paying fees is worth it. 

Computational geometry is quite far from being purely theoretical. Your first step should be building a list of companies that have active projects with some computational geometry component. Use CiteSeerX to find authors of top papers and their corporate affiliations. Alternatively, just run a query on SeerSeer to get the list of top "experts" out of the box. Here's the query I ran for you: $URL$ Then look for open positions in the companies in the list that match your skill set. You can also send cv's without open positions as a last resort. 

Now, the way they handle this is abysmal. Assuming the worst, they botched their task and have shown themselves to be cheapskates. First, they leaked the decision, and second, they chose you instead of an external consultant to interview the next "IT person" for the firm. Please bear in mind that you cannot know for sure whether the rumors are actually true. Thus, your first course of action can be (surprise!) going to your supervisor and asking a direct question about the rumors. You have the right to be kept informed about your career prospects. Most people feel uncomfortable while lying in a face-to-face meeting, you should watch for signs carefully. Only after getting the essential information directly or indirectly you can plan your next step. If the worst fears of yours are not mere figments of imagination, you always have the option of jumping ship and filing the resignation letter without having to go through the unwarranted pain and hassle of interviewing your replacement. 

Think about these, and if you manage to address the latter one and make it visible that you actually solved a real problem there, your boss will love you. 

If you talk about how you adressed a flaw of yours, then it should be fine. I very much prefer people who tell me how they overcome flaws or how they share tasks in a way that their flaws don't matter instead of persons who tell me that they are perfect. 

I have a situation here with a manager (he and me report to the same person) who is responsible for certain aspects with a customer (he is sales, i am a technical team lead). More often than not in the recent months he claims (and insists) that something is settled with the customer, and I later find out that it is not. I do so because I am on-site at the customer, and he isn't and the customer holds me responsible. An typical example is that when new people are added to the team, it would be his responsibility to do the necessary agreements about starting dates and permissions to work on-site with the customer, but we now have the 4th or 5th occasion when the new person arrives without doing so. It starts to impact the customers image of my employer negatively and affect my time severly (additionally to dealing with something which was his job, I have to do so unprepared, immediately, and very often take additional steps). My options are to 

You are probably confusing two different notions. A peer cannot be your supervisor. If you are working under his supervision, he's the boss, and you have to treat him in a thoroughly respectful yet confident manner, even if the age difference between him and you is small. As for him keeping you out of the loop, you have the right to ask him any question related to your part of the project; don't hesitate to do that since success of the project depends on both of you having access to timely and accurate information. If you still want to score brownie points with the management, concentrate on learning more arcane and in-depth stuff about the software you are developing, the programming languages and frameworks you use, and the problem domain for your software. Out of knowledge come confidence and the power to influence the process... One more thing: yes, this is a career race, but please do keep the spirit of fair play; your personal development is much more beneficial in the long term than any petty tactical maneuvering and elbowing you could spend precious time on. 

Okay, you are elated you have found a new job and are moving on. The sun is shining and your old boss is gently prodding you to find out the items you mentioned. It's a trifle, and you will lose nothing by answering, right? WRONG! Please pause to think about the following: 

Okay, here's a question: are there any reasons (from your managers' viewpoint) why you should be kept out of the loop as far as your firing is concerned? Yes, there are two that I can think of instantly: