By definition, a supersonic bullet exceeds the speed of sound. If you are close enough, you will not hear it before it reaches your location, if it is fired in your direction. If it matters, most handgun ammunition is subsonic, while most rifle ammunition is supersonic. Of course, a bullet will not remain supersonic at any distance, it will slow down over time. However, a bullet meant for long-distance shooting may not slow below supersonic for 1000 meters or so. (Technically, the bullet is the projectile, and the cartridge and charge of powder are important in how fast the bullet can be pushed, but I'm blurring those distinctions.) There are two sounds associated with supersonic bullets: 1) the firing of the gun -- i.e. the powder "exploding" in the cartridge to propel the bullet down the barrel -- and 2) the shockwave from being supersonic. The shockwave follows closely behind the bullet, while the sound of the gun firing may be left farther behind. (It would not be unusual for a rifle bullet to be 2-3x the speed of sound.) 

Quickly assemble a Censor Fusion Drone" (CFD). This plane will secretly have your Radical New Radar (RNR) onboard, but it will also have lots of receivers/transmitters for a new kind of signal that is its ostensible purpose: communicating with all the planes in an area and fusing/controlling their individual radars to give an unprecedented view of the battlefield. Upgrade the radar in all of your normal planes to have new transmitters/receivers, which transmit a signal based on their own radar and which receive signals which help to tune and steer their own radar. These signals are between the planes and the nearest CFD. Brief all the technicians and pilots about this and have them keep it secret. In reality, the links from a plane's radar to the CFD are somewhat based on the radar, but is mainly a diagnostic tool, and the link from the CFD to the plane is similar. It's mainly to detect a loss of communication between the two -- for example as the result of damage to the plane -- so that you don't have a suspicious issue where a plane's been flying for three weeks with a melted circuit board. (At the same time, the communications are real.) The "fusion" aspect of the CFD overlays and hides the secret RNR. If a CFD is shot down, it will actually knock out your enhanced view, and you will obviously put a high priority on defending the CFD to protect its "fusion" role. Throw a self-destruct mechanism on the CFD, and also instruct pilots that they may be asked to strafe/bomb/destroy the CFD if it ever crashes in enemy territory. Set up a command center to pilot one or more CFDs. Say the command center is something like NORAD in the US: highly secure, isolated, etc. Say 50% of the personnel there are support, security, etc, 40% man the consoles showing information from the fused CFD feeds, 5% actually control (fly) the CFD, and 5% are in a back room and are supposedly liaisons receiving intelligence feeds from spies, satellites, and other black ops assets. Of course, the "intelligence feed" is the actual RNR. The other people at consoles in the main room are either seeing something from the plane radars, or a degraded version of the RNR. (The guys in the back room could also selectively degrade/un-degrade those feeds so someone could spot something if need be.) So the commanding officer might hear from the back room that "intelligence indicates that the enemy has launched three super-stealth planes that might defeat our fused radar" which actually means that the full RNR feed sees those planes, but people sitting at consoles in the main room can't see it. 

I think a taste of Highlander ("There can be only one") would help. Mages can become powerful the hard way, or the "easy" way by killing another mage and absorbing their power. So you have good mages who just work really hard at it, but who on the whole avoid other mages because it's not unlikely that in a group of mages, one of them would turn on another to take the shortcut to power. Good mages could also gain power by killing evil mages in self defense -- but would on the whole just work long and hard to gain the knowledge and experience to be more powerful. 

Perhaps many titles are used in the language, but most people don't actually know what many of them mean. Perhaps I was told that this person is "my friend's oldest brother's butler's programmer cousin", and that's how I'd refer to this person in my conversation. You ask me what "programmer" (or "butler") means and I have to say I don't know. It's probably something the person does, but it could be other things. I know what a "smith" does and what my father the "cobbler" does, but... In fact, I may not know anyone except that particular person who knows what a "programmer" is. The investigator could wander around all day asking people to direct them to anyone who is a programmer, and no one actually knows. 

Why do you need aliens? Your “cavemen” might have once had the technology to get to the planet, but crash-landed, ruining their high-tech toys. A few hundred years later, they would only have mythical remembrance of their technology. Being a caveman isn’t being stupid. If you were stranded on a deserted island, you would become a caveman overnight. 

Assuming that they sleep, they would at some point probably find it useful to synchronize their sleep cycles so that they would could work on projects that are best accomplished with multiple helpers. Anything from hunting to lifting heavy objects. From there, I could see that it might be useful to have basically two sets of sleep cycles: an A Team and a B Team, so work could be attempted/accomplished at any time. That would define a "day": a complete wake/sleep cycle for both A and B. Even before then, a complete (average) sleep cycle would define a unit of time. Other activities could also define units of time. How long to walk as far as you can see? That might be called a Long Walk. How long can you hold your breath underwater? How long does it take you to eat? How long does it take for meat over a fire to cook? How long before milk spoils and is dangerous to drink? How long does it take for wet clothes to dry? I don't think it would be that abstract. 

Get the book "Word Play: What Happens When People Talk" by Peter Farb. A fascinating look at languages. One of the things I learned about from that book was trade languages (Pidgin, lingua franca). For example, in a trade language you might create a plural by repeating a noun. So "boy" becomes not "boys" but "boy boy". 

Does the teleportation brush aside objects where you might land, or does it shunt you nearby? At what size/mass of object? Wires, rods, solid cement? (Heck, even dust... Do you suddenly get filled with dust when you port into a dusty room? How precisely do you have to know or imagine a target location? Do you have to know any details of the shop, or do you just imagine a shop by name? What if the shop is fictional? Can you just imagine "I want to go to Betty Crocker's (a fictional character) kitchen and somehow you will go somewhere? 

I also think about some languages that have very nuanced words for relatives. For example, English has sister and brother to distinguish siblings by gender. Then step-sister to distinguish siblings by other parents. You can have a first cousin twice-removed, which is fairly specific but does not indicate gender. As I understand it, some languages have many specific words for various relatives rather than using a street-address-like "first cousin", "second cousin", etc. 

I think this would disguise the program pretty well. The cover story makes total sense and pretty much totally overlays what's really going on. 

A society chooses a handful of children -- perhaps children of powerful politicians, athletes, scientists, etc -- to protect from a massive war or alien onslaught. Perhaps they are accompanied by some adults as they head to the safe place but the adults end up dying in a rear-guard action to save the kids. The safe place might be extremely small and deep underground, or could involve being launched into space in a ship that will take several years to get back to earth. An alien invasion where the aliens kill anyone who resists, then they take all adults off-world for slave labor. The aliens view humans as we might view wild animals, so they leave the young ones and expect that if they come by in a few centuries they'll be able to harvest a new crop of slaves. (Having decapitated the earth's scientific apparatus, the survivors will fall back into the stone age fairly rapidly, though with lots of strange and failing technology around.) An alien invasion where the aliens like to eat humans, but only ripe humans. OK, one last medical thing: some new manufacturing process releases a ton of nanoparticles into the atmosphere and these particles are extremely toxic and kill most everyone whose cells have aged past a certain point. Younger children have less-aged cells and are able to withstand the cellular damage that the rest of the population cannot. This wouldn't precisely be a 17-18 cutoff, but might work down to what we view as the minimal viable age of self-survival and then the story begins however many years later such that the oldest survivors are 18. 

Personally, I'd go for a tower shield on the left, held high and low by the left two arms, a sword on the lower right, and a spear (throwable, if need be) on the upper right. Or the right side might have a chain/hook in the lower right and a sword in the upper right. 

Two-Factor Authentication! Can you broaden your acceptable answer to allow the key to be combined with something else? For example: 

If you or someone has to have some physical knowledge of the target location, you could defeat teleportation that way: have the shop change its internal configuration on a continuous and mechanical way so there's no way that anyone can know what the shop is like now. Or blindfold people before escorting them beyond the foyer, and they examine jewels while inside secure viewing rooms, never seeing the location where the jewels are stored. 

The question is not "how?", it's "why?". The answer to "how" is "magic". Magic does what magic does... magically. And magic could create invisible forces/entities that move and strike and lift and crush. But magicians have a sense of style and decided to embed bones in their invisible entities to add that flair... that palpable fear that distinguishes a magician from a technician. Sort of like painting a face on the front of an A-10 attack craft. All of the technology in the plane would still work to rain destruction down upon its targets. But depleted uranium pellets spewing from a monstrous mouth on the front? Priceless. (So the indirect, mundane answer is that magic is not animating the skeletons, the skeletons are embedded in an otherwise invisible, autonomous, pure-force weapon system.) 

If your story has third-person narration, you could use a phrase like "While other races might view him as a child due to his diminutive size, he was in fact full-grown -- and not only full-grown but wise and strong. He was a leader of his people, the third in his family to be given that honor." I don't think you have to be specific as to what race -- it could be ours, the reader, or it could be your bulky humans. If it were my story, and if I had third-person narration, I'd just say it straight out, very early in the story while the readers' expectations and perspective were being established. I don't think that breaks immersion if it's in the first couple of paragraphs. Maybe something like "A human might mistake Chak for a child, since he is only as tall as an 8- or 9-year old, but in fact Chak is ...". 

You specify that you want a gun, but my first question would be: what is your goal? Do you need an offensive weapon which is non-lethal, or would a defense suffice? Depending on your actual goal, there may be many alternatives besides a high-tech gun. For example, nano-technology clothing that rapidly inflates like an air bag and is impenetrable by blades and small firearms. Perhaps this clothing senses extreme panic and deploys. Might also be useful if a car or bike were about to run you down or if you fell off of a ledge. Not as cool as a gun, though. Of course, if the police could override your clothing and cause it to inflate -- or perhaps shrink-wrap you -- it could be used to detain a criminal... if you could also have laws requiring everyone to wear certain clothing. I could imagine environmental devices whereby shields/barriers materialize instantly between two people if one threatened the other. The ultimate defense would be everyone having a personal robot, where the robots work cooperatively to keep their owners from harming or being harmed, ala Asimov's Foundation Series. How about everyone implanted with a "walk around in a circle" device in their brain at birth? Police push a button and the person stops doing whatever they were doing and starts walking in a small circle. Must the weapon be handheld? For example, large drones could fly overhead with vortex cannons, and the police call in an air strike, essentially. (If you're outdoors, of course.) Or how about a gun that shoots an extremely slippery substance? Hit the floor around a person and they know they'll literally fall to the ground and be unable to get up if they take a step. You'd need to work on something to neutralize the gel, and hope it doesn't damage the carpet.