Most of the time these are just standard forms and questionnaires which vary from company to company. It may or may not be connected to your job role all the time. (Like in my last research job one question was and it had nothing to do with my job!) There is no point in reading between the lines. Instead just answer exactly to the point and what is asked. Regarding your fear about being sent overseas with one dependent at home, this should be cleared with your manager and looks like you have already done that during the interview. What you write in your on-boarding forms may not really impact your travel duties anyway. I do not think there is a need to remind them again if you have already done that once. In future if travel or any other situation comes up which takes away time from your other responsibilities, you can remind them of this discussion again. 

I think you will have to give them exactly what they want i.e. Let them be in 'boss mode independently'. You can think about ways to split the tasks at top level and make them each in charge of one tasks and announce it to rest if the team. Something like 'content development' and 'design' but of course you would know better on how to split the tasks. You may not be able to formal new roles but sometimes creating these informal roles publicly helps to serve egos of your top performers. Creating Tasks such that they truly have their independence as much as possible would be the key part which you would have to take care. I had a similar situation in a research project and I could sense the tension between two of my team members..I had two divide the project two different ways in two parts and then give them lead on each part in one division. Like one way of dividing was patents and publications and I made one in charge of all the patents we need to file and another one all the journal papers we need to write. Another way of diving the project at the same time was production of the idea and new ideas implementation and again I made them lead of each task. It worked out well for everyone including the project ! Make sure you actually follow through these informal lead roles and recognise their authority an responsibilities regularly in meetings. 

I have very good relations with a lot of clients I work with (Both in project work as well as support and consulting work). Often clients may try to circumvent the support chain and email/call me directly about an issue because they know it would be faster to do so. However as I've discussed with one of the managers, this is an unhealthy expectation and that I should encourage clients to follow the support process. Well I am currently working on 2 projects - I am acting as the BA, Coder, SysAdmin, Product SME, etc. These projects have some tight deadlines so I've communicated to my manager that I will be working 1 week rotations on each project to get the most progress out of these projects. For the past few weeks I have been getting emails from clients about support items as well as emails from the support department about some pending support items. The thing is I have no capacity to acknowledge let alone work on any of these items right now. (Our company is resource strapped in this regard). How should I communicate to clients that I am unavailable? I don't want to make it sound like their issue is not important, but at the same time I need to be realistic with them in that I am truly not available to answer their questions or support them with an issue at this time. I've notified my manager and I have asked him to prioritize my work. I have the ok from him to proceed full speed on one of the projects for the time being. However I still need to figure out what to do with the customer emails that keep coming in. 

This question can only be answered by the appropriate departments within your company, Legal, HR, etc. In the interim, you only practical option may be to assign tasks that are not on any critical path and have very flexible delivery dates. The 'nice to have' features that can be shipped whenever they're done. 

It depends on exactly what you're selling. Most contractors sell their time so any time you work for the client is paid for. Non delivery related time is generally not billed, such as sales or negotiations. If you contract includes expenses, all reasonable expenses are billed as well. 

It depends greatly on who is taking the most initiative in the deal or who want's the deal the most. For example, if Contoso needs a new widget supplier and they think Fabrikam makes the best widgets in the world and really wants them, Contoso will pay to send their personnel to Fabrikam to inspect the factory and negotiate a deal. But, if Fabrikam is trying to sell Contoso their amazing widgets and get them to switch suppliers, then Fabrikam will invite at their (Fabrikam's) expense Contoso personnel to inspect the factory and discuss a deal. In other words, whoever has the most initiative usually pays. 

You can address the "unprofessional" comment by essentially conspiring with your manager to have them close the door. Meaning, you manager can swing by a couple of times for whatever reason, then on the way out ask "open or closed?". The three of you say "closed". Manager, hearing the clear majority says "no problem, thanks for the...whatever..." then closes the door. 

Data loss prevention is something which most of the companies struggle with. Hence, the fact that your email is left open on their computer could be probable cause enough to check for data loss and look into it. (That may or may not have been their real motive but they can surely argue that.) Just extending your purse analogy, if they felt that they are losing office stationary, then they can argue that they looked into a bag which was left there overnight. (Legal or not is a different issue and like others mentioned check with a lawyer) You did not specify what other kind of personal stuff they go through other than email so difficult to comment on that. Even if you are allowed to check personal emails from office machines, use your personal smart phone for it. I do not think you need to set any extra security or log off after you are done. (At least not for preventing your employer to read your emails!). Your phone is password protected and it will always be with you ! 

I do not think you should correct each and every person who calls you Chris. People will come and go in your career and you cannot be doing this forever. Few things you can do are 

We would actually be less productive than before. (Something which my boss would have to realize eventually and do something about) In a small company, I would immediately make lot of people unhappy by interfering in their work. (My role does not have any formal authority over them). 

I am in a tough situation that keeps coming up over and over again and it's stressful to deal with each time. So I work for department A, A is not a well defined or structured department (we do BA, Coding, Consulting, Pre-Sales, Client Relations, Support). This department has a very low employee count, because good luck finding someone that is well versed in all these different skill levels. We have a weird setup in our office - we have 2 products (BB and CC) where department B (R&D) develops and maintains these applications. However the lowest layers of code are maintained by us (Department A) because we integrate out to third party services. Department B is agile, and answers to product management, Department A is not part of any of Department Bs process (we do not answer to any product manager). Department A also doesn't have access to same repository or ability to make commits in version control, even though we make changes to the lowest layers of code. (This is something I am currently discussing with having them change). I am one of the more senior people on this department. I am currently working on multiple projects with very tight deadlines. It's difficult for us to make commitments to client when something will be done, because if it involves Department B, they are on their own schedule and timelines and they do not answer to customer projects. I have had to on multiple occasions, make changes to the core product code (a layer we shouldn't touch) to make deadlines meet in my projects. This gets in trouble with Department B because I am breaking process and causing them problems. However if I did not do this, we would have to explain why we couldn't deliver to the client (again). What really sucks is that our department gets blamed for project slowness / missed deadlines, because the customer only interacts with our department, and other departments don't have to take responsibility for a product that doesn't work in the 'live' environment. What should I do in this situation? If I continue following process, other departments like sales, and the VPs of my department will look to me as to why we couldn't deliver this project to client. If I break process, I upset department B, but I keep my end of the bargain to customer intact and my bosses happy. It seems like a lose-lose situation, it's bad enough the work is stressful, but any move I make will come back to bite me in a negative way. Updating this question to mention - this has been escalated and communicated to my manager and other managers / executives involved. So all the parties are aware there is an issue, but no clear directive yet as to what to do. 

I think it is counter productive not to tell in advance because others will plan something assuming your presence. So while disruption of work could be one reason as other have pointed, I think it will serve the purpose in exactly opposite way. I think this largely is coming from insecurity of the company. They may be afraid that during your notice period, you will get a chance to talk about reasons for your leaving and others will identify themselves with those reasons and get ideas!! Or you will 'expose' a big flaw in the company which made you unhappy and then (mis)lead others on the same path. I do not think a healthy and professional working atmosphere will allow this. 

If the new company is paying you from 17th April, then I think you should just commit to that date and company full time and focus on whatever they need you to train yourself and prepare. If this is not occupying your full day, this could also be any opportunity to go an extra mile and do some learning/training/ on your own which can help you prepare for next job. There is a chance the new company will positively look at your commitment and help in your career growth. I just think trying to balance two corporate jobs will not do justice to either of them. Of course every situation is different, so you would have to take that call if you are able to do each job without conflicting on commitment to other. 

Why do you think you're not held accountable? Don't interpret the professor's lack of engagement for a lack of expectation. In fact, hands off managers often have much, much higher expectations than micro-managers. 

Yes, chat tends to be must less formal then even email. I used to try to be correct, but, really, it's just not worth time. 

Unless there are significant legal (DUI, criminal investigation, insurance fraud) or regulatory issues surrounding the test, no one will be watching you ;) Being alone in the contribution room (bathroom) is usually enough for a regular employment drug screening. If you've given a sample to you doctor, it's pretty much the same thing. 

Bluntly, yes. But, neither of you are at fault. In the case you describe, you work style and the professor's management style simply do not blend well and this is not at all uncommon. The long term problem is that it's highly unlikely either of you will change. 

For organizations that subscribe to the 'Process Model', yes, and 99% of the time, the documentation has 0 ROI due to the exact circumstances you describe. This is just bureaucracy. Keep in mind though that there may be some regulatory benefit to such schemes and that should be well known to everyone. 

It depends greatly on the policies of you employer. However, personal commercial project are clearly inappropriate. There are all sorts of legal issues around this that neither you or your employer want to deal with. So, don't do it. However, personal projects that are 'community' projects or could otherwise benefit your employer are grey area that you can legitimately ask your manager about. Many software companies actually encourage this. For example, if your company users SuperMegaCRMPro, Gold Edition and your personal side project is to convert it's weird error messages into a human readable format, that would benefit your employer and the entire SMCP community. To comment on the ownership issue, yes, the company can claim ownership and full rights to the software but, there are also practical issues as well. Basically, Worldwide Widgets Incorporated has no hope of monetizing SuperMegaCRMPro Error Converter so, well, they just won't even try. There are lots of such tools out there. 

Try not to but do not put your foot down on it. In the worst case you can buy an external keyboard as someone suggested in the comments. 

In either case, you are at a risk if the fact you are interviewing is leaked to your new employer by some or the other means. You would have already made a poor impression before starting. Also, as mentioned by Mr. Positive, using the offer from third company to negotiate is a very bad idea and can fireback. Also it is unprofessional. 

I am getting out a very similar experience. Company paid a lot for my interview, flights and hotel expenses and a high salary. But as soon as I joined, they just stopped spending on things which would help me do my job better. (Not hardware or equipment but some other things where I could not do everything I am capable of). I quit after 6 months of frustration (may be I stayed too long) and based on my experience, things will not improve. It is just poor management and shortsightedness. 

There is no harm in contacting the company where you declined the offer. There is nothing unacceptable about it. How they respond may depend on the availability of the position, how did they take your rejection and who are the concerned people now (Sometimes people change fast!) Send them a note and politely ask if the position is still available you would like yourself to be reconsidered and see if and how they respond. If they are still interested and get back to you, most likely you will have to explain why did you not chose them in the first place. You will have to be very careful on how to answer this. It should not sound like this company is your back-up option. You may want to do some research on the company and say why you want to join them now. Also, be prepared to accept the mistake you made previously and tell them that. In any case, be absolutely sure you want to leave A and join B before you do any of this. If you approach B second time, keep it clear that you accept it if they offer you again. If you do not, then you permanently damage your relations with B and there will not be a third chance.