I really doubt that any study of linguistics will help learn a language. Linguistics is primarily not concerned with learning a language but with new ways of analysing language, which in my view achieve nothing but saying known things with new terms. 

Function words as "he/she/it" can't be there from the beginning. They have to be developed. And the normal way is using the demonstratve adjective + nouns as man/woman/person/thing and then if there are gender-markers using the demonstratives without noun. The question whether this was seen as a demonstrative or personal pronoun is a question only for us today, it was no question for the speakers of the ancient time. A demonstatrative was a demonstrative. Only when a new form arises as e.g from German dieser to der to er, then one can talk of a personal pronoun. Latin uses the demonstratives is/ea/id or ille/illa/illud as a substitute for a lacking personal pronoun he/she/it. But this is seen from our modern perspective. French has developed il (he) from he first syllable of Latin ille (that one there). As long as ille was used it was a demonstrative. When il was developed the French had a personal pronoun. 

Going by the words you provided, you might need somewhere around 5000–8000 separate words in English, where inflected forms are counted as one word each. Your phrases or expressions will have to be extrapolated based on this. If you can give us a few more words that you think should be in one's vocabulary, and a few more that wouldn't, more precision could be achieved. But it is still a bit arbitrary, unscientific, and non-transferable to other languages... How your words rank in the list of most frequent words in TV and movie scripts (Wiktionary corpus): 

The Latin perfect feci was later substitued by habeo factum (I have made, perfect with habere to have). This new system abolished with one stroke those numerous perfect forms that have become irregular. I didn't have time to search for full information about the upcoming of the habeo perfect, here only some short information $URL$ Another problem: We don't know what is behind the Latin verb endings of the perfect tenses, but they didn't fall from heaven. If you compare the endings of past perfect veram veras verat verámus verátis verant it looks like the forms of esse were the source: eram eras erat erámus erátis erant or the forms fueram fueras etc. If you look at the endings ueram ueras uerat etc It looks like the source might have been forms of habere ( to have) habueram habueras habuerat etc Maybe the forms of esse and habere melted together and gave one basic set of morphems for the perfect tenses. (f)ueram and (hab)ueram can easily become one morphem. Assuming that this theory has some probability then the invention of the habeo perfect was nothing else but the shifting of habere at the right side of the verb to the left side of the verb. The advantage was enormous, no melting process, no irregularities. Added: Here is another link to a website about the habeo perfect $URL$ Read the passage On the use of habeo + perfect participle in early and late Latin. 

Some verbs undergo reduplication, which is an artefact from proto- or pre-Latin, if I remember correctly. This, too, is most common with consonant stems. The vowel will often change in length and quality. 

And the result is your sentence. Fusing sentences with identical noun phrases is what relative pronouns are for. You could use a personal pronoun if you don't want to repeat the noun phrase but still want to keep the two separate sentences: 

In daily conversation, saying 'Tomorrow she eat the cake' will suffice as you have already qualified the time by saying tomorrow, so you don't really need to add will to the sentence as it is implied. Source: $URL$ There are a lot more Asian languages which express tenses in this simple way. And their concept of past/present/future time is as clear as ours. You could call such languages "languages without conjugation". 

This is more likely to happen when the original language is fairly well known amongst the community of writers–speakers of the adopting language. Latin often does it for Greek words. That is, one usually has two options in Latin: either one translitterates the Greek endings directly into Latin, or one Latinises the entire paradigm. Which option is chosen also depends on the word; I believe the Greek word aer "air" always has the (Greek) accusative ending -a in Latin, so it will be aëra in the accusative in Latin, rather than the Latinised ?aerem. Using the Greek endings seems to be most common in poetry. Jesu happens to be an example of this. In Greek, it is an irregular noun with a nominative singular Iesous, genitive and dative Iesou. Greek ou is normally translitterated into u in Latin (cf. ou-topia "non-place" → utopia), whence Latin Iesus and Iesu. As to the dative ending in Greek, which is highly irregular, it may be an ending borrowed from Hebrew (or a later normalised error). I also seem to remember that this happens far more often with the accusative and genitive than with the dative, probably also because dative endings are very often (almost) the same between Greek and Latin. 

to peek - into the alley to look - into the mirror to go - into the house to fall - into the pit Such structures are verb + preposition group (a where-to indication). If you analyze the structure as "go into - the house" and take "the house" as a direct object, then this is the wrong view. A direct object never answers the question where to. 

1ชอบหรือไม่ชอบ (lit.) Like or not like? is a question. It has basically the same meaning as ชอบหรือไม่/ชอบหรือเปล่า (lit.) Like or not?. After careful consideration (and much thought!), I believe that all alternatives could be used, but the duplication of the verb (e.g., Like or not like) seems to be more common in subordinate clauses that are equivalent to whether-clauses in English. On the other hand, the other alternative (i.e., Like or not) is more common in reported questions where we can use either if or whether in English (e.g., She asked if/whether I like it or not). 2The sense of "ever" is implied. To be explicit about this sense, we could use บ้าง ("bang"), e.g., Who wants to go บ้าง. ใครอยากไป(บ้าง) (lit.) Who wants to go (บ้าง)? is a question. When we have more than one wh-word, we use only a single บ้าง, e.g., ใครจะทำอะไรที่ไหนเมื่อไหร่กับใคร(บ้าง) ผมไม่ทราบ (lit.) Who(ever) do what(ever) where(ever) when(ever) with whom(ever), I don't know. 3All romanized transcriptions follow the Royal Thai General System of Transcription (RTGS). 

It can be seen that copulae + subject complements fail at least one of these tests, which is why they are normally not considered transitive verbs + direct objects. 

"Force KPN (postal service) to deliver the post on Sundays? You know that isn't possible, what have I just told you? KPN is an enterpríhíse, not a government agency." However, I'm not sure whether this hV should be considered a morpheme rather than just a phonetic bit of...something. 

The case of main clause open interrogatives (Whoever would agree to that, Bob won't.) is quite interesting. As a pro-drop language, Thai seems to allow main clause open interrogatives to be used as subordinate closed interrogative clauses almost freely, if not always. This can roughly be categorized into two main groups, i.e., yes-no questions (which works quite like English whether when it's embedded in a subordinate clause), and wh-questions (which works quite like English wh-ever words in subordinate clauses). Here are a couple examples: 

That may depend on your definition. We Latinists trust in corpus research and what Roman grammarians said themselves about what they found acceptable. Of course we have less certainty than with living languages, but overall it isn't really a fundamental problem. It could even be said that corpus research is more reliable than judgement tests, because people may say they would "never write" certain things that they do in fact write on occasion. (Keep in mind that the Latin we know is a literary language: we don't make many claims about spoken Latin. Grammaticality differs between spoken and written English too, at least for most people.) I have heard many Dutchmen claim they pronounce the n of the infinitive (lopen) and plural nouns (apen) who wouldn't budge, even though none of them actually did. Another example is famous linguistics student who said in class "that is not true, Professor: I don't say don't!", then cowered in shame.