In the future, when an object emerges in a different time, that moment is referred to as a crowning. An impacted crowning is when said object materializes within another object, fusing with it. An aerial crowning occurs when it is a certain level above solid ground. I suppose we can also have aquatic crownings, for that matter... This brings up a number of questions: 

Would materials simply fuse together, or would the forced merging of two materials set of some type of atomic explosion? Air itself is matter - Then why does the "fusing" effect not take place with a solid material and air? In order to mitigate the fusing phenomenon, all crowning events, by their nature, are preceded by what is known as "displacement." Meaning, that all existing matter is either vaporized, or simply "ceases to be" and is replaced by the emerging object. This either occurs by design (i.e. a pre-singularity is created in order to clear/swallow-up a certain area, so that it can be "made ready" for the object to have a clean entry, or it simply occurs via the laws of nature. Please explain the workings of either approach. As the problem of undesirable terrain/conditions is inevitable when doing any type of time traveling, does it not become a necessity to send a probe to do a quick check regarding conditions prior to sending the actual payload? What are some considerations of the "scouting" aspect of time-travel? i.e. you don't want to travel in time, only to discover that you end up in a pool of lava, or if you follow the John Titor model, you don't want to end up on an Earth which has so far deviated from the Earth that you know, and the atmosphere on it is completely different to the one you're used to. 

Short answer: the pancreas can't do it, no matter how much chitin it produces. Chitin is laid down in place, not circulated. Pancreatic chitin would not do the job because (best case) it would protect the pancreas, which is tiny and already buried deeply within the abdomen behind layers of intestine, from attacks that would be somewhat inconvenient (say the spear glances off the pancreas and penetrates the aorta and/or several sections of intestine) whether or not the pancreas itself was actually hit. 

Fire requires fuel. If the fuel is rendered biologically, then it takes time to regenerate fuel after flaming, and there is a limit to how much fuel the dragon can store in its fuel pouches/bladders. 

Pragmatism - an execution is an expensive undertaking of it is attended to in anywhere near the detail that western democracies do. You can stock up on the drugs and handle them assembly line style, working through dozens for close to the same cost as a single execution. 

The nearest thing to this is the Bussard ram jet. The principle is easy to understand - the ship generates a magnetic field that funnels hydrogen from the interstellar medium into the reaction chamber, where some of it is used to fuel a fusion reactor and the rest is used as reaction mass. The reactor is used to superheated the reaction mass and generate electricity to generate the magnetic fields. The math is close enough that it remains plausible with very little handwavium. In real life, the energy losses in the system are just sufficient that it won't quite work. 

You want to sling spells like Glarnak and the rest of em cowboy? Well this lifestyle... it really ages you... You definitely want to drain the life force of the caster on this one. If you do heat or luck, you can run into the problem of always prolonging the cost ad infinitum(cold + luck spells). The cost to perform magic should be based on the strength of the life force of a caster. The more magic used, the more the caster is aged. Incredibly strong magic users would age slower per spell cast. You could even have it so that a spellcaster could burn through all his/her life force to increase the power of another spellcaster . Like a form of magic inheritance from parent to child. How the choice would reflect resistance as more energy or power is drawn for a spell. Energy required (whether kinetic, heat, whatever) * spell caster level (golf rules apply here the lower the value the better you are at casting ) = seconds/minutes/years/decades of your VERY LIFE. How the choice would create a measurable or predictable consequence turning people against magic. Obviously you don't want to turn to dust and turbo age yourself via spamming fireballs every 5 seconds. This system should make magic cost you and stop you from needlessly casting spells. You aren't going to use magic to pull weeds when you can literally SAVE yourself the time by not casting. How the choice would be deterministic, meaning the aforementioned consequence could be traced back to a specific action. Your magic can't rob UNWILLING life. when your magic caster is casting a spell, he/she needs to draw from there own years OR have someone use magic to transfer lifetime/magic capability. Also you can't dip into years you don't have access to. In the same way your muscles give out, if you start to lift a building of osmium, there will come a point where you age away and drop the building. 

1949 cover from Red Planet (Heinlein) showing two teen boys in MCP suits with insulating outer wear: 

Mythbusters had an episode where an Iado practitioner deflected a bullet with a katana (can't find it now, they expected a fail and were surprised). I can't find that episode right now, but the real issue was the timing, not the energy of deflection. He had to be an exact distance from the muzzle and in control the firing. The theoretical cyborg would need better reflexes and shorter decision time, since it would not be a staged event. 

Being a "Guardian" type being is boring unless you have something to do. The anime "Is It Wrong to Try to Pick Up Girls in a Dungeon?" explores this trope using the Greek pantheon. Out of sheer boredom the gods created a world with game like rules, which they then entered with self imposed constraints. In the world, they act as patrons of associations of adventurers, within those self imposed limits, and compete for status through the exploits of their adventurers. 

This is not a symbiote, but it provides an example of the principle. Chickens are relatively resistant to salmonella - the bacteria harms humans but not so much chickens. Eggs from an infected bird will be infected with salmonella because the bacteria are included in the fluids before the shell forms. There is no reason this principle could/does not apply to beneficial or symbiotic bacteria 

Compartmentalized AI embedded in Firmware The answer titled: "Complexity is Compartmentalized" is an excellent one, but for your purposes, I would say the answer from a world-building/sci-fi perspective would be a little more caveated. If I may take the liberty of adding a bit of "history" to your scenario: Long ago, it was determined that creating an all-knowing, "Omni-AI" was a big mistake, and in fact, dangerous. Therefore, certain AI standards, implemented as hardware modules were established to complete specific tasks. These modules are hardware based so the code cannot be altered - However, they do have an API which allows a person to interact with them. This is where the learning comes in. You can become an expert on using certain modules and becoming certified on them. Let's take "Microsoft Word" as an example. You can probably become certified on it, but you can't really change its source-code. The coding on these modules would be open-source, so as to maintain transparency, however, only a certain governing body would be able to produce authentic modules, which would be trusted in the public sphere. Therefore, for the aspiring Software Engineer, programming and development would never get any more difficult than it is now. Sure, they would have to master AI concepts, but they would be limited to gaining proficiency on select modules. 

If you are willing to handwaive away the issue of storing the chemicals and making sure it stays cold, you could freeze areas of skin via the use of liquid nitrogen. I'm envisioning one of the following. 

Morally, this is going to be horrifying, but I think it would work. You don't assimilate the tribe. You assimilate the children of the tribe (the younger the better). Make the situation such that children don't have the possibility of learning about their "primitive" culture. Once your Midwestern Empire encounters a new culture the steps should be fairly simple. 

If you watch the second video, the scientists can only shoot plasma around 2 feet. To the Marksman Dragon, range is definitely a status symbol. Your dragons might have drastically smaller ranges while young thus making the Marksman Dragon a much more parental dragon over the conventional dragon that doesn't typically need to shoot far. Or maybe the gift of "LongShot", as the Marksman Dragons call it, is a genetic trait that is sexually selected for. Video Example $URL$ More in Depth Video of some science behind $URL$ 

Grand Absorber needs fuel: Grand Absorber can absorb another item to acquire new effects OR you can use it to gain more magical fuel to power the magic the Grand Absorber already has access to Grand Absorber has limited versatility: Grand Absorber can only remember a few spells or one spell at a time or only the most few recent spells absorbed or Grand Absorber memory is bounded by tiers of magic it is storing. Grand Absorber time limit: After your Grand Absorber has eaten a new item, there is only a limited number of time (you can spam a spell 24/7 for a month for example) or the spell can only be cast X number of times Grand Absorber is intelligent and greedy: Grand Absorber isn't too fond of freely handing you a crap ton of magic that it has absorbed. You're going to need to pay a price (this could be anything from your memories/gold/lives of loved ones) as tribute if you wish to use the magic Grand Absorber is TYPE limited: Your Grand Absorber can only take in spells of certain schools at a time. For instance your Grand Absorber can only eat magical items that are part of the evocation school. If a user wants to store a new type of magic (like swapping to abjuration/transmutation), the user has to drop all the spells the Grand Absorber uses. 

Karate student of 30 years - you cant. Knocking someone out requires striking the skull with sufficient force to bruise the brain. Brains have limited healing capacity. The brain is two hemispheres of fatty tissue connected by a short but thick segment of the same kind of tissue. The two hemispheres float independently in the cerebrospinal fluid, so blows from many angles will cause a shearing effect on the connecting tissue. Even injuries that have no immediate symptoms (i.e. no knockout) can express decades later because the injuries can be deep in the brain. Memory impairment, loss of self control, inability to process emotional and social cues are some of the long term symptoms. Edit: Causing unconsciousness by choking requires depriving the brain of oxygen sufficiently long for a critical percentage of the organ to shut down. The line between unconsciousness and death is very fine, and is the reason that police using "sleeper" holds usually end up in court. 

If they are surrounded by a refractive field that extends a fraction of an inch beyond their skin, then they could wear tight fitting clothes (spandex for example) and the field would cover them. They would not be able to wear arctic winter gear and maintain invisibility because that would require the refractive field to extend a couple of inches from their body. The refractive field would require significant initial amount of effort to establish, but thereafter would require only maintenance energy (comparable to a brisk walk). When the organs generating the refractive field are exhausted the refractive field would collapse and leave her visible. With training, as with any other physiological process, she can increase her limit through practice, nutrition, and rest. 

If you want to focus more on the psychology of having the speed power, your speedster should be able to use the power (both movement/speed perception) in a similar way that you use your muscles. 

Although, Pliny the elder wrote that it may give you magic powers, but that has yet to be determined 

There is a research paper about this subject although if you want more than the abstract, you'll have to pay for it. Although I am not a doctor, from my understanding, you Link to Article 

As your speedster is activating powers 0(human)-100%(86400x), just slow down time by that much. You don't need to slam your fingers as hard as you possibly can while typing. I don't see any reason why this power would be treated any differently than using a muscle. Now that is not to say that using the speed muscle exerts effort (my heart is pumping blood and that costs me no effort). With that being said, some psychological effects of such a power would be... 

Magical Silk Harvest the silk from Glarnakian spiders. By placing the spiders upon your wings before battle, the spiders will weave an intricate netting of silk to block all arrows from piercing through. Due to the lightweight materials, you shouldn't have a problem maintaining flight while also blocking projectiles. 

Well - Mandrills are a good precedent. Technically they're monkeys, not hominids, but that's close enough for a lot of medical and other biological purposes. See Link ($URL$ To see how far you can take things with selective breeding, compare a chihuahua, a great dane, and the asian red wolf. All the same species, just bred for particular characteristics. 

Hyperconformism leads to s stagnation People are sincere about conflicting value systems. Just because a person is honest doesn't mean he shares your value system. To the jihadi, ii am a legitimate target for execution, to me the jihadi is a legitimate target for religious conversion. Understanding our world views does not change the world view. The political class gets lynched. While this might be a good thing in the long run, there will be short term chaos as society readjusts. Understanding the"weirdo" does not mean he will be accepted more. It just opens up a new avenue for cruelty because there is no question about the intent of the victimized Some forms of "wierdo" may turn out to be contagious. 

It has been done. This chain discusses some of the past experiments: $URL$ RPG7 uses a peizo electric primer, and Remington had a peizo electric primed cartridge for its 700 series, but the ammunition was cost prohibitive. $URL$ 

My answer may be a cheat if relative time does not count... Well, unless the aliens have vats of Handwavium (RonJohn) or containers of unobtainium(D.J. Klomp) to make the problem away, I don't think they could speed up evolution in any meaningful way without a lot of direct intervention over time. Although it seems from your question that the aliens don't want to do a lot of effort, but still see how things will happen over time. One way that your group of aliens could see a planet evolve however, is for the aliens to go really really fast. If the aliens have access to advanced enough technology (I'm assuming they are flying around in star trek like ships discovering planets and such) the aliens don't need any chemicals to see the evolution. They merely need to abuse time dilation. So we want to turn 100 relative alien years into 100000 years or in other words, speed up time by 1000 times. This would allow your aliens to speed up the relative time of evolution and be controlled. So say for instance the aliens observe the planet, try a few different experiments, expose some bacteria to different radiation etc, then leave. Fly away for a x years, see what happens, and then play more with the evolution each and every time. There isn't really one chemical that will speed evolution up (to my feeble meatbag brain), but if your aliens played with the environment or did some artificial selection every hundreds or thousands of years it could definitely make for an interesting playground that would change how things evolved. HOW FAST TO DILATE BY 1000 TIMES THOUGH? Roughly 299792.30812 kilometers a second or 99.999950005413% the speed of light There's some interest info about the topic here I used a tool located here to assist in the calculation