In summary: vipassana means 'clear seeing' and is a meditation technique. The meditator knows the arising and ceasing of any/every object that comes to his/her mind without reacting with greed or aversion. The aim is to see the 3 characteristics of reality with one's own mind: impermanence (anicca), suffering (dukkha) and non-self (anatta). non-self means that there is only mind and an object arising to mind, but nothing else (no permanent self) beside. 

If you're feeling confused, then asking a question here might not be the best approach to solve your problem. All you get is more information and different suggestions. They'll probably just make you think more, and as a result you get more confused. I noticed that when I am confused what often helps is to find sources for instructions and clarification that I can trust in. For example the original teachings of the Buddha (online translations can be read at accesstoinsight.org or suttacentral.net), texts/audio/video from a well known Buddhist Theravada Monk (Bhikkhu Bodhi, Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu, Ajahn Sumedho, Ajan Jayasaro ...) or even better personal contact to one or some other experienced Buddhist practitioner. 

Regarding your question with the example, a Buddhist would probably respond that there are two layers of reality: relative and ultimate. In relative reality you would try to prevent your kid from getting bullied. In ultimate reality, where there are no beings, but only experience, you would understand that the only thing that can make you suffer is your own desire and nothing else. 

I think this kind of question is very speculative. The Buddha always stressed that thinking/worrying about future and past should be avoided. Instead it would be wise to examine the present. 

Practice the Four Immeasurables, the four divine abodes. Potential practice methods: There are four, pick one a day and spend a few twenty-minute sessions meditating on it. 

Multi-tasking is an illusion... I have read that the mind and the senses are like a monkey sticking its head out six different windows rapidly in succession. A great lama once told me that trying to solve a puzzle when you sit down to meditate is in actuality making another samsara. 

more at $URL$ So, in a way, faith is very foundational to Buddhism. Reasoned faith is stronger than blind faith, but both are good if they are genuine, because the path actually works. People born in places where Buddhism is the norm might not have looked very much at the teachings at all and still be living a life very in accord with Dhamma. For people where the teachings appear later (in life) it's natural and good to reason and weigh things. Eventually confidence is born, and with great faith come great blessings. 

There are many misconceptions regarding mantrayana. In essence, the ultimate nature of the deity is bliss and emptiness, just like the ultimate nature of our own minds. When we invoke the deity via visualization and/or recitation or chanting of the mantra, we are invoking that aspect of our own consciousness, our Tara-ness or our Medicine-Buddha-ness. The Buddha Shakyamuni did teach that treasuring someone while in positive states of mind or sending beneficent prayers and thoughts would benefit another being, certainly in the "realm beyond" (afterlife, afterlives) and in the present there can certainly be effects. It is important to remember that Tara is Prajnaparamita, she is not a self-existent deity, the same for all the deities of the Buddhist pantheon. Some are called deities to mean deva or god-like rebirth, but in the tradition you are referring to deity means something special: it means that long ago a being aspired to be of benefit to countless sentient beings and through the strength of such aspirations and the diligence and patience of practice one was able to reach a state that helped reflect the fundamental goodness of all beings who practice their mantra/visualization with joy and faith, or devotion. So what happens when you are invoking green Tara or Medicine Buddha to help heal a friend? Well, the attitude you have is the most important part. You are using enlightened Buddha forms as a fulcrum for your own praxis, to adjust your mind and heart attitude to embrace their full healing potential. This will certainly result in a positive effect, and the waves of which may reach your friend rapidly through causation and intensity, having an ameliorative effect. At the very least, your mind will become more adjusted to these divine states of being (please see the four unlimited or immeasurable abodes) which is of immense benefit to yourself and to others. In Buddhism, attitude is just about everything. Karma is intention, so cultivating the intention to heal and relieve suffering (kindness, bodhichitta) is excellent. There are many methods, but sometimes it is easiest and fastest for us to relate to our own primordial purity through the practice of such sophisticated "spiritual technologies" such as deity and mantra practice. There are pure aspects of our consciousness, just remember that their ultimate nature is no different from the nature of mind itself. 

Don't philosophize about past lives. You were born a human being, that in itself is a condition for old age, sickness and death (and all other types of suffering). As for the remedy the Buddha stated 

On a conventional level metta (loving-kindness) means wishing all beings to be happy. It's unconditioned in a sense, since the love is not dependent on the being (i.e. whether it's someone likeable or unlikeable), but still deals with the concept of 'beings'. 

So how should you understand this classification of beings. Is it just a provisional and time-dependent concept? Or is it only related to the degree of suffering, which predominate each realm? I know on this topic are already many questions. But none of these related to this particular question. So please don't tag as duplicate. 

That's not what Buddhism teaches. You have to put effort into your practice. Nobody and no technique will do the actual work of bringing yourself back to the present moment for you. If you find yourself lazy and don't want to meditate, you cannot overcome this by programming yourself, but by seeing your lack of energy as a hindrance and bringing up energy. Mindfulness Reminding yourself is mindfulness. But Right Mindfulness means being without judgement. Remind yourself of your wish wanting to meditate as a intention, not as something that you have to do. If you want to develop faith, you could do chanting. It's probably more effective and doesn't bring you in conflict with yourself. Also differentiate suggestion from determination. If you make the determination to meditate whenever possible or to keep the 5 precepts, that's different from what I've read you would do using auto-suggestion and imagination. 

Likely no one can really explain in words so to make you understand unless you reach the 4th Dhyana/Jhana and see them yourselves ;). Because only by reaching 4th Dhyana you can have Rddhi/Iddhi (psychic power) - to see other dimensions. Yet unlikely meditator if do complete the 4th Dhyana will go around proclaiming he/she achieved 4th Jhana! Imagine an Arhat/Arahant going around town telling everybody he achieved Arahant-hood?! However, some hints from the Sutras/Suttas. Hungry-shades are related to one of the Five Hinderances: Greed. In your quoted Ven. A. L. Dhammadharo's, the summerized characteristic is they can't have the way to consume food even they wanted to. 

This beautiful verse was done by this guy with his league of national selected translators: Kumarajiva is held by some Great Buddhist Masters as the "return of Sariputra". A memorial was built for him right after his cremation wherein housed his tongue Śarīra, Kumarajiva Temple in Gangsu, China: 

The short answer is: 。 Additional: The number of buddhas isn't increasing nor decreasing... etc., for this analogy is an extended fabrication constructed by the Four-statements. 

I've read something unfavourable on this school, from the internet, however I'm not sure since I don't plan to spend time on this. If any school placed too much on individual worshiping, too glorifying a particular personnel, it doesn't smell right, normally. I hope you willl find a pure tradition to pursuit Buddha's teaching. 

"adi-buddha" belongs to the Tibetan Buddhism, maybe related to the Tibetan's rooted religion, Bon. "adi-buddha", thus completely confusing here how does an Indian god related. 

You should teach a human before teaching a cat, you should teach a human who has confidence and respect of Buddha before teaching those not... if a cat is ready for enlightenment, it's the Bodhisattva's job, not unenlightened human being you or me. Also a cat the first task before anything else, is to acquire human form - to be reborn as human. 

Think to benefit all sentient beings with your gift, that the benefits may echo out into the cosmos and into all planes of existence. Set that mind when you give, and lose yourself in the action. 

There is a mathematician Gödel who stated back around the 1920s using something we might imagine as "meta-math" that any axiomatic system (so any mathematical system you can create or imagine) cannot satisfy simultaneously two properties. Which two? 

@ChrisW mentions in a comment that kusala means skillful, so a +kusala would mean the negation of kusala (if you look at how sanskrit works), thus another word may be and it sounds like your meditation friend was trying to expound on what that term actually means. Many words have nuances that can become lost in translation, so sometimes it is good to leave words untranslated, or look at how they were constructed. For example: we could not say "pulsive" as the negation of "impulsive" even though "possible" and "impossible" have the same relationship as "kusala" and "akusala" -- it just depends. Again, good translation, but be open to the idea that not everything need be translated (and thus nuance can be ushered into a new language body and preserved) 

To insist emptiness is the reality without having realized what the words mean brings no benefit.. in order to become realized one must train in both merit/virtues and wisdom. Through gathering the two accumulations of merit and wisdom one can arrive at the perfectly awakened state. What is your question? The entire world is rather magical! 

Looking more critically at karmic web is good, but the whole point is to reduce/diminish and ultimately end suffering, however it manifests in the world... That said, it doesn't hurt to look into where you get your cat food from, getting it from more ethical sources. We could go out and try and prevent every lion from eating a gazelle, but that would kill the lion and the gazelle, because the gazelle would overgraze and run out of food, and the lion would starve. When synthetic meat is plentiful and cheap, then maybe we can have no ethical qualms about our feline's meals having meat in them, but until then, try and make the best decision with the information you have available. Meat is not really the problem, the main issue is what happens to obtain the meat. In whatever way we can minimize or avoid that, so much the better. So perhaps you get cat food that's chicken from chickens that only ate corn instead of eating worms. Honestly I do not know if such products exist or are at that level of transparency yet, but it's possible, depending on where you live. Don't sweat it. The intention you have to keep your furry roommate friend alive is more valuable than the other side of the scale. 

I've not invested much on S.'s Cat and Multiverse and so on I left the rest for those wise-well-learnt. 

These different descriptions, depended on what level you are able to understand, are all correct, or valid. The abstaining from food to starve like only a pair of skeleton - the practice of White Skeleton visualization, they have intrinsic meanings. The consumption of rice-milk - the Great Ch'an Patriarch Huineng said it's in fact the Milk of Vairocana. The full practice of White Skeleton kept in one of the Chinese Sutras translated by Kumarjiva has similar analogy. Vowed to sit under the Bodhi tree until enlightened else never rose from the seat, indicates but his determination, not a self-torture. I don't see there is anything what you termed Extreme Asceticism before or after. Now in the Tibetan tradition, there is part of similar progress of Milarepa's practice. He dwelt in the mountain years (7 years?) without clothes and foods, eating only nettle leaves. On the verge of dying he opened his teacher's sealed bag, in it held the last words of his deceased teacher only can be read at emergency, it said "good food is the key (to pass the final stage)". Abstain from food is not (aimed to do) a self-torture or to weaken the body, what's the use these to enlightenment by inflicting pain on oneself and with a weak body + bad health?? It's a practice, it's part of the whole enlightenment process. I don't think it's simple to explain here with so many terms and concepts not available in general understanding. I've never read anywhere about or , are you sure this is correct and authentic? There are too many incorrect stories floating in the internet, I suggest you read the original Sutras if possible, not too rely on those articles written by some who-know-whom. 

Highly recommend For The Benefit of All Beings, a film about Garchen Rinpoche $URL$ May all paths lead you to the great love. 

With enough relaxed meditation, relaxing the speech and the thinky/discursive mind, one can collect and attune their pervasive-attentiveness to an investigation of self and if all the aggregates are truly selfless, as is taught. Metta and joy. Just offering some notes to aide, perhaps they will be helpful. 

Mind never "ceases to exist" and to speculate as to what happens to a realized beings body/mind after a certain point is just as helpful as speculating what the view from the top of a mountain looks like. However, in response to the more pragmatic elements of your question, if you consider that karmic effluents must invariably run their course, then even a realized being must "suffer the consequences" ... or in their case "enjoy the apparent consequences" of aeons of accumulation as they slowly wither. Mind is stainless, and all the karmic imprints we have, whether they be bad or good, are temporary stains. However, without practicing Dharma, they will simply continue to accumulate and we will dive deeper into the chasms of samsara. With practice of virtue it becomes easier to meditate as our experience of reality becomes more pleasant and pure, and at this point it is more accessible to an ordinary being to get a glimpse of the true nature of the mind, which we all share and will always share. Instead of speculating about the personal experience of someone who is realized, it would be better asked "who is this person experiencing these effects?" because the Buddha taught selflessness of the individual. Self-grasping is the primary cause of our suffering. When we relinquish self-grasping by cultivating a mind that wishes to benefit other sentient lifeforms we are uncovering our basic nature. Basic in the sense that it is always there. It is also a priceless diamond, because realization of this nature halts rebirths in the lower realms (hells, animal) and guarantees eventual complete realization within so many lives. From what I understand, it is possible for an arhant to have made many vows, and typically abide until the fulfillment of all their most heartfelt vows. This is good news for ordinary people like me, because without their help it would take a long time to realize the true nature of mind. The question you pose, and not to nit-pick, but it is somewhat ill-formed because it assumes that there is a person who experiences the results of actions. This is always true until realization -- we shall inherit the effects and fruitions of all our actions when the right circumstances align. We will continue to experience all these until we have insight that pierces the veil of obscured knowing and effectively polishes our always-stainless gem. We are all interconnected and we share a mind. With the cultivation of love and compassion we are helpfully benefiting those around us in myriad ways, and also breaking down the walls of delusion. In short, ask not what happens, but how you can get there yourself.