Just those four questions I believe answer your question. Yes, bring your references: it doesn't harm, and it could help. 

Detail how his work was not just important, but critical, for the project in discussion. Obviously, make sure your subordinate gets a carbon copy. :) You could even finish the email with something along the lines of: 

Think about these four questions to come to a logical conclusion. This doesn't work in all situations, but in this particular situation, I believe it will. What is the worst case scenario if I do bring it? What, the potential employer complains about you cluttering his desk? Seriously, there is absolutely no harm in bringing it. The worst that can happen is that the potential employer say, "Oh, I already saw that, you can keep it." What is the worst case scenario if I don't bring it? Obviously, the employer could ask for it, and you will look unprepared if you don't have it with you. What is the best case scenario if I do bring it? Best case is if the potential employer wanted it, and you have it. It gives the impression of being well prepared, as well as giving you a head start on the possibility of a job. What is the best case scenario if I don't bring it? Well... nothing, really. There's absolutely no advantage to not bringing your references with you. 

Bear in mind that what the employee is lacking is appreciation. It's a basic need for almost everyone, and some people feel the lack of it more intensely than others. In view of that, here are a few ideas that could help, depending on your work situation: 1. Send around a group e-mail. Send an email to the bosses saying something along the lines of, 

3. Link to something tangible. As I did in the last paragraph of that interview, that link doesn't need to be financial. But whatever it is, you should be able to demonstrate to your employer how (s)he and the company will benefit from this newer equipment. 

2. Talk to other bosses in person. Personal interaction is a major key. If you cannot interact personally with the other bosses, you will be severely crutched. Take the time to mention the work that your subordinate has done, being sure to give him / her all the praise, not taking any for yourself. Don't be afraid to say something along the lines of, "If you have a moment to express your appreciation to him / her, I know it would mean volumes to him / her. 3. Talk to your employee Personal interaction is critical here. Be sure you don't just brush over the other bosses' actions; that will only put you in the same boat as the rest. But also, don't focus on their actions: this will only make his / her frame of mind more focused on it. Rather, focus on the good work (s)he has done. If (s)he brings up the emails, look concerned; tell him / her it does concern you, but give the other bosses the benefit of the doubt. Put them in as good light as you can by suggesting possible valid motives, while not in the least discrediting the actions. 

Overthinking it? Possibly. I think it's natural to be concerned, especially since Comp A is the company you want to work for. However, as long as they have not gotten a full written offer, in reality, you have no guarantee of a job there. A verbal offer of a job is interesting, but it doesn't give any legal guarantee that you will get it. If you're applying to a very small company, there's very good chances of you getting the job, but even at that, there's no guarantee. For me, the situation you basically have is: 1 job offer (Comp B) and 1 person who's interested in hiring you (Comp A). Exactly what should you do? It's up to you. You run a risk of losing both jobs if you wait for Comp A to come through. On the other hand, you might get it. It's a bargain, and you have to determine yourself whether it's worth running the risk of losing both jobs by turning down Comp B. 

If you go for option one, the best-case scenario is you don't get the job. The worst-case scenario is... you don't get the job. Simply put: Go with option 1, and you don't get the job. If you go for option two, the best-case scenario is that either that they don't try to get hold of you until after your vacation, or that they keep trying to get hold of you and finally do after your vacation. Being unavailable without notice, however, still isn't a nice start to an interview. The worst-case scenario is that you are viewed as undependable and the job is given to someone else. If you go for option three, the best-case scenario is that they're fine with that and call you back after your vacation. The worst-case scenario is that they tell you they need to be able to contact applicants within the next week or two, and you lose the job. Notice that there is no disadvantage of going with option 3 over option 2. If they are unable to take applicants who are unavailable in the following week or two, you will lose it either way. 

If there is a manager who has specifically stated that non-disruptive children are welcome, I'd go directly to him / her and make an official complaint. I tend to prefer this approach in any case, since it makes the complaint less direct. A parent with a sick child will likely feel less bad about having a manager come to them and saying, "We've received complaints about..." than about a coworker directly complaining. Hope it helps! 

Bear in mind that employers are not always looking for the most dissatisfied workers on the job force. Being content in your current job is not necessarily a "con" to getting the job. 

Tell them you're not interested / unable to take the job Tell them you are interested and not mention that you'll be unavailable Tell them you are interested but will be unavailable. 

Prioritize. @Kozaky's answer is excellent. Research companies. Figure out before accepting or turning down an offer of interview which companies that are offering you interviews are the most likely to fit. However, to specifically answer your question: 

2. Keep your eyes open Subscribe to tech magazines (scholarly, up-to-date ones!). Surround yourself with friends (social media, etc.) who are good at picking up new technological advancements. Don't brush over new possibilities; keep up with them. 3. Do some freelancing. I always recommend that people reject jobs which do not allow them to do freelancing privately while they hold that job. If you can work it into your time schedule (and see comments below), get your hands messy with a huge variety of coding jobs. For instance, a friend of mine used to work in generic web development. However, he did a fair amount of other projects on the side "just for the fun," which included things like IoT stuff with a Raspberry Pi, creating a network video streaming protocol, etc. When the opportunity opened for him to make an application to work for a different company developing AI, he was able to pass their specifications easily, simply because he had a very broad knowledge. In view of the comments below, I’d also like to add that the freelancing projects don’t necessarily have to be paid projects for other people: just doing some random stuff for yourself can fit better with a busy schedule, but reap a lot of the same rewards. 

It depends on a lot of factors. Is this meeting a regular occurence? Are we talking, like, once a week or once every couple months? If it's a relatively rare thing, I would personally just grin and bear it. If we're talking once every couple weeks or more often, however, I might try to get the point across. It also depends on who initiated this meeting. Is this an obligatory meeting, or is just kind of something that is you attend because you want to know what the company is supposed to be doing? Is this something initiated by your coworkers, and if so, is it something that they feel is necessary, but that you personally don't really feel is important? If it is they who initiate these meetings and you don't feel they are all that important, something along the lines of, 

My recommendation: Let them know that you are interested, but that you will be unavailable for a week or two. Give them a specific date that you will be available from: it makes it easier for them to put it on their schedules. 1. $URL$ 

From the way your post reads, I'm guessing that your education falls into the category of part-time education that either directly or indirectly relates to your job. It also sounds from the reading of your post that your goal is not "money, money, money" or a more prestigious position; it sounds like your goal is quality work. Edit: per edits on your post, I see that this is basically the case. :) If this is the case, I would recommend not hiding the fact that you're furthering your education: treat it as you would any other similar news. Don't go around making sure your boss and all your co-workers know, but be open and let them know. 

I think you have to start by defining what "not disruptive" means. To me, this child is being very disruptive. But who set the rule? Is it officially stated, and if so, by whom? If there is no official statement, you may have to go directly to the parent in question (like you said, when the child isn't there) and say something like,