There is no set/rep scheme for overall health. That's like asking which computer mouse best prevents cancer. If you want functional strength, do functional exercises. $URL$ 

The main limitation here is that the oxygen you inhale before you submerge, is consumed by your muscles as you swim. The more energy you use, the faster your oxygen depletes, and this is what causes the "damn, I need to go up top and breathe again" feeling. The best way to improve your underwater distances, is to learn the best techniques; that is to say, the technique that is most energy efficient. Performance is expected to drop with age, but since you haven't told us your age, I wouldn't default to using that as an explanation. Where I swim, there are seniors who will out-swim me with a broken hip, simply because they know their shit. If you have the opportunity, join a swimming class for intermediate/advanced swimmers, and they'll show you the ropes. Competetive swimmers rely heavily on having the most optimal technique in terms of each stroke's distance-to-oxygen-cost ratio, and they'll clear over half the length of the pool after the dive, with leg-drive only. 

I get intermittent yawning-attacks during workouts too. I ignore it, and go about my business. I've read this and that about it, but nothing conclusive. The most plausible one is that you're simple tired from lack of sleep. Barring that, some say it's because you're rapidly heating up, and yawning is an attempt to cool down. 

It could be the inner and outer head of the gastrocnemius, but if you're doing the stretch where you lean forward into a stretched out leg, then that pain is perfectly normal. In my experience, it feels more like semimembranosus. But yeah, I experience the same thing, so I do another hamstring stretch, which doesn't require full extension of the leg. 

A few misconceptions here. You will never ever get that "gym body", so don't worry about it It sounds harsh, but it's true for a few different reasons. 

There is no food which makes future weight loss any easier than any other. If you want to gain weight, you need to construct a diet where you have a caloric surplus over any given period of time. If you want to lose weight, you need to construct a diet where you have a caloric deficit over any given period of time. This all depends on your calorie usage, bodyweight, and most of all how disciplined you are at following your plan. My favorite food for gaining weight is brown rice. Whenever I have a period where I want to gain weight and strength, I eat brown rice with pretty much every dinner. With fish, meat, tuna, you name it. Any of these will do. 

While it's not the most important part of the lift, I always champion the case of a neutral neck position during the deadlift. There is absolutely no reason to lift your chin up when you're bent over. This is the equivalent of looking straight up at the sky while standing upright. It's not a natural neck position, and when your back/neck is already being placed under heavy tension, this is the wrong time to start getting creative with your neck. My best tip; look down when bent over. Look straight ahead at the top of the lift. To answer your title: yes. You should keep your head in one line with the body. People will counter-argue with "I want to check out my form in the mirror". I will counter-counter-argue that you can do this without pointing your nose at the mirror. You only need a very minor head-tilt to see yourself perfectly in the mirror. 

A single meal isn't supposed to provide a balanced diet. It's supposed to be part of a balanced diet. You have to consider if you need what it provides. If you don't, make your own lunch. 

It's likely he meant temporarily. If, for example, the tilt is caused by a shortening of the hip flexor, the tilt will arise again and again, until you fix the source of the problem. We can rebuild a house over and over, but if you keep building it in a sand-pit, it will always crumble. 

No. Starting Strength is developed with a purpose, and it's written the way it is for a reason. You can morph it however you'd like, but then it's no longer SS3x5, and for better or worse, you can't expect the same results. 

It's good that you realize this intuitively. Getting fit becomes gradually more difficult with age. So does staying fit, but that difficulty curve isn't as steep. Maintaining is always easiler than developing. This goes for all phases of exercise. 

Swimming is good for people of any size. Your weight loss/gain will be determined by your diet. If you don't want to lose any more weight, eat more! Short answer: Keep swimming! It's a great way to build muscle and endurance. EDIT: I want to elaborate a bit. I usually try to spend the same amount of time writing an answer, as the asker spends writing the question, but this is a particularly good, albeit short, question. The reason why swimming is so undeniably good, is that it provides so much of the same benefits as you would gain frm other exercises, without so much as a fraction of the same risk of injury. Cardio Swimming is an excellent cardio exercise. The water provides a much greater resistance than air, which means that the amount of calories spent per unit of distance, is much greater than when you run/walk/cycle/ski etc. Additionally, you have the opportunity to swim underwater to test the progress of your lung capacity. It also serves to help you with your efficiency, because the more energy you spend per stroke, the faster you'll need to resurface for oxygen. Strength Swimming provides a full-body strength program. Certain muscles are obviously doing more work than others, but swimming can be done in so many ways that variety comes very naturally to any swimmer. And doing all this against the superior resistance you get from water, makes it very ideal. You have the front crawl, the trudgen, the butterfly, the breaststroke, the backstroke, the sidestroke, the doggy paddle, the survival travel stroke, finswimming, one-arm-one-leg, flutter back, feet first, corkscrew, gliding, turtlestroke, oarstroke... All of which give different distributions of effect. But even if you pick just 3 favorites, and stick with them, you'll still enjoy great results! Then, you also have the lifesaving strokes in an equal amount of variety. And also the floating techniques. 

Exactly the correct question, and I think I've said most of what needs to be said here. Yes, it's harder. However, you could get a medical check-up, and get some feedback from a doctor. It's still doable. There's just a lot more you need to be aware of.