I have left all of my navigation needs to my iPhone5. I like the 'one-device' scenario. For my longer distance stuff I am starting to get into cue sheets. I think mapmyride.com has them available when you make a map. Cue sheets have distance and name of next turn but also how long until the turn. My iPhone does all of that so I don't know how much you want to fiddle with on the bike ride. A mounted smart phone with scrolling cue sheets is easier to read than a map. 

Sometimes when I set out on a ride I will get the absolute worst foot pain. It is like a cramp in my arches on both feet. I am wondering where exactly the center of the pedal should fall in relation to my foot. 

I like the find-a-brand-you-like-and-stick-with-that idea. If the store let you try them on then they let someone else try them on, too. Remember, chamois' are not padding. They are for moisture management. A proper saddle and fit is for comfort. I have several brands of bibs and I only use one. My riding buddies are the same way but with their own brand. Hopefully, you won't find that your brand is the expensive one. I like Castelli. I am also moving towards a thinner chamois. I have had issues with all the added bulk in my crotch and a thinner chamois fits better. I have heard others say the same thing. 

I had a similar long-range trip. I was a member of a local bike group and asked them if they, as a part of our membership, owned and lent bike luggage to members. They said they didn't have any but that it was a good idea. Maybe other bike clubs around your town might have luggage that you could rent. You might want to try bike shops and see if they have any shipping boxes. I get boxes from my LBS to ship eBay parts. Have you explored shipping it to yourself or to your hotel or a friend? There is something scary about shipping a super expensive bike in a soft bag. My advice would be not to do it. I don't think bubble wrap would help. I imagine a suit case sitting on spokes and it makes me cringe. 

Everything I described above happened and I would not recommend running a clearly faulty BB for too long. I believe a BB using bearing cartridges might not fail as catastrophically as one with simple cages like the one pictured but I doubt it would end well in the long term. 

A geared bike main advantage over single/fixed gear bikes is to keep you at an efficient cadence over a wide range of speeds. This is particularly important when riding up hills. I find that on flat courses, and in the absence of strong headwinds, that advantage become quite small if you choose the correct gearing on your single speed. A single/fixed gear bike is simpler, lighter and more efficient than a similarly priced geared bike. This is particularly true of a fixed gear bike which greatly reduce energy loss in the drive train. So for a repeatable commute without steep climbs, you can select the gearing on your single speed to help you reach your optimal speed, based on your fitness. If you know your functional threshold power (FTP) this can be done quite easily. Use the bike calculator to calculate the speed you can theoretically achieve on your bike and course. Then use the other bike calc to work out what gearing will keep you at your preferred cadence for that speed. As an example if my FTP is 250W and I want to ride at around 80% effort, I'll enter a 200 Watt effort, my body weight, bike weight, riding position into the the first calculator, which gives me a speed around 31km/h. 

More likely you punctured the tube while installing it. You have to be careful to not pinch the new tube between the rim and the tire. Also take care not to puncture the new tube with your tire levers. When changing a tire I'll inflate it the tube about 50% and then peel the tire around to make sure the tube is not pinched. Then I deflate and the reinflate to recommended pressure. I use plenty of lube on the bead too. That can be water or better but grosser, spit. 

I have been using them for years and have not had a puncture flat with them. I live in an area that gets these tiny little thorns, kind of like rose bush thorns, in the gutters. I used to get a flat every two weeks from one of those thorns. Now, I never get them. Totally worth the price. 

A lot of bike shops will give you a few if you ask and buy something else on your way out. You They are soft aluminum and are a dime a dozen. You could bite them on or you can use pliers. Just twist your cable strands back in place and then crimp away. 

I up voted John P's answer. In addition I would split trafic and get a the front of the outer most lane. I would make eye contact with the driver of the car behind me, too. It'll take seconds to get across that intersection and in CA you can split lanes to get in front.