There's a very good reason for natural fibers: Fire safety. If you get burned it's much better to be wearing natural fibers (which don't melt) vs synthetic ones (which generally do.) 

Given the problem exactly as stated the answer is a clear no. The issue is energy density. There is no chemical reaction energetic enough to lift it's components to orbit. Thus, quite apart from the already-mentioned issues of passage through the atmosphere you're simply not going to get there. To reach orbit of an Earth-sized body requires leaving a lot of mass behind. You either leave your power source behind (supergun, launch loop or space elevator) or you discard spent reaction materials as you go (rockets). Do I hear "nuclear" from the peanut gallery?? Nuclear energy has the density required, a chunk of U-235 has plenty of energy to lift the creature. The problem here is one of energy flow. How do you convert that nuclear power into a jump? And how do you avoid vaporizing however that muscle is attached to the body? Now, I could conceive of a nuclear-powered creature capable of getting into space but it would be an Orion drive, not jumping. 

As others have said, the seasons won't help you. There are seasons where diseases are more common but that's more due to social factors than anything else. However, if they want to protect themselves there is another option: Pick an uninhabited island. The northerners can only be on the island from the new moon to the quarter moon. The southerners can only be on the island from the full moon to the three quarters. Trade goods are left on the island for the other side to pick up. If it's an agreed trade one side drops goods, the other takes them and drops their goods, then the first side takes them--one month for one side, no delay for the other. If it's not an agreed trade one side leaves goods. The other side looks them over and leaves goods. At this point each side takes turns, either adding to their pile, taking their pile (they decide a deal can't be reached) or taking the other side's pile (accepting the trade.) Slow, but pretty much safe. 

Gather the world's nuclear arsenals plus whatever a crash-priority program can build in time. Use what you need for an Orion booster, the booster carries a bomb-thrower that lobs the bombs at the rock as it gets close enough to aim accurately. (Note that it will probably need to roughly match orbits in order to remain close enough for long enough to get all the bombs off without causing fratricide.) Since the asteroid doesn't have a proper pusher plate the detonating bombs will erode it somewhat but this doesn't matter. The issue is if you have enough delta-v to generate a miss. If you don't, you bend forward far enough to kiss your nether regions goodbye. While in theory a bunker in a mine in a seismically stable area far from the point of impact could weather this the human factors are another matter. You're going to end up with a bunch of powerful people in that bunker who aren't able to rebuild when the come out into a land that's blasted back to the level of microbes--and you'll only get that far if somehow you manage to avoid a collapse of society fighting over admission to the bunker. 

A bioengineering project went very wrong. The objective was to create a lifeform that produced high purity silicon crystals. While silicon itself is incredibly abundant it's a very energy-intensive process to refine it to the purity needed by the semiconductor industry. (Note that this is a big part of the cost of solar cells and many cost improvements in solar cells are figuring out how to make them with less silicon. Thus there is a major market demand.) The researchers didn't use proper safety measures (say, by making the creature dependent upon a nutrient that it can neither synthesize nor find--thus it can only live in the lab where it's fed that nutrient) and it got loose--and found the outside world to it's liking. It's so alien that little wants to eat it and it just sits there happily eating rock. Most rock is some form of silicon oxide, it purifies the silicon and releases the oxygen. Now the world is in a panic as the fire danger goes up and up and up. 

The ability to retain atmosphere is purely tied to escape velocity. Surface gravity is totally irrelevant. In practice there is a limit to how low the surface gravity can go because the material from which planets are made. 

Lay out enough mirrors, you can produce enough heat to crack any molecule. Note, however, that for a truly long term answer you don't need oxygen. We breathe oxygen and eat food, we exhale carbon dioxide as a result. Plants breathe carbon dioxide, produce food and exhale oxygen. Assuming the food supply is balanced the oxygen supply must inherently also balance. Thus if you are producing your own food you're producing your own oxygen. 

Edit: I got it a bit wrong. I originally said the length of the year changes by a day--now I realize that while the number of calendar days changes by 1 the length of the year remains the same--the length of the day also changes. Neither effect will matter ecologically but the inhabitants very well might care. Also, interplanetary spaceflight is severely curtailed. Until we build a supercatapault on the moon there will be no manned missions beyond the moon and the only way to rendezvous with another planet will involve really brutal aerobraking--twice that of the Galileo probe's plunge into Jupiter. (Which burned away a quarter of the total weight of the probe.) 

Modafinil does what you are talking about with deferring sleep but the numbers don't work the way you are doing it--we normally need about 8 hours/day of sleep. If you defer sleep for 3 days you'll need to sleep the whole 4th day to catch up. Since it's on patent it's not over the counter (almost nothing starts out as over the counter) and probably never will be because while it's not addictive in the normal sense drug seeking behavior has been observed. Even if it were over the counter I don't think you would see any appreciable social change--deferring sleep doesn't change the amount of sleep you need. It's a godsend for shift workers and it's useful for those who need to do something for longer than a normal waking cycle but it doesn't give you any more total time. 

Things that stink. Things that imply harm. Consider the British "bloody". Nothing wrong with blood but something has to have gone badly for anyone to end up bloody (and back before lab techs might break a vial of it things had to have gone quite badly to end up bloody--although it could be to something else. A butcher could be bloody without having suffered misfortune but the cow sure did!) 

The destruction of the world is basically certain. Consider what happens when you get two groups that say my-way-or-else and the two objectives are incompatible. Somebody's going to push the button. It's obvious the aliens intend to destroy the Earth with that message. 

1) A special forces raid takes over a couple of silos and fires the missiles. Real cheap way to destroy your enemy. 2) Boomers. Half a dozen boomers hiding out. Before using your nukes you announce that boomers #1 and #2 will fire all their missiles at the first nation to launch against them. #3 and #4 against the second to fire and #5 and #6 fire at the third. 

You're going at this wrong. Your defense material is aluminum foil or something of the sort. Once your ship is up to your .05c you spread out a sheet of aluminum foil and push it ahead of you. Periodically launch another one. You're no doubt saying the the baseball will go right through and all but ignore it. Here on Earth that would be true, but look back at the energy of your impact. It's not 16TJ because for practical purposes it's the aluminum foil hitting the baseball. It's still a lot of energy, though. Yes, the baseball is hardly slowed by this--but it is vaporized. You now have a very rapidly expanding ball of plasma. That's much easier to stop and very well might be dealt with by subsequent sheets and certainly can be stopped by your hull--it's just a dense pocket of pretty low energy radiation at that point. I've also seen dust suggested for a similar use but it's much harder for the engineering department to verify the protection offered by their shield that way. 

There would be a big problem with life on such a world. As Cort Ammon says it's quite possible for life to survive in such an environment. Evolving is another matter, though. Single cell life will survive it as it generally can take being frozen. Multi-cellular life is another matter--I don't think there's anything that can survive that kind of cold other than in a totally dormant state (seeds, spores etc.) and multi-cellular life isn't going to start out that way. Thus you have an uncrossable evolutionary chasm. The only way I see to have non-microbial life on such a world is if it started out as a terrestrial world and it's orbit slowly got stretched--enough time for plants (and conceivably even egg-laying animals) to adapt. Note, also, that such an orbit (and it's months of sun, not days) means life spends almost all it's time in the dormant state, it can only evolve during the warm periods. It's going to evolve VERY slowly. While it has billions of years of orbiting it's star it will only evolve like it's been millions--you will not see any major changes from whatever life looked like before the orbit got stretched. 

Your list of approaches is not complete. I don't think there's any way to boost the Earth by 12 km/sec without causing a lot of problems. It could be accomplished by an appropriately-aimed mass sent hurling through the solar system setting up a gravity assist maneuver. However, I see no way to avoid substantial tidal influence from the intruder. (It will need to be a degenerate body of some kind.) You considered destroying the sun and quite correctly ruled it out. What about removing it, though? Since you talk about radio signals you are obviously considering aliens being behind this. There are some malevolent ETs out there who have a legal problem. The law of their land does not permit them to harm developing races but they don't want the competition. Thus the easy answer of throwing an asteroid or the like isn't an option. They want us gone, though. Thus they deploy some gravity manipulators around the sun that produce directional gravity. Material is drawn in from the sun, undergoes fusion (some of this power is tapped to run them) and ejects it out the back. Presto, rocket engine. Boost the sun by 12 km/sec and Earth is lost to the interstellar void where we die in the cold--but the aliens didn't harm a single human.