You did do a heavy workout. On Monday. That's why this happened. It wasn't as sore yesterday because the Onset of Muscle Soreness was Delayed. That's Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness. Keep squatting. Keep walking and stretching on rest days. Keep an eye on your form. For today's workout, warm up thoroughly but stick to the planned lifts. 

You might have additional needs to address specific imbalances or mobility issues, and I'd do a standing press instead of bench, but deadlift/squat/pull-up/press is a great basis for a minimal strength training breakfast. It's a fine approach. If you follow that program well, with good form, using near-maximal weights, and get good food and sleep, you'll get much stronger. If need be, you'll add or change exercises in a few months. It's also important to keep in mind the caveats he puts on this recommendation: 

A precaution: dumbbell power cleans are substantially different from barbell power cleans. Most barbell and dumbbell versions of the same lift are substantially different exercises and have different pros and cons. 

It'll depend on the coach. But in general, bad form gets you injured, and then you can't lift very heavy, so that wouldn't make sense, would it? It is common, however, for there to be some bad form on 1-rep-max tests or in competition, since these are all-out efforts at the limit of (or beyond) one's ability. That's different from allowing or promoting bad form in training. Just go see this powerlifting coach and see how much they focus on form. 

The science is that when your legs are sore it's because you've damaged some of the muscle fibers slightly. They'll grow back bigger and stronger but take a bit of time to do that. If you've done a really solid workout then trying to do any other really solid workout the next day isn't as effective as waiting a day or 3. 

I find it useful to track things I want to improve. So, when I want to do the workouts my coach set me in a programme then I track that. If I want to get my body fat or mass down then I track that. There's no point tracking something just to track it. So, figure out what you want to improve. 

Whatever food you feel comfortable eating before your workout. It should be mostly simple carbohydrates and a bit of protein is useful. When you sleep blood flows away from your stomach. If you wake early enough then your stomach will not be ready to process the food and you will find it difficult to eat solid food. Because, on race day, you should do exactly what you do during training you should prepare for this. For me, when I wake up before a morning long run I will drink two complete nutrition supplement drinks. That gets me 700 calories in an easy to digest form. You want some carbs that are easy enough to digest because you're going to spend the first 90 minutes running on the carbs in your bloodstream and stored in your liver. You may as well stack in as much as you can beforehand. You also want to drink normally. Not too little, not too much. Drink for thirst as your body will figure out the rest. 

I'm rehabbing a pulled hamstring, so I'm doing weight lifting for the first time, on the instructions of the physio. She has me doing both "Good Mornings" and "Romanian Deadlifts". It seems like the action in both of these is exactly the same? (except the arms/ upper body, obviously?) Should it be exactly the same action? Or is my technique wrong for one or the other? Assuming that it is the same action, then I assume that the different position of the weight changes the biomechanics of the action, thus putting stress into different muscles / different parts of the same muscle / etc. 

As JJosaur says, calorifically, it's a definite "No". However, Metabolically, you may well find that you are more tired an hour after drinking a Coke (or any other sugarry drink, or a chocolate bar), due to a "Sugar" or "Glucose" crash. This is period of low blood-sugar caused by the body over-compensating to the sugar spike (the initial 'high', or 'sugar rush'), and over-producing insulin which then draws that glucose out of the blood stream into the liver for longer-term storage. The low blood-sugar can be experienced as fatique or loss of energy (amongst other symptoms), which might lead one to believe the original claim. 

So you're primarily a lifter but want to compete in a half-marathon. It sounds like you're control but here's what I would suggest. 

Well that depends on what your goal is. Your intervals should be less than whatever your goal distance is - perhaps 50-75% of whatever the goal is. You want the pace of the intervals to be consistent throughout the workout. The first ones will be easy but the last ones will be hard. As you get better, you want to reduce the rest time between intervals - or increase the number of intervals you do (not both at the same time). Your goal is to run your goal distance at the pace of your intervals - so you want to start joining your intervals together to get there. Alternatively, you can increase the pace of your interval. 

VFF's used to be a bit of a fad in the ultra community. We do see people show up with them at the start line. Unfortunately, we rarely see them at the finish line because they drop early. I would suggest that if you find VFF's painful for long distances then you consider slowing down your training and building endurance adaptations in your feet before trying again. After all, it's those adaptations that you wanted in the first place. By slowing down your training I mean running to the distance you can before your feet hurt but do that distance more often that week. Frankly, if you're not prepared to do the training required then a more comfortable VFF for long distance is called a shoe. Spend more time training on distances that don't hurt or give up and go for a shoe. 

Suppose I have a gym routine that I want to fulfil, with the goal of strengthening a particular set of muscles. (I don't care about increasing bulk or definition at all). The current plan is gym sessions that are 3 sets of 10 reps on each of a couple of excercises that work those muscles. Done in an ABC_ABC_ABC pattern. The sessions take me ~30-45 minutes and get me moderately sweaty, and I'm gradually increasing the load on all the excercises. Currently my biggest problem is actually DOING the session - I put them off and skip them :( One way that I think would make it easier for me to actually do them would be to split the excercise up. Say first thing in the morning I do just the first set, or the first block of set, then a few hours later I do another set/block, then I do my last set/block at the end of the day. I think that I will be more likely to succesfully DO that routine. What would be the effect of that change? Does doing the excercises all together make a difference? Or does it not matter when I do stuff as long as I do the whole routine by the end of the day? 

My feet do the same thing but far more than yours do. I've also run a bit farther than most people (albeit very slowly) and it's not a problem. Gary Moller (a NZ sports advisor and naturopath) advises some exercises to correct this. I tried them for a while and saw little effect - this may have just been me. There's a lot said about gait but very little science - what little there is disputed. If you have no symptoms of a problem then I would conclude you're fine. However, if that's not the case then I would consult a kinesiologist to get some specific exercises. 

The best equivalent I know of is Naismith's rule. "Allow 1 hour for every 3 miles (5 km) forward, plus 1 hour for every 2000 feet (600 metres) of ascent." Secondly, when it comes to run it will come down to how good you personally are at running up hills. You may need to calculate the factor yourself. Remember that Garmin devices display sea-level distance, not slope distance. 

Two main tips (note that I used to run in Wellington, NZ which is famed for both its hills and its wind). Firstly, a headwind is basically a hill you can't see - treat it that way. Techniques like small, quick steps to preserve momentum are most useful. Secondly, for a sufficiently strong wind you can draft off people. Tuck in behind someone in front and let them tack the brunt of it. No, I don't think a pack would have helped. Packs are about water. Aside, I once did the headwind trick in a race. It was the 10km of a tri and I'm very much a back-of-the-packer. I was tussling with one guy with the lead changing a lot. This was in Wellington and very windy that day so I gave up and just huddled behind him until we rounded the last headland. Then I just pulled past him and cross the line in front.