So can you guys help me out with this. For bonus points if you can tell me how to do the next step which is import all databases in one command doing one at a time that would be great too. I really want to do these in two separate steps because I need to delete a few sql files manually from the tmp dir before I run the restore command. So I need: 1) command to copy all 2011-01-07 sql files to a tmp dir 2) command to import all those files in that dir into mysql I know its possible to do in one but for lots of reasons I really would prefer to do it in two steps. 

That will nicely restore that database from this backupfile. I want to run a process where it does this for all databases. So my plan is to first cp all 2011-01-07 sql files into a tmp dir e.g. 

I've an webserver that is still debian etch. My problem is I need to upgrade some packages but I can't find a source for debian etch anywhere. I have the following: 

Ok, so I realize what is happening here is the user calling the post-commit script isn't 'derek' so it hasn't permission. So my question is what user is calling the post-commit script. the svnserve daemon is run as derek ... I thought that would mean the post-commit command would be called as derek too but it seems not. Any ideas how I can find out what user is calling it and secondly what would be the best practice method to allow access for that user? I don't think adding it to the group would help because the group doesn't have the write access to the .svn directories by default. UPDATE: I've just found that www-data is the user that seems to be calling the script. Now naturally www-data can't run the svn command. 

Ok, because of a bunch of projects I'm working on I've access to dedicated Servers on a 3 hosting providers. As an experiment and for educational purposes I decided to see if I could benchmark how good the IO is with each. Bit of research lead me to Bonnie++ So I installed it on the server and ran this simple command 

I'm scratching my head on this one. Django is installed on my production and dev servers but the live server under not ver heavy load is running extremely slow. Every page is taking more than 30 seconds at times. here is my Apache sites-available/example.com file: 

Is it possible to require Multi-factor Authentication (MFA) be enabled for specific/all IAM accounts in Amazon Web Services? There are options for password requirements and it's clear how one can choose to add it to one's account, but it's not clear if there is an option to force users to have MFA. 

After a bit of looking around, it appears that the answer is "kind of". In IAM, an administrator can configure a MFA for another IAM user. Although this may be a bit tricky if you are setting up a virtual MFA, it's possible. Then, if the user has not been granted permissions to update/remove their MFA, it is effectively required. While I have not yet determined the complete list of actions that should be denied (or simply not granted), this post seems to have the information, and I will update this answer once I have tested it. [Update] I was able to setup users as power-users (thereby not granting them access to an IAM functions, although I'm sure you could get more granular), and implement their MFA with them. Using this methodology, they will be unable to disable it. 

Beyond space, there are at least a couple of reason why rack mount servers are desirable. First, it is easier to implement air circulation and cooling systems when you can control the airflow by closing the gaps between machines. This would not be easy to do with non-standardized case sizes. Second, some might find it helpful to be able to physically secure a group of machines via a locking rack. There's probably more, but space would be the primary. 

If you control the application, you have a couple of options. If it's web-based, you could launch the URL without a location to menubar using a JavaScript link like: 

Window open() Method However, depending on the zone (Internet, Local Intranet, or Trusted) the pages are located, this may or may not be allowed by default. You can either add the sites to the Trusted Sites list, where the default is to allow, or change the setting 'Allow websites to open windows without address or status bars' to Enable under your Trusted Site Security Settings. If it's not web-based, you could use the above or a WebBrowser object embedded in the application (or a similar object as implemented in whatever language/framework you are using). 

You should use a UNC to the directory to which you want to backup. ex: Since mapped drives are only created on an interactive logon, if you schedule a backup to a mapped drive, the service account will not have access to it and fail. I can only presume this is why Microsoft excludes them from this dialog. 

Not sure what the terminology is for it but on Vim the 'cursor' is always like an insert/replace cursor instead of the blinking line cursor I'm used to in other gui editors. Is there any way to change this when in insert mode? 

Ok, so first off what is the best way to read the figures and are there any issues with really comparing these numbers? Is this in any way a true representation of IO Speed? If not is there any way for me to test that? Note: these 3 machines are using either Ubuntu or Debian (I presume that doesn't really matter) 

I'm working on lamp application. We have 2 servers (Debian) Live and Dev. I constantly work on dev main to add new features and fix bugs. When happy all works well I scp the relevant code to the Live system. Database (mysql) is local to each machine. Now this is pretty basic setup really and I want to improve the workflow a bit. I use git and github for version control. Admittedly I've only really used one branch. Their can be 3 different developers who work on the code at different times. We all use the same linux username to connect to the dev server and edit the code directly when needed. I usually then commit and push the code at the end of the day to github. One thing to bare in mind is it isn't easy to run this code on a local machine as there are many apache and subdomain configurations that wouldn't work on a local machine so it is important to work on the dev server not locally. I need to create a new process because we need to have a main trunk now and a branch with a big code re-write. What is the best way to do this. Should I create different unix logins for each developer and set up different working areas on the dev server for there changes? e.g. /var/www/mysite_derek /var/www/mysite_paul /var/www/mysite_mike my thinking is they can do a pull from the main branch and then create there own branch and merge it back in. I'm not sure how this will work though with git locally and with github. will i need to create different github user accounts as well. I'd like to do this the 'right' way and future proof for having lots of potential developers but I also don't want to over complicate it. I simple and elegant solution is preferred. any recommendations or suggestions?