As a young engineer, you should already have taken the Fundamentals of Engineering exam (used to be called EIT). If not, you should be studying for it. If you do have your FE/EIT, you may want to take some time to study towards your PE exam. Chemical Engineering is one of the engineering disciplines where a PE is pretty much required. My father was a ChemE and kept his PE active until he retired. Many of the jobs he got in the last half of his career were not open to unlicensed engineers. 

First, you have to figure out if you are a process oriented company or a results oriented company. In a process-oriented company, there are neither heroes nor stars. How you do your work is more important. Coming to work on time, getting the right cover sheet stapled to your TPS report and things like that. There are no favorites, nor stars, in a process-oriented company, and this is the kind of company who will deliberately fire anyone found to be indispensable, or who deviates from the policy manual. A common example of a process-oriented company is a fast food franchise: the goal is for every burger to be the same at every store in the country. If you make a better burger, you'll lose your franchise with them. There is a huge impedance mismatch between the typical software developer and a process-oriented company. In a results-oriented company, stars and heroes are very common. What you get done is more important than how you got it done. When someone complains "waah, Bob is a prima donna!", the answer in a results-oriented company is along the lines of "Bob gets his product shipped on time, on spec and on budget. What have you done lately?" It is possible to transform a results-oriented person to fit into a process-oriented company (and vice versa), but the transformation is hard and requires a lot of work that most modern people are unwilling to do (since there is no magic button one could press to do it). 

I would advise using "fouled up" instead of "snafu" in your original sentence. My current employer has a lot of prudish people. When I've used "snafu" or "wtf" in emails, I get nastygrams from people in other states and countries who were never on the distribution of the first email. I don't personally consider either of them to be vulgar or inappropriate, but there are dozens of people (out of 15,000-20,000 employees worldwide) who are offended enough to call me out and harangue my boss as well. The moral of this is that you lose control of your email the instant it is sent, and that while the content will be appropriate for the intended recipient, it is likely to be forwarded to some jerk who takes offense at any and every thing. 

You don't, because you can't make it sound anything other than a whiney ex-employee. The response should be neutral: "it was time to move on" or "I had reached the limits of what I could do & grow at that company." The only time you will be able to explain poor ethics at a previous employer is if they ended up being a public scandal - like Enron or Arthur Anderson. 

Nap in your car. If you nap anywhere else near work, people will think you sleep at other times of the day - on the job - and you need to be fired immediately. Your car is your space, which sets a different perception. 

Source. Eggers had worked for the bank for 7 years before the 50 year old conviction became an issue. 

To me, this sounds like hazing. It happens in interviews sometimes, but usually in very high stress environments - like white shoe consulting firms and police departments. It also sounds like a short-sighted approach I've seen by some start ups: "we've got a business guy, now all we need to do is some heads-down coding." 

Source. When dealing with this person in the future, avoid saying "OK". Depending on context, that word is understood to be a social noise that substantially means "I hear you, keep talking." Your coworker only seems to be hearing it as an affirmative blessing. To help mitigate these sorts of communication failures in the future, I recommend reading How to Disagree Without Being Disagreeable. While this book is aimed more at handling hostile language in the workplace, it gives a framework for understanding what the other person is really trying to say. 

Yes it is. Have your hand-over documentation ready by the last week. Have all your personal belongings out by the beginning of the last week. Based on past experiences, if the person you report to does not know, or cannot/will not tell you, then presume the worst and that you will be cut loose when the time is up. The worst example I experienced of this was in a financial corporation (it was regulated as a bank yet took no deposits) and they never told contractors that they were let go. You get to work on Monday and your card won't let you in. The armed guards downstairs would let you know you were history and to get lost. Personal belongings left at your desk were routinely picked over by the survivors, and it was well known that getting caught discussing looking for another job was your last day at work (being a bank, all calls in/out were recorded). Extremely few companies are that Machievellian, but I knew they were going in, and they paid a steep premium to get developers because of their rep. That being said, I've also had some situations where a renewal had not been decided upon by the folks above the person I reported to until the weekend after what I thought was my last day. Things can go either way. This is one of the risks of contracting. ? Further, this is my first contract-based employment, is this a normal thing to deal with? Yes it is. Hiring contract workers makes for agile staffing decisionmaking at the managerial level. 

Reason for sentence 1: it is a resignation letter, there needs to be zero misunderstanding about what is going on. It needs to be in writing as I've worked for bosses who deny that the person quitting was quitting so as to screw with them starting elsewhere. Reason for sentence 2: I've worked for places that have backdated resignation letters and claimed you quit today - not in 2 weeks. Consequently, you may be expecting a paycheck that you'll never recieve. This is also why you date it with "today's" date when you sign it. Reason for sentence 3: Many people move, and if you need COBRA benefits, or 401k paperwork, there have been places I've worked at where they would deliberately and maliciously send your paperwork to an old address so that you cannot reply in the mandated 30 day period (because either it was still tied up in the post office's change of address system, or if that expired, returned to sender). Never ever add stuff to your resignation letter about why you are leaving. It is none of their business. If they ask, answer verbally, but never in any sort of writing. 

If you are looking at the project manager direction, taking the PMP exam without the years as PM qualifies you for the CAPM. This then gives you a few years to get the "in the saddle" experience as a project manager. You may find your local university offers a project management course that meets the project management training required for the CAPM. To get the degree requirement dealt with, you may want to look into first acquiring an associates degree from your local community college, then leveraging that to a 4 year degree at a later time. Most counties have a community college, and most community colleges offer evening classes, some even offer online courses. Many colleges only count courses 7 years old (or less) towards a bachelors, while the associate degree will "lock in" the first 2 years of school. This will let you take evening classes at a more leisurely pace suitable for someone with a family. I don't know about your state university system, but here in Colorado (and in my previous state of Florida), the state universities have to admit you (as a transfer student) if you have an associates from a community college in that state. So for older students who have to work and support a family, the community college to associates to state university to bachelors route is the most practical approach to getting that degree credential. I'm an older software developer, and I don't really want to get into managing, so I'm working on a different degree (this won't be my first bachelors) to get credentialed in a different field. 

It is my position that the resume is a short description of your work experience. I try to put about 1 paragraph's worth of detail for each job, and since I've worked for some companies for 10 years, and others for 3 months, a paragraph for each 3-6 month contract assignment in the past 3 years will quickly fill a page. If you are a contractor, and have contracted for the past 15 years, you will easily be able to fill 5 pages with a short synopsis of each assignment. I was an FTE for the first 17 years of my working career and it was hard to fill a single page of a resume back then - the subsequent 2 years were full of contract jobs and they'd fill up a single page just by themselves. The bottom line is that the single page rule was customary in an era where many people were able to get one job out of school and work there for the rest of their working career; or folks who only stayed 5 years at a job were considered "job hoppers". Today, you are likely to have many totally different careers during your working life and many different jobs. A resume that reflects the new realities of the workplace requires far more than the traditional 1 pager. 

I know many folks say "1 page!" but I find that one cannot trim a resume to one page and get any meaningful details across. One of my friends uses a functional resume, and his is 8 pages long. Mine is chronological, and I try to keep mine to 3 pages. We are both in our 50s. 

Take the person aside and talk to them. They may not realize it, as I've had coworkers with anosmia (lack of sense of smell) and some with sinus infections. Sinus infections tend to give folks horrible breath - which they cannot smell themselves. I've also lived and worked in other countries where what is considered acceptable is very different from the US. Deodorant for men was considered effeminate until some advertising campaigns during the 1960s. 

For this issue, one of the more relevant technique that can work with neurotypicals is to try to establish a sense of rapport between the guilty party and their affected victims and then maneuver the person into a sense of guilt. This is not going to work on someone who is a little more aspergery than typical for our profession: inability to empathize is one of the traits of aspergers. Keep in mind that if it weren't for aspergers, there would be no Silicon Valley.