It won't work if there is no market for it. A modern laptop computer can only be made because billions of processors are produced. You require an industry to make the tools to make computers, and you need another industry to produce the tools to make the tools for it, and so on. You could, however, create a late 19th/early 20th century technological base pretty quickly, in at most a few years. From then on, you would need to create a pretty globalized society to create the necessary markets, otherwise no single kingdom could achieve it. To make an early vacuum-tube computer with all the resources of a medieval kingdom? Maybe achievable. Modern consumer electronics? Not a chance without a large enough market for it. A lot of technology wasn't invented sooner, not because the idea didn't come to anyone, but because they didn't have the tools for it. All the mathematics necessary for a moon mission could be calculated in the 19th century, possibly sooner, they just didn't have the industry to produce the tools to build rockets large and efficient enough. 

Divorce rights, definitively. The others (voting and property ownership) might be quite anachronistic in a time with a different technology level and social/economic organization. Voting and property ownership (not only for widows, they had the right for ownership in that era and much sooner too) are rights which today would feel very painful and degrading if removed, but don't forget, that both the economy and the society back then were differently organized, and the extended family had a much more important role. Also due to the technological level, most women couldn't have much of a chance to survive on their own. Also, especially due to higher child mortality, a society where a lot of women can pursue careers independently, would soon go extinct on demographic grounds alone (even today, with much lower child mortality, the most developed nations can feel this effect quite painfully). Why I'm writing this is that while women indeed by far had less overall rights, it was not the oppressive hellhole people now imagine it was. There were some well-respected women in that time period, it just was much harder to become one. The family as a unit was much more important not solely because of ideological grounds, but for survival. My goal is not to start a political debate, but just to help you avoid creating a society of strawmen in your story, where all men oppress women because mwhahahaha they are so evil or stupid and find it satisfying. But returning back to divorce rights. That would be the most important (and probably only reasonable) change you could to to help women. The other, more modern concepts might even backfire as they might not be embraced by women as they are embraced by today's women, they might even find it a much too uncomfortable lifestyle change. Why are divorce rights important? Because there were men who married young and naive women, and used the marriage to extort money out of the woman's family. Not sure how this particular law was in Russia, but the standard of the time in eastern Europe was, that (where divorce was allowed at all) a divorce could only happen if both parties said they wanted to divorce. This means that a man could seduce a woman and marry her, then start beating and otherwise abusing her, and telling his father-in-law that he will only agree in a divorce for a nice sum of money, otherwise he will tell before the jury that he still loves his wife. he could also legally force his wife to live with her, even if she didn't want it. Changing this would save a lot of women from horrible abuse, and could help in providing justice against those monsters who could do the above things without having to fear any legal repercussions. I'm not saying that all or most men regarded their wives to be property in that time period, but there were certainly a lot of men who did. By changing divorce law, you could significantly help reducing their numbers and making them less threatening to women's well-being. 

Assume you traveled back in time to the middle ages, and you brought with you the schematics of a fully automatic firearm. Could a group of experienced smiths and jewelers reproduce it? What would the major issues be? There are some guns which were designed for simplicity and easy of production, like the British Sten, so let's assume you have chosen a very simplistic gun. I guess their job would be made a little easier if you 

An old Soviet-era sci-fi had a flying protagonist who could directly control the direction of Brownian motion in his body. Instead of all his molecules moving randomly and having a net force of zero, he was bio-engineered to be able to introduce a bias so that the Brownian motion in the molecules of all his cells did have a non-zero vector sum. Thus, flight achieved without awkward lighter-than-air floating! The novel is called Ariel. However, I don't know if any English translations exist. 

As the target audience is composed of modern humans, why not use them for comparison? That shouldn't be immersion-breaking, after all, you are using English (or some other modern language) to write the story, instead of the language of your humanoids. Mentioning at the beginning, especially when the first such creature appears on the scene, that they were roughly half as tall as modern humans (especially if the story is set on a past Earth), should be less immersion breaking than mentioning centimeters. If the story is not set on a past Earth, some subtle connection to how the story came into the hands of humans might also make a connection between their size and ours. Tolkien used this from time to time, posing as a translator between the in-universe languages and modern English. 

If your setting allows a controlling entity (it's either in a computer simulation, or is actively supervised by an omniscient and omnipotent God), then you don't have to care much about physics: just like in a computer game, you can selectively stop events from happening, while still having access to all information about the game state (no need to interact with photons to see if they are also part of your simulation) If you don't want to go that route, then sorry, your character will not be able to see, hear, breathe, or even move. If the speed of light becomes zero, that will be a pretty weird singularity, I don't even know if we have any answer to how physics will work in that setting. Instead of stopping time, you could speed your character up to an extent where the world seems to be almost standing still. Time still flows, but very slowly. This has the benefits of imposing a challenge upon your heroine: she doesn't have all the time in the world to do whatever she wants, she still has limits. However, you have to give her the required secondary powers, to keep her from burning due to the friction and compression of the air around her. you can take a look at the Fine Structure stories for a realistic portrayal of super-speed. 

How can such a source of antimatter provide useful work? Would it just be used to heat water which will drive steam turbines, like in a nuclear power plant? Or are there much more effective ways to extract useful work out of it? How could it be used to propel spacecraft? How could we with our level of technology utilize such a source of antimatter? Besides threatening to use it as a weapon by breaking open the container. 

Even if there was nothing wrong with the imaginary numbers, there is another issue: moving $10^{16}$ times faster would cause very nasty side-effects as the air molecules cannot get out of the way. There is an interesting explanation of this problem on xkcd: $URL$ 

Hotels, motels, etc. Other businesses which create or resell a product, have a long paper trail of having to buy the ingredients, so it is easy to inspect how many products they could have manufactured. However, if you have a large hotel, who can say if 10 people or 100 people slept there last night. Yes, guests have to be registered nowadays, but it is easier to fake that than to fake shipments of raw materials. 

Many video games and movies set in a medieval-like fantasy setting feature implausibly huge weapons, which would be completely impractical in real combat. Sometimes people defend the realism of such huge weapons by stating that the characters wielding them have superhuman strength. However, when real physics come into play, having superhuman strength still doesn't make these weapons practical. No matter how strong you are, swinging such a weapon would throw you off balance, unless you were bolted to the floor or you were so heavy that you would sink into the ground. Also, swords were very quick and nimble weapons, there is not much use in a sword which you can swing exactly once before needing to regain your balance (or get up again after you fell because of the inertia throwing you off your feet). This led me to the following question: what would be the ideal melee weapon for someone with superhuman strength in an otherwise realistic medieval to early modern setting? Let's assume our hero is 5 to 10 times stronger than an athletic human, with no other superhuman qualities (except those required by this increase of strength to not break his bones or rip his joints apart) It seems he would be much better off with a standard-issue sword, mace, or other historical weapon than with a huge and super-heavy contraption. As swords were used to cut or thrust (and not to chop, as mistakenly depicted in movies where knights hack slooowly at each other), where superhuman strength would not bring many additional benefits compared to an already athletic normal human, I would guess a common regular-sized mace or war hammer would be the best choice to make use of his strength. Could there be a better choice than that? Given enough money and the best smiths he can find, could one design a weapon which would be better suited to utilize his strength, than a regular, standard-issue hand weapon? 

The reason a custom, tradition, or social norm gets widespread, is that it fulfills a need which is not adequately fulfilled by other means. And this need was called "justice". 

Even if we ignored all atmospheric conditions, we had no friction at all, the space station wasn't moving, and the aim of the sniper was perfectly on target, etc., you still couldn't pull it off. The most accurate sniper rifle ever made, the Gepárd M1 anti-material rifle, has an accuracy of 0.7 minutes of arc. The ISS when closest to the Earth, orbits at an altitude of 409 km. This results in a target with a diameter of more than 80 meters, resulting just from the properties of the gun itself, without the bullet slowing down due to the atmosphere, etc. And this is the most accurate you can get with a rifle. The M1 version of the rifle I used as the example, trades absolutely everything for accuracy: it has almost no moving parts, is extremely heavy, holds a single bullet, and cannot be reloaded without taking it apart. A later, more practical version resembles the parameters of the famous American M82. Although the most important reason why it's impossible is described by other answers, especially by dsollen, I included this reasoning to point out, that even if all the issues raised by the other answers were non-existent, you still had a 80 meter target area as a best case. 

We all know the classical trope of making a deal with the devil. The mortal applicant desires some worldly possession, knowledge, or power, and is willing to trade his own soul for it. Picture the devils in this setting as the epitome of Lawful Evil. They don't tell outright lies (but if you misunderstand what they said it's your problem), and they always keep their promise (but they interpret everything in a way it benefits them the most). They have a whole army of lawyers at their disposal. They don't have as their goal to cause suffering in humans, but they are very selfish and do cause suffering if it furthers their goals. Tempting people to commit sins are among their goals, as it will increase their influence and power. However, the people have to do the evil acts willingly, so all the devils can do is to nudge them towards temptations, they cannot force them. They also never arrive uninvited, their PR rules prohibit cold-calling. The mortal must call out to them to conduct any business. However, they have a problem. The business doesn't go very well. Too few people are willing to relinquish dominion over their immortal souls for all eternity after their deaths. The price is simply too high for any material gain. To expand the business horizons, the commission of the Infernal Corporation decides to offer their services in more limited packages to appeal to a wider range of customers, with lower prices. However, what can the prices of the limited services be, if souls cannot be split? Note: the customer will be properly informed that the deal is done with an authorized agent of the Infernal Domains. The services cannot be for free, both because of the nature of the devils and because the customers would become suspicious. The deal has to be fair, or at least perceived to be fair by the customer. 

Just having a big chunk of antimatter floating in space. I doubt that we could harvest it. Maybe we could bombard it with particles to make it glow, and then harvest that energy, but I guess it wouldn't be much different than harvesting solar energy directly. If the first version cannot be used at all, let's make it much easier. We get the antimatter in nice self-contained packages (recovered from an alien shipwreck, or trading for it with a different civilization, it doesn't matter). In such a container, the size of a car battery, there are a few grams of antimatter, electromagnetically kept away from annihilating the walls of the container. There is a valve which can be opened to release a thin stream of antimatter, but once out, it is of course free to annihilate itself with any matter, including the container itself, as it is only protected from the inside. So it should either be opened in vacuum or the antimatter otherwise used up or guided by various means to its intended place to be annihilated. 

Not much. If you don't want to replace the body part with something significantly worse, then nothing, maybe except the teeth and the lens in the eye. And none of these are moveable or have any need for electronics, so they would not really be truly "cybernetic". Even with teeth, modern implantology barely got to the level to make dental implants which last for a considerable amount of time and have a fairly low rejection rate, but rejection rate is still a thing and they only guarantee 10 years, even if it might last somewhat longer. The bone will slowly but gradually degrade around the implant, so a healthy natural tooth still has advantages over dental implants. And remember, it doesn't need any moving parts or any power supply, but we still only can do so much, using the best available technology. About the rest of your body? 

No, but there is probably no need to even try it. Winning a battle, or defeating most of the Earth's militaries is not the same as conquering the planet. To conquer a planet they need to have absolute political control over most of it. There is simply not enough of them to govern the whole planet, not even talking about the lack of experience in how the local governments work. Take a look at how easy for a modern superpower (like the USA) is to defeat a technologically weaker opponent but how hard it is to keep governing them while having to fight a guerrilla warfare. The amount of direct firepower the battlestar has is inferior to the firepower many larger countries on Earth have. Their only direct military advantage is that they are in space, and we can barely send things up to Earth orbit in short notice, and need many years to send anything outside of the planet's orbit. So they could stay safely outside of our reach, and bombard us from there, totally wrecking our infrastructure. However, I wouldn't call this a conquest, and, more importantly, this would make their primary mission a lot harder to accomplish. Yes, they could cause significant damage to us while remaining completely unharmed. But why would they even want to do it? All they need is a lot of resources. These resources have to be mined, refined, transported, and it's much easier to do it with an existing infrastructure, than without it (while trying to protect themselves from the very pissed off remnants of the inhabitants). You specified that they have to land. This means all it takes is a single underground missile base or a single nuclear submarine (which can act independently for a long time even after its home country is utterly destroyed) to destroy them. This is the main point behind mutually assured destruction, and there are several countries today on Earth which could pull off such an attack even after the governments of the Earth either surrendered or collapsed. It seems the captain is not bound by any moral constraints regarding the inhabitants of the planet, and is only focused on getting the mission accomplished. However, that doesn't mean he has to be evil just for the sake of being evil, if the mission could be accomplished without killing millions or even billions of people. While writing a story, it is always a good thing to give your characters reasonable motivations. A villain who goes out of his ways to be evil, even if it isn't practical, makes for a dull story, and nowadays it's so much discredited that you will rarely see such villains outside of parodies. If you really need a total war, you will need more justification for it besides the captain having a distaste for diplomacy. There are a lot of possibilities between "using only diplomacy" and "shoot first and ask questions later". Take a look at how the powerful global powers in the last couple of centuries managed to get what they wanted from weaker nations: they never did such things as just arriving with their ships and starting slaughtering the natives. They showed up with force, but rarely had to use that force (or they used it only in a limited way). Your captain can do the same thing: ask for a completely uninhabited area to land on, and demand the resources to be delivered there. He might promise something in return, or he might just say "What nice cities do you have. It would be a real shame if something were to happen to them." The point is, no matter how you are afraid of spies or sabotage, if the battlestar started with opening fire as soon as it arrived instead of at least trying a friendlier approach, the chances of spying or sabotage would be even higher, as there would be plenty of people wanting revenge. If a deal is brokered and the battlestar lands, they can keep smaller craft in orbit and claim that if anything were to happen to the big ship, the smaller craft will start nuking cities. Again, mutually assured destruction would prevent Earth governments from trying to attack them. However, if they started with slaughtering the inhabitants and dropping nukes on the big cities and military bases, the inhabitants would have nothing to lose and would have no reason not to use any opportunity to destroy the battlestar. Which, while landed, is just as vulnerable to nuclear missiles fired from a submarine as is any city.