I camp in the Appalachians (pretty darned wet). We have had the same Kelty tent for over four years with anywhere from six to twelve trips per year. We've never waterproofed it. It still repels water and performs very well. It poured rain for over 12 hours our last trip and the kiddos in the tent stayed dry. I'd say waterproof when you have an issue. Sounds like you're wasting a lot of $$$ now for refreshing that you don't need. If you are worried, set it up in your yard a couple of times a year and test it with a water hose sprayer. 

In the States, we have a Ranger structure, whereby you can call a ranger district that can answer questions about that district. Similarly, you can call higher up the food chain for questions affecting larger areas. Is there an equivalent government entity in Canada? 

Under the assumption that I'm far enough out that I need to hike out on my own, and that I have someone who can help... what is the best way to immobilize a dislocated shoulder for a long hike out of the woods (5+ miles)? 

I recently had this problem with a pack and have experimented by sewing on a layer of velour. It's much softer and padded. However it is also VERY warm, which may defeat the purpose of going shirtless. 

To Dispose: Vent all the fuel, then puncture the sidewall. Once you have done this, it can be dumped in the appropriate recycling bin. Jetboil makes a tool to help with this, for which they've made a nice instructional video. To Use: An option to wasting that last 20% is to have an inverted canister setup. Since this relies on gravity instead of boiling via depressurization then you will use more of the fuel, but is going to be heavier to carry. 

Okay just broke out my kit. Here's what we carry. This may seem like a long list, but it's small. It fits in a ziploc bag (almost). Also, please note that you should pack for your skill set and first aid training. If you don't know how to use a splint, it's wasted and will tempt you to do things you shouldn't. Same goes for sutures. Know how benedryl and the epipen work before you dose anyone. You get the idea. 

Suppose you are out hiking, many hours from the trail head and someone has a severe allergic reaction (ie, anaphylactic shock or Anaphylaxis). In this case, what is the best course of treatment to maximize their chance of survival until they can reach a hospital? 

What is a "buff", how is it used, and why should I have one? I've seen them advocated in numerous places, but I'm not sure why a tube of cloth is better around my neck than a scarf, etc. 

No one can tell you exactly how long it will last. It will usually last until you contaminate it with bacteria and medium for growth. Then it will spoil pretty rapidly, usually within hours at the wrong temp, days at a good one. The problem is that bacterial or fungal contamination is not guaranteed to leave a detectable smell or taste. So by the time you find out you have poisoned yourself, you've almost guaranteed that your past the point where you can treat the poisoning. Botulism is usually fatal. If there were a guaranteed way to tell when it's spoiled, you could be safe just by inspecting each time before using. Since there is no guaranteed way to tell, and spoilage is due to contamination, I have to say that from a safety standpoint, it is good until you use it the first time. After that there is always the chance that you have contaminated it and will kill yourself eating it. You could do this for years, or your entire life and not suffer consequences, but you are rolling the dice and I cannot recommend rolling the dice like that. It's also worth noting, from the study above, that the acidity level is not the primary inhibitor of e.coli: 

I use these from REI. I can attest that they work in both wind and rain, though needless to say you do need dry fuel. Nothing will start sodden wood ;) 

Just about any car can handle a good gravel road, with the notable exception being low slung performance cars (cars with very little ground clearance). That being said, "gravel roads" vary a LOT. I have seen roads that were the next thing to pavement and gravel roads that had rock gullies which could and would take out your oil pan if you dropped a tire into them. Looking at google maps, the approach appears to be a Forestry Road. While google has streetview for some forestry roads (which we could use to assess the quality), they don't for this one. In addition the condition of a gravel road can change rapidly due to bad weather. A road that was fine last year may be washes and ruts this year. The only thing you can do it to go out and see in person. You should be fine, just use your best judgement on what YOU feel safe driving. 

Those look like fox tracks. We do have foxes in the Southeastern US. They are characterized by having the two middle toes noticeably (almost a full toe) forward of the outer two toes. I've ruled out squirrel, opossum, rabbit, mouse, rat, raccoon, cat, and weasel in the process of my research. For an example, look near the bottom of this page: $URL$ 

I can hike uphill practically all day. However as very soon after I start a descent, pain builds on the outside of my knee. What is causing this and can I do anything to prevent/mitigate it (other than Ibuprofen)? Edit: I talked to my doc and the location of the pain is very important in the cause. Note that this is pain on the outside (side) of the knee specifically, as opposed to pain in the knee or below/under the kneecap. 

If you're going for sealing, just stitch some silnylon over it with a sewing machine and seam seal it. I would recommend sewing two rows as they did, one in the middle of their two, and one an equal distance to the outside of the two existing. The first of the two should provide strong support due to the layering. Make sure you use some fabric on the back side as well to help prevent tearing along the new seam. 

Relative humidity is doing to be a big factor here, both on the too wet and too dry sides. Staying warm is generally not something you want to try to do "by the numbers". If you're out in the cold and wind, you need to pay attention to the feedback your body is giving you about the conditions you are in. Pay attention for the signs of hypothermia, frostbite, and/or dehydration and react accordingly. Don't just check the windspeed and temperature and rely on that to determine who fine you are. If you are planning in advance of a trip and want to know how cold it will be, don't use a rule of thumb, use a real calculation, but don't forget to add in humidity. Generally you should carry enough extra clothes to cover any extreme weather changes anyways. 

Carry a low lumen headlamp and a brighter torch (flashlight). Use a long lasting, low lumen headlamp for basic activities and only use the torch when you really need the extra light. This is the headlamp I use (and we read, play cards, etc. in addition to hiking after dark). It's the Petzl Tikka Plus 2. For torches, I recommend looking into Fenix products. They offer very good lumen/duration/weight trade offs. Yes, Fenix tends to be quite pricey, but my experience is that no one else offers the same lumens and duration for the weight. Full moon is not something you want your life depending on (and it would). Cloud cover can shut down the moon pretty quick and for long periods of time. 

Cold - If you are wearing layers at all, you're probably not in "benign" conditions. I typically don't wear more than one layer if it's not cold. If it is cold, then you don't want water directly on your skin. It transfers heat very rapidly. Chaffing - Wet cotton chaffes. I don't typically want my base layer chaffing me. Microbes - Bacteria, fungi... microbes tend to like wet conditions. Spending long periods of time wet in the wilderness is a good way to get a skin infection/condition. 

Lightweight gaiters are your best option. They do a very good job of keeping things out of your shoes. If those are also too hot for you then you will have to reconsider the effort it takes to change your stride/walk so that you're not kicking up as much detritus. It will come down to which is less inconvenient for you: adding gaiters, changing your walk, or living with the rocks. 

It all comes down to fit. Try it on as you would any pack. If it spreads weight the way it should... go for it! 

Regarding energy expense, there is already a good answer. However, I want to add that when considering "Does a pound on your foot equal 5 pounds on your back?" there are more factors at play than just energy expense. You should also consider the effect on knees and joints. As an example - If I put 5 lb weights on both my feet and went up and down stairs for a while... though tired, my knees would be fine. However if I put 50 lbs. on my back and did that, my knees would not be okay (I have done this test). Weight on your feet does not impact your knees the same way as weight on your back. When it comes to wear and tear on the joints and ligaments that support your body, a simple rule like this is not sufficient. 

Rodents are tenacious beasts. We've seen river rats in our area dig through concrete footings to get into storage areas. As long as it's just mice they can't usually get through concrete or stone. However rebuilding your dwelling with new materials may not be an option. Failing that, doing everything you can to seal gaps with the toughest material possible will help. Unfortunately mice can get through incredibly small gaps. Rodents are most likely coming in for one of two reasons: Shelter or Food. You can minimize food any of a number of ways but with it being cold outside and warm inside, your house will always be shelter. It may be unpopular with some but the best way to deal with rodents is to kill them. They know where you live and if you release them anywhere nearby they will just keep coming back. Regarding them coming in the aftermath: The snow melt quite possibly flooded their burrows and they were all flushed out to seek new homes. 

How can you verify that a water filter still works? I've had one for several years and I suspect it may not be working. Is there a way to test and make sure that it still filters to the factory specified microns? My particular filter is a First Need 

I just couldn't bring myself to bleach my tent. I was too worried it would damage the material. In the end I used Mirazyme and a bathtub. The Mirazyme removed the mildew and airing it out removed the smell. We just mixed it in the ratios listed on the bottle. 

When buying Tyvek online, there appear to be a myriad of options and numbers. Which numbers are suitable for making a tent footprint? Known numbers: 1443R, 1622E, 10G, 10GX, 1460, RV, 14M... (may be others) A Note: I can just go buy a "Tyvek Footprint". However I believe the products specifically marketed as footprints are just one of the above types, re-branded and marked up 10x. 

It's much easier to know what's not protected than to try to know what is protected. In most of the United States there are only a handful of birds you can legally hunt, and only during "season". This is a general guideline, that can help you narrow it down and not waste time, but this does not replace picking up a DNR guide for your area. The easiest way to find the DNR guide is to google [your state] department of natural resources. 

What I do is carry a small microfiber cloth. First I rinse my dishes, then I swish with a small amount of boiling water (usually left from our post dinner coffee), and wipe with the cloth. Voila, clean dishes. Sorry I missed the part about "found in the wilderness". Given that just skip the cloth and use the water ;) Another note. If the above method will not clean your dishes, then you should first look to changing other things in your efforts to hike light. Cooking when backpacking light should not involve any methods which require significant "elbow" grease when cleaning up. The same goes for dishes. We carry super light silicone bowls because they are the easiest for us to clean.