I own this Fuij Roubaix 2008 model road bike, its an aluminium frame with carbon front and rear forks. I already did 25000km on the bike and replaced wheels, chainring, a couple of cassettes, chains and so on. Will the frame wear out? I am only concerned that the frame will ware out and fail during riding, otherwise I like the bike since its suits me, the size is just right and I like the non-sloping frame. I am concerned about frame because the rear bolts between the carbon seat stays and the aluminium chain stays were lose and there is this mechanic which every time it sees me with the bike says that its going to break. What do you think? I would avoid buying another bike not because of the cost but because I like my bike and to the new one I would have to adjust a bit. Basically I am asking how to know when to replace a bike or a bike's frame, 

Time off the bike is only as important as how you take care of your body off the bike as well. -Eat healthy food (see 'The Feed Zone' by Thomas Liju and Allen Lim, and remember that athletes aren't special, and you need to eat regular healthy food, but just more of it with increase in volume in training), -Avoid standing on your feet for long times if you can; if you get the opportunity, elevate your legs. -Stay hydrated--mind you that hydration is not just chugging a gallon of water a day: pay attention to electrolyte levels, and the color of your urine is only ONE indicator and not definitive, -Do what you can to elevate your HR for 30 min. each day as well--for me, walking to work briskly accomplishes that. That's just something that personally helps for me Above all, do what you can to prevent DOMS (delayed onset muscle soreness) in the future by easing your way into volume and intensity if your body reacts to it poorly, and eat right all the while. When you get back on the bike, do the following in addition to the above: -Getting a recovery snack within 30 min. after riding that's primarily carbs, and a decent amount of protein (endurox claims the magical formula is 4:1 carbs:protein, but anything roughly close will do) -Eat 'complete' proteins. I can't tell you everything that's a complete protein (has the correct combination of ALL amino acids your body needs to build muscle), so just google for some suggests: I usually go with red beans and rice, or eggs. The latter is supposedly good at preventing DOMS. I'm also assuming that whether through a professional fitting or not, you fit on your bike: regional pain is a sign that your bike is not fit for you/. Acute pain should send you to get a fit right away. Generalized pain (my legs/exhaustion/etc) is to be expected. Something about 'pain and gain' or something something... 

Does anyone know how PowerTap G3 Service Calibration procedure is supposed to carried? I am asking as the official service I have sent my hub to has trouble in doing it. Personally I imagine that they somehow have a calibration stand where power is applied to the hub and data measured by the hub is registered. If the data seen by the PowerTap G3 hub is different then the applied power the new slope of the function is registered into the hub flash storage. I guess the slope is the slop of the function converting from electrical signal to Nm/HZ. Of course, all this is pure speculation on my part, however would help me understand why the service has trouble in calibrating the hub. Otherwise the hub works correctly, in the sense that broadcasts data but zero offset is a bit outside technical specification. My guess at this point is that somehow writing the new slope to the flash memory fails for some reason or another. 

Thank you Cycling Maniac and Robokaren.... Just want to add a few more things to the discussion. Not sure if it is obvious to someone outside the industry, but getting a good mechanic has been a universal problem. The total number of mechanics in the country is very low compared to the bikes that are sold annually. Why? 1) It’s hard to do this as a career while earning an avg $12-14 per hour. 2) The seasonality and work schedule can overwhelm mechanics, forcing them to either work long hours and weekends, or leaving them with no work at all (during winter for example). And it all comes down to the simple fact that when you go to a shop (unless the shop owner is a mechanic himself) or a franchise like velofix or beeline ( most of the time velofix and beeline franchise owners are just investors who end up hiring mechanics to drive buses around), you do not really know who works on your bike. Our approach is different. We try to empower people who love bikes and can provide their services on demand to others. All the jobs on velotooler get logged into the bike history with the mechanic’s credentials attached to it. Mechanics get directly paid for the job and can reinvest money to get better, maybe even buying a bus, and possibly turning this into a full time career. We get that the peer-to-peer concept is not a hot subject in the industry. The way bikes get sold to the end customer are far away from the direct sale model we see in other industries. You get a bike manufactured in Taiwan - shipped to a distributor - company representative sells it to a bike shop - bike shop sells it to a customer. It is all great when more people are getting more jobs and money. However, the margin that the mechanic gets from this is almost nothing. So we try to step in and make a difference in the bike mechanic’s world. Ironically, the only people who really see and touch a bike before it gets to the customer are those who build and pack the bike ( often outsourced), a UPS or FedEx driver carrying the box and a mechanic who puts it together. I do not think that anyone from the bike company even sees the bike after they put an order to build it (unless it’s a smaller bike company with a more hands on approach). We just try to make people who buy bikes online or at shops realize that having your own mechanic is not a luxury - it is a standard that should have been applied a long time ago, where mechanics get more for putting together and servicing these bikes that were built in China or Taiwan. But once we truly understand the people who service bikes, we should also understand the passion they have for bikes. Another important question is - why do people who love bikes so much, and still service others for such a low compensation, can’t afford to ride? For example, most of the mechanics who still ride bikes have lots conflicts with their training routine and weekend race schedule, because of the high demand of repair services during the summer. Basically, you have to choose at times between being a cyclist and a mechanic. We like to give flexibility mechanics, so they can ride as much as we do. All of us on the velotooler team love cycling, race bikes and travel just to compete or do an awesome ride somewhere beautiful. 

I'm assuming this is a 3 piece Shimano sealed-cartridge square-taper style bottom bracket, since you didn't provide any further info, and that fits the price/style/vintage of that bike. (for more on bottom bracket styles, read the always useful Sheldon Brown site). Additionally, how is the derailleur out of adjustment? Is it a cable tension issue? Is it not a front derailleur position (yaw, height) issue from getting moved during the operation? Assuming you did not alter the position of the front derailleur, and following my assumption of the BB type, you probably did not install your bottom bracket properly as @Hicks was getting at. Most 3 piece bottom brackets have 2 cups with the threading, and the bearing/spindle set itself which fits inside the cups. (If not, the drive-side threading is probably fixed to the bearing/spindle assembly (but also possibly not)). These bottom brackets are generally larger than the bottom bracket shell of the frame (depending on manufacturer), which means the bottom bracket's threading will be protruding from at least one side of the bike. If the drive-side of the crank spindle protrudes further from the bottom bracket shell than it should, your front derailleur will always be off by that distance. When installing the bottom bracket, you must fully thread the drive side first so that it matches flush with the bottom bracket shell of the frame. Then you can thread the non-drive side (for further instructions, see Park Tools Guide. Re-attach crank-arms, recombombulate bicycle, etc. After following this process, your front shifting may still be off--the factory or mechanic that built your bike may have adjusted the front derailleur with the bottom bracket not fully-threaded in on the drive side. If it's still not shifting correctly I'd suggest learning to adjust your front derailleur, because that's a much more worthwhile endeavor than trying to improperly install the bottom-bracket exactly as it was when you got it/had it repaired last.