This last branch vow is an interesting one, one skillful means described by my old guru back when I was practicing the vows and still considered myself Buddhist was the act of reprimanding with false anger. To appear angry and scold when you actual are not holding anger and are holding compassion for the one being scolded. If someone was a guru or a monk and they were telling people to kill 3rd born children (A highly unlikely case) It is permissible to break certain vows to stop them and their followers. See 

Now, this can be seen in the Tibetian Wheel of Life Illustration, but I do not have the memory or resources to know if any sutras flat out say it. I think it is worth noting that the drop from heaven to hell is not guaranteed by even this belief, as it is in accordance with the "individuals" karma. However in most cases after a birth in heaven, the next rebirth will tend to be in the lower realms, either animal, hungry ghost, or hell being. 

No escape through any gate, those overcome by fear that try to flee are captured by goddesses accompanying the gate keepers (Various ways are described) Those trying to escape through the gates are stopped by the gate keepers, those attempting to kill themselves to escape are revived by Amrtakundali. 

Other than these areas I could find no references to balancing the 37 factors. Hopefully this is what you are looking for... 

In the realms of heaven, you are "burning up" large quantities of "positive" karma quickly There is little reason to generate "positive" karma while in the heaven realms, why? Because you are in some state of bliss Once you burn all that "good" karma all that is left in your "stash" is "bad" karma. 

Some kind of increase in intelligence and awareness is described here...Exact details aren't written here, but it seems to be of some magnitude, and I have heard in one lecture 9x the living intellect is assumed. 

The manji (Japanese Buddhism) is said to represent love and mercy, in certain situations. This symbol should not be confused with the swastika, which is completely different. 

I feel like this is a good place to start. I've also heard it translated as the "in-between" the state between states if you will. In my question however I was specifically asking about From death, which the Tibetan Buddhists will always be kind enough to remind you is a certainty in life... , what directions can you "flow" through your karmic river? Not a trivial question, and for schools outside of the Mahayana, sometimes deemed a meaningless question. At which point both schools tend to stagnate in circles of missing each others points. Continuing from the commentary though I will go through the stages in order. 

He is part of a trio with Manjushri and Avalokiteśvara. They represent power, wisdom, and compassion of the Buddhas. In the bardo the first set of deities you encounter are the peaceful ones. Later you encounter the wrathful ones. If one realizes that both are projections on ones own mind, and does not fear and embraces the energy involved it is said one can reach liberation in the in-between state in this way. The worst thing one can do is to fight or flee from them, these energies are not avoidable and are due to past karma/kamma. Just as when the "mirror" that reflects your last life might show you things that make you uncomfortable, to deny your bad deeds at this time magnifies the karma. One important thing to note about these wrathful deities is that they are not devils, they are not like Mara. They are there for practitioners benefit and protection. The peaceful and wrathful deities have a mantra as well called the 100 diety mantra. 

I want to stay in a monastery. Become a monk. But I can't cause of my girlfriend. (But I think her thinking is right as well: "You just want to flee from everything".) I don't want to build a future with making decisions with/for her when we broke up anyway someday. (That's just my thinking) 

Please make sure you read the whole text before giving me an answer. I'm very serious about this and search a very good advise, something I didn't think before. This year I'll become 30 years and I'm standing in the middle of nothing. My boss fired me and all in all I feel I quitted more jobs in my life than changing my underpants. I've no motivation to do something cause I've no aim for something. When I started to do something (no matter what) I concentrate on it for a few days / weeks / months and than I left it and do something new or nothing, cause everything makes me bored from time to time or stressed me to much. Then there are times I decided to do something very cool. These are the times I started to do something new for a particular time. But when I'm into it and I don't "throw it away" I think about all the political decisions (internationally) and get paranoid of a world war 3 or something like this. That's the reason why I don't want to do anything, cause I think "When I do something and the worstcase comes over us, there was no need to learn / do it." I'm very deep in conspiracy theories and work sometimes hours, days, weeks and month to find out "the truth". That's the reason why I think like I mentioned above. And that brings me to another fact: I seriously hate this system of life. I've the opinion we are not on this planet to work and pay taxes. In my point of view, both are waste of time --> Working for money, to make a low life - never become that successful, that I don't have to worry about the most money-cases. In my opinion we are here to find a higher self. Now there are 2 possibilities: 

My girlfriend is telling me, I should concentrate more on myself than on her. I should do more what I want, not what she want or what is "best" for a common future. (Yes, she really loves me - no sarcasm here) I've a handful of friends more or less but nothing I can work with for my personal life. It's not cause of them, it's cause of me, cause I don't like to talk about the most things. And I've less than a handful of leisure activities. I had no plan in the past and I don't have one right now. In my carreer I developed a photography-eye so my references in photography are remarkable. But I hate to stress myself out to search for some work for it (freelance) and I don't like to work with people at all (commercial studios who work for quantity, not quality). The second thing I can do very well is solving computer problems of all kinds. Even when I've to search in the www for solutions I can solve every problem since I'm a child. Hardware & Software. No matter which kind of operating system. Just doing it like I never did anything before. My actually situation is: I've safed a little money to survive for the next 1 - 2 month. I could search for another job, but the possibility I really hate it is very high and will quit anyway. And I feel myself is to old to do something totally different and become SO good in it, that I become very successful with it. So what should I do generally? I feel like "I just want to quit life and try something else." (if you understand what I mean) Cause everything I do is making me bored. Everything I aim on is not SO special (in my mind), that I would spend my life for it. (For example: Become a programmer: Oh no, it's not THAT cool ... and on and on) 

Its much more deeper than this. To put some context to this you can settle your mind in many ways by calming your mind doing breathing exercises, listening to music or many other forms of meditation. This is not what budha's way of calming your mind to go to nirwana. Only way of meditation mentioned in budhism is Anna Pana Sathi (Assa Passa Bawana) Meditation What it means is focusing on your current thoughts. If good thoughts come to your mind keep them and refrain from bringing in bad thoughts inside. Also create good thoughts in your mind and remove existing bad habits from inside. This is Anna Pana (Anna pana is not a breathing exercise nor focusing on breathing) 

Simple answer to your two questions Is Nirvana a goal which every Buddhist must achieve? Yes. Ending the suffering is the ultimate goal of a true budhist Is there any other things more important than attaining Nirvana? No To answer this more, All budha's sutta and all teachings point to how to attain nibbana nothing else. In order to attain nibbana only thing you have to do is look into yourself and your sitha how thoughts come and go every second. Trick is not to attach to any of it because its impermanent. But if you get attached to these thoughts and feelings karma cycle begins in another words life begins at that moment. Look at the Four stages of enlightenment and first step most important Sotapana. The three fetters which the Sotāpanna eradicates are: (excerpted from Wikipedia for better explanation) Self-view - The speculative view that a so-called self exists in the five aggregates (physical forms, feelings/sensations, perception, mental formations and consciousness) is eradicated because the Sotāpanna gains insight into the selfless nature of the aggregates. Skeptical Doubt - Doubt about the Buddha, his teaching (Dhamma), and his community (Sangha) is eradicated because the Sotāpanna personally experiences the true nature of reality through insight, and this insight confirms the accuracy of the Buddha’s teaching. Clinging to rites and rituals - Eradication of the view that one becomes pure simply through performing rituals (animal sacrifices, ablutions, chanting, etc.) or adhering to rigid moralism or relying on a god for non-causal delivery. Rites and rituals now function more to obscure, than to support the Right View of the Sotāpanna's now opened dharma eye. The Sotāpanna realizes that deliverance can be won only through the practice of the Noble Eightfold Path. 

When you do Anna pana sathi you have to do it in the present moment. For example if a bad thought (Moha, Raga, Dewesha) come to your mind few mins earlier you can't clean that using Anna Pana meditation. You can only clean current thoughts not past ones. So that's why budha said Nirwana is at the current moment. Person who do Anna Pana meditation are capable of Removing Raga Attachments, Moha Attachments, Dwesha Attachments at current moment. You can remove all three with practice of Anna Pana meditation. Any of these could come at any order in a given moment. Raga - getting attached to something because you like it Dwesha - getting angry or hate something because you don't like it Moha - Because you don't know of the truth you measure things between good or bad Ex: You go to a restaurant and eat a peace of cake which is the best cake you had ever tried. at that (Current) moment you get Raga thoughts and mind get attached to this thinking this is the best. This thought gets stored in your mind how awesome is this cake. after few months later your mind provide the picture of the cake and all those thoughts stored in your mind suddenly comes to you. again you get attached to that thought in current moment thinking about how awesome was that cake. You picture it taste it from mind. Next day you go to the same restaurant and order the same cake. But you realize its not the same taste. You get bit of anger at that moment (this is Dwesha) thinking why is it bad today Then on the very next moment with moha mind you compare the old cake with new cake thinking how awesome was that and how bad is this. It is the same cake same cook same restraunt but different taste but you got attached Raga Dwesha Moha mind. For a person who had become enlighten minds at those moments are different He eats the cake at the current moment notice it is a tasty cake and that's it. He doesn't get attached to it (he doesn't fantasize about the cake with Raga) therefore for him story ended at that moment and moments to come.