And there are even cases where an auxiliary is used for indicative present, namely present progressive (if you take this as the "normal" present) in English: 

In case a sub-tree consists of a single node only, heads are not marked by a dot as there is only one node that could be the head anyway - as in the subject NP , where is the only node and at the same time the head node of the NP . If it had any dependents, e.g. a determiner, it would look like just like the structure around . So you can identify that must be the head of the sentence that belongs to because is the node that is marked by a dot. It can not be or because the are not marked by a dot (more precisely, they are, but on a different level: is the head of the VP , where is the head and is its dependent, and is the head of the VP ; however, as indicated by the lines being more rightwards, this is nested one level deeper than the main sentence, and therefore, and are the head of the respective VPs rather than of the entire sentence, because otherwise the dot should appear on the leftmost level). If you want, you can just rotate the tree 90° and add arrow tips: 

Again, the syntactic structure is isomorphic to the semantic structure. In contrast, the following ambiguity is not isomorphic between syntactic and semantic structure: 

The joke about it is that UK clerk sounds like US clock (= kʰlaːk), that's probably why it's written in IPA because the joke doesn't work with Roman letters. 

In interlinear glosses, I think or are most commonly used to abbreviate "particle". or are sometimes used too, but should rather be avoided due to confusion with "preterite" and "participle", respectively. But the name actually doesn't matter that much given that you provide a list of the abbreviations that you used with their intended meaning (which is always good practice to do because of the lack of a definite universal standardisation). In formal definitions, I generally wouldn't use abbreviations but always terminology as precise as possible. For further reference: 

I would say those are temporal adverbs. To be precise, all the time can not be an adverb since "adverb" is a word class but this phrase is not a single word. And you asked about the "kinds of words" (i.e. word classes), but you can not assign a word class to a phrase. Syntactically, this phrase, just like always or never (which are syntactically single-word phrases), functions as an adverbial, a phrase which modifies a verb or clause - but here we are at a different level, because this is a grammatical function, not a word class. As you said, they are not expletives, because they are an inherent part of the sentence's meaning. Edit: You mentioned non-expiry - I don't know of any specific term for that. The classification among temporal adverbs is rather between time point/span - duration - frequency, possibly others, but apparently not whether the adverb expresses expiry, non-expiry, having expired (i.e. past events) or whatever. I assume the reason is that such a classification wouldn't be very meaningful, as there are types of temporal adverbs such as those expressing frequency that could not at all be classified w.r.t expiry - take the word sometimes; this is neither something that expires, nor something that doesn't expire nor something that has already expired. So I don't think there is an actual terminological classification w.r.t. expiry because this would only be applicable to a rather small set of adverbs. 

Totally depends on context, though. Of course, compared to English, Mandarin or Spanish, something like Norwegian might seem small. On the other hand, when talking about severely endangered languages which are only spoken by a handful of people, i.e. less than 100 or so, a language with several 1000 speakers would be not be considered very small. I think you might draw the line at about the middle on the vertical scale in the graphs above; the languages in the rather dense area (around 10^4 speakers) would be considered medium-size compared world-wide, the ones above with several 10,000 speakers or more rather large, and the languages further below with less than ~1000 speakers would be considered small. This also shows when looking at the distribution in a table: 

However, the "correct" form is turning the question word "was" into "wo" (literally "where", but it loses its local meaning and severes only as a basis to indicate the wh-word) and attaching the pied-piped preposition to it: 

This is not correct. Type 1 means that the LHS must contain one non-terminal symbol which on the RHS corresponds to some sequence of terminal or non-terminal symbols, , and this requirement is met by being part of the left-hand side. That eventually tranforms to (because and respectively denote the same string on both sides of the rule) is completely okay. 

Demonstrative pronouns and determiners like this, that, such etc., both in pronominal (This is a serious issue) and in a determiner (this task) use are certain candidates for context dependence. With a decent parser, you will be able to dereference (find the antecedent of) such items, but taking sentences in isolation, unless the reference relation is between several clauses of one sentences, such pronouns or determiners are highly context-dependent. The same applies for personal and possessive pronouns (he, his, it2 we, their, ...) - unless referring to an entity in the same sentence, they will not be understandable without context. Depending on whether the reader knows the text's spaker and addressee, first and second person pronouns (I, you, we etc.) might be less problematic. Proper individual names like Mary or Ms. Smith, but also *insert some pseudonym* usually don't have context-independent references either. You need to decide on your own whether Mary Smith can be understood without context or not; you probably would want to make exceptions for persons that are assumed to be known to everyone, like Mr. Obama or Mozart; for this kind of world knowledge, you'd need more advanced tools (first thought: look-up in an encyclopedia?) to find out to what degree the meaning of such names are assumed to be part of a regular speaker's knowledge or not. Proper names of places (China, Los Angeles, Hudson River) or major events (World War II) can probably be assumed to behave similarly to known persons, i.e. rather context-independent - again, dependent on how much world knowledge you 1) assume in the speaker and 2) are able to feed your system. You should consider making exceptions for NPs involving genitive or adjective attributes, or in combination with a PP, gerund VP or relative clause3: the murderer is context-dependent, but the murderer of Caesar is not (PP), the requirements vs. the requirements for EU membership (PP), the fountain vs. the fountain in front of the Eiffel tower (PP), the engineers vs. the engineers designing NASA's Mars robot (gerund VP), the mother vs. Albert Einstein's mother (genitive attribute), the president vs. the French president (adjective attribute), the woman vs. the woman who discovered radium (relative clause), ... You might need to elaborate more on this, e.g. it is also important that the references within the NP are clear (of Ceasar vs. of him), but in general I would say that adjuctions usually help disambiguating the referene of a definite NP. 

Change in connotation If it's about connotation: A word receiving a more negative connotation is called pejoration. A word receiving a more positive connotation is called melioration. However, those two terms are perhaps not perfectly suitable, at least I'm not aware of an alternative terminology that would express more precisely what you mean: Pejoration and melioration is more about a single word undergoing a change in meaning over time; e.g. silly used to mean something like happy, unworried in Middle English and over time received the meaning of stupid or ridiculous, so the word itself changed its meaning or, if you want to call it like this, connotation. In the examples that you gave, one could not really speak of such a semantic change, since you modify the expression (by adding un- or not) so as to express something different, while the orignial word itself retains its meaning. So there might be the need of a different terminology here, depending on how narrow you set the definition of pejoration and melioration, but I doubt there is an actual term that expresses modification with respect to connotation for the following reason: I would like to comment that "connotation" is a term that is not so easy to define and probably not that often used in semantics, rather maybe in pragmatics (some may even say it's outdated; I recently read a comment to some question here on Ling.SE (don't remember who it was though) saying that connotation is more of a rhetorical term that was already used by the Ancient Greeks and not something that you could use as a neutral scientific term nowadays). This, and the choice of the clearly negating morphemes not and un-, is why I'd go with a simpler description: 

While the perfect sentence indicates the action is still having an effect on the reference point (the miltary is still in power), this does not follow from the non-perfect sentence (the military took over leadership at some point in the time, but the resulting state might not extend up to today). Velupillai (2012) treats perfect as an instance tense and not of aspect, under the assumption that it is the defining property of the perfect to express than an event is still relevant/having an effect to some later location on a timeline, thereby making the event span between two locations on a timeline: 

You later edited in your question that you're not interested in whether speakers of the varieties can understand each other, but unfortunately that's exactly the definition that is predominantly used to draw the line between a language and a dialect, so I'll stick to my anwer as I had it before and leave it to other answerers to provide different approaches, like statistical analysis of lexical similarity. That the German varieties are mostly considered dialects while the Slavic languages are languages already implies that the former are significantly closer to each other. Even if two Germans from different regions speak speak a very strong dialect (which is nowadays a marginal, mostly rural phenomenon), two Germans from different dialects would still understand each other to large extent, even more so when they try to be cooperative and both simply speak their "Dachsprache" which makes communication entirely unproblematic. The differences lie mostly in phonetics and phonology; lexicon is sporadically different (esp. food names), but almost entirely shared; grammar is essentially the same across dialects except for some individual deviations on special constructions, which are, however, still very compatible with what is perceived as Standard German. You can of course always make things unnecessary complicated by putting emphasis on the features that are not shared with the other dialects, but that's not what mutual intelligibility (the ability to communicate with each other) is about. I would argue that even a Bavarian and a speaker of Low German can understand each other if they want, although of course this might not be as simple as, say, between a Swabian and a Badensian. This is not so easy for, e.g., Russian and Polish, which have lexical and grammatical similarities but are not so easily mutually intelligible even if two speakers try to make themselves easily understandable to the other. Reading is probably easier because the differences in phonetics and phonology don't manifest themselves as heavily as in speech, but you would still consider them different languages because there are too major divergences in terms of grammar and lexicon, although there is some overlap. I find michau's comment "If it's easier to speak an unrelated third language (e.g. English), it means that the languages aren't mutually intelligible" quite a good approximation here - I've frequently heard Russians and Bulgarians, Polishs, ... talk English to each other because this was the easiest way to communicate for them, but it would be extremely unlikely that two speakers of German find their respective dialects so unintellegible they'd rather talk in English (even if they spoke English well) than in their native language to each other. So while there is a lot of political discussion to that issue that I really don't want to go into here, considering the above I would claim that German (not Germanic!) varieties are to be considered closer to each other than are Slavic varieties. 

Some further information that is related to the problem: Moschovakis (1994) (full reference see below) chooses quite an interesting approach to make the terms a little clearer: He tries to account for "Sense and denotation as algorithm and value". Basically, he suggestes that the sense of an expression can be regarded as an algorithm to compute the meaning of an expression, while the denotation is the value we get by applying the algorithm with respect to a specific situation. The "algorithm" corresponds to what our interior concept of the meaning of a certain expression is and the "value" to the judgement we make about that meaning applied to a specific situation, so we compute the meaning (in the sense of reference) to the actual world an expression has by applying our generic algorithm steps related to that concept and evaluating its value against what is the case in the world. If you want to do it a bit more formal, the intension of an expression can be viewed as a function mapping from possible worlds to extensions (depending on the type of expression, this extension is a truth value, a set, an individual, ...), which you apply to a possible world (the argument) and get the extension of the expression in that world you just computed the value for. So if the intension of a proposition is a function taking possible worlds as arguments and giving as an output the truth value of the proposition in that possible world, then the value of that term (i.e. f(w) ) is 1 or 0 depending on whether the proposition is true in w. And the algorithm, i.e. the sense or the intension of the proposition is precisely this f - which fits to the approaches made in other theories that the intension of an expression always be a function from possible worlds to whathever that expression denotes, and according to Moschovakis, it is that function which represents the algorithm of a meaning. The intension of a predicate then is a function which is, again, applied to a possible world and returns as value the set of individuals that fulfill the predicate in that very world. You could theoretically do the same for individuals, but assuming that proper names be rigid designators (i.e. that a name will always refer to the same indivudal in any world or situation; although one could argue against this) this maybe seems not as intuitive. Altough there was no actual definition of an algorithm at the time of Frege yet, his writings suggest that he did have an idea of what an algorithm is, and that this might correspond to what he had in mind with his sense and denotation. I find the idea of the sense of an expression being an algorithm you have in your mind which allows us to derive the specific denotation/value in any situation is a really elegant way to capture the two notions. 

I googled for Joan Bresnan which @Atamiri mentioned in the comment and think I've found the analysis that he/she was mentioning and should be what you are looking for. According to Bresnan (1997), just as Atamiri described, the finite auxiliary naeth is in I, the head of IP, while the infinite VP brynu car and the DP a dyn combine to the complement of I, labelled S. As far as I understood it from quickly skimming the article, this DP + VP constituent constitutes a so-called mixed category, a "construction in which a single word heads a phrase which is a syntactic hybrid of two different category types" (Bresnan (1997: 2)). Adapted from the example in (27), the phrase structure tree for your sentence should look something like this: 

Basic definition An assimilation is a phonological process by which a sound segment is made more similar to one of its neighbouring sounds with respect to at least one feature. (Assimilation mostly occurs to make pronounciation easier - however, this is not part of the definition, this observation is perceptually-driven, as @user6726 points out.) For consonants, those features are: