I got hired by a company about a year ago that doesn't normally do software development. They had contracted out to a firm to get some software written for them. Later, they hired me to help maintain it. What this software does is gather data locally at a rig site, stores it in a local SQL database, and periodically uploads the data to a remote database that is maintained by my company. This allows people who are not at the local rig site(say, the clients CEO) to use a remote version of the software to login, and see what is going on. Each rig site has a name associated with it: Rig 1, Rig 5, etc. The main problem is that the client can create a username/pw each time they run the software. This leads to many logins all associated with new rig sites created with the same names. There are numerous reasons why this happens, the least of which is that the software doesn't check to see if a username already exists. And quite frankly, my company and all the clients all appear to not care about any of this. The most difficult part of it all is if something goes wrong, I don't hear about it for almost 4-6 hours later. And when I do hear about it, I get the very vague "It's not working". When I try to prod them for more information, no one is ever doing anything when it "broke", or no one remembers. This is frustrating to no end, and I get yelled at when I can't successfully fix the issue in a timely manner. I've informed my boss about this issue, and again, no one really seems to care. So that brings about my question: How do I make them care? How do I get them to impose some semblance of standards that will not only make my life easier, but benefit them as well? EDIT Standards I'd like implemented: 

I would considere it an issue if the intervention of the recruiter had in any way an impact leading you to talk to this friend. Exemples: 

following the contact with the recruiter, you contact a friend you know to meet about the position: you should go with the recruiter. You were supposed to meet this friend before hand for other reasons. But since you get the information of an opportunity, you bring on the topic to your friend: you should go with the recruiter. You were suppose to meet this friend before hand for other reasons. Then you received the offer from the recruiter; but you don't mention it to your friend: He brings the topic on: it's a grey aera, could go either way. 

She has to think (and believe!) that HR and her boss are not here to help her (ultimatly). They are here to help the company. Some will see helping you as helping the company (the good guys) and some... Less. With this in mind, our dear Jane might reconsider her position and the overall situation. What is the reason of the inaction of management? They could be multiple: from inexperience/incompetence to willingly letting things go. It is a complexe situation, but in case of experience manager/HR, I will try to extrapolate the few information you gave us to make sense of the situation. Let's say, the first team member quitting because of bullying didn't mention it to HR. and let's say the second one (with medication), didn't make too much fuzz about it and quit 'shortly' after HR got the information of the bullying. As far as they were concerned, the problem was localized to 2 people and one of them quit: problem solved. Then Jane enters the dance and talk to her boss & HR about the problem. An experience manager will not act too hastly because he must be sure of the facts he has (maybe Jane had some professional/personal issue with the guy and she is starting a war?) ; And most of all, he should considere the impact of his actions. Maybe her bully has a key role in the company and it's hard to replace him? Then, he will need time to find somebody else for the transition, he cannot risk one part of his team to fall apart even if one of his employee is suffering. Also, maybe he only received mild warning from Jane, and doesn't realize the distress it's causing her. In any case, I would not advice going over the boss (if you think you had a bad time with your bully, try with a boss that is recentfull of a bad evaluation). I would ponder the situation, re-assert the problem with my boss. Maybe by asking to move to different project in which there will be less interaction with the bully? This will send a strong message: you like this company, you want to stay, but you cannot work with him, period. If the response is not what she expects, she might need to start looking for something outside. 

A family member is a candidate for a contract position. The position requires a background check, including fingerprints (this information was just shared). The concern is that the prints will be digitized. With biometric authentication becoming more commonplace, that digital biometric data is more important (you can change a password that's been compromised, but you cannot change your fingerprints or retina patterns). Can anyone provide insight into how this is done currently? (Many years ago I was fingerprinted for a couple of jobs, but it was ink on a card that went into a file cabinet and was never actually sent anywhere). The major concern is the security of the biometric data. 

Resumes and background checks are not the same thing. Your resume is a marketing tool, and as such, you choose what best represents the skills you are selling. Information provided for a background check is expected to be more thorough and is not about your skills. I have never known of anyone losing a job because they left something off a resume. I have known of people losing a job due to failure to disclose information for a background check. It was not for a failing to list a job, it was failure to list a minor ticket. But the issue was never about the thing that was left off, the issue was about the fact that the candidate was not honest. 

Do you want a higher degree in order to get a higher paying job, or to satisfy a personal desire? If it is for a higher paying job, you need to weigh the opportunity cost - you are currently earning an income, but while working toward your advanced degree you will most likely be accumulating debt. Will a potentially higher paying job be enough to offset the unearned income plus the debt acquired? Keep in mind that there is no guarantee of a future job at higher pay. If you want a degree to satisfy personal desire, find a way to earn it while working. (Perhaps your current employer may provide some assistance? If not, work and take night classes.) Based on your own misgivings, it doesn't sound like a good choice for you right now. 

Praise him once in a while in front of peers. Ask him alternative opinions on different solution for other project. Give him a small project in which he would have control over the technical part but need to deliver to the business part (he'll come ask for business questions, and won't have time for technical questions). Instead of giving technical solutions, ask him to come with a list of solutions for the problem he is having. Then let him choose the best one. 

Another approached to your problem is to stop focusing so much on the development process. Maybe it's not well implemented, but at the end, your goal should be to satisfy your customer (and it's very hard to change processes in a project). If your requirements change too much, it's because your clients don't know what they want. It might be because of a lack of knowledge, inexperience, etc. It doesn't matter, it also doesn't matter whose fault it is. But they want to improve their business, and you are here to help them. That's why I would recommand to increase your dialog with your customer to UNDERSTAND what they want, why they want it, why they want it the way they asked it. It might be their job, but it will make you an awesome developper if you do that (it's much more fun too!) There is so much cases in which, by being passive, you are actually creating something useless for the client just because he thought of something, formulated in a way for some reason, you understand it in some fashion: TA DA: waste. Talk to they, ask WHY multiple time to understand their need. Once you understand what they need, you will be able to answer your own question/issue while developing and they will be thankful for that! 

You might consider declining the job (and the test). I would not want to have a positive drug test in my history. I know that confidentiality rules should prevent any one from learning the results (other than those in the specific chain that are expected to learn the results). But information has a way of spreading. Could someone at this company talk to someone at another company and jeopardize your chances there (not legal, but if they aren't caught, how would you know)? If I thought there was a possibility that I would legitimately fail a test, I would not take it. There will of course be consequences for this job, but it would end there. You don't have to disclose your reason for withdrawing from consideration, so rumors of drug use would not follow you beyond this point. 

I would recommend that you apply again normally, just as you did for the first opening. If by chance you applied online, you may be able to log into your profile and submit it without re-entering all your information (but be sure to update any part of your resume or profile that warrants it). I was hired for my current job after applying for 2 previous openings (over the course of several months) but applied to each one individually. You were interviewed previously, so you obviously were under consideration. That you were not chosen doesn't necessarily mean that there is something wrong with you or your profile, just that they thought someone else was a better fit at that time. That other person is now out of the market, so perhaps you are the best fit this time. Focus on the positive. As to whether you should remind them that you interviewed previously, I would not do that in place of a regular application. Maybe include that in the cover letter or mention it if you receive a phone screen. 

I don't think any choice you would make would ruin your chance with this company, but it might impact your relationships with recruiters in the future. In general it reflects badly on your reputation. 

In that way, when another offer comes along, you could still decide which way to go. As long as no contract is signed, nothing is decided. Now you have given your word to a company. To refuse the position now would be detrimental to your reputation. The impact of this action will depend of 

Prepare your performance review in a positive light. Take everything she told you and even if you would disagree with her, try to bring back a positive experience since then. 

From what you are explaining, you are making the assumption he sends emails at lunch time to record the time you spend at lunch. First, it seems he didn't seems to make criticisms about it. Second, you may be fixating on this as you feel you are in a bad position (low salary, low motivation etc.) To answer the question at hand, it may well be that your boss is manipulative about those emails, but since he hasn't made pressure about your time lunch, you cannot do anything about it. Focus on more important issues (that you pointed out in your post) rather than focusing on smaller issues that you might not have notice in an healthy environement.