Don't worry about dry treatment or any of that other stuff (you will obsess about it for your second rope, promise!). Retailers often have sales on ropes, that would be a great place to start looking. Other than that, make sure you know what you're doing (or get instruction), and take care of the rope well, and you're all set. 

(Section F, second panel.) I think that's generally good advice for clipping the second bolt (and sometimes for the third bolt if it's far from the second). For all other bolts, an important thing to remember is that a quality, well-bolted route will have logical stances from which the equipper intended the clip to be made. Bolts are (generally) not uniformly distributed throughout the route, so it's impossible to make blanket statements as to where you should clip from. Climbing past a perfectly good stance to clip from an awkward stance above doesn't make sense, even though it could potentially minimize a few feet of falling. Keep in mind the huge mental boost (for most climbers) of being one foot below a bolt instead of several feet above it. As I've gained more and more experience, I've gotten better and better at judging those "clipping stances" from the climb (or even from the ground). This makes the climbing more efficient. The only way to get better at this is to get new pitches of climbing under your belt and recognize when you clipped from an awkward stance where a better stance existed nearby. 

Roping up would be a bad idea. A good rule of thumb is that you should only rope up if you can place protection between climbers (i.e. attach the rope to something). Glaciers are a different story, but that's not where you're going. Many accidents have occurred when one rope mate falls and takes all the others with them. As far as using YaxTrax , that is going to be trail and condition dependent. For ridge lines and moderate slopes on good (but somewhat icy trails), I think they would be fine. They are also going to be lighter and more flexible than proper crampons. If, on the other hand, you were planning on climbing steeper ice or deep snow, I would recommend bringing proper crampons. Generally a good idea is to never climb up something you wouldn't feel comfortable climbing down, so you are not over-committed. Trekking poles might be a good thing to bring, and would give you better balance. Also, be sure to practice walking around outside with your chosen footwear + crampon / yaktrak. You want to make sure you don't have any issues of fit, comfort, or the thing falling off. 

As with all things in the mountains, prevention is better than a cure: if you're really worried about a fall and are still short-roping, you're probably doing something wrong. Done correctly, short-roping can provide extra confidence for a weaker climber, and respond quickly in the event of a slip. Most importantly, the rope is already ready to be used for a quick belay when the terrain gets harder. Short-roping is not for everyone, but it is a valid strategy for traveling safely and quickly in the mountains. In my experience, it's the only way to cover enough ground on the relatively easy terrain to do the bigger objectives. In some cases, it's the only (reasonably) available protection strategy; e.g., on knife edge ridges such as the Aiguille de Rochefort. 

While there's always more uncertainty in climbing with someone you don't directly know, don't discount finding partners online altogether. I've had great experiences (primarily rock climbing) with partners I ended up meeting online, and otherwise I wouldn't have climbed that day. Some things you can do to make sure you stay safe: 

All harness manufacturers instruct users to put carabiners through the belay loop and not the tie-in points. Petzl has it in their manual: 

First, see my comment above. Get some professional instruction. Seriously. To answer your points directly: 

To have the straps "kept" neat, I usually just slide the keeper plastic bit all the way to the opposite side and that seems to help. Make sure you're not wearing your snowshoes reversed (it's pretty easy to do): the buckles should be on the inside and the straps should go out, not in. If that doesn't help, you could try tucking the leftover strap under the tensioned strap (probably don't try this with gloves on), or try some aftermarket magnet modification. 

Listening to your body is spot on. Let the finger heal completely before climbing again. This is very important, as a split tip is very likely to split in the same spot again. Prevention is very important, and will help keep tips from splitting in the future. Start by moisturizing the skin regularly, especially after climbing. Use products like Climb On and Joshua Tree Salve: they will help the skin regenerate. This is very important in the winter when the skin is drier. You can use an emory board to sand away dead skin; smooth skin is less likely to have a line of weakness that can split. If you have a big callus that is about to rip, file it down. Your skin will build up calluses, but it does take time to adapt. Don't rush it, and keep things progressive. Pick climbs that don't have extremely sharp holds. When climbing, make sure your hands stay dry: use chalk to prevent soft skin that can split. I've heard people using super glue to heal splits, but I've also heard it's a terrible idea from other people. Tape can also be used over the split, but I find the loss of sensitivity very distracting. 

The electric igniter on my jetboil has been giving me trouble. It's not completely broken, but I'll only see a spark 5 or 10% of the time. This means I don't completely trust my stove, and have to carry a lighter. I've tried moving the spark rod closer/further from the burner, cleaning the igniter, and speaking softly to it, but I'm basically shooting in the dark. I know they sell a replacement kit, but I am also wondering if it can't be fixed first. What else could I be trying? 

Since this is your first rope and you're mostly doing single-pitch sport climbing, I would recommend you look for just a few simple things: 

Good footwork is the foundation to good climbing. Most climbers think their footwork is better than it actually is, and could be better climbers simply by improving their footwork. Here are some drills and tips to improve it: Quiet feet: By far the best drill you can do is called quiet feet. It involves climbing while focusing your attention on your feet. It goes something like this: move your foot up to the hold, and place it softly on the hold. Make sure you look at the hold the entire time, until the new foot is placed. If you made any noise while placing the foot, move it back to the previous hold and start over. Otherwise, move your hands, and do the next foot movement in the same way. 

Coming up with emergency information for a recent trip got me thinking: What information should you leave with your emergency contact? I imagine the answer depends on the length of the trip, remoteness of the area, how much your plans are set in stone, etc... Some things I ended up coming up with: 

I would argue you've left off the most subjective of metrics, but the most useful: similarity to other routes in the same area. I don't think there's going to be a single equation to grade a route. You'll have general rules of thumbs that hold true (more holds = easier, more overhang = harder), but those will never give you a grade from first principles. The best way to grade a route is to compare it to others in the same area. While a single person (datapoint) is likely to provide a biased estimate (unless they have a lot of experience), a large number of climbers providing estimates will end up with some consensus that is the best you're likely to get. This is why some route grades change over time, as more climbers provide an opinion. I purposefully mention to check routes primarily in the same area because (in my experience) grades do tend to vary slightly between areas. How the route is bolted is unlikely to have an impact on the grade itself, but more on the enjoyment of the route (and its safety). The length of a route impacts its style, but not necessarily the difficulty. For example, a route could be bouldery (i.e. short) or more endurance-y (i.e. long). For really long routes (multiple pitches) you often get a commitment or seriousness rating: a roman numeral describing how long the route generally takes an experienced party. Unfortunately this is again all subjective: a super-fit highly-experienced party can cruise up a grade V in a few hours, whereas most may take up to several days. 

Unfortunately, Accidents in North American Mountaineering is littered with reports of climbers getting into trouble on glacier because they didn't know how to perform a rescue correctly. 

This is sadly a very persistent myth that has been around rock climbing for far too long. Black Diamond says that as long as the gate action is fine and there is no major structural damage, the gear is fine. As a side note, the fact that this group decided their gear was unfit to climb on, yet felt okay selling it to someone else who would climb on it, would make me question their character (to put it lightly). 

While belaying two seconds at once using the method ShemSeger pointed out is my favorite, it does take a fair amount of experience so I would not recommend it to someone climbing for the first time with two seconds. If you're just starting out, I recommend you use the Caterpillar technique: You lead on a single rope and belay the second as you would normally, except the second climber trails another rope behind them and clips it into each piece of gear. When the second reaches the belay, pull up the rest of the slack on the third climber's rope and put them on belay (just as you did for the second). The third climber climbs and removes the gear you placed. At the belay, the second climber can help with rope management: flaking ropes so they're ready for you to lead off the next pitch, and making sure the ropes don't tangle. It does have several disadvantages (mostly... it's slow), but it's extremely safe. Most importantly, it's also closest to what you are already used to doing. It's my recommendation for any first-timer party of three: you've already got enough new things going on.