Source: Vannevar Bush biography Memex would be a concept and a technology readily understandable and implementable by technical people in the 1950s and therefore it would be an excellent medium for sending information into the 1950s. The original proposal for storing high-density information for retrieval via electron microscopy was not able to be located. However, this more recent proposal for a such a device was: -- 

Before getting to the issues of the question proper, this answer will first consider the following aspect "the reason they are placed on the planet is for long-term monitoring of human evolution by an outside source." This means putting on our scientist hat and thinking how this would work as an experiment in human evolution. Most definitely long-term monitoring would be both necessary and essential. However, from the first this looks more like an experiment in human survival rather than evolution. The good thing is the children receive training in environments that are Earthlike. Hopefully, their training environments will be similar to the environments they encounter where they are landed on the planet. They do have advanced survival skills, but it is essential they have an understanding of the planet's plant and animal life. It is important in any experiment that too many experimental organisms are not wasted unnecessarily. This means it is essential that wherever the children are placed on their destination planet that they are reasonably well adapted to its environment. They must be capable of gathering food, building shelter, making tools and garments, and making sure they don't get lost. It is possible that an experiment of this kind might not get past a properly constituted ethical committee. Bad experiments still do happen, but they should be severely discouraged. This experiment might need more consideration about how it tests human evolution instead of plain old-fashioned human survival. Now for the questions: 

The same way anybody "milks" a large animal for sperm collection. First select an adult male Albertosaurus. Anaesthetize the beast, either grasp its penis and "persuade" it to ejaculate with either manual stimulation or vibratory ejaculation or electroejaculation devices. Of course, you will have to dodge marauding dinosaurs while doing so. You only have yourself to blame for setting up this dangerous wacky scenario. Otherwise you kept collecting Albertosaurus sperm using the same method you collected your original sample until you have a year's worth. Really you only need one hundred millilitres worth at a time to extend your booth's invincibility by another thirty days. You only need several moths' worth to stay ahead of the game. Surely there are brave and foolish individuals would rise to the challenge of "milking" Albertosaurs. Employ a few of them, or use this as an opportunity for them to join your time tourism business. 

Yes and it's already been done. Research into self-cleaning garments has been accomplished. It may not necessary have been nanofibre materials, but it can be achieved. This has been done with biofabrication and based on the work of Wen Wang at MIT. Self-cleaning garments are in their infancy. It can be expected that ongoing advances and further in bioenegineering and materials technology that self-cleaning garments will be commonplace. 

Assume, for starters, that the antimatter weapons produce and fire the simplest kind of antimatter beam. Namely, a beam of positrons. Once your vessel detects an incoming beam of positrons, it aims its own antimatter beam weapons in the direction of the attacking vessel. Both positron beams will be positively charged. This will cause them both deflect and diverge each of the positron beams. Essentially backscattering the attack positron beam and allowing a large volume of positive space charge to build up between the two vessels. Effectively using a positron beam to attack a positron beam blocks it from reaching your vessel. This defence tactic will work best when your positron beam is travelling along the same path of the attacking positron beam. A proton beam beam also be used in the same manner to block positron beam weapon attacks. This will have an added advantage that protons have more mass than positrons, so the proton beam will 'penetrate' further along the positron beam path. The attacked spacecraft can use electrostatic technology to induce a large positive charge on its hull to further deflect the positrons in enemy antimatter beam. If the spacecraft under attack has escort drones or auxiliary vessels in formation with it, these craft can fire electron beams to pass near or adjacent to an attacking positron beam. Since electrons and positrons have opposite charges they will attract each other and cause the beams to diverge from their intended paths. If this is maximally effective the attacking positron beam will miss its target. This effect can be increased if the support craft fire a positron beam that passes on the opposite side of the attacking antimatter beam to that where the electron beam is passing it. The combination of external positive and negative charges will increase the deflection of the enemy's antimatter beam. Another defence against a positron beam would be firing an x-ray laser beam weapon along the beam-path of the antimatter. The x-ray photons in the defensive laser beam will deflect the positrons with Compton scattering. A spacecraft suitably armed with its own positron beam weapons and x-ray laser weapons, supported by escort drones equipped with positron and electron beam weapons, will be able to defend itself against attacks using antimatter beam weapons. 

This concept is at the limits of speculative science. There two mechanisms that would have the effect of speeding-up time tenfold. The first was proposed by physicist Robert Forward in that negative mass has the effect of speeding up time relative to everything that outside the region dominated by negative mass. To quote myself from an earlier answer at Speeding up time?: 

Frankly, no. With Ecclesian dualism the real universe will be exactly the same. The brain scanning and probes of the twentieth century wouldn't have been capable of detecting the influence of psychons on the brain's activity. They lacked both the precision and resolution necessary to observe the phenomena in question. It is only now in the early twenty-first century that brain scanning technology is beginning to approach the sensitivity and the information processing capacity to determine the existence of the coordinated brain activity induced by psychons. In another answer to this question this author was ready to suggest that extraphysical entities might engender consciousness in computers. After all, computers are simply form of organized physical substrate upon which the extraphysical entities might act. However, in terms of Eccles dualism this seems unlikely for the following reasons. Firstly, computers are crude and highly coarse grained pieces of physical substrate. Wholly lacking in the complexity, fine-grained structure, and low-energy requirements for interaction of the organic brain. Secondly, living brains have been in existence for many millions, if not billions of years. This is more than enough time for the psychons to evolve and adapt themselves to the brains of biological organisms. Computers on planet Earth have been around for less than a century. Even if there are computers in the rest of the universe they may not have been in existence long enough for psychon evolution to adapt themselves to computers. This suggests that the spontaneous appearance of conscious computers is unlikely. Although should it happen this could be evidence for the existence of Ecclesian psychons. This is unlike the OP's suggestion that the differences won't appear until around the Second World War. But ours could be a world on the threshold of discovery that ours is a universe where dualism is part of its reality. In hard SF terms, this means, within this context, that a foundation has been laid for a putative universe that is dualistic in nature, although that dualism exists at a subtle and not easily detected level. Of course, once technology is developed that reveals the existence pf psychons and indicates their role in generating consciousness in our brains there will follow further developments to observe them better and possibly commence communication with psychonic realm. There is one further suggestion and hinges on this question: why would extraphysical entities like psychons want to interact with our brains to modulate them in such a way as to generate consciousness? One possible answer is that the domain in which the extraphysical entities exist is so vast that they cannot communicate with each other and it is only by orchestrating our brain activity and thereby generating most of our behaviour that they contact each other. This does indicate that the whole human activity may be without any meaning or value except as a communications medium for extraphyical entities. This could also include the conscious behaviour of every biological organism on the planet with sufficiently developed and complex neurological systems. Current thinking has moved beyond Descartes' belief that animals were merely machines without any consciousness. Evolution does indicate that some form of consciousness exists throughout the Animal Kingdom. There are even possibilities that plants might communicate too. If they can do that, then the further that they possess consciousness cannot entirely be ruled out. In conclusion, this answer has adopted the Eccles model of brain activity to explain how consciousness might arise through the mediation of non-physical entities he called “psychons” that influences dendritic bundles in the cortex. It has made suggestions how this might be adapted and adopted into hard SF. This has been an exercise in world building. To erect a piece of quasi-scientific architecture, to consider some of its aspects and its possible deviations from the quotidian world. However, the rest that follows from this conceptual framework and how it might be used is the business of the fiction writer. While the work of world building isn't truly over, once the fiction is constructed, then new problems and new issues about this world will arise and need to be solved. But the primary world building is over in introducing a specific form of dualism into the fictional context of hard SF. 

You would need to inculcate two beliefs into the minds of enough people. Belief one: That demagogues should not be listened to and their beliefs accepted. Belief two: that the beliefs of demagogues do not influence the nature of the world. Each of these beliefs is designed to neutralize the power of demagoguery to shape reality. The way to spread these beliefs to the mass of the population would be through religion. The majority of beliefs related to the nature of the cosmos are related or enshrined in religion. The Academy could work on developing a secular model of cosmological reality that mirroring what we would call science. Effectively maintaining and enhancing a universe like our own. If this is a case of society defending itself against demagogues who might usurp reality, then support from the government and its institutions will help the status quo. Surprising enough, most of the population still has sufficient trust in their governments to believe the ideological frameworks of their societies. This helps explain why the Soviet Union and the People's Republic of China were so full of true believing communists (not really communists they just thought they were) and the Western Democracies like the USA and UK were equally fully of democratic true believers. In emergencies, governments could employ their cadre of demagogues to spread the preferred consensus belief systems to counteract those of any rogue demagogues. However, since the power of demagoguery is a potential threat to good social and cosmic order it most probable there will be laws concerning public speaking and the right to assembly. Sadly, this will result in speeches at public gatherings to be monitored. Licences for public speaking could be revoked if they threaten the nature of reality. This proposal isn't mere authoritarianism. It is a reasonable response in a world where belief systems can influence reality. Legislation is a modest form of social control. Regulating belief systems in this way is little different from regulating road traffic or food hygiene. The objective is to keep people and society safe. Above all, society should propagate the two primary beliefs intended to neutralize the power of demagogues. Once any malefactor is identified as a demagogue, their power will be leeched away as the belief grows that they are mere demagogues trying to spread 'wrong' beliefs. Always remember: Think good thoughts and believe in the universe revealed by science. 

If you want to have androids that can interact with human beings, navigate their way through the complex, complicated and unpredictable environment that is the real world, they need levels of cognition capable of dealing with that. There will be a point where androids are processing information that represents themselves in the environment they inhabit, and in the environment they are part of, and this represents a form of self-awareness. In essence, with sufficient cognition androids were become self-aware. With sufficient cognition, androids will need to think about what they are doing, how to perform the tasks and activities they are carrying out. Already there are software agents that we can talk to to carry out tasks for us. The level of cognition for a robot, computer, software agent or an android to understand and communicate in natural language doesn't seem to be too far away. It may be as simple as the fact that when we build androids they will need to have the levels of cognition just to have their ability to do whatever their functions are. Those levels of cognition will generate the capacity to reason, the capacity to communicate, and the capacity for self-awareness. In summary, make androids to be like human beings and functionally be like human beings they will be human beings. The level of cognition for self-awareness comes with the territory.