Rim strips are not expensive, so if you have doubts, get a fresh rim strip. What they call "rim tape" in this "how to install a rim strip" video is actually what most refer to as a rim strip; rim tape is different. In any case, since you've had two tubes fail in the same location, I'd suggest that you not see if a third one will do the same. Regarding a pump for use out on the road, I'd recommend something with a hose, like a Lezyne or a Topeak Road Morph. 

I have tried many apps on my phone-- MapMyRide, MyTreks, Endomondo, Strava-- and there are pros and cons associated with using an iPhone in this capacity. Basically, it boils down to ride duration. If you're riding for a short distance/time, you're probably going to be satisfied with a variety of apps, depending on what you want them for. You like to compete with others? Try Strava. If you like just recording your route, speed, elevation (not very precise), try Endomondo or MapMyRide. If you ride for longer distances/times, you're probably going to find the iPhone is rather limited. The battery is drained rapidly by the screen, so if you like to use your phone in place of a cyclocomputer for speed, heart rate (requires additional hardware), you will find that your phone will die on you, unless you have an external battery of some kind. I usually do a 50-ish mile ride about 3-4 times per month, and it takes about 3 hours. I've tried using my iPhone to record the ride, and it died on me before the ride was over. It was in my jersey pocket-- I have a cyclocomputer, so I don't use the phone in that capacity-- and it was probably 95% charged at the start of the ride, but it was still dead before the end of the ride. I know I can make it work-- quit other apps that are not being used, make sure the app is not displaying my position on a map, so the screen can go dark and save some battery-- but for longer rides, say, 70 miles, the phone simply does not hold enough charge in the battery to permit me to record the ride. A 70-mile ride for me is around 4.5 hours on the bike, plus stops. There are a bunch of various cases/mounts which allow you to put your iPhone on the cap of your steering tube or on your stem/bars, some of which are waterproof, some which are not, some with an external battery, some without. Personally, I can't use that kind of a case unless it is waterproof, equipped with an external battery, and easily removed (I don't want my phone getting stolen when my bike is parked). Too, if you typically carry your iPhone in a case-- I use an Otterbox-- you need to remove it from that case before you put it into your handlebar/stem/steering-tube-cap-mounted case. Taking an iPhone out of an Otterbox Defender case is a hassle. What works best for me, riding around 2500 miles per year on/off road, is a Ziploc bag. I put my phone into a Ziploc bag, and carry it in my jersey pocket or my Camelbak. If you ride a decent amount and want to get data from your rides, you should get a Garmin. You'll get enough battery life to record a century, and then some, plus you'll get a device which is actually designed for the job of recording the route/helping you navigate, recording heart rate, cadence, elevation, grade, you name it. Everyone I know who has a Garmin loves it. 

Friends who have ridden the coast from Vancouver, Canada to the Mexican border used Adventure Cycling Association maps for the route. ACA has a series of maps that cover the route. The ACA description of the terrain for LA to SF matches what I heard from my friends: lots of climbing. 

Have you looked at the instructions for the derailleur? If not, it might help. If the bike is a recent purchase, have you contacted BD? I'm not sure they will be able to help (how recent is a "recent purchase?"), but you have nothing to lose. Your other alternative would be to go with the bike to a local bike shop, and let them repair it. It won't be free, in all likelihood, but you'll get results. 

No one has mentioned rider weight as a factor. I'm around 220 with my Camelbak, etc., and I ride a Trek Fuel EX 8, mainly for cross-country and fairly non-technical trails. In addition I'm middle-aged. I ride road more than I ride dirt (2000-2500 miles/year), so I would say my bicycle handling skills are not really sharp in an off-road environment. Adequate, but far from exceptional. I believe younger and/or lighter riders have greater leeway to choose between HT and FS bikes, but older and heavier riders might be better off with FS for several reasons. FS weighs more and costs more, but it offers some benefits as well. It's much easier on the bod, more forgiving when it comes to bicycle handling skills (as others have noted), and it's more comfortable. It's better-suited to my cycling situation than a HT would be. I can climb certain trails on a FS bicycle which I probably couldn't climb on a HT. The rear suspension keeps the tire in contact with the dirt, and I'm riding for fitness and enjoyment, not racing, so the extra weight is acceptable for what it provides in collateral benefits. I have a vintage 1980's MTB which I have ridden off-road (it's been converted to more of a townie now), and the FS Trek is so much more enjoyable and comfortable to ride off-road. 

I have a Cateye Double Wireless, and I was surprised at how much the tire circumference in the instructions varied from what I was measuring and observing. I run 700x25C Gatorskins, and the Cateye instructions said to use a circumference of 2105mm, but I was measuring a circumference of 2155mm, when the tire was inflated on my wheel. That's more than a 2% difference. In actuality, it can be shown that the Cateye number (2105mm) is a lot closer to the true circumference (when a rider is on the bike, compressing the tire, and changing the effective radius of the wheel/tire and circumference of the tire) than 2155mm is. So if you can live with a small amount of inaccuracy, I would say that you should go with the number in the instructions that came with your computer. It's probably something they've considered more carefully than you might think. I tried to explain this to a friend, and his reply was "your inner nerd is showing," which is probably true. But, I have degrees in math, and I don't care. What I found, for my bike & my weight, was: 1) Sitting on the bike causes the tire to compress about 5mm. (My computer sensor reads off my back wheel, which carries most of my weight.) So when I measure the circumference of the tire, that must be taken into account. There is, effectively, a loaded and unloaded circumference. In my case, the unloaded circumference of a new 700x25C Gatorskin is about 2155mm. The loaded circumference is around 2124mm. 2) The tire wears over time. With 3200 miles on the rear tire, it's squared off pretty good, and the worn unloaded circumference is about 2140mm, whereas the worn loaded circumference is around 2109mm. These tires are typically good for 4000 miles, maybe 4500. Near the end of its life, the number given by Cateye turns out to be pretty close for this tire. But not all tires of a given size have the same circumference. Schwalbe Marathon Plus tires, for example, are taller (larger circumference) than Gatorskins. 3) Can I find a "set it and forget it" number? I could just use the figure supplied by Cateye, 2105mm, or I could interpolate and use (2124+2105)/2=2115 (rounded). Over the life of the tire, this would cause my speed and mileage to be overestimated when the tire is new and underestimated when the tire is worn, but it should average out by the time the tire is replaced, assuming the tire achieves an average lifespan. 2% is not a huge error, but over a year's mileage for me, it would cheat me out of a longish ride's mileage (somewhere between 40 and 50 miles), at least in my records. 

Original Message ---------------- Subject: Question From: To: sales@dinottelighting.com Date: 2012-12-14 23:12:10 I'm looking at your 400R and your 400R-AA. Functionally, they're the same, no? Same light, different power source? Thanks in advance ========================================= At this point-- even though I would have thought it absolutely insane just a few years ago-- I'm considering dropping around $500 on a DiNotte package deal 400R tail light, and 1200L headlight. The 400R is bright enough for day use, which is basically what I want it for, and as another wisely observed, "if you compare the cost of the 400R with the cost of an accident, the cost of the 400R is insignificant." 

Probably not the answer that you're looking for, but I find that Speedplay cleats covered with Keep-on Kovers wear very reasonably. Covers which need to be removed are a hassle. I forget to take them off when I need to and forget to put them on when I need to. I don't use Keo cleats, so I am not certain, but I believe the design is such that the wear points are impossible to protect when you're on the bike. 

The photo quality could be better, but it looks to me like it is a mid-range Japanese-made frame from the mid- to late-1980s. The rear dropouts are not stamped, so it's not a low-end frame, and the single shifter boss on the downtube is for unitized Shimano or Suntour shifters, like you can see on the bikes photographed in this thread. It's hard to tell for certain just from what I see in the photos, but the lugs appeared to be thinned toward the ends, which is again not something you see on low-end frames. If you ask this question in the Classic & Vintage sub-forum from which I linked the above thread, you'll likely get a quick and accurate answer. I wish I could tell you more, but I don't recognize the semi-wrapped seat stay lugwork, though I'd wager someone at BikeForums will know much more. 

In my experience, 2000 miles out of a 9/10 speed chain is pretty typical. Some brands do seem to be objectively better than others (see page 44 and onward), however, so your mileage may vary. Regarding measuring the wear of a chain, a steel ruler is highly effective. Some would argue that chain checkers are made to sell chains, not really measure the wear on them, but they are generally conservative in that they typically factor in roller/bushing wear. I have read claims of longer life from 9/10 speed chains, and I'm actually in the middle of testing a couple of new "treatments" to see if they extend chain life. First, I switched lubricants. Previously I had been using various teflon-carrying oils, wax based lubes, even ATF (automatic transmission fluid). Now I'm using Dumonde (review here), and I also bought an ultrasonic cleaner which I have used to clean my chain. I'll be happy to come back here and post an update when the time is right. Currently my new chain (lubed with Dumonde lite and cleaned with the ultrasonic cleaner after 800 miles of riding) is at 900 miles and counting. One thing I will mention regarding the Dumonde, it does help me to have a very clean drivetrain, which I appreciate (and never really seemed to achieve with other lubes). BTW, this shows when I replace my chain, when it has "stretched" by 1/16." That particular chain was lubed with wax lube, mainly, and lasted 2000 miles: 

There is a lab in the U.S.-- Friction Facts-- which publishes a variety of cycling-oriented reports, designed to help riders of all kinds. Their basic premise is that many small improvements in efficiency are collectively significant. One of their reports is concerning the best chain lube; a summary of this ran back in 2013 in Velo News. Unfortunately, I am unaware of any free version of this available on the Web; however, you can download the whole series of reports from Friction Facts for $15 U.S./£10. That said, I am not a shill for Friction Facts. In a nutshell, what they showed in their testing was that the best chain lubes are wax-based: regular parrafin wax, Molten Speed Wax, Squirt Lube, and so forth. Their test showed that the amount of energy lost to chain friction can be greatly affected by lube choice; there is roughly 3.7 Watts of difference between the best and worst lubes in their test. While it isn't something you're likely to notice on a practical level-- just using a wax lube won't take someone from zero to hero-- for an average rider, who can output an average of 150 Watts for a long ride, it works out to be about a 2.7% improvement. 

I love ATF (Automatic Transmission Fluid) for freewheel (not free hub) lube. What I do is lift the bike-- if someone can help you with this, it's a bit easier-- so that you can rotate the pedals (and make the back wheel spin). Ideally, the bike should be tilted to the non-drive side about 45-60 degrees. With the back wheel rotating, you can see where to lubricate. As Sheldon puts it: 

I ride with a bunch of old guys. They are all white guys who grew up in the midwest, working on farms, and spending a lot of time in the sun when the weather permitted it. It is interesting to me that all of them are fastidious when it comes to sun protection. They wear sunscreen and long sleeves when it can be done comfortably. They also can tell you about regular visits to the dermatologist, where they go to fight skin cancer. Here's a few threads for you to read and ponder: 1) For the love of God, NOW will you wear the sunscreen? 2) Sun Protection from a Dermatologist Hope that helps 

I switched from Aksiums (2010, they weigh around 1900 grams without skewers) to Ksyrium Equipes (2005, slightly lighter, but I never verified the weight). I never noticed a difference in how the wheels felt or spun up, but someone else might. A bicycle mechanic friend related an anecdote regarding someone who once tested how sensitive riders were to added weight (in the form of lead weights in the seat tube) on a bike. In a nutshell, professional riders noticed an increase of a few ounces, but non-professionals did not notice until nearly a pound of lead was added. The actual weight of a wheelset often differs from the published/claimed weight. You don't mention how much you weigh, or how much/where you ride. I'm around 200lbs (91kg) and I average 50 miles (80 km)/week. Some climbing, mostly flat terrain. I'm not racing, so my primary concern is solid wheels which are not high-maintenance and represent good value, last a long time, etc. I got tired of broken spokes on the rear wheel when I was riding Mavics, so I switched to these. I think I'd be better off losing some weight than paying big money for lighter wheels, but I might think differently if I was lighter and doing a lot of climbing. My $0.02 would be to get wheels that fit the kind of riding you're doing. In my own case, the Mavic Ksyrium Equipes were a foolish choice, in hindsight. I got them off eBay for a good price, but I didn't find out they were 2005s until I got them, and after three broken spokes ($30 each to fix at my LBS) in 3,000 miles, I decided to get something that required less maintenance. Mavic wheels use proprietary spokes, which many LBS do not keep in stock. There is enough information out there on the 'Net to make it clear that Mavic wheels are not made for 90kg+ riders, and I should have done my homework more carefully. I would encourage you to do yours.