The Big Bang was the whole universe. There was no "centre" to the Big Bang; the (hypothetical) point source was all of the universe. There was no space expanding from that point, space itself was expanding. Hence light from the BB was everywhere in the whole universe. If you were there it would be like living in the middle of a massive fireball - so there cannot be any shadows in any direction. You could not be at the "edge" of that fireball, everything was in the middle of it. And, until 380,000 years after the BB, photons were not free to travel, as the universe was not even transparent to light. At the time of the CMB, 380,000 years after the BB, the temperature of the universe was about 3,000K, roughly the melting temperature of Tungsten, or double the melting point of Iron. At that temperature, electrons and nucleons could just combine into atoms, and, as it was no longer a plasma, the universe became transparent to radiation. But to this question it does not really matter what the temperature was, as everything was at the same temperature, accurate within about 1 part in 10,000, as reflected in the anisotropy of the BB. EDIT The effect mentioned in the OP comes from a study in 2006 by Dr Lieu of the University of Alabama. It relates to the fact that, although the CMB comes from everywhere, in the direction of glacatic clusters we should see a reduction in the glow. This is caused by ionised gases in the cluster distorting the CMB and is called the Sunyaev–Zel’dovich effect (SZE). Dr Lieu found that the signal from the direction of clusters did not match the predicted SZE. However, in 2009 Diego and Partridge used more data from the WMAP probe and found that, while there are still some discrepancies, they depend strongly on the particular model used, and they can accommodate the measurements. They concluded: 

The Stanford Research Institute was established by Stanford University in 1946 as a research innovation centre. It started a number of important developments such as the computer mouse and inkjet printing. It separated from Stanford Uni in 1970 and became SRI International. Alongside their legitimate research, SRI also became involved in some more esoteric projects, some of which were sponsored by the CIA. These included "research" into remote viewing and telekinesis. They also tested some subjects such as Uri Geller. The parapsychology research at SRI finished in 1991, and their present website does not indicate any outlandish projects. At that time their psychic programme was transferred to the Stargate Project, until its demise and declassification in 1995 One of the main proponents of Stargate was Maj Gen Albert Stubblebine, whose "research" was immortalised in the movie "The Men who Stare at Goats". So yes, the US military and other departments engaged in psychic nonsense. And , of course, nothing ever came of any of these projects. SRI International still exists, but their activities now seem to be limited to legitimate research. 

While possible, this proposal is only practical if there is a high efficiency coupling between the transmitter and receiver. Anything else would waste the vast majority of the broadcast energy. With ordinary broadcasts the coupling is extremely loose, and all you will receive is microwatts or less. That may be enough to drive a clock, but not much else. Tight coupling can be achieved by transmitting over very short distances, as in electric toothbrushes or the Nokia phone charger shown by Rory Alsop. Alternatively, the energy can be tightly focused to the receiver, and the receiver made large enough to intercept all of the beam. There have been proposals to collect solar energy in space, using solar panels, and to beam it down to earth, using either lasers or microwave transmitters. In both cases the power would be tightly collimated to the receiver. A tightly focused beam is essential here, not only to ensure that no power is wasted, but also to avoid damaging structures and life outside the beam. The idea has been around for decades, but has not yet found backers. Obstacles to its implementation include safety issues, as well as the cost of launching a gigawatt space power station. References can easily be found by googling "space energy", but here are a couple of examples: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

The 3 stars in Orion's belt are in one line and very nearly equally spaced, as are the 3 pyramids. The first is a coincidence. The second may be as well, or it could be deliberate because the Egyptians liked it that way. Either way, the "correlation" is meaningless. Of course, the actual distance between the stars on the celestial globe is totally different from the distance between the pyramids; all you need to do is to change the enlargement of the photo to make it match. And, of course, the real distance between the stars in 3D space bears very little relation to the display in the sky. As for the fact that the have aligned the 3 stars with the pyramids, that is just a matter of turning the photo the right way. The actual Orion's Belt in the sky will turn as the night progresses (like all stars it goes around the Pole Star once every 24 hours). As the seasons change it will also move up and down in the sky. All this means that the display in the sky bears no relation to the pyramids alignment: it varies from minute to minute. In summary, there is no evidence that this supposed alignment is in any way special. It's simply a matter of aligning 2 photos in the right way. I might add that there is also some evidence that the Great Pyramid was aligned with the celestial north pole. However, the Pole Star was not in that position when the pyramid was built, because the earth's rotation axis sweeps around in a circle over 26,000 years. This is called the "precession of the equinoxes", and 4500 years (the age of the pyramids) is an appreciable fraction of 26,000. EDIT The Egyptian god Osiris was associated with annual cycles, such as the flooding of the Nile and the movement of stars. This in turn was linked to the Orion constellation, and the Dog Star (Sirius). As a result, it is conceivable that they intended the alignment of the pyramids to reflect Orion's Belt. By similar reasoning, the Seven Sisters (the Pleiades) are very important in Australian Aboriginal Dreamtime stories. In both cases the only implied significance is that people of ancient cultures were interested in the sky, and wove it into their myths. 

The water will be perfectly safe. X-rays are used to inspect many forms of food, as detailed by the European Food Information Council, and it is generally considered safe. Food is sometimes sterilised with X-rays or even gamma rays, which have higher energy than X-rays. In both cases the food is considered perfectly safe for consumption. As for the effect of X-rays on water, remember that water is used as a cooling fluid in nuclear reactors. While the radiation can dissociate water molecules, it has very little effect on the nuclei of hydrogen and oxygen atoms. The products of dissociation are mostly gaseous, and, while they are reactive (for example, oxygen) they will mostly escape the water or recombine to form other molecules, the worst of which is hydrogen peroxide (used to bleach hair). However, it requires major doses of radiation for any of these effects to occur. X-rays are also used to inspect your luggage when you fly, and all your food and equipment are still safe afterwards. 

The tobacco mosaic virus was discovered in 1898. That was long before nano-technology was even imagined. Also, as we still do not have any real nano-tech capability, I doubt very much that anyone could have done it then. See this link. As far as I know the closest we have come to creating artificial life is the bacterium that Craig Venter's team created. They took a Mycoplasma mycoides cell, removed its DNA and then inserted an artificially built DNA and let the cell reproduce again. The DNA was essentially the same as the bacterium's, but with some minor changes, including a "watermark" to prove that the reproducing DNA was indeed the artificial one. Note that it still needed the rest of the cell to work. This article shows more details and also mentioned that the first artificial virus was created in 2003. 

I suspect it's all a matter of chance. The business section in Sydney's Sunday Herald newspaper has a feature where a number of different people pick their share portfolios, and week by week the paper follows their performance. The "contestants" include share analysts, financial advisors, sports people, etc, as well as an astrologer (Doreen Daze) and a dartboard. If you follow it over some time, there seems to be no pattern whatsoever in who wins. Sometimes the advisors win, sometimes Doreen, and sometimes the dartboard. That would imply that the performance of share portfolios is more a matter of luck than anything else. I cannot find an on-line link to this section of the paper, but if you search for "Doreen Daze" there are plenty of on-line comments, like this one and this one. Another thing that reinforces my conclusion is the ban on insider trading, which says that, if you have any special information about the performance of a company, you are forbidden to buy or sell shares in it. 

Here's another mass apparition, which even happened on multiple occasions. In Coogee, NSW Australia, an alleged image of the virgin Mary appeared on a fence in 2003. It was only seen from the right viewpoint and if the light was just right, but hundreds of people claimed to see her, and some came to pray to her. Of course there are as yet no people descended from those who saw the miracle, but consider this: any future descendants of the viewers will be able to say that they're descended from people who saw Mary in Coogee. Also, of course, Mary is not a god, but to Catholics she is as important as, and prayed to as often as any deity. Details are on Wikipedia and various other sites. This one has a good photo of the "apparition". 

You are correct in thinking that the Indians were the first to implement the zero as it is currently used, as a place value, and also as a number that you can use to add, subtract, and multiply. They also understood that division by zero somehow resulted in infinities. Unlike Greek mathematicians they were not disturbed by the idea of either zero or infinity. And of course, early Christianity added its own taboos about those ideas. While they accepted the idea of "nothing", actually working with it was a different matter. It led one to entertain the idea of infinitesimals, which clashed with the power of God and his angels. As zero gives rise to infinity, it meant that infinities could arise outside God, another impossibility for early Christians. Aryabhata was one of first of the Indian astronomers to use the concept of zero, although in a rather vague way. He had no actual symbol for zero. An even earlier mention was in the Jain astronomical work 'Lokvibhag', written around AD458, well before Aryabhata. However, there is still debate about which mention of zero is fully up to the modern meaning. There is no consensus about who made each of the steps necessary for the modern usage of zero - except that it did happen between 450AD and 800AD, and it happened in India. Babylonians had used place values in their base-60 number system from around 3000BC, well before the Indians. Probably from around 2000BC, they also started using a "separation marker" to indicate intermediate empty places. While their usage was still a long way from the modern one, it is possible that the Indian astronomers borrowed this idea from the Babylonians. Even that early, ideas did spread widely. More information about the invention of zero can be found in these books (and others): The book of nothing The nothing that is The universal history of numbers 

The number of meteors is almost impossible to estimate, as it depends on the sizes you are considering. Dinosaur killers only hit once every hundred million years or so, city-killers every hundred years or so. The wiki page about major impact events gives some estimated frequencies for large meteorites. The latest known ones were at Tunguska (1908) and Chelyabinsk (2013). More may have landed in the oceans. Fortunately, the Chelyabinsk meteor burned up high in the atmosphere; otherwise its effect might have been similar to Tunguska. At the other end of the scale, the number of micron-sized meteors is uncountable. Scientists use automated camera networks to count the number of meteors and, by triangulation, to determine the direction each one came from. We know that some of them come in so-called meteor showers, which are associated with extinct comets. It is easier to estimate the total amount of meteoric material that hits the earth and your quote of 100 tons/day is towards the lower end of the estimate range. 100 tons/day is 36,500 tons/year. Estimates vary widely and range from 15,000 to 70,000 tons/year. Another way of looking at these numbers is the estimate that roughly 100 meteorites heavier than 10 grams fall per million square kilometers per year, or one per year in an area the size of a small country. This is not something you'll notice readily, and is presumably one of the reasons why until about 1800 scientists believed that meteorites were earth rocks, not space rocks. A steady 35,000 tons per year since the birth of earth would amount to about 1.5*10^14 kg which is insignificant compared to the total mass of the earth of 5.97*10^24 kg. I know that the bombardment was much heavier at the beginning - but then, as part of the bombardment the earth also lost an entire moon! Another way of looking at these numbers is the estimate that roughly 100 meteorites heavier than 10 grams fall per million square kilometers per year, or 1 per year in an area the size of a small country. 

I don't know if there is a verse in the Bible which states that slavery is good - or bad, for that matter. However, there are many verses that treat slavery as a normal, and explain how slaves should be treated. It should be kept in mind that slaves were treated in different ways by different societies and at different times. For example, in may societies, including Greek, Roman and Jewish, slaves could be freed, and often were. Before the emergence of democracy, most civilisations permitted the use of slavery in some form or other, so the Bible is not exceptional, it just reflects the way people behaved in those days. There are many other biblical practices that we would not condone any more, for example the stoning of adulteresses. Other practices, such as the death penalty, still occur but are gradually disappearing. It just shows that the Bible reflects the morality of the Israelites at the time. This site has a list of verses that detail the rules applicable to the treatment of slaves. Other verses, like Exodus 21:16 make it clear that Israelites must not be sold into slavery. Wikipedia also has a good article about slavery and the Bible. 

According to a new study at the Weizmann Institute of Science in Rehovot, Israel, artificial sweeteners cause a change in our intestinal flora (the bacteria in our gut, which play a major role in our digestion, immune system, etc). This in turn causes glucose intolerance, which leads you to eat more, and can lead to metabolic disorders. As a result you put on more weight and become prone to diseases like diabetes. The evidence at this point is not fully conclusive, but according to one expert, it is certainly compelling. 

Gene duplication is a very important way of creating new genes and hence it helps organisms to evolve. Once a gene is duplicated, the "spare" copy of the gene is effectively not needed by the cell, as the original still does the required job. This leaves the copy free to mutate in whatever way it wants. If it is a deleterious mutation, then the copy will eventually be weeded out by natural selection. However, if the mutated copy is advantageous it will be kept. This mutated copy can produce features that the original cell did not not have, and hence create new species. Contrary to creationist claims, this can even happen with "degenerated" genes. That this has happened is a fact. One documented example occurred with biologists' preferred animal: fruit flies (Drosophila). According to the authors of this paper, DNA analysis of Drosophila melanogaster revealed a new gene family that originated 1 to 2 million years ago. It was formed when the original genes were duplicated by retrotransposition. Through fission, these genes underwent partial degeneration to create the new mkg (monkey king) gene. According to the authors, "The mechanism underlying this process is gene duplication with subsequent partial degeneration." 

Radio-isotope dating is not just performed on meteorites, but also on terrestrial rocks. The dates obtained are consistent, with meteorites slightly older than the earth. Are you suggesting the earth was also formed with lead already present? Isochron dating avoids contamination problems. Meteorites are often dated by iscohron lead-lead methods, and hence are not affected by contamination. 

In the examples given so far of animals outrunning humans over long distances, the animals have been human trained and controlled. The situation may be different if the animals are allowed to operate themselves. It is widely reported that the San (Kalahari bushmen) can outrun antelopes. They do it by having the animal run away from them, catching up with it before it has a chance to regain its breath, and continuing this until the antelope gives up. In a test in New Mexico, marathon runners managed to get close enough to a pronghorn for a kill. Pronghorns are capable of more than 80 km/h over short distances and 50km/h over several km. I will admit though that wolves will probably beat even the best humans, especially in snow. I can't see anyone volunteering to test it though!