We know G and Mcen, and we want T to be such that from your point of view on Earth, it takes 24 hours to orbit. We could either orbit slower than Earth rotates, but we'd have to be so far away we're effectively stationary, which has been covered in other answers. The other option is to go faster than earth rotates (specifically twice as fast), thus we'd need to orbit twice in 24 hours which gives us an orbital period of 12 hours. This is because orbit and space and what-not is all described from a point of view. It's why people thought the sun orbited the earth for a while, before we realised we orbited it and rotated to cause the same effect. From the Moon's point of view it stays still and the earth slowly spins in place in the sky. From Earth's point of view, your stations passes through the sky exactly once a day, at the same time. From some distant observer outside of the solar system the earth spins once every twenty four hours and your station orbits it once every 48. Movement in space is all about perspective. Thus, inserting all the numbers: (12 hours equals) 43200^2/R^3 = (4*pi^2)/(6.673 x 10-11*5.972 × 10^24) Multiply G and Mcen: 

We now have our average orbital radius of 26,608,243.6243 meters. This is from the center of the Earth though. Earth's radius is 6.371 million meters, so subtract that and we get an approximate altitude for your station of 20.2 thousand km. 

Okay, according to this site, one of the formulas for calculating properties of a satellite's orbit is the following: 

As other people have mentioned, you need to have no emissions (or nearly none) in order to stay undetected. This is because a single warm spot in a sea of cold is darned obvious. Dealing with all that excess heat is hard work, so instead of trying to be a cold needle in a cold haystack, be a hot needle in a burning haystack and sit in close orbit to a star. This way you can dump all your excess heat outwards (along with all the heat you pick up from being so close to said star) and all your emissions will get lost in the output of the star itself. This also conveniently puts you very close to the center of the system, unlike most other people's suggestions of being far away. Of course, dealing with that much extra heat all the time will be difficult in a hard-science universe and I do not know the science behind doing so, but in a soft-science universe, it should work fine. 

So lets assume your world tree is a giant oak. We'll also assume the leafy part of the tree is perfectly spherical. Taking numbers from above, lets say a generic tree is 20m tall and 15m spread, with 350,000 leaves. If the average leaf on your world tree is 350,000km2, then on average it'll be about 600km long (assuming it's a square shaped leaf). This gives us a scalar of 600km (for our world tree) compared to 10cm (for our oak tree). Thus the World Tree is roughly sixty million times bigger than an oak tree. It will thus be 1.2 million km tall, nine hundred thousand km wide and have a total leaf surface area of 122.5 billion km2. The Earth has about 500 million km2, so your world tree is about a thousand times bigger than Earth, considering surface area only. You will also have three hundred thousand kms of trunk between the roots and the lowest branches and a trunk diameter of 2,400 kms. 

In my universe, I want Stealth in Space to be a thing, along with Space Fighters. I’m quite happy with the majority being autonomous, but I still want the occasional human for drama. Whilst I have had this world in mind for a while, I will also mention that my reasoning below has been shaped by the linked questions. Specifically, I’m hoping that Worldbuilding.SE’s fresh eyes will be able to highlight any flaws in my scenario before I start building too much on top of it. Here goes: Travel Warships are equipped with a gravity drive, which allows FTL based on locking onto nearby gravity wells. Thus they can be used to hop around a solar system using planet gravity wells as targets, then focus on nearby stars for long distance travel. There’s a formula for how much energy/power up time it takes depending on target, which can be simplified ”larger target equals easier, further target equals harder”. An Interplanetary jump takes minutes of charging, interstellar jumps will take hours to charge up. Actual travel time is also based on this formula, but with hours of travel within a system and days or weeks between systems. There’s also a feature where distance to a gravity well affects maximum speed and acceleration when jumping to explain why the same drive can go so much faster between systems than within it. Fighters, drones and expensive missiles also have gravity drives, but they do not have the power requirements to make interstellar jumps. Naturally, everything also includes sublight manoeuvring propulsion. Stealth All space vessels have sufficient heat management to allow “silent running” and maintain a cold exterior, however in order to avoid cooking themselves heat is radiated via a set of narrow, gimballed exhaust ports. These will be pointed in whatever direction the crew thinks will be least likely to contain enemy sensors. FTL generates a lot of heat, so rapid use will cause a ship to overheat unless it breaks stealth. The same will occur with shields and high-burn with manoeuvring thrusters. Interplanetary/Interstellar travel is difficult to detect, due to the sheer speed involved. Armament Ships are equipped with the sci-fi standard of mass drivers, energy weapons, missiles, fighter, drones and point defence. Shields require special mention. The effectiveness of deflecting a shot is based on momentum so massive, fast slugs and missiles will take significantly more energy to deflect than massless energy weapons. This higher energy cost will deplete the shield capacitors more quickly. Once the capacitor is drained the shields will collapse. Fighters Drones are piloted by sophisticated narrow intelligence AI but they have not yet reached sentience with regards to decision making due to the sheer number of edge cases that would have to be considered during programming. Thus fighter squadrons will typically be led by a human-controlled pilot, allowing simplified programming in the drones as those edge cases can just default to “ask my human handler for direction”. Strategy On arrival, a warship will “Go Cold” and deploy large numbers of intelligence drones across the system, scanning for badly pointed heat exhausts or "asteroids" of suspicious shape that suddenly change course. Fighter squadrons led by human commanders will also be dispatched to confirm sightings, destroy enemy drones and be another thing for hostile warships to think about. If fighter squadrons clash, then tactics mainly involve identifying and eliminating the enemy human commander, before mopping up his orphaned drones. Once an enemy warship has been positively identified, allied warships will either jump to combat range and “Go Hot” with large amounts of fire, or snipe from stealth. Fighters will have some capacity to deal damage to warships, but generally have to be outfitted with “space torpedoes” or other capital killer weapons and high drone casualties are expected. Warfare will thus consist of intelligence gathering, misdirection and sudden strikes, with the occasional long range brawl when someone goes hot and everyone chooses to pile in. 

Once a civilisation reaches the point where it can put reasonable quantities of manpower into space, it is generally assumed that it will start colonising other celestial bodies. However, as I understand it all the resources it needs will likely be available in moons, asteroids, comets, planetary rings, etc, all of which are way more easily accessible than those in the deep gravity well that is a planet. So, why would a civilisation choose to colonise a planet instead of using those celestial bodies mentioned? Specifically, a colony that could be reasonably described as a town or city, not just remote research stations like we have at the poles. Edit: This question is about why a civilisation would colonise any planet (regardless of whether they're in the home system or not) when moons, asteroids and other celestial bodies are much easier to access. 

Your luck spell doesn't actually effect causality, it simply gives psychological nudges at just the right moments, whilst knowing the immediate outcomes of various, predictable scenarios. If Don is considering swapping hands with another player, the spell will nudge him towards making the decision if he would come out worse from it, and against it if he would come out better. If he throws a pair of dice, he may have a slight muscle spasm at just the right moment to cause the dice to start their predictable journey through physics at the point that gives him the worst result. If he is intending to catch the bus, all that needs to happen is for a number of inconveniences to occur before hand. He accidentally fumbles his keys when going to lock his door, or subconsciously slows his gait so that he takes a little longer to get to the traffic lights meaning they change at just the wrong time, forcing him to wait a full cycle. None of these things require anything other than to predict the logical result of an action. In some cases the logic may be complicated (such as simulating a throw of the dice to find just the wrong point to release them) but that just requires the processing power of a computer, not time travel. 

Everyone will know where everyone else is, as there is no realistic stealth in space, thus most ship battles will occur at light-second distances, if not further. You always want to be as far away from the person trying to kill you as you can after all. The main effect of this is the delay in information. If your sensors pick up a ship ten light-seconds away, the information your sensors give you is already ten-seconds old. Assuming you're firing light-speed weapons (beams), it'll take another ten seconds to hit, thus you need to aim at where you think the enemy will be in twenty seconds from the location you can currently see him. For Kinetics, this problem is even worse, as your projectiles will not be moving at light speed, and will thus take more than ten seconds to reach your target. Self-Guiding weapons however, do not have this problem. They can be launched many times further away without having to worry about predicted target location, as they will be constantly adjusting to ensure they reach the target. No, you would thus think that Kinetics are useless compared to Beams and Self-Guiding weapons, however Self-Guiding weapons are typically much more expensive. Just compare any modern missile or UAV to a standard field gun. They may be of similar size, but that gun has much more ammo, and much cheaper. Also, Self-Guided weapons would likely move slower and be larger targets than kinetic munitions, meaning they more more easily be countered by point defence. Whether the size of an object matters for an Alcubierre shield is for you to decide. Beams are straight-line weapons, whilst Kinetics are affected by gravity(1). This means that you wouldn't be able to hit a target on the other side of the planet you're orbiting with a Beam weapon, but you could with a Kinetic weapon. A hit from a kinetic weapon would likely be much more severe than a hit from a beam weapon. Any solid object flying at high velocity would have ridiculous amounts of momentum, and would be able to punch straight through ships. Meanwhile, a Beam weapon would be coming up against the standard radiation shielding a ship would be obliged to carry to protect its crew from solar flares and other natural, space-based radiation. Finally, Beam weapons will suffer from attenuation, meaning they do less damage at long distance. A Kinetic round will do the same damage regardless of distance, assuming it hits at all. Thus firing solutions will generally involve volleys of self-guided projectiles, with shotgun-blast volleys of Beam weapons at long range and Kinetics at short range. Quickly addressing Mines. Classic stationary mines would be worthless. They would easily be avoided by anyone going slow enough, and if they're going too fast, then you could just as easily use anything bigger than a fleck of paint, which chipped the windscreen of the ISS. In reality the only thing resembling mines would be drones set to hang out in an area of space, and then automatically target anything that comes into range. These would fit into the Self-Guided category above. (1): Not actually true, but for our purposes the effect gravity has on light-speed and near-light speed projectiles is negligible. 

Like many others have said, build your walls to encompass your fields as well, instead of just the town proper. Thanks to Volume to Surface ratio (or in this case, Surface to Edge), a larger town will have a larger perimeter to defend, but comparatively more soldiers per section to defend with. Imagine a small homestead a kilometre in diameter. It has π/4 km squared area and π km of perimeter to defend. But, a settlement of 100km diameter would have 2,500π km squared of area and only 100π km of perimeter. Assuming the same population density for both settlements, the larger one has 10x as many men available to defend any given section. Thus society will tend towards a few large cities, with walls encircling the required fields. The only challenge would be in slowly expanding safe area into the wilderness, and building additional sections of wall as they go. 

One way could be Hoodoos, similar to the basalt columns you described, but with an uncommonly high density of such columns. Another option could be sort sort of large, winding cave system that has been uncovered by erosion to form a labyrinth. 

Instead of assuming a Haploid/Diploid set, what if we instead had Diploid/Quadraploid? Thus an adult would have four gametes of three types (X, Y, Z) to make up the following sets: XXyz = X Gender xYYz = Y Gender xyZZ = Z Gender These quadraploid sets are actually a loop, with the last gamete also being connected to the first. They must be in alphabetical sequence to be viable, however a quadraploid of YZZX is the same as XYZZ, you've just started reading at a different point. Each parent would contribute one of their dominant gametes (the one they have two of) in addition to one other. These Haploids are transferred as a unit and bonds with the Haploid from the other parent to create the full Quadraploid. Using an XY mating pair, we thus get the following possibilities: Xy + xY = XyxY (non-viable) zX + xY = zXxY = XXyz (viable) Xy + Yz = XyYz = xYYz (viable) zX + Yz = zXYz = xyZZ (viable) Thus the child will have equal chance of being any of the three genders, with a 1/4 chance of immediate miscarriage (likely undetectable at this early stage). In addition to requiring all three gametes, the dominant gametes must be different to maintain viability, thus eliminating all possibilities with a same-sex mating pair. Without this dominance requirement, a same-sex pair will have a 50% miscarriage chance, and will only be able to produce children of their own sex. This is admittedly the biggest stretch in this answer, but as I have absolutely no biology knowledge, I'd find it very easy to Suspend Disbelief in this case.