You can actually know what each of them is. If Albert is a Knight, then he tells the truth. And so Betty is a Knight, and Carla is a Knave. (And so, (b) is easily proved: either Albert is a Knight, and so is Betty, because he truthfully said she is a Knight, or Albert is a Knave, and so is Betty, because he lied that she is a Knight.) The only other possibility is that Albert is a Knave. If so, he lies, and Betty is a Knave, and Carla a Knight. But... if Carla is a Knight, she only tells the truth, and would not tell us Albert is a Knight. (Which is the contradiction required to prove (a): if Carla is Knight, then Albert is a Knight, for she said so. But if Albert is a Knight, then Carla is a Knave.) So, Albert and Betty both are Knigths. And Carla is a Knave. 

Are you confusing Chomsky the linguist with Chomsky the political hack? Yes, they coexist in the same person, but they are quite different from one another(1). It is impossible to ignore Chomsky the linguist, never mind how much you hate Chomsky the pundit. That's not to say that his linguistics are above criticism, but to realise that criticism of his linguistics is only possible due to his own linguistics. They are the state of art in liguistics, or were so not long ago, and progress in linguistics is not going to happen without a very sound and thorough analysis and refutation of his contributions. (1) They are so much incompatible with each other that while Chomsky's politics are quite left of the centre (though not so much as rabid right-wingers suppose), his scientific contributions are based on a quite right-wing trope, the idea of an instinctual, hard-wired, ability to learn languages. 

Your question is too general. None of us knows you, so how are we supposed to give specific advice here? I think I might be able to give you some insights instead: The right profession for you is one that gives you joy doing it. It's the job that you don't need reasons to do because you just enjoy doing it. This joy can be derived from many things. It can be because it's your nature, or it's even already your hobby, it can be because it gives you a feeling of meaning and sense. If humanism is an important concern in your life, of course it may influence the question which jobs give you joy and which don't, and as such it will influence your choices. However, ... even the most successful entrepreneurship in a humanistic field can be wrong for you if it's only a mental choice which doesn't give you immediate joy in your heart. If it doesn't give you joy, most of all you're unlikely to excel, thus making little impact in the first place. You should consider this: As a truly happy person you contribute more to the well-being of the world than any unhappy humanistic person. Don't try to make anyone happy if you aren't happy. It's like trying to make a gift that you don't have, it will never work. You can only give what you have, and if your humanism is rooted in unhappiness, what you'll spread is unhappiness. Hence the prime concern should be your own happiness first. Don't confuse this with just satisfaction or egocentrism. Happiness is far beyond that. Then from that point you will create a certain type of wealth naturally, most likely also by doing the profession that you are doing with heart and soul. It may be as an entrepreneur, but it doesn't have to be. That wealth that you create then you can spend on humanistic purposes, or you can invest the time that you have from having created this wealth for pursuing a humanistic project. 

(P2: The cat is on the mat; P3: The mat is purple.) Let's compare this with the following possible real events: 

In Darwin there is no abstract "fitness": evolutionary traits are fit, or unfit, for a given environment. Being white and very furry makes one fit for survival in the Arctic, not so in equatorial jungles. Besides that, it is clear that evolutionary traits must be inherited, or their selection would bear no consequences. Whatever it "takes" to be "successful" within a human society, there is no reason to believe they are inherited traits. And inequality within human societies presupposes the successful reproduction of the "unfit", too: if only the mighty capitalists survived and reproduced, who would toil for them in their factories? Plus, Darwinism is a theory about, well, the origin of the species. It pressuposes, as such, the existence of many different species, which compete for survival in natural environments. But human societies are by definition composed by only one species; how would one discuss the "origin of species" in a society that has no different species to begin? And for such reason, social Darwinism cannot ever properly define what it is talking about. Is it about the survival and procreation of human individuals? In such case one has to admit that the poor are much more "successful" than the rich, because they make up, what, about 90% of mankind. Or is it about a completely different thing, the economic success of individuals and companies in capitalist markets? If this is the case, then it completely fails to acknowledge how things happen. Companies do not reproduce in a biological sence; whatever traits make them successful in capitalist competition cannot therefore be inherited. Human individuals do reproduce - but "what it takes" to be a successful capitalist doesn't seem to be inheritable at all. Indeed, even the common sence folk lore knows that: "rich parents, noble children, poor grandchildren". So, the relevant levels in biology do not find adequate equivalents in social science. In biology, there are genes, subcellular structures, cells, individuals, species, and biosystems. "Biologist" theories of society cannot accomodate those different levels to a different subject. If society is the equivalent of biosystems, what is the equivalent of individuals? Or of species? That, precisely, is where social darwinism fails. Economical competition among humans in a human society is extremly different from biological competition among animals of diverse species in a biosystem. Hence the flaw. 

Let's start with another question: Who are you, and who are we? In order to answer whether your needs or our needs have changed, you need an answer to this question. It soon becomes obvious that it's a very tricky one. If you assume that you are your (=a) body, you would consequently conclude that the needs of your (=that) body are your needs. If you assume you are your brain and your thoughts, you would consequently assume that the needs of that brain and those thoughts are your needs. If you assume you are you as part of a family or a country or a religious group, you'd assume that their needs are yours. And so on. While these assumptions are valid in that they can't be disproven, it should be noted that they collide with a common feeling or inner certainty of many people that there is something about them that doesn't die when the body dies or their family or their country. They feel there's something eternal or at least transcendental. To cut a long story short: Unless you have a real experience of "you" in its truest form, all concepts of "you" are just a more or less arbitrary identification with something. This should be logical. And the weirdest thing is: There is not even a guarantee that the thing you're identified with exists at all. Asking whether needs have changed in this context is asking if our bodies are changing, our brains are changing, our thoughts are changing, our psychology is changing, our emotions are changing, our hearts are changing. While this is certainly the case to some degree, those changes are minute in the light of the huge amount of time humanity has existed so far. The only thing that is really changing and often evolving is our consciousness. For example today many of us appreciate the emotions and rights of animals and the need for protecting nature where our forefathers would just have laughed, or we move towards seeing other countries as neighbors and friends rather than enemies and competitors. It's a slow development, but it's happening steadily. This is an evolution in consciousness. It does not change our needs, but it changes the way we deal with them. Consciousness is the source and the distillate of all identification or lack thereof. So does consciousness have any needs? I would say if you reach the point where that question does not make any sense to you, you've gotten an idea of what I'm trying to say. PS: I'm aware I'm answering the question on a level that you did not have in mind at all. Sorry for that. It's just the only answer I have right now. 

If this is true, it doesn't contradict P1. So we have that P2 and P3 can both be true, and the implication holds. 

No. The nominalist position is that a name is only a name and does not express any "deeper" reality about what it names. A cat obviously "is" many things, a mammal, a carnivore, an awfully cute critter with retractible claws that licks itself clean. And, as famously described in philosophy, an animal that is sometimes on a mat. To a nominalist, the name "cat" doesn't contain in itself all those determinations of being a cat. And evidently, if we call a cat something else, it doesn't turn into that something else; it remains a cat. And nominalists would recognise this, and so it isn't correct to propose that "nominalism is to assert something is what we call it". 

~(p v q) is not the same as [(~p) v (~q)]; it is however the same as [(~p) ^ (~q)]. ~(p v q) probably should be read aloud as "it is not the case of either p or q"; [(~p) v (~q)] would possibly be "it is not the case of p, or it is not the case of q".