I'd say it depends on the length of the rack you're going to attach. It's all about the physics - the water droplets, when they detach from the tyre they move perpendicular to the perimeter of the wheel. If the rack is long enough, the droplets that might reach your back are hitting the rack (acting as a mudguard). The ideal situation would be when the rack reaches to the furthest rear point of the wheel. Then only the droplets travelling vertically are not covered by the rack. However when the rack gets shorter, the more droplets travel to the front, thus direction of your back. Short story long - have a look at the picture: 

Namely, almost two years ago I've committed a (successful, in my opinion) conversion of cottered bottom bracket to a square-tapered one on a Motobecane 2040 steel road frame (late '70s or early '80s). Why, one may ask. The reasons are: 

Seeing as you've removed the nut, you could try to insert a punch through the mounting hole, and gently tap it a few times to try and free it. I reckon there's dirt, mud, and perhaps rust in there that's causing it to stick. A picture would be useful if something else is amiss, but it's hard to imagine anything else. 

It might seem like a ballache, but you'll thank yourself in a year's time when you want to take something off to clean or change it! Right, onto brakes... 

Before you start You mentioned you were able to set everything up but the brakes. Forgive my impertinence, but before you go further, can I just check that you greased everything thoroughly before assembly? 

As far as I have been able to tell, there is no difference in terms of functionality or practicality. With many bicycle components, different manufacturers create their own standards purely to ensnare customers. All of the vintage brake levers I have seen use pear nipples, so I assume the barrel nipple came later, but I have no idea which manufacturer first designed a barrel-style lever. Personally I just find it an unnecessary annoyance... you can't really say one is used for road bikes and the other for MTBs... the bar end levers on my road bikes take "MTB"-style barrel nipples. Plus I have an older MTB with V-brakes that's fitted with crosstop levers - those take pear nipples. It's just a chore having to double-check before you go and buy new cables. Both kinds are trivial to install, and work just as well as each other once on the bike. Although one style may be more prone to mechanical failure than the other, I am sure that the points of failure for both are far beyond the serviceable life of the cable (i.e. it will have stretched, frayed, and rusted considerably by the time the nipple breaks off). Thankfully I've never seen a third kind. 

With some pieces of inner tube it will not damage the paint job and with some isolation tape it will be almost invisible. The reasonable place for the knot is the underside of the frame so not disturbing anyhow. Here is how to use one (DIY): 

There is a nice instruction video from RJ The Bike Guy on youtube on how to convert from downtube shifters to brifters. Perhaps that can be some idea for you. 

Btw. both cups (undamaged) are now degreasing in a bucket, threading in the BB shell is also in very good condition. 

I see you are aware of horizontal breathing vs vertical breathing - the former is "belly breathing" as you name it, the latter is the shallow type with shoulders vertical movement involved (hence less effective). Perhaps this helps: on my firefighter training we've learned how to cope with hyperventilation - make sure you exhale deeply. The body will take care for inhale itself provided the lungs are properly emptied. Good luck! 

If you're willing to accept 5 gears, it's really not that difficult. The main issue is finding a hub that's narrow enough to fit the dropouts. Sturmey Archer make a wide-range 5-speed geared hub, with or without coaster brake, with 120mm OLD spacing. There used to be a 5-speed SRAM hub with 122mm (?) OLD, but it might be a job to track one down. If it's a steel frame with thin stays, you have a couple more mm of leeway. But most hub gears are 135mm OLD. Depending on the hub, it may be possible to remove axle spacers, but don't bet on it... anti-rotation washers don't count; they mustn't be removed! Unless your current frame is a conversion, you may have a few cable-routing headaches too (although clamp-on cable guides aren't difficult to find). It only really makes sense if you love the frame. Part exchange would probably be your best bet, but if you have a good reason to keep the bike then I say go for it. My partner is very short (5'), and standover height is an issue, so she rides a kids' Fuji track. The cost of the Fuji, plus that of building a new wheel around the SA hub, was significantly lower than any WSD we could find. Afterthought: A cheap and good way (albeit one that requires some tinkering, swearing, and an awful lot of luck): 5-speeds from the 50s tended to be 120mm OLD, so you might be able to swap out the SS freewheel for an old-fashioned thread-on 5-speed model. There are quite a few caveats, however. For starters you'll need a fairly narrow hub shell. Then you'll need enough free threads on the axle to shuffle the cones and locknuts off to one side, so there's enough axle showing to fit the wheel securely. Then you'll need to re-dish the wheel. Then you'll just need a rear mech with a bolt-on hanger claw (assuming the frame doesn't have a threaded hanger on the dropout). If you're friendly with a local bike shop / junkyard, you might be able to blag these bits and pieces for free. 

All was said already, those holes are for so called coat protector (those prevent your coat or trench being caught by the revolving wheel). What was not done is placing a picture of one, and one picture saves thousand of words. 

Black is the BB shell, Red are the original cups (with bearing races), Green is the Miche square-taper bottom bracket cartridge. Positioning of the axle is done by placing some shims (ground to size) on left or right side. The whole setup is working correctly now for more than 1000 km. The retaining nut came lose once, in fact I've assembled everything to check my proof-of-concept and it was working so well that I forgot to tighten or thread-glue the setup. After fixing that I'm experiencing no problems whatsoever. Soon I'm going to build a daily commuter for my daughter based on Raliegh Ladies Traveller (something between the '30s and the '70s) frame (which we got for free and she really liked shape of the frame and front fork). As it is Raleigh, the bottom bracket has proprietary threading, which isn't BSC (a.k.a. BSA) - I've already checked it. 

That looks fixable to me. What probably happened is the locknut was loose, and continued riding caused both cone and locknut to unscrew. It's a good job you've stopped riding that bike - riding on that hub now would cause significant damage. When a hub has a bit of play, the balls are free to move across parts of the cup and cone that aren't designed to support load. Those areas may not have been heat treated and/or polished. That can cause metal wear, resulting in particles grinding between the balls and the 'proper' bearing surfaces. Result: pitted cups and cones. When a hub has a lot of play (as in your case now), the problem is exacerbated further - the balls may slip out of place completely and bind the hub, causing irreparable damage. That hub is dirty and the grease is foul. Pull the axle, clean the hub inside and out, and clean the axle, cones, and locknuts. Use a good de-greaser, or failing that, ethyl alcohol, lighter fluid, or equivalent. Wipe it all clean with a lint-free cloth and inspect. If the cups have any scratches you can feel with your little fingernail, I'd ditch the wheel. If the cones have any pitting, I'd get a new pair. Whatever the state of the innards, get a new set of bearing balls. Sheldon will show you how to re-pack and adjust the hub. It's not difficult, just a bit greasy and fiddly. Wear latex gloves if you like. It doesn't look like a particularly special hub, so I wouldn't pay a professional to do it; balls and grease are cheap. Do your best and ride it 'til it fails; then just get a new wheel (it's rarely, if ever, worth the cost of lacing a new hub to an old rim). 

In both cases you need to replace considerable amount of components as both options include maintenance (replacing worn out parts). But these are the facts. Now for the numbers. With 3x7 setup you don't have 21 gears as you won't ride with chain crossed and also some of the combinations may double (it would be great if you could post your setup with exact number of cogs). In practice you may have like 10 to 12 effective gear ratios. With a 1x12 setup you have 12 gear ratios, no question about it. What you should compare, is what is the highest and the lowest gearing ratio you can obtain with your current setup and how does it compare to 1x12 setup (as 12 chainring cassettes are quite fixed, there is some play with front chainring to obtain more terrain or road gear ratios). If 1x12 setup gives you the same (or maybe broader) gear ratio range, why not go for it? You then hit two birds with one stone (more recent parts on your bike and maintenance done). Of course assuming that you will be still using this bike extensively and not overhauling it for sale (in the latter case you may not claim the money back you had spent on new parts). The only hurdle I see in switching to 11 or 12 chainring cassette is the rear hub, as you mentioned. It may require complete new wheel, which can be hard to obtain in 26" and rim brakes option. But if you can relace the wheel yourself (or have it done at reasonable costs), the problem is out of the way. Considering the bottom bracket update - I assume you have a square-taper BSC threaded setup. I would either stick to it and just look for a new crank (for one chainring) or go full-ahead and replace it with a Hollowtech or Octalink (as far as I know there are adaptor sets for BSC shells available). 

It seems that on your crank, the connection between crank arm and spider has failed. With the bike upside down and the rear wheel spinning, the load is reduced sufficiently for the crank arm to turn the spider and rings. However, it is just metal-on-metal friction that allows this to happen. As you have seen, if the back wheel is stationary, the crank arm spins independently. You need a new drive-side crank. I'd replace the whole chainset. Edit: It sounds like you searched and found the same pages I did, and have gotten confused by the suggestions about Shimano's "freewheeling cranks". Rest assured, your bike will almost certainly not have any weird gimmicky technology like that. Just sounds like a not-so-common failure of a poorly-manufactured crank to me. Swaged cranks are cheap and nasty (no offence intended), but you can replace them with a forged set without breaking the bank. 

In case the video is taken down, I'm posting a written answer. Yes, it is possible to convert from downtube shifters to brifters. Here's what you need: 

a. use a hacksaw to cut the cup flange off (sawing next to the frame) of the non-drive side b. you can also use "hot knife" (a blade heated up on the gas flame) to cut the flange off. Hot knife gives you more freedom when shaping the incision, you're almost guaranteed to remove all material that is holding BB cartridge in place. remove the spindle with the bearings (nylon cups are usually holding the cartridge bearings) gently using an utility knive to remove a section of a cup (cutting perpendicular to the thread windings) or applying the soldering iron to melt the cup thread remove the drive side using this method of RJ The Bike Guy.