I am tall 192cm (6'4") and I weigh 100kg I use Protein shake after gym around 30gm of Protein and because I go to gym late night, immediately after gym i eat 2 cans of Tuna ( around 15gm Protein each) then drink Milk then go to bed. In the morning I eat a sandwich and light lunch at work and eat a medium meal around 6 pm is this too much Protein for me? shall I stop the night tuna because I already had the Protein shake? 

My target is to get bulked The problem is that sometimes when I increase weight I cant finish the 10 reps in the set, so I stop at 7 or 6. Shall I reduce weight so I can finish the whole 10 or shall I stop at the number of reps I can do 

Which is better for gaining bigger muscles. To group all exercises for the same muscle or distribute over the whole day in other words Option 1 : First Chest exercise 1 then Bi ex 1 then Tri ex 1 Then Chest exercise 2 then Bi ex 2 then Tri ex 2 Then Chest exercise 3 then Bi ex 3 then Tri ex 3 Option 2 : First Chest exercise 1 then Chest exercise 2 then Chest exercise 3 Then Bi ex 1 then Bi ex 2 then Bi ex 3 Then Tri ex 1 then Tri ex 2 then Tri ex 3 Thanks 

Trying to find a compromise is usually not going to work. It's better to eat meals separated, so that you won't bother them and they won't get in your way. You can always make suggestions to them about how they can make their food more healthy, but whatever they do will likely be light-years away from the minimum standards you want to stick to. This way you'll respect each other boundaries which will help to keep harmony within the family. 

This can be caused by gas, you can should be able to breath better using chest breathing instead of belly breathing. While belly breathing is touted as being superior to chest breathing, there has been no rigorous science done in this area. Some results suggest that there may be some health benefits for patients suffering from asthma to practice belly breathing. Arguments like chest breathing being a lot shallower and therefore bringing in a lot less oxygen is pseudo-scientific nonsense, you can run just as fast with either breathing method, unless, of course belly breathing is obstructed by e.g. excessive pressure due to gas. 

I eat 4000 kcal per day and only one meal is a hot meal that I prepare at home. I eat breakfast at home, then I pack my bread meals for the rest of the day (about 500 grams of whole grain bread bread). Then at home I cook dinner. Today I had 300 grams (uncooked) of brown rice with 500 grams of vegetables baked in 60 grams of olive oil with some meat. And I'm already feeling quite hungry again, I'll eat a few sandwiches, some fruit and yoghurt and then go to bed. 

Due to my schedule I start workout at about 20:00 and finish around 22:00. I have to get up at 7:00 so I have a dilemma of not wanting to eat much before I go to sleep and the need to eat protein and carbs after workout. I usually have breakfast at 8:30(carbs) and lunch around 13:00(fair amount of protein) and some small amount of carbs before workout. So I definitely need a protein meal after workout, but I just don't sleep well after that. What can I do without rescheduling my workout time? 

I increased weights somewhere about when I could do 4х10 with current weights. Now I'm going to go for caloric deficit (~300-500kcal) (with same 2g of protein and ~0.5g of fat per 1kg of body mass, but less carbs) to reduce body fat and keep as much strength and volume as possible. How should I approach my workout routine in this period? I suppose adding weight is not a good idea on caloric deficit? (I do realize my routine was not ideal from the start) 

I'm taking a forced break (about 2-3 weeks) from weightlifting after several months of training. How much are my strength and volume going to drop and at what pace should I start training after coming back? Also is it beneficial to keep protein consumption the same (2g per 1kg) during the break or I should decrease it? Can I use this time to lose some fat and go for calories deficit without losing muscles? 

How many days does the body need to get rid of all Creatine and Amino Acids? Is not using any Creatine and Amino Acids for a week is enough to clean Liver and Kidney of these supplements? If not then how long needed? 

I am 42 and would like to start doing some body building exercises (especially my chest and arms). Is this something achievable or the age factor will be an obstacle? if so, can I use same routines as other younger people or I need something special for my age? 

Does spending more hours in the gym makes you getting bulkier and reach the body you after faster? I know that rest is needed to get bulkier but if I exercise the same muscle over and over in the same day, does that make it getting bigger faster? I have seen a report about a big transformation for a fat guy in 6 months, as he was spending long hours in gym $URL$ 

I am doing althernative days training I mean one day Chest/Arms/Abs the other day Back/Shoulders/Legs I know rest is important for muscle growth So If I trained my chest/Arms/Abs on Monday idially the muscles will have 48 hours rest till the next exercise time But actually when I train my back the Biceps get used as well Like when I do Lats Pulldowns, I fell Biceps are fatigue a little too So Should this be consider as rest time as muscle get trained lightly or by rest we me dont use this muscle as much as possible? Thanks 

We can read here that the Yanomamo Indians do fine on a diet that hardly contains any salt. They live in hot humid conditions so they'll certainly lose liquids in the form of sweat of the order of 1 liter or more, yet their sodium intake measured via urinary excretion is around 0.05 grams per day. It has been argued that this level of intake is optimal for us as our bodies have evolved under conditions where there was hardly any salt available. A typical "low salt" Western diet where you take care to avoid excessive salt intake, will typically yield salt intakes that are 50 times higher than a prehistoric diet. The Yanomamo have blood pressures that are lower than seen in healthy Western people, and blood pressures don't rise with age, as pointed out here. So, it could be that a "normal" blood pressure of 120 mm Hg is actually a hypertensive blood pressure. If this is true then it seems to me that getting rid of salt in the diet, reducing it to something of the order of 0.1 grams or less per day, could not only prevent essential hypertension as we age, but it could be used by athletes as a way to enhance performance. So, I was wondering if tests have been performed to see if long term severe salt restriction enhances athletic performance? 

Suppose I stopped increasing weights at certain point, and routine and diet is fixed, will I keep my form? People often write that routine needs to be changed often. How can this routine be changed in order to reduce overall time of training? Also, now I'm taking a forced break from training due to wrist injury(it's going to be a month or two), I'm on a small caloric deficit and visually losing some fat and muscles. What are best strategies to recover to the same form I had before break after I start exercising again? 

I've heard that it's useful to determine your weakest muscle group and to work more on it. Sometimes it can been clearly seen, but if not, how do I actually do it? Is there some approximate proportions of weights in different exercises to find out which muscle groups is relatively weaker? 

When I'm doing squats my knees go forward further than my toes. Also when I'm standing up I tend to move weight more towards my toes. I was told that this technique is wrong but it seems like I can't make squats without knees moving forward even without weight. Could it have something to do with flat feet? 

Is it okay to hold dumbbell in right hand for right leg squats, and vice-versa (it feels most comfortable for me). Or should I use 1 dumbbell for each hand?