This has been bothering me for quite a while, and I'm not sure if I should just accept it or if I should say something. One of my officemates consistently wears a dress to work that shows a portion of her breasts. She has been working here for longer than I am, and she has been like this ever since I started, so I would think that the other staff don't mind. I, however, find it very disturbing. Should I raise this to management anonymously, or should I, as some might say, suck it up? 

I will start applying for jobs soon, but my experience will have a recent 3 month long work in a single company (which from what I have learned, is a general bad impression). Should I preemptively explain in my cover letter the reason for having such a record? Or should I wait for them to ask? Or is it better to straight up include it in the resume that it is a contractual job? If I don't, would it hurt my chances? In other words, would some employers immediately not consider a resume which has a history of short employment times? 

A few months ago, I first approached them regarding this issue as it would greatly benefit me to work from home once a week. They responded with a no and their reason was the website currently is unstable and they need me in the office in person to fix it whenever necessary. Now, the issue has been fixed and the website is fully stable. I sent my supervisor an email to schedule a meeting to discuss if the possibility of my work-from-home request. It's been two weeks and they haven't responded to the email. Should I talk to them in person? 

The question : "What is your expected salary range?" is pretty common, but how should you respond to the question "How much were you paid with your previous employer?"? Is it disadvantageous for the applicant to disclose that information? And is it a private and legal matter that the applicant might be sued upon if discovered? 

Clarification : I plan to finish my contract which ends on May 29. What the notice period is for is me letting them know that I won't be accepting a future offer from them. (unless they give me an offer I can't refuse, which is unlikely since money is not the problem) 

My current situation is that I've already signed a contract with Company A, when Company B called. Company B interests me, although I've decided to stay with Company A. However, they've called me in for an interview, and I said yes. My main reason for this is so that I could see the office for myself, and have additional data for my market worth. So aside from that, is there any point to continuing with an interview when I'm sure that I won't join the company? 

Resolution : I followed everyone's advice and asked my direct supervisor about it. Apparently, it really was just nothing. For the past year, my work from home was actually "unofficial". My team leader/boss allowed me to do so, but since I was a contractor, I didn't have to go through the usual paperwork. A month ago, I've been made permanent, so in order to go through with my work from home days, I had to do the paperwork. Basically, the progress reports are part of the requirement of the "official" work from home days in our company. Thanks everyone! 

A relatively new officemate (about a month or so) has been badmouthing one of our employees for not doing the task she has given him. She knows, as I've mentioned to her multiple times, that the guy is currently on training so he won't be able to do the task until he comes back. Yet she continues to badmouth him for not doing it earlier. By badmouth, I mean something like : 

If I were to assess my experience so far, I would classify myself as a Junior Developer. However, there's a lot of 'Senior' job openings that have responsibilities that seem to just fit my skills and capabilities. How do recruiters define senior staff and when should I try applying for senior roles? 

I'm currently working on a website that's not-so-good. It has been for years and I'm hired as a contractor to improve it for 3 months. What I'm worried about is when I do put it on my resume, even though I would have improved it by the end of the contract, it would still be an overall bad site due to its very structure. Would it actually hurt to have a bad project in my resume that's not 100% my responsibility? 

Additional information : During my vacation, I would be able to take phone calls and schedule Skype interviews if necessary. 

Question : Assume a decent Facebook profile for a work setting. (No inappropriate content) Is making your Facebook profile public help you in getting hired? 

I'm currently working for a contracting company (X) and I've been assigned to this other company (Y) that needs a web developer. However, I'm planning to leave X after my existing contract and work directly under Y. Regarding the salary, I want to be prepared to know what to say when the talk comes up. From what I've heard, X takes a pretty large cut so what I'm thinking is if I work directly under Y instead of X, Y would be saving money. Is it reasonable to ask as a salary from Y whatever they used to pay X, minus the monetary value of the benefits? 

I've been working from home once a week for about a year now. Just this week, my supervisor asked me to send in a progress report on the days that I work from home. The only two people consistently working from home are my direct supervisor and I. Am I able to ask if this is now a new company practice? I'm specifically concerned if they think I'm slacking off during my work-from-home days. Should I confront them with that instead? 

Is there really a job being advertised? Or is this what recruitment companies use to gather CVs? Should I apply in "Expression of Interest" job ads? Sample : $URL$ 

There's this seminar/workshop that is work related and might help me a lot in developing in future projects with our specific framework. However, I am quite aware that we are on a tight budget. Given this, how should I approach my boss about the workshop that I want to attend to? What I'm thinking is I should present a case how this will be beneficial in the long term for our company, although I'm not exactly sure how to present that objectively. 

Disclaimer : This is my first (non-internship) job, and this might explain some parts of my thinking. I'm working as a Web Developer in a government office. I alone hold the position of Web Developer, and I do all the web work (plus a bunch of other non-web stuff) myself. No teammates. I used to have an co-developer but he quit, so now I'm left alone. But apparently, I think it would be important to note as well that before I got hired, he also was working alone for quite a while. Now that he left, the work has been piling up and every now and then I get work that I had no idea was part of my responsibility (one time I didn't even know we owned one particular site!), partly due to the lack of documentation passed on to me. Now, studying the unexpected systems plus maintaining my current workload has proven quite a little bit too more than my capacity and my progress has been slow. Now, I'm not sure if it's just that I lack the technical capability of this position, or if we do really need a second man.