I want to deploy tools to monitor my Production Percona servers (5.6 on Linux). I never used Nagios or any tool before. I did go through this great link but I wanted to clarify few things before deploying them: 

Those mysql exporter and node exporters of Prometheus which I need to deploy in my database host - what would be overhead of them? Resource intensive? I did go through Nagios as well - Is Nagios better than Grafana and is it possible to use Grafana with Nagios? 

SQL developer is free or do you require license for oracle database to use the sql or pl/sql developer? Also, Is it secure to connect to the oracle database since it connects to the db over a remote port right? 

I have two servers. One database server and another is an app server. I have client installed in my app server and I have the respective the tns in my app server to connect to the db server. Now can I take export backups of my database from my app server and keep the export dumps in the app server instead of running it in db server and storing it there? If yes, how is it possible? 

The size difference is massive. Is it something wrong with the setup which is running? What is wrong? 

Also, There isn't sqlnet.ora configured. Ideally, it should show which parameter file it uses and also it should be able to tnsping with hosts as well right? What could be the issue? Thanks! 

Apparently, the issue was with the OS variables. I tried increasing open files parameter for mysql user from the default to 5000. Restoration worked just fine. 

I have a two node RAC setup where my scan ips are registered in DNS and my public Ips are also registered in the dns. Now while connecting from my windows machine through oracle client in sql developer im getting connection time out error and network adapter error. My question is that should I register my VIP also in dns and will that resolve this issue? 

I have a primary database with a standby in data guard configuration running in a RHEL host. Thing is the storage assigned to this DR is very less, meaning the archive logs file system gets full in no-time. Now is it possible to automate deletion of archives from standby database once archives are applied to the standby?? 

Correct me if i'm wrong, so ASYNC noaffirm means the log transfer method is ARCH right? Meaning the archives generated in primary gets copied to standby and then applied there. Right? The database is primary has been generating too much archives beccause of which my DR lags behind when archives are more. Oracle MOS asks me to create standby redo to resolve the same. My question is that how will standby redo help in reducing the lag since the SRL is used so as not to lose data in case of disaster right? Also, SRL should be used only when the parameter is LGWR right? Since i have mentioned it as ASYNC NOAFFIRM and there is no standby, the archives are only sent to DR and not redo. 

My question is that can I update my plugin which is higher version than my OEM itself? If yes, should I update my plugin one version at a time? Say, my deployed oracle database plugin version is 12.1.0.4 and available downloaded versions for the same I have is 12.1.0.6 and 12.1.0.7. So I should update the 6 release first and then the 7? Also how to go ahead with the update? Are there upgrades for the OEM itself? from 12.1.0.4 to a higher version? If yes, how to go ahead with it? Are there any MOS if you could share? 

I have a OEM 12c (12.1.0.4) running in my setup in which I have registered over 70-80 databases. I see the plugin updates with versions of each target (Oracle database, MS-SQL, MySQL) and I have the downloaded the plugin updates as well. 

Is it possible to give truncate rights to user A to truncate tables owned by user B? But I should be able to truncate each table of B by A as per wish. Some procedures would be needed I suppose? Kindly help!! Platform - Oracle 

I have an three node AlwaysOn AG setup, running on SQL Server 2012 SP3 in Windows Server 2012 R2. Node 1 and Node 2 are in the same physical location. Node 2 is the secondary replica. Third node acts as a DR, in a different location. I have setup this system without shared storage and it is running on VMs. For cluster quorom, I have not added a witness or file share which MSFT says it is recommended irrespective number of nodes in Windows Server 2012R2. Here in my case, number of nodes is 3 and for odd number of votes, quorom is node majority. Is witness required in my scenario? What risks do I face here without witness? The reason i'm asking this is because we had an Microsoft's assessment tool run in this setup which prompted that one of the critical observation in this that Witness or file share is not available. I'm trying to understand why it is a concern. Recently, one of my nodes got evicted because of VM level issue, production was live only one of the nodes. Total votes was 2. Cluster did not go down. Now in what scenario this witness would have helped me? Considering I do not have a shared disk for AlwaysOn, I'm not in a situation to add a witness which should be a shared drive I suppose (correct me if I'm wrong). Links that I referred to: 

Platform - RHEL. Database - 11.2.0.3. I have a diskgroup name TEST with AU as 1. I need to have the diskgroup with AU as 4 therefore I decided to drop the existing DG and recreate the new one with required AU. I dropped the existing DG, it got dropped just fine. When I try to create new diskgoups with same name, it gives me error as below: 

I have been asked to create a read only user in a Oracle database 12c. The read only user must have read only grants only to the objects of select schemas, which I created and handed over. But now the request from the team is that the newly created read only user must have read only grants to even to all those new objects created by those select schemas. How is this possible? Inputs please! 

Check this out: [$URL$ [$URL$ Probably you will get answers for such questions quickly if you google them. 

I gather that there isn't enough shared pool resources for the ASM instance to create a new diskgroup. I'm not in a situation to restart ASM instance to increase the shared pool. My question is if I decide to drop some unused diskgroups will I get to create new diskgroups? Or is it mandatory to increase the shared pool? 

I'm not able to see the new users which I created before the import was done but I'm able to connect to MySQL with the users I created before import. Even after import my new users exist then it has to show in the mysql database right? What is wrong? Thanks!! 

I'm sort of new to SQL Server so bear if the doubts are silly. I have configured log shipping for my DR purpose. SQL Server 2012 is the version. Today I encountered the following error in my log shipping instance. 

Recently, audit findings at my site found that PUBLIC being by default assigned to all the schemas that are created is a big risk since when a new user is created and even if we were to assign only CONNECT and RESOURCE roles, the schema can still insert/update/delete the tables that of even system schemas' objects. Even though while querying dba_sys_privs, there are no system privileges assigned to that grantee 'PUBLIC' whereas dba_tab_privs shows otherwise, which in itself is a risk. But, Oracle says in a metalink that, revoking PUBLIC has its own ramifications. I did try to insert a row into one of the SYSTEM tables using SCOTT schema, and it did go through. How much of a threat does revoking PUBLIC from normal schemas affect the functioning? How big is the risk if this is not taken care of? or should I carefully revoke them at granular level for application schemas other than default schemas? What is the very use of PUBLIC being assigned by default if this is a security flaw? 

I have a master with percona server (5.6.25) running in RHEL host and a slave of the same version. I'm facing some corruption issues in replication slave and I'm thinking of rebuilding the slave from scratch. Just a query, can I have the slave of version 5.6.31 instead of the original master version? What could be the issues that could occur? 

I have a 8 core VM machine running SQL Server 2012. The current setting of MAXDOP is set as 5. There is recommendation from my colleagues to change the MAXDOP to 5 for better performance as there has been complaints on the same.. I might be very low on info in this question. But just curious, wont setting MAXDOP to 0 cause to degrade since all processors might not be needed for all the queries right? And is it right to set it as '0' rigth away? Inputs please 

I have the need to find top resource consuming queries in my Percona 5.6 server so that those queries can be fine tuned to improve the performance of the database. Also, is it possible to get the history of highly resource intensive queries for the past 3 days? Is it possible to fetch the info from the logs? Thanks.! 

Oracle Recommended Patches -- Oracle Database (Doc ID 756671.1) says the following 4 patches are recommended to be applied to 11.2.0.4 database. Note:21744343.8 Combo of 11.2.0.4.5 OJVM PSU and 11.2.0.4.8 DB PSU (Oct 2015) Note:21555791.8 Oracle JavaVM Component 11.2.0.4.5 Database PSU (Oct 2015) (OJVM PSU) Note:21352635.8 11.2.0.4.8 (Oct 2015) Database Patch Set Update (DB PSU) Note:19852360.8 Oracle JavaVM Component 11.2.0.4.1 Database PSU - Generic JDBC Patch (Oct 2014) I have a newly installed 11.2.0.4 database with absolutely no patches applied on it. Now should I go ahead and apply all the above mentioned recommended patches on the database? or should I apply any previously released patches before applying these? If yes, is there an order in which the above patches is to be applied? Also, I will be applying the above patches through OEM12c, is there anything I should take care in doing the same? 

This one says without witness, cluster will survive until last node One from MSDN blog says that Always configure a witness irrespective of nodes 

I'm new to SQL anemometer. I need to know whether this tool would be able to query to the source database and analyze the slow query logs on real time or not? 

I have MySQL 5.5.44 running in RHEL server. It is a standalone server used for testing and offlate not much used. The instance is currently down. Hence, I tried to start the service. It got started but everytime I check 

I have enabled MySQL master-master replication with 2nd master acting as read-only. Recently I checked the out the size of the databases in both master and slave and I found that database size in two databases is 1mb less than the Master. Does it mean that the setup which I made for master-slave was not done properly or the replication is not happening properly? Also, how can I make the changes so that it remains the same in both master and slave? Thanks! 

I have two physical servers, hosting 6 two node RAC databases running in 11.2.0.3 version (both grid and database). I'm told to have the grid software in 11.2.0.4 version and the databases in the same 11.2.0.3 version since there could be future plans to upgrade the database to a higher version. Plan is to create new grid software (11.2.0.4) and create a new ASM instance with new luns and create diskgroups with the new luns, create a new database and then export/import from old database to this new database. So that the new database will have the Grid and ASM running in 11.2.0.4 and database in same 11.2.0.3. Perform the same activity for all 6 databases, post that uninstall 11.2.0.3 software and binaries, resulting in the required result wherein only one ASM instance will be running (11.2.0.4). Is the above mentioned activity feasible? I'm not in a situation to upgrade 11.2.0.3 grid to higher version as I cannot afford downtime. But then the above mentioned activity will have two ASM instances running at the same time for some period. I can add/clear doubts if the mentioned activity is unclear.