I agree with the cool factor! However, the problem is with the where. It isn't likely to happen in our planet's future, because dirigibles have terrible density. If anything, our world's future will probably see more boxy city cars. However, there is another way. Humans have demonstrated the ability to breathe gas mixes that are about 6 times denser than air at atmospheric pressure, and function continuously. More than 6x increases the work of breathing too much for our physiology. This has been demonstrated in technical and commercial diving and the Sealab experiments. A planet with 6x the atmospheric density would make LTA craft about twice smaller in every dimension - the volume improvement is better than 6x due to improved structural efficiency. If you want to create a world where LTA transport is more feasible, try looking in that direction. The abundance of room, the lack of legacy infrastructure (we still use some Roman roads), low population density, and possibly difficult terrain on a colonized planet would also work strongly in LTA crafts' favor. Colonization is likely to focus on the most favorable region, making flight distances short enough for LTA. Adding a lack of fossil fuels could be the tipping point - kerosene is very convenient for heavier-than-air craft, while dirigibles are easy and practical to electrify. P.S. Keep in mind that real-life air traffic is anything but unregulated. The planes mostly fly alongside designated airways and air corridors, on predefined flight levels, maintaining a lot of separation. That's what it takes, with ATC assistance, to keep just the 23,600 commercial and ~400,000 other aircraft in the world right now from colliding. Think for a moment about how small that number is for a 7-billion planet. 

You can use terrain to your advantage. A gorge with a width opening on the enemy side narrowing down to a small opening will help to make the waves manageable. If its a flat plain, a fall back, ranged strategy might work if the plain is big enough. Couple this with area attack weapons such as mortar, bombs, mines etc. Air support (not sure what your tech level is) would also be good as they can soften up and even wipe out waves without having the ground troops go into it. Mortar, artillery etc. basically keep your distance. If your tech level permits it, then automated weapons towers could work even better and they can fire off pulses of electricity, streams of fire, or plasma etc. 

Just to throw this in there, maybe when you activate the magic, it creates tendrils of magic energy or use existing materials like vines (think druidic or necromantic magic) to support and make the bones move like a puppet on strings. 

You can also explore the possibility of increased gravity. Creatures from a world with a high gravity would be either become smaller or larger. See this Reddit ($URL$ It really depends on how you want the outcome to be. If the stronger/higher gravity was not sudden then life would evolve to fit the environment and that would include denser bones, probably larger lungs and multiple hearts to support the body, muscle density becomes higher and would make creatures larger. I've read a few books I think it was Pip and Flynx by Alan Dean Foster (don't quote me on this) where one of his species was large and strong due to living in a higher gravity world. 

What reliably scales with size is power output of the muscles. Power is produced chemically and is subject to several hard constraints. ATP and Pcr stores in the muscle limit peak power; the cardiovascular system's oxygen throughput limits sustained power. Based on the power constraint alone, a creature of a given size can carry 1000 times its weight at 1 cm/second, or 1 times its weight at 10 m/s (force*distance/time=const). How this power is distributed between force and speed will depend on the creature's exact physiology. I've seen feats of nature impressive enough to lose belief in evolutionary impossibility. The outward effects of adaptation for high strength/low speed would be thick short limbs and vice versa. The mammalian endoskeleton is generally more favorable for high speed and high instantaneous force than an exoskeleton. The joints are compact, the muscle is well-cooled and has a lot of room to change shape. In comparison, an exoskeleton is like an aircraft fuselage, it's good at distributed static loads, but not at strong shocks and high acceleration. Force on the skeleton is determined largely by acceleration, so running fast would be riskier for the mantis than a mammal. Carrying weight, however, would be a lot more efficient, with most loads going through the exoskeleton. So the human-sized mantis would likely have good strength and excellent ability to carry loads, but not be as good as a mammal at jumping and running. Its sustained strength would be determined by its cardiovascular system. To make good use of its muscle, the mantis will need to circulate at least twice more blood, as both a coolant and an energy source. In the gym, it's going to be very good at most weight exercises, doing dozens of reps (given good circulation). But not as good at complex full-body exercises, because of the system's limited instantaneous capacity. They won't be good at throwing punches, as that takes explosive strength and speed, but will be good at holding force. Carrying as much as 5x own weight over long distances, but not very fast, should be quite doable. Perhaps 10x if someone else puts it on their back. It takes a lot less muscle effort to keep their exoskeleton straight than it does for a flexible bipedal human. Arm-wrestling between one another will be viable, but more like how non-wrestlers imagine it - arm vs arm, slowly forcing the opponent down. A human athlete puts their body's force on the opponent's arm in one strong move; it's forceful and would be dangerous. Due to exoskeleton limitations, the mantis population will likely be a lot more uniform between athletes and non-athletes than humans. So they could be able to arm-wrestle amateurs, but at risk of permanent injury if they come against an athlete. 

I am writing a story where a species undergoes devolution. Is there any scientific or plausible way to do this? The process can be instantaneous or may take ages, I do not mind which as I need to weigh my options at this stage. To be clear, the devolution I am thinking of is like taking a human being then devolving him/her to the primate stage, so lets say about as far back as Orrorin tugenensis or Paranthropus where they are in the midst of evolving from primates to Homo erectus. Please note I used human beings as an example to give context but the species undergoing devolution may not necessarily be human. Based on the answers, "devolution" does not exist so had the word in quotes to reflect this. 

I think Thorne is right. How about Greek and Norse or even Celtic? These have been portrayed in a lot of sci-fi and fantasy stories already. If you still would want to use any of the religions you mentioned, you may want to consult subject matter experts i.e, priest, rabbi, imams etc. so that you can determine facts, what you can write about and be more accurate about it. 

This will only work on a cloudless, sun intensive world (maybe a desert environment). Might give you some other ideas so here it goes. Build a long corridor with collapsed hinged floors. Rig a way for light from the sun to close the floors up so people can walk through them, but near the middle or end of the corridor before a closed and locked door, a pressure plate or a sensor, however you wish to rig it, will trigger some mechanics to align mirrors and concentrate the sun rays into that long corridor. Effectively burning anyone in it. You'd have to make sure the concentration is high enough to actually burn people in seconds, as well as make sure the mechanism specially the mirrors are well protected so thieves or archaeologists can't just break them. During the night, the floors drop so nobody can go near and its a long and wide enough corridor that its very hard to spider climb the walls. Still there may be ways to circumvent the trap such as putting up artificial lights at night or slowly building a makeshift floor at night. 

Of course it's possible. Most theories don't have any practical application. Right now we're using just a few % of major discoveries since WWII, and less than 1% of new scientific knowledge discovered since the 1970s. That number goes further down if you start counting all the "discoveries" rather than just bona fide ones. It's hard to think of any discovery since the Cold War that is now in use, and it's been almost 3 decades. It takes a separate layer of highly talented people - not simple engineers, but scientists-inventors (and they have to be both at once!) - to turn advanced theory into something with practical applications. Without an inventor that understands the theory (important), has the resources and dedication, and (most important) a lot of luck, the discovery will go unused. 

Three business days. That would be the most likely time, 50% chance it's sooner and 50% later. Takes two days to get the first images, one business day to process the discovery. There are ~150 observation satellites orbiting Earth, with the typical orbit being 800km. Each satellite scans about 200*40,000=8,000 km^2 every 100 minutes. Earth's surface being scanned is ~360 million km^2 - the other 150 million near the poles is largely ignored. This amounts to 120,000 km^2 or 1/3,000 of the surface scanned per minute, or 1/50 per hour. There is a lot of overlap between scan areas, hence the 50% qualifier in the beginning of the answer - can be sooner, can be later. Still, in four days, it's all but impossible for the island to stay undiscovered. While earlier discovery by shipping or aircraft is possible, it's highly likely to go unreported due to simple assumption one is mistaken and the "someone else's business" effect. 

While intelligent detrivores are not impossible, it may be improbable. One way I can think of to support your idea is to have the plant life or the fauna or both, excrete waste products that are actually highly beneficial to your detrivores and chemically alters their intelligence and consciousness over time to improve and expand it. Like magic mushrooms but increases your IQ, EQ etc. Hope this gives you a germ of an idea on how to proceed. 

Probably somewhat painful, depending on how much you age. I would think the more prevailing sensation is weakness of limbs and a sense of lethargy as energy is sapped out as well and your cells, bones and body parts age prematurely. 

You could use sub-atomic particles or maybe neutrinos and tachyons as alternatives to light. There are a couple of studies that's how they travel at the speed of light and you may want to check if this is a bit more reliable or easier to implement than beaming light from one system to another. Or if you want to really bend it out of current scientific abilities, you can have tiny space/time wormholes that are stable enough for your data packets to go through from one solar system to another. That would be fast. 

They could manufacture agricultural items such as plows and digging tools. It does not need fuel to work which they need. They can do repairs as well. Basically fulfilling the roles of blacksmiths. This of course depends on the overall technological capabilities of the surrounding communities that trade with them. They can also do assembly of machinery given the specs are available or in the overseer's memory/database. Additionally they can trade information in manufacturing and calculations as well such as how deep to dig a well given certain parameters etc. This could prove more valuable than tools.