This image represents a very large scale box on our universe on current time (not on perceived time, based on received light). Of course, it is just a computer simulation. Each dot represents a cluster of galaxies. So you need to imagine an infinite tridimensional space filled with filament-like structures like these. And infinite means it has no bounds, so it has no "external" shape. No ball, rugby-ball nor cone there. Also not irregular external shape, just infinite. Any of these shapes have a 2D boundary on a 3D space, but the universe has no boundary. 

That chaotic movements would make sens in a place, like a globullar cluster, with similarly-sized bodies. On the other hand, in a place like a planetary system where almost all mass belongs to a single body, you can be pretty certain taht you will have almost-independent orbits, like we have here. 

I think, by his mention of asteroids, that the OP means an object in the scale of asteroids or dwarf planets, that is, almost-solid objects. In this case, asteroids the size of 2 Pallas or 4 Vesta are ellipsoids, and smaller than that, we have 511 Davida which is the biggest clearly non-spherical asteroid: 

There are orbits with 90min period. The difficult point is that if you are not in these orbits, the debris will not impact you, and if you are, you have their same speed, so they will not impact you but float around you. 

To answer your question: The speed of light is relative to the metric of the space itself. That is, if you imagine that there is a network of rules and clocks at rest with respect to each other floating in space, the speed of light is relative to that group of rules and clocks if the group is inertial. 

No idea is stupid per se. But in order to place an answer to your question, please consider Venus as a comet. It once had, in that image, a coma (a tail) pointing outwards from the sun, made of evaporated water pushed away by solar wind. How frequently is the Earth exactly inside that coma? As a comparison, when the Earth strikes a real comet coma we see meteor showers that last no more than one day. So if we consider that Earth may go through Venus imaginary coma once a year, we have an upper limit of 1/365 of Venus' water captured by Earth. This, without taking into effect that Venus had not have a real coma, that evaporation and expelletion of water from Venus was not a so directional process, and surely other factors I can not think about just now. Besides, do not consider comets the main source of water on Earth. You need to count also with the water vapour generated on volcanoes and that generated on acid-base reactions among Earth's rocks. 

In short: you can not. In length: best you can do is to match up your spectrum with a library of known spectra, and find the best match. But for these spectra to be useful you need to have determined their ages, masses, Y's (contents of Helium) and Z's (contents of metals, that is, evrything beyond Helium). And their ages come from... yes, isochrones, so you would be using isochrones indirectly. So, in short again, yes, you can determine the mass, age and Y and Z of a star with its spectrum and without its own isochrone, maybe up to 5% of its main-sequence lifetime during main sequence status (e.g. 0.5 Gyr for a 10 Gyr main-secuence lifetime star like our Sun). And yes again, this match-up of spectra gives additional info like surface gravity, which is not useful on its own but needs previous knowledge of mass and radius. 

The sun is not on the same Azimuth for the same hour (not even at noon!). You need to take the analema figure ($URL$ into your accounts. If you do not, your clock will be exact only 4 times a year. 

If you think on Big Bang as an explosion IN space, you are plain wrong. It was not. It was an explosion OF space itself. And time, for that matter. 

So when the clusters of matter collapsed enough to become galaxies with stars and these stars reionized the intergallactic medium, there were almost no matter there, so photons continued being free to travel without obstacles, and so the Universe remained transparent. So, it has been transparent for two different reasons: neutrality of matter, after the recombination, and scarcity of matter, after the reionization. 1: $URL$ 

Galaxies are moving away from us in every direction. If it were like your race, galaxies at our same distance from the central point will be slowly approximating. That is, we will note that galaxies nearer to the center than us will move away from us (since they are faster), galaxies in the opposite side of the sky will move away from us (since they are slower), and galaxies in the plane that lies between these two point will be slowly approximating to us (since we converge with them to the same point at the same speed). So the answer is no, that is not a possibility. 

You need to consider which material the planets are formed of. Terrestrial planets are formed from less material (way less), and with less momentum (since they were orbiting near from the Sun). Gaseous planets (which is another name for external planets, due to their material), also known as gaseous giants, are formed with a lot more of material with a lot more of angular momentum. Angular momentum formula is $\vec L=\vec r\times m\vec v$. Orbital speed formula is $\vec v=\vec\omega\times\vec r$. Thus: $\vec L=\vec r\times m\vec\omega\times\vec r$ Since all vectors are perpendicular: $L=r^2 m \omega$ Thus a higher mass $m$ makes a higher momentum $L$, and a higher distance to the Sun $r$ makes a quadratically higher momentum $L$. 

There are several causes for mass loss. One is transformation of mass into energy by means of nuclear fusion, and the energy is radiated away. But the big one is stellar winds: particles ejected from the star surface. 

In a discussion elsewhere about binary planets, it came the question. How near can a planet like Earth (maybe Earth itself) be to another planet like Earth before both of them tearing apart due to tidal forces? In other words: Which is the Roche limit for Earth, if it were orbiting (another) Earth? 

Yours is a very, very interesting work. If you publish it it may happen that 3D diagrams will be used in the future. Please publish it. But this does not mean that there is a flaw in the H-R diagram. It is correct as it is: it displays Luminosity Vs. Color and is perfect at that. And then it happens that some extra relations appear: stars are not randomly scattered on the HR diagram, but they group in branches, and these branches are related to stages of their life. The position on each branch is related to each star's mass. This is not a general relation holding for all the diagram. Almost the same happens with size, but this is more tightly related to Luminosity, per definition.