For ancestor, "reflex" is also used, i.e. Icelandic madur is the reflex of Old Norse madr. Also, derivative works: madur derives from madr. Source or origin and the prefix proto- as in proto-form, proto-sound might work for the madr is the source of madur or the proto-form. 

From 280 of Benjamin W. Fortson's Indo-European Language and Culture: "The Italic subjunctive is not a continuation f the Proto-Indo-European subjunctive, which became a future. There are at least three subjunctive morphemes found in Italic, of which one continues the PIE athematic optative and the other two are of unknown origin." For the details of how the distribution went you will have to consult various works. The question as to whether this pattern (the Romance pattern) appears elsewhere among I-E languages is answered by this shifting of functions of various morphemes, e.g. subjunctive to future, optative to subjunctive, and so forth. Deep stuff. The upshot is that "swapping" does not properly describe a process that occurred through a long and complex evolution among the I-E languages, although it does make it easier to teach the subjunctive to learners. 

I've read a lot of John McWhorter's many books on this very topic. It is controversial, e.g. Latin, according to Stephane Goyette, simplified as it spread over the peninsula, not at the point Latin diverged into the Romance languages. So was this stage a pidgin, a creole, or a simplification or "mixed language"? Some say a pidgin stage must precede a creole stage, others say a creole can arise without that initial stage. For some reason (I know one), these issues create a great deal of heat with fist fights a possibility. Are Afrikaans and Swahili linguae francae or creoles? If so, was there ever a pidgin stage for either? And so on. Read McWhorter's Defining Creole for a good introduction to these issues. Language Interrupted is a great survey of major modern languages like Arabic, Mandarin, and Farsi which show signs of creolization early on. 

The second sentence talks about a very dangerous mouse! However, in languages such as Italian and German, phrases may shift around somewhat freely within a sentence. For example, it is possible to say both 

To begin with, depending on your understanding of "sentence", even in English you will find examples of well-formed utterances without verb or subject. For example, "Yes." may be a sentence. So the simple answer to your question is: no syntactic categories are essential. More interesting are certain patterns of grammatical dependence, which vary between languages. For example, in English, if you use a finite verb, you usually need a subject, too - if you leave out the subject, the sentence is elliptical. Consider talking about the weather: 

There really isn't anything in particular that is raining, and yet, there needs to be a formal subject. The situation is similar in other languages, such as the other Germanic ones (such as German). Other languages, such as many of the romance languages, allow you to freely drop the subject. In Spanish, you can simply say, without a subject, 

However, while the subject is obligatory in many constructions in many languages, it is still possible to construct subject-free sentences, such as 

One kind of answer one could give to this is psycholinguistic: what use do people make of such aspects of language? The answer is: plenty, depending on the language; not so much for specifically am/is/are. During language processing, they are often used to inform sentence interpretation by telling you who does what to whom. In the 70s and 80s, Bates & MacWhinney conducted extensive research on what kinds of cues speakers of various languages use to figure out what a sentence means. In English, word order is a highly reliable cue; what is directly in front of the verb tends to be the agent, what is directly after it, the patient (the situation is different in intransitive sentences, passive sentences ...). 

I'd be interested in asking people about their understanding of the term register and what this signifies for them. This would be a discussion about a specialised term and I'm sure there are multiple interpretations out there, depending on your education. I think that there are multiple definitions of register. Simplified definitions focus on "informal" and "formal" registers, however, these fail to formally identify what linguistic features realise the register variables. As an ESL teacher, I find many textbooks over-simplify this issue, resulting in students learning lists of "informal" and "formal" words e.g. get = receive, buy = purchase, and = furthermore etc. Although there may be some contexts where this is possible, this is simply not the case. Because of this, I'm trying to work out a better way to explain this and engage with people through shared understanding. As a student of Halliday's systemic functional linguistics, the term "register" is further technicalised to include notions of what's going on (the field of discourse), who's involved (the tenor) and how these are textually linked together (the mode). However, even within SFL, there is still much discussion about what this actually means and there are different camps with different definitions. One camp believes there are registers for domains of use e.g instructional, regulatory, representational, etc. Another camp believes that register relates to the context of situation e.g. medical, legal, educational etc. The reason I bring this is up is that just last night I was discussing differences between Halliday and Martin's understanding of register (see $URL$ Halliday sees register as a stage on the cline of instantiation, i.e. between the potential system and a given instance of text or language, similar to Saussure's notions of langue and parole. This means that the entire of the potential grammatical choices in a system will not occur in any particular instances of language in a given context. As such, the potential meaning (semantics) in any text will be mediated through register. I have been schooled in Martin's view of register and understand it to be a complex interplay between the field, tenor and mode, each of which can be related to semantic systems, which in turn can be related to lexico-grammatical systems. E.g. Field can be related to whether the meanings are more common or specialised/technicalised (e.g. dog - canine), tenor can be related to whether the relationship between interactants is more close or distant (e.g friends and strangers) and whether the power relations are more equal or unequal (e.g. student - teacher), and mode can be related to whether the message is more spoken or written (remembering that written language can be spoken!). From this I understand "formal" to be a combination of more specialised/technical vocabulary (field), greater distance and power differential between interactants (tenor), and tends to be more written language (mode). "Informal" can be seen as a combination of more common/everyday vocabulary, closer distance and more equal power relations, and tends be more spoken. As such, jargon may be classified as a form of specialised language, which may in turn suggest a particular register, but the relations between the language and the context must be made explicit. I understand this is a lot of linguistic theory but strongly believe this is relevant to the discussions about meaning and language that take place here. I welcome any discussion 

Both of them mean that the cake (Kuchen, here in the accusative case) is eaten by the boy (Junge, in the nominative). Here it is case that tells us what is being eaten, and what is eating, not word order. In other situations, case is a similarly unreliable cue in German. In these situations, agreement - the specific form of the verb, being dependent in form on its arguments - may be required to help you figure out who does what to whom. For example, English "is" tells you the subject is singular, so if you come across a plural noun, you know it cannot be the subject. For a German example: 

Some of these are elliptical, some aren't. The non-ellipcital ones do not feature indicative mood, indicating that it is not so much sentences requiring subjects to be expressed, but verbs. And that is basically your answer: sentences generally lack requirements. However, once you introduce certain words in certain functions, such as a verb in the indicative, they tend to have dependencies which must be expressed for a non-elliptical construction. However, even such dependencies can usually be omitted in specific contexts. 

Although verb order and overt case inflection are the same between those two, they mean different things; the first, that "women hate Peter", the second, that "Peter hates women". In the first one, the auxiliary "hat" is inflected to show that it agrees with a singular noun, Peter, so Peter must be the subject. In the second, "haben" must agree with a plural noun, Frauen. Bates & MacWhinney demonstrated that native speakers of German rely mostly on case, speakers of English on position, speakers of Italian on agreement. So in sum, in some languages, verb inflection can have very specific and important functions in sentence interpretation; in others, who often rely more on word order, not so much. In the specific case of the English auxiliary suppletiva am/is/are, their status as morphologically marked seems to be somewhat of a historic artefact from a time when precursors of English relied more on inflection. References MacWhinney, B., Bates, E. A., & Kliegl, R. (1984). Cue validity and sentence interpretation in English, German, and Italian. Journal of Verbal Learning and Verbal Behavior, 23(2), 127–150. doi:10.1016/S0022-5371(84)90093-8