To lose weight, your diet will be the most important thing you need to work on. As for cardio, I think that bicycle is an excellent way to start, since it is (in my opinion) better for your legs(if you feel you are overweight). I rarely do treadmill myself because of my knee. If you feel like you have some cardiovascular endurance then you can try HIIT(High intense interval training). It can shorten your training sessions A LOT. Basically what you do(i prefer on a bicycle or rowing machine) is use whatever you like and for, lets say 30 sec you work as hard as possible, then rest for 30 sec and do it again. Repeat this process as much as you like, you can start 6-7 times and move up to 10+. Later on you can play with the work and rest times. Like work 30 sec, rest 20 etc. I found this being much more...fun than just cycling or rowing for an hour. 

I totally agree with @Ker p pag about walking. Just an 30 min to an hour will help, but it may not be enough. Drink things like green tea, in the morning and evening and maybe a cup of coffee or tea while on lunch. Green tea will help your metabolism a lot. Eating fibrous foods will also help, like oatmeal, broccoli etc. Training a minimum of 3 times a week would be required at least. But that is the bare minimum, anything under that is a waste of time in my opinion. And lastly water, drink a lot of water. At least 2-3 liters a day. Not juice, not milk but water. Following these steps should be enough to make you go to the toilet once a day. 

One possible difficulty I see is overtraining, a physical condition where your body - either as a whole or specific muscle groups - is been put under too much or too frequent stress for an optimal growth path. Too many reps, too low intensity If I were you, I would start training much less and in turn increase intensity as described here by Jeff Cavaliere. The reason is the following: If you're doing 5 sets a 8 (?) repetitions of any exercise, you put too much stress in terms of duration and too little stress in terms of intensity on the muscle. If you can do 5 sets of 8 pull-ups, for example, you would be much better off, doing 1-2 sets of 6-8 weighted pull-ups (say, 5-10kg). The additional training time you put in does not help, it may even harm your gains. Too few rest days The second aspect is rest time. As I understand, you switch exercises every other day. This is very good in the beginning but as you get more experienced and since you already have been training consistently for a year, your muscles will need more time to adapt. I cannot say whether that stage is reached for you but it is something you should definitely keep in mind should you see that your gains slow down considerably. Running My last point is about your running training. You write that you run 1-2 miles every other day. This is okay as long as you are having fun with it but it is not clear whether it achieves anything. Endurance-wise it would be more effective to just go running once a week but then for at least 40-50 minutes. (It is the same too many reps, too low intensity-principle here.) If you are running only 1-2 miles because you want to increase your speed, it would be better if you did one interval (say, half a mile fast for 5 times with breaks of slow running between) training session per week rather than 7 1-2 mile sessions. But here it's really about your goals/motivation for the running sessions. 

First things first, nothing can substitute food. Protein supplements should only be taken when you know you simply can not eat that much. Protein is actually cheaper. Right supplements can actually save you money, if approached in a smart way. A chicken breast that has 20g of protein costs 1-2 euros depending what you are buying. A serving of protein costs .50-1 euro, also depending on what you are buying. That being said, you can not replace (it is not healthy) food, with only supplements. From fish you get many other nutrients. E.g. different fatty acids, like omega-3. For example, instead of eating 2 cans of tuna, i eat 1 can + 1 serving of whey protein. That saves me a little bit of money already. If doing something like this daily, you can actually save a lot. But again, don't completely replace food, just use supplements to aid you a little bit, while still eating real foods. I do believe in the "1 g of protein per pound of body weight", but that is only when you want to build muscle. Also, it is not important to start from the very beginning like this. Just start consistently going to the gym, eat more calories than you burn, but still eat plenty of protein and carbs. 

Maybe calisthenics is something for you. When i was younger i trained 1-1.30 hours every day in the gym and then had a hour of handball afterwards. It can be exhausting at start, but your body will get used to the high intensity. To build muscle, as a beginner, just try to find a good program that has a routine for each body part. As you advance, you can start training each body part twice a week. Best routines to build muscle are bodybuilding routines. You can find some from sites like bodybuilding.com, you can find some plans in here Nothing bad will happen if you try it. I do not know how you will fit it into your schedule tho if you have such time frames. Once you go on that road, nutrition will be very, very, very important. You need your body to recover as fast as possible. Meaning you will need good nutrition and lots of rest(8-9 hours of sleep) If you start feeling tired and moody all the times, your might be over doing it, and you do not want that. At the end of the day, every one are different. Something like this has worked for me for years, because i was eating right and had lots of sleep. I hope this answers your question. 

I recommend doing one interval day per week. Say 8 times running 400m at 6 minutes/mile (if you can already do that, otherwise start slower) with slow running breaks of a minute in between. Every other week, do 4 intervals a 800m (a bit slower). If you can tell me your current 400/800m interval times, I will edit the post. If you can add a third running day, it would obviously help but that's something you personally have to decide. In case, you have the time go for a second slow 50 minute run. Push-ups and Sit-ups Seems generally possible but something most people would not want to achieve because after a time you only train the endurance of your muscles. If you can already do 23 push-ups and 33 sit-ups, it will only be a matter of increasing the number of repetitions. Your plan seems reasonable here. If you get to a plateau after a while try adding some weights and do lower repetitions once in a while. (Still, I am not an expert for high-repetition of push-ups or sit-ups, so let's see what others can add to that.) Chin-ups You did not provide any goal for the chin-ups. Please do so, and I will update my post. In any case, be aware that adding one chin-up every week should work very well in the beginning but the plateau effect comes much earlier than for push-ups or sit-ups. Anything above 10/15 seems like a reasonable goal, above 20 seems rather unrealistic. 

I will give you an vague answer. Since, as you stated, you think you have good slow-twitch fibers, which should make you a good marathon runner. The best way to find out, in what area you are better is to run 100 m. How fast were you? How do you feel?. That will give you your answer. There is this good site, where you can learn more about different kinds of muscle fibers, and how they work. As for eating. Just eat healthy. I strongly believe in "If it fits your macros". There are some good calculators online to figure out your macros. Just fill them with some healthy foods, and occasionally(not more than once a week or two) reward yourself with something dirty(if you want), but make sure you are not going over your macros. A great site, to track them is myfitnesspal. As for the "I feel discouraged". How do you think they started? Do you think they woke up one day and just ran 8 km without any effort?. No. Running is something that requires dedication. I was always good at short bursts, one of the best in my school day, but i never was first in marathon running, because i did not even care for it. Oh, and i was almost 100 kg and 190 cm tall. Do outdoor running as much as possible(but do not over do it of course). It is way better than treadmill in every way. If you want to be a jogger you have to be ready for everything, from downhill to uphill. That is why outdoors is better. Run to different places, enjoy the weather etc. Depending on what your goals are, you can train in one or the other area. Do not feel embarrassed. You are already doing more than most, you should feel proud for wanting to do something like this. Your goals are there, fulfill them, and do not let anyone judge you. Push yourself and one day, you also can run 8 km without even breaking a sweat. The only limits we have, are the ones we set ourselves. 

While there is no point in giving you medical advice online and no one can say whether it is normal for you, it is nevertheless possible (though not necessary) that the causes behind your elevated heart rate are natural. Several studies, some of them referenced in Schuenke, Mikat & McBride (2002), have shown that human metabolism is much more active, even hours after the strength training. This results in a phenomenon called excess post-exercise oxygen consumption (EPOC). In a period for hours after the training the body will need to replenish body fuels (synthesize ATP), repair any damaged (muscular or other) cells, balance hormones and so on. All of these tasks require more oxygen intake than normally and this can lead to an elevated heart rate. (While the last inference seems logical to me, note, that I cannot provide scientific evidence that EPOC must lead to an elevated heart rate). In short, one reason behind your pulse being higher than your pulse at rest could be that after a workout your body is not at rest. It is busy repairing and re-fueling your body! Additional note: There is still a lot you can learn from your heart rate and monitoring it can be very informative. You just need to keep in mind that you have to compare your heart rate to other situations where you body was dealing with similar stress (and not to your heart rate at rest). If you do so, a high heart rate can be a sign that the training was more demanding than usual. It could also point at an approaching illness and be an indication of overtraining. Nevertheless, you should always seek medical help off-line. 

I was told recently that eating meat will cause weight gain. I fail to find any research on this and i call bs, but i am very curious about it. If yes, what would be the amounts (for chicken/fish). Any linked research would be welcome as well. 

The main reason behind taking salt is because sodium helps regulate the body's fluid levels. If you run for longer periods of time and sweat a lot, you will also lose sodium(Your sweat tastes salty if it has ever dripped into your mouth). The loss of salt is also connected to other running problems, like cramping. Basically if your body runs low on sodium, you are in danger of getting over hydrated, which is not good. I guess you should talk with some doctor about it, because it highly depends on you. Are you a heavy sweater? How long do you run? How old are you? How much water do you drink? etc. etc. These are questions that i sadly can not answer and contacting an expert will give you a more detailed answer, on how much salt you should consume. Because too much could be even worse, than lacking it. I'am pretty sure tho, that regular salt will do just as well, and the need for tablets is just not there. But i guess they are effective, if you want to ingest them mid run. At the end of the day, you must try. If it works for you good, if it doesn't, don't do it. 

Whether you achieve the goal is speculative. If you have already tried to achieve the goal when you were younger (consistent workout over at least a year) and failed it might be indication that it is not possible for you, but not necessarily so. As for the training, following advice: Running (2 mile run in 11:54 or less) Definitely possible in general. In your particular case, we would need to know your current 2 mile, 5 mile and maybe 1/2 mile times. As for the training, I would skip the elliptical machine. It is often argued (see for example, here) that the best way to improve your running is by running. Instead, do 50 minutes of slow and comfortable running once a week. This will have the same effect on your cardiovascular system as the elliptical machine but also get you used to the movement patterns. It is important that you do not worry/plan increasing speed or duration here too much because it will come very naturally soon. In addition, and instead of 

I am currently trying to learn more about the signals my body is giving. One question I stumbled upon recently is the following: Is there any information to be gained from muscle soreness at different time intervals after a workout? For example, I was doing an extended set of pull-ups 34 hours ago. The soreness in my latissimus dorsi peaked around 14 hours ago; the soreness in my chest peaked around 8 hours ago. Does that give away any information? Is my latissimus simply better adapted to the exercise? Worse? Is it not related at all? I know that the scientific evidence on muscle soreness in general is rather limited. Let alone this specific question. Still, if anyone has heard of any studies on the topic, I'd be curious to get to know them.