Unless you are traveling down the Autobahn at top speed with your bike mounted to a roof rack you hyper-car, you will probably be just fine. Pressure washer water velocity is about 243 mph (391 km/hr). A Bugatti Veyron 16.4 Super Sport is the world's fastest road legal production car with a top speed of 431 km/hr (268 mph). Technically, if you had a special rack designed for your Veyron (wouldn't want to upset the handling at 400 km/hr), you might be able to generate enough velocity for this to be a concern. Even then, it is likely only the head set bearings (or maybe bottom bracket if you have external bearing version) that will take the brunt. Even then, these bearings are oriented in a plane perpendicular to the plane of motion (which will greatly reduce the velocity of the water that actually interacts with the bearing seal face). Plus, don't forget that the front wheel usually rides inside the car and the rear hub is left on the bike, but will be running in disturbed air, which will further reduce the force of the rain water. 

I have notice the same phenomenon. If you keep washing with clean water the rubbing noise should go away. My best guess is that the water coming off the tires and falling into the brakes brings a fine road grit into the system. This coats the pads/rotors reducing tolerances, causing rubbing to be more noticeable. If it is really wet for a long time, the rubbing will accelerate pad wear (which I found out during an insanely wet Dec last year). 

For road bike applications, Lennard recommends only using tubeless-specific rims, but for mountain bikes (read larger volume tires) this is not always necessary depending how low of a pressure you are running and how aggressively you are riding. Similar to my initial answer, Lennard also points out you stand to lose more air in a burping event. Thinking about Lennards answer some more, I suspect his recommendation for road tubeless has to do with a lower margin-for-error with a road tubeless tires. You are dealing with smaller air volumes, and are much more susceptible to negative consequences associated with air loss events. For example, you could have a poor rim/tire seal. It seems to hold air at initial inspection but it is in fact slowly leaking air. Air loss during a ride could result in the bike becoming uncontrollable. With a larger volume tire, slow air loss is less of an issue because your margin of error is larger. Small volume tires could reach critical pressure levels much quicker than a larger volume tires under the same poor seal scenario. Because road tubeless tire a smaller pressure buffer, mistakes in your setup become critical to safety as critically low pressures can result in a bike becoming uncontrollable. Conclusion I would follow Lennard Zinn's advice and only uses road tubeless tire with a tubeless-specific rim. 

Yes to your entire second paragraph. A good reference would be Phil Maffetone's The Big Book of Endurance Training and Racing. His contention is that making the aerobic system more efficient is a healthier and more sustainable way to increase speed. I'm an ultra distance cyclist who has tried both Maffetone and Carmichael's Time-Crunched Cyclist, and I've had much better luck with the former. Your experience may be much different if you're doing cyclocross or sprint races. 

One of the crank arms is loose or cracked. This is the most dangerous, since a failure at the wrong time could cause you to lose control of the bike. A bearing is loose or worn out in either the bottom bracket or one of your pedals. A pedal could also fail catastrophically, though it's unusual. The chainring bolts might be loose. The bike's frame might be cracked. Unlikely, and worth checking only after other possibilities have been eliminated. 

You can also call up a pre-generated route and turn off the turn-by-turn directional functionality, thus just showing your location and relationship to the route. This has worked reasonably well for me. 

The Surly Ogre has the same geometry as one of the original rigid 29ers, the Karate Monkey. The complete version with 3x9 drivetrain is at the top end of your $1000-$1500 price range. 

Another suggestion would be a bike from the emerging "gravel" or "adventure" categories. Typically they are comfortable road bikes with clearance for larger tires, meant to be used on a wide variety of road surfaces, both paved and unpaved. 

Right about the time fat bikes were about to become popular, I put a 26x4" front tire (which has the same diameter as a 29x2" tire) on a 26" bike, without changing anything else. The result was similar to a 69er, raising the front hub by about an inch. Besides improving handling on descents (perhaps due in part to the wider tire), it really didn't affect things all that much in dry conditions. Sure improved handling in the snow. 

Unfortunately 28mm nominal tire width can be too larger for many modern road bikes. Note that actual measured with depends on many factors including: internal rim width, tire construction, tire profile, tire age and wear, inflation pressure. As such, one combination of tires and wheels can work while another may fail if you have tight clearances. It is also impossible to build a bicycle and wheel set without flex. As such, there needs to be a minimum safe tire clearance. Just because the wheel spins freely in the stand does not mean there will be appropriate clearance for actually riding the bike, especially for heavier/stronger riders. I would suggest assessing how much clearance is available with 25 mm tires (perhaps(typical max clearance on many road bikes). If the clearance is already tight (e.g., less than 1 cm) then going up to 28 could be a stretch. The more recent version of the tarmac (e.g., disc version) can clear 28 mm, but I doubt older rim brake versions can. It is best to ask the Specialized Help Desk to get an official answer. Question of Hub Play All wheels, will have some side-to-side flex so it is unclear whether or not there is a problem with the hub. Typically, if the bearings have developed play the wheel moves side-to-side with a very light touch, if more force is required it is likely wheel flex. 5-7000 miles is not a lot of mileage, but this also depends on the conditions they were ridden under. 

Strangely your wife's proportions are very close to mine, except I am a little taller. Speaking from experience, in terms of mainstream bicycle fit curves, this a somewhat long inseam for height, which means 

A recent study investigated the impact performance of 675 used helmets (some as old as 26 years) without signs of damage. (They collected 1500, and eliminated helmets with signs of damage). They all passed, except four. Three that failed were only made to meet the old ANSI standard, and the only newer helmet to fail was a recalled model. Because all of the helmets were used, some of the 675 would have been incurred some slight damage (e.g., being dropped, or bumped through regular usage) without showing direct signs of damage . The fact only 4 failed, and those 4 had other issues, this suggests if you don't see visible signs of damage on a modern helmet, it is probably okay. In fact given the large sample size and consistent ability to pass the impact testing, I now have a lot more confidence in the quality of modern helmets than I did before. For your helmet, makes sure to carefully inspect it. If you don't see visible signs of damage you are probably fine, assuming that the helmet was properly manufactured (i.e., NOT a grey market helmet), that it has passed all the modern certifications (i.e., check for the certification stickers), and that it was not a recalled model. 

A coaster brake is really your only option for foot-operated braking, and most complete bikes sold with coaster brakes have the coaster as the only brake. My experience is that mixing hand and coaster brakes takes some getting used to, and most people don't want to bother. This limits the selection of coaster brake bikes to mostly cruiser and city bikes. Most of those are single-speeds or 3-speeds. Both Shimano and SRAM offer 8-speed internally-geared hubs with coaster brakes, but I don't know whether any current production bikes come with 8-speed coaster brake hubs from the factory. If you wanted to have a more versatile bike with a wide range of gears and a braking setup that includes a front brake, one way would be to have a rear wheel built using one of the 8-speed hubs. The considerations for that include: 

I've purchased a couple of used leather saddles. The ones that were barely used or just broken in were fine, but there was one well-used one that was the exception. Its sit bone area was visibly lower on one side than the other, enough that it was the likely cause of an SI joint dysfunction for me. I'd say if it looks relatively new and close to the original shape, you're probably fine. If it looks worn or stretched and especially if it looks uneven, it might be best to pass. 

That's the chain guard bracket and it would likely come off with a bottom bracket lockring tool. The fixed cup of the bottom bracket should be behind it. 

"Road Bike" is a pretty broad term, but let's assume we're talking about a bike designed for long-distance road riding and not criterium or even road racing—a category used to be called "sport touring," but is now referred to as "endurance racing." Current examples include bikes like the Trek Domane, Giant Defy and Specialized Roubaix. Also, it depends somewhat upon what you mean by "gravel racing." If you're referring to short events like Barry Roubaix that are at most a couple of hours, then a cyclocross bike would fit the bill as well as anything, especially if you already own one. The downside of using a cyclocross bike is that most are really designed for short, fast, off-road races and don't necessarily lend themselves well to all-day comfort or long, 40-mph descents. There are a few cyclocross bikes that are designed to be less aggressive, and those are the ones that tend to turn up at gravel events. Current examples include the Trek Cronos and Boone, and the Surly Cross Check. The Niner RLT9 is marketed as a gravel bike but has a design that fits better into this category. My experience with this class of bike is that they require more effort to arrive at a good fit, and can feel more exciting than necessary on fast downhills. "Gravel" bikes aren't all alike either, but the ones that are different than cyclocross bikes feature a longer head tube (for more upright riding position), lower bottom bracket, more fork offset and slacker angles. The best current example is the Raleigh Tamland, but the All-City Space Horse is pretty close too, despite not being marketed as a gravel bike. To me, the best thing about "gravel" bikes coming into style is that they're actually good for a very wide variety of surfaces and emphasize comfort over raciness. Not limiting a ride to one specific type of road opens up a lot more riding opportunity. 

The problem with nostagia is the n+1 rule. Bikes manufacturers have been on a never ending quest to make bikes more and more task specific. This means most "racing" bikes are not well suited to everyday transportation riding. Modern "Race" Road Bikes Mixing fenders and a rack with a modern road race bikes is like trying to get oil and water to mix. The frames often lack any sort of eyelets and depending on the material are largely incompatible with any sort of clamp, so adding a rack is largely out of the question. Carbon frames should not be clamped at all, and a race frame made of aluminium will be quite thin in parts now due to all the hydro-forming now used in modern frames making it incompatible to clamping as well. Modern steel racing bikes are pretty rare now and usually custom built or frame only options. Modern race bikes also have very aggressive postures compared to older "racing" road bikes like your father likely rode. Even if you can add a rack, they will become unhinged with little added luggage weight and the aggressive position is not particularly comfortable for more moderate pacing. (An aggressive position is typically only comfortable when you continually riding at a hard effort.) Other Types of Modern Road Bikes If a touring bike is what ever reason not an option, then try looking for other road categories often referred to as "road sport", "endurance road" or now "all road". These bikes will have a more upright position, which will make them more comfortable for everyday riding, and depending on the brand will likely have more tire clearance (good for running fenders) and eyelets mounting fenders and may also have an eyelet on the seat stay for mounting a rack (make sure to check, as some brands skip this feature). To the untrained eye these bikes will look very virtually identical to a racing bike. Vintage The other option is getting an older "racing bikes" like what your father had. These tended to have fender eyelets (which can also be used for racks) to have more tire clearance for running fenders. They were also largely steel which means the frame can be clamped for adding a rack when no eyelets exist. The shifting is robust but not as responsive as modern systems and the brakes tend to be subpar compared to modern brakes (rim/caliper or disc). Components on a older bike can of course be updated. 

The real issue with ice is that it has a very low coefficient of friction, and weight distribution won't change that enough to make a difference. Tires with a soft compound and a lot of siping help somewhat, but the best solution is a tire with metal studs. 

You might be better off with one of the new bikes coming out with "gravel" or "all-road" geometry and clearance for ~40c tires. They're intended for the type of riding you describe. Current examples include the Raleigh Tamland and Willard, Salsa Warbird, All-City Space Horse, and Kona Rove. These bikes tend to have lower bottom brackets and longer wheelbases, giving them better comfort and handling on and off pavement. 

Probably. Depends somewhat on whether the shifter is compatible with the derailleur (Shimano 8-speed shifters generally will work okay with 7-speed derailleurs, but you can't usually do a Gripshift with a Shimano derailleur, to name a couple of examples.) You'll have to adjust the limit screws and barrel adjuster, but you would have to do that any time you install a different derailleur. 

If you wanted to start with a bike that's really close, the Breezer Uptown 8 or Downtown 8 come with 8-speed hub gears and hand brakes for both wheels. You could purchase the coaster hub and have a bike shop rebuild the wheel, keeping the rim, shifters, cog and chain wheel. I wish I could say that you could just buy a kit to convert from one type of brake to the other, but to my knowledge, the hubs have different internals. Current cost would be a $600-800 bike, $200+ hub, plus labor. You could probably sell the old hub and get a little bit back. Another option might be to get a cruiser with an 8-speed hub and add a disk brake, but this would require replacing the fork and front wheel. Probably more cost-effective but more of a challenge to find a compatible fork. Too many variables to estimate what that might cost. Good luck in your search.