Extraordinary long-term timing measurements, isn't that exactly what a K3 civilization will want for its time keeping? No need to shunt black holes and their planets around. The proposed interstellar clock using black holes is a non-issue. The real answer is they wouldn't bother to even think of doing it -- except as an amusing hypothetical exercise -- because pulsar clocks do work, will work, and likely to do so into the far future. Sources: The Wikipedia entry for pulsar clock Pulsar Timing at $URL$ 

Taking the proposition that nanogram of antihydrogen converts into fifteen megajoules, this won't be a fifteen megajoule explosion it will be a fifteen megajoule pulse of gamma radiation. This sounds like too dangerous for the operator. Suicidal if the trooper knowing pulls the trigger or culpable homicide if the lethal hazard hasn't been definitively explained to the trooper by the relevant authorities. Whatever technology is required to make a weapon use nanograms of antihydrogen as the propellent for a sidearm, it will have to be able to reflect or deflect gamma radiation in ways that absolutely minimize its harmful effects. It is doubtful if "futuristic polymers, alloys, metamaterials or whatever that would allow the barrel to survive a fifteen megajoule explosion from the inside" exist. To do that, requires segue into "magic" materials or technology. Gamma proof force-fields anyone? Perhaps there might be "futuristic polymers, alloys, metamaterials or whatever that would allow the barrel to survive a fifteen megajoule explosion from the inside", but the structure and mechanics to make an antimatter propellent gun work will be most probably massive, multilayered and complex. Sidearms would definitely be out, an oversized howitzer perhaps. Remote controlled operation most assuredly. Sounds like the sort of weapon that ensures there are an arms limitation treaties. The cybernetically augmented shooter might be more deadly and dangerous if he threw the gun and its antihydrogen ammunition at his target instead of firing it. 

If "Faster than light travel is readily available to all ships, but ships can neither fire from nor reliably detect targets at FTL speeds.", then the obvious strategy involves fast attack and evasion at FTL speeds. This does assume vessels are capable of precise manoeuvres at FTL speed. Locate enemy vessels, determine the distance, set your weapons, go to FTL, travel at FTL until you reach their location, drop out of FTL mode, arriving at your targets and blaze away in the hope that enough of your energy-bolts strike and destroy the enemy before they jump to FTL speed and run away. This does work better if you align your weapons where you believe prospective targets are situated. Simply having fleets of capital ships blazing away at each other seems wasteful and inefficient. If your vessels have FTL drive systems, use them to advantage. In this set-up, the chances are combat will be effectively neutralized or extremely difficult to engage in if ships can move away undetected and unharmed at FTL speed. This answer does assume when the OP says "Faster than light travel is readily available to all ships" that spacecraft can go to FTL quickly and easily. However, this doesn't seem to be unreasonable or a special case in this scenario. NB: Energy-bolts sounds much cooler than plain old-fashioned lasers. Much more space opera too!! 

Historically people didn't have family names. For example, Fred would be Fred son of Bob. This later could be formalised as "Fred Bobson". Also Frieda Peterdottir would be a Scandinavian form of Frieda daughter of Peter. The common factors were initially people didn't need family names. The adoption of family names only became necessary when additional identifying characteristics were needed. Hence family names. Basically small societies don't need more extensive and better identification types of names. There are no factors determining why people wouldn't have family names. It's more the reverse is true. There were factors to ensure the adoption of family names. 

from the description time in the two dimensions is passing at different rates. Time is passing ten times in one dimension compared to the other. However, this should have not effect whatsoever on their ages or rates of ageing when they pass from one dimension to another. However, it will have an influence on how much is spent on one dimension to compared to the other. if character A spends one day in the slower dimension she will find ten days have gone in the faster dimension on her return there. Conversely, someone spending a day in the faster dimension will find only 2.4 hours have passed in the slow dimension. The characters will effectively age at different rates compared to how much time has been spent in the alternative dimension. Ten years in the fast dimension will be only one year in the slow, so a character who has spent that ten years in the fast lane will seem to have aged ten years in one year for people in the slow dimension. It seems as if you have assumed that a person in one timeline will be aged as they pass from one dimension to another to somehow compensate the time differences between the timelines. There is a no scientific or logical basis for this happening. The way it could happen is if there is a magical property that operates, independently of the actual passage of time, but causes the characters' ages to be 'adjusted' to the time in the dimension they travelled to. For example, if a character has lived twenty years after the two timelines have diverged at Point A, in the faster dimension and then travels to the slow one. In the slow dimension only two years will have passed. if the magic age adjusting power operates that character will revert in age to eighteen years younger. So they will now be at the age they would have been had they lived in the slow dimension for the equivalent period of time they had spent in the fast dimension. Twenty years in the fast dimension equals two years in the slow dimension. Also, if the character spends another year in the slow dimension when they return to the fast timeline they will revert to their old age plus additional ten years. One year in slow being the equivalent of ten years in the fast dimension. But, remember this age adjusting only works by magic. 

No. It would be too dangerous. The danger doesn't arise from coping with dual causality situations on any of the planets. Matter existing backwards in time is antimatter. As everybody knows when matter and antimatter meet a lot of gamma radiation happens very quickly. This will be fatal. Potential colonists will soon be dispersed in the form of rapidly expanding plasma accompanied by large amounts of gamma radiation. This means colonization will be impossible. There is a good chance no-one will realize the solar system is a place where time flows backwards because all the matter in this solar system will be antimatter. It will be classified as an antimatter solar system. ADDENDUM: The relationship between antimatter and time reversal is established by a derivation of the CPT Theorem. (Vide the Wikipedia entry linked above.) 

Lots of explosions. Activating an Alcubierre warp-drive isn't recommended for habitable planets, their oceans or possibly even persons of the Alcubierre warp-drive spaceship, er sorry, warp-drive submarine. Matter, what was formerly water, caught in the compaction volume of the Alcubierre warp bubble could be crushed down to the point where the nuclei of the atoms themselves will disintegrate to radiation. Even if the compaction doesn't go that far, when it uncompacts that densified water will blast outwards. Which looks like an explosion. With or without the massive pulse of radiation if the compaction goes too far. In the expansion phase of warp-bubble, matter, once again the seawater, will be rapidly expanding outwards. This also looks like an explosion. When the expansion collapses back to normally dimensioned spacetime this could look like an implosion. In summary, don't try this at home. Don't try this on your home-planet. Not in anyone's ocean, unless you want to do their real estate a lot of harm. This is not taking into account the high probability of destroying your warp-powered submarine. The take-home message is stick to driving your warp-drives in space. 

The fastest way to make money for a robot with a supercomputer brain will be to hack the systems of the companies involved in running tax havens. These companies are intended to make money disappear from the taxation jurisdictions where it was originally earned. Once it has enough control of those finance systems the robot can make the money disappear into accounts of its own. It will have set up those accounts in advance. Sensibly this money will be banked in as many parts of the planet as possible. For a little color and excitement the robot could infiltrate drug rings and work its way up the criminal hierarchy. Then simply steal some of the large amounts of cash that drug dealers have a bad habit of leaving lying around. (Yep that's absolutely true too.) If the robot could gain access to the Mister Big's of any drug rings it should be easy for it to either blackmail them or hack their bank accounts to make off with their ill-gotten gains. 

"How could one scientifically explain a being with the ability to phase their body through solid matter, while still keeping the shape of their body from deforming?" The being in question would need to possess the ability to convert their matter into mirror matter during their passage through solid matter. 

Your proposal is based on an intuitive conceptualization. Basically it won't work. Any object with sufficient gravitation to pull a planet's atmosphere away, will be powerful enough to pull the planet out of its orbit. Also, it is unlikely to require a single pass to strip the atmosphere. That would require an extremely massive object, possibly with a mass the order of a planet, and that would undoubtedly deflect Venus from its orbit. To make something like this to even approximately work you would need two equally massive objects to counteract each other's gravitational deflection. of course, that might counteract their ability to remove the Venusian atmosphere. The simple answer is using dense objects to strip the atmosphere of Venus won't work by gravitation alone. There are simply too many problems. Simple stuff like how do make hyperdense objects with great mass move and move in the right way to remove an atmosphere (even if that was possible). Lifting the mass of an extremely dense atmosphere out of its planet's gravitational well requires colossal amounts of energy. So does moving dense objects. So it's back to the drawing board and devise another way of removing the atmosphere of the plant Venus. 

This is so simple that this answer will probably end up on the low content and length queue. They would use seismophones, seismometers and seismographs to detect the underground activity of other bunkers. It would be easy to build a seismometric communications. Any heavy machine banging away at a large piece of rock or metal with a hammer or stamping tool, could send vibrations through the Earth's crust. Then it's only a matter of digging in the right direction. Eventually a system of tunnels will connect the bunkers together. 

Source: Geophysical survey Many of these instruments and techniques could reveal a deep subterranean structure depending on the nature and construction of the megastructure. For example, because of its depth the world-girdling tunnels would need to be made of extremely strong and, possibly, dense materials. Gravimetric surveys might detect its presence. Magnetomtric surveys would the same if its construction material(s) were highly magnetic. Remote sensing imagery could show a continuous band of disturbance or its remnants if earth rock and soil had to be displaced for the megastructure's construction and installation. Building something on this scale at a depth of kilometres will leave its mark on the planet. Remote sensing, orbital and aerial imaging are excellent at uncovering changes to the surface and subsurface of planetary terrain. Changes or structures that wouldn't be apparent if you were standing in those places yourself. The ring megastructure is likely to be detected by variations in mass distribution using geodetic remote sensing. 

Later formulations of his concept of the mind-brain problem and its role in consciousness embraced ideas from, naturally enough, quantum mechanics. This can be seen clearly in the following work published in 1994. 

The elves' insect weapon force is an absolute Armageddon weapon. The humans don't need to do anything. If the elves unleash their doomsday diptera (an insect type chosen for their alliteration), both humans and elves will die in cataclysm of radiation. The Armageddon insects will end all life on this alternate Earth. Call their bluff! If that doesn't deter the elves and their inter-universe insects, then humans can build an aerial of automated drones, controlled by an on-board AI, armed with insecticide aerosol spray guns and flyswatters held in robot arms. 

Soils everywhere on Earth are more acidic. Any bone matter will dissolve. No fossils of any kind. Without a fossil record it will harder to infer that there had been unknown lifeforms that preceded contemporary biota. With the possible exception of plant fossils and impressions of invertebrates in strata. However, the fossil impressions are less likely to discovered in the first instance because no-one is looking for normal fossils. 

There are certain disasters are already predictable. Global warming (climatology), an unsustainable world population (demography, agriculture, geography, and economics), nuclear warfare leading catastrophic nuclear winter (military technology and planetary science), and the next global financial crisis (economics and the US legislature repealing the laws intended to prevent a repeat of the last global financial crisis of 2008 and onwards). Our species has the knowledge and the intellectual disciplines to know they can occur. An incoming asteroid or comet is predictable. Amateur astronomers could find them. This might qualify for an accidental discovery leading to the prediction of an apocalypse. The nearest star capable of becoming a supernova is too far away to harm life on Earth. Also, it is not likely to explode for the next couple of million years or so. This answer will suggest that the ultimate apocalypse might be discovered both scientifically and accidentally and years before it happens too. This is, of course, the end of the universe. Our universe exists in a state of what is called the false vacuum. 

This scheme is likely to fail, because it fails to take into account human nature and the mechanics of social change. These gold coin talismans are reminiscent of A E Van Vogt's The Weapon Shops of Isher where citizens can buy weapons that can only used for defence against imperial power. Apart from protecting talisman owners and keeping track of the coins if they're stolen, it's hard to see how effective they would be in transforming a society from apocalyptic to something more civilized. Human nature being what it is, the challenge of people protected by a talisman will encourage the gangsters to try more and more ways to overcome the defences of the talismans and to take them off their owners. Old-fashioned phone booths were routinely robbed for their coins. Progressively increased theft-proof devices instead of inhibiting theft only increased the targeting of so-called thief-proof booths. If the posthumans possess utility fog capable of building shiny new cities, then that can be used to secretly rebuild and rehabilitate the poorer parts of the slums, making life better for the slum-dwellers. Their plumbing like water and sewerage, electricity, vehicles, and communications systems can be systematically and continually upgraded and maintained. The same utility fog can be used to undermine the gangsters and the outlaws. Their plumbing like water and sewerage, electricity, weapons, vehicles, and communications systems can be systematically and continually sabotaged. The talismans act are powerful surveillance devices. Nanotechnology can provide clouds of utility fog that might be used for defence. How the coins can have defensive mechanisms in and of themselves is puzzling, because it is hard to understand what weapons systems the talismans could be equipped with, and how they would carry them. If there are external weapons systems that can keep track of coin holders and can be deploy to protect them, that does make sense. Many social change movements work effectively be recruiting persons who are likely to act as agents of change. Give them training and skills so they can become effective political activists, public service personnel which includes everything from local government, fire and police services, and garbage collectors. Even the most lawless society still has something resembling the remnants of civil government and a police force, the posthuman missionaries recruit and support these services and personnel. This is ordinary social and political change, presumably this will aided and abetted by extremely advanced technology.