Arabic was the primary literary language in the Muslim world at the time. Partly it's because the early caliphate (the center of power) was Arab, but another reason was that Arabic was the only language in which the Quran was supposed to be read—unlike in Christianity where the Latin version of the Bible was also considered a valid Bible. Therefore, throughout the Islamic world, literate people learned to write and read Arabic, even after the central power of the caliphate waned. This made it an ideal literary language. You can also think of it like how writers today tend to publish papers in English even though it's not their first language. 

First of all, the treaty explicitly mentions "boundaries". It still mentions places like the "Kreis of Eupen" and "Kreis of Montjoie", but not in terms of A owns X and B owns Y, but just as reference points to determine exact borders. The borders with Poland (not pasted here, for brevity) are defined in an even more exact and detailed manner. 

Assuming we're not restricted to Christian rulers: Muhammad I (Ibn al-Ahmar), 1195-1273, the first Nasrid Sultan of Granada (part of modern-day Spain) lived ~78 years. Nominally he was an on-and-off vassal of Castile, but other than paying tribute he was de facto a sovereign monarch. During his lifetime, all other Muslim states in Spain got conquered by the Christian Kingdoms of Spain. Granada alone survived partly due to his maneuvering and playing his larger neighbors against each other. Interestingly, he was succeeded by his son Muhammad II (b.1235, r.1273-1302) who was also long-lived at 67 years (through obviously not contender for the longest-lived in Europe). The long reigns of these two Sultans laid the foundation of their dynasty. The small emirate would survive against all odds for several more centuries until 1492. Interestingly again, most of the following rulers had short reigns due to palace coups and dynastic infighting. 

A professor mentioned to me that one of the reason that conspiracy theories are popular in Iran (and Middle East in general) was that actual conspiracies involving Western powers against Muslim countries did happen. One such example was the 1953 Iranian coup d'état which overthrew and imprisoned Iran's elected Mosaddegh government. This effectively ended democracy in Iran and replaced it with a strong monarchical rule of Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. It was orchestrated and planned by the UK and the US. According to Wikipedia, only long after this did these countries' intelligence agencies formally acknowledge their roles. 

I think there are two main reasons: 1. Inertia Don't underestimate inertia, especially when you're talking about establishing a position with such a worldwide implication as the Caliph. For example, it's relatively a simple matter for a 19th-century Ottoman Sultan to say that he is the Caliph, given that for the previous hundreds of years all Ottoman Sultans are caliphs. Or, for As-Saffah, he could argued that he had conquered the Umayyads, who were previously the caliphs, so he should be caliph as well. Almost all universally accepted caliphs could claim some kind of continuity that made them the successor of the previous ones. In contrast, there hasn't really be a caliph since the abolition of the Ottoman caliphate. Someone wishing to claim to be caliph today will have much harder challenge to convince everyone else that he is the caliph. 2. Nationalism Since mid (or early?) 20th century, Muslims have become nation-states, with their own independence, government, head of state, constitution, etc. This wasn't the case during the old caliphates. A caliph is not only a spiritual leader but also the supreme political leader of the entire Muslim community. How would it work with nation states? Imagine you have a candidate for caliph, can you imagine that Muslim nations, such Morocco, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Indonesia would all be willing to amend their constitutions, cede their sovereignty, to declare allegiance to this caliph? Who would be eligible to be Caliph and how would he be elected? These questions are hard to answer today. As an additional note, since many readers here likely have Western or European background, let me ask you this question: Why hasn't been any Holy Roman Emperor since 1806? I think the answer would likely be similar. 

Planes were not as safe then as today, so it was common for people to cross the Atlantic using ship. (by JustAnotherDotNetDev) 

How did the US ensure that no infiltrators, saboteurs or other security threats blended in with this large number of refugees from a hostile country? How successful were they? 

I expect monarchs would have longer life expectancy, due to being wealthy and having better access to physicians, medicine, bodyguards, etc. By middle ages, I mean about around 500 AD to around 1500 AD. Independent or semi-independent monarch (e.g. vassals of the HRE) count, and I accept reasonable approximations and/or simplifying assumptions. 

The history is a bit sketchy about this period. The most well-known early source, Ibn Abd al-Hakam Conquest of Egypt and North Africa and Spain, was written in 870. Being written about two centuries after the conquest, he had to rely a lot on oral traditions. In addition, many early sources focused on highlighting the Muslim victories and had little information on the conquered population and how they were treated. That said, the Quran does prohibit forced conversions (Quran 2:256 explicitly says "There shall be no compulsion in religion"), and we do know that during the early Caliphates this prohibition was generally observed. That doesn't mean that the caliphates were fully tolerant by modern standard. Non-Muslim subjects were required to pay jizya, a special tax which also exempted them from military service. While jizya seems like a form of discrimination today, this served as an incentive for the rulers to keep the religious minorities thriving and not forcibly converted. This relative tolerance allowed indigenous non-Muslim minorities to exist today even in areas under millennia of Muslim rule, e.g. Egyptian Copts or Syriac Orthodox Church. While Christians remained in a significant number in Egypt, in the Maghreb (Western North Africa) the number is much smaller, and even that might have been partially introduced by colonial powers. C. J. Speel's 1960 paper The Disappearance of Christianity from North Africa in the Wake of the Rise of Islam, argued that this was due to the fact that the Maghrebi Christians were Arians. They didn't believe that Jesus was God and thus were theologically closer to Islam than the mainstream Christianity of the Byzantine Empire. Sources/further reading: 

This seems to be the aftermath of the Second Madagascar Expedition (1894-1895), a French conquest of the previously independent Madagascar. Interestingly, the execution seemed to be carried out openly, a depiction of it is published in French magazine, and under official orders. The victims were a prince and a minister of a previously sovereign country, and the crime was "resisting France's annexation". Did the French consider this execution legitimate? Were there laws against resisting France's conquest? How did the law get introduced and how were they applied? For example, France also conquered a lot of countries under Napoleon and it didn't execute their governments for resisting it. 

These definitions would later be expanded to cover more cases (e.g. Moros in the Philippines, or Indian "Moors" as called by the British, even any dark-skinned person in general). But for European context up to the medieval era, I believe the above definitions mostly suffice. To cover corner cases brought up in comments and other answers: 

Muslims made up an estimated 15%-30% of Africans enslaved in the United States before the civil war. Is there a general sense of how widely the fast of Ramadan was observed among them? There were obviously practical difficulties, for example fasting while carrying out forced physical work, or maybe interference from their American masters on the religious practice. 

The long border is due to the Burmese control of the Tenasserim Coast (also known as Tanintharyi), the region between the border and the Andaman Sea. The predecessors of both countries have fought numerous wars over the coast. If you look at the Wikipedia list of Burmese–Siamese wars, many of the wars had the conquest or defence of the coast as their main goal. The current border was the result of two wars at the late 18th century. The Burmese Konbaung dynasty captured the northern half of the territory in 1760 and then the rest in 1765-67. As you have guessed, the territory were contested in subsequent wars, but neither country managed to gain territory on this front. As Wikipedia puts it, 

Putting together an answer based on comments from several users, before this gets closed. Hoping it might be useful as quick reference of future readers. He was on the USS Augusta, which was occassionally used for transporting the President (both Roosevelt and Truman) during WW II. He was returning from the Postdam conference, which ended in August 2 in Postdam, Occupied Germany. (by KillingTime) From the US Navy page for USS Augusta: 

In 1923, Turkey and Greece exchanged parts of their population, by forcibly denaturalizing certain population and expelling them to the other country. Interestingly, the criteria of being exchanged was if they had the "wrong" religion, e.g. Muslim citizens of Greece and Orthodox Christian citizens of Turkey. Language and ethnicity have no effect, e.g. Turkish-speaking Orthodox were still to be expelled to Greece, similarly with Greek-speaking Muslims. Why was religion used as the basis of this population exchange? Especially, given that Turkey's Atatürk was known for his secularist views and attempts to reduce the influence of Islam. Why was it that he used Islam as a criteria for being Turkish in this exchange? 

I figured this medical school is the STOVIA, Dutch acronym for "school for the training of native physicians". I wonder about the statement on its being the only school of higher learning for Dutch East Indian (Indonesian) natives. How many universities (or equivalent) existed in the Dutch East Indies at the time of the novel (1901)? How available were they for the natives? And for extra context, I'd also appreciate if the answer covers where the racial/ethnic discrimination come from, was it from the Dutch government policy, or was it the private policies of private universities? In general how does the quality/quantity of these universities compare to those in the Netherlands itself? 

So, my answer to your question is that the concept of "borders" was not very important in Europe during the Middle Ages, so I doubt that there were practices of formally marking borders. 

What was the reason for these recurring split? From geopolitical point of view, this prevented consolidation of the realms in the fight against the Muslims, and caused infightings because the successors were prone to claim each other's thrones. 

This is more an economics question than a history one. The supply curve represents the relationship between supply and price, not the absolute value of supply. If more people sell their land because of the increased price, it doesn't mean that the relationship change. But if more people want to sell their land with the same price (e.g. when people become afraid that price will crash in the future), then you can say that the supply curve "shifts to the right". Illustration: see the curve below. There is more supply at B than A, but B and A are within the same curve. 

both occuring in the "plains of Bagrevand", but it did not name the modern day location of these battles. "Bagrevand" itself has a Wikipedia entry, but it is only described as "a region of the old kingdom Greater Armenia" without mentioning any specific location. Where approximately is the historical plains of Bagrevand? 

I would argue that the modern idea of defining a countries as a contiguous territory with well-defined borders, was not dominant during the Middle Ages. Before the modern era, in Europe at least, a monarch's territory was more like a list of places, e.g. I own this county, that city, that village, and so on. We can corroborate by looking at recent treaties vs historical ones. Let's look at an example from the Peace of Westphalia (1648), this is even after what scholars considered the Middle ages. 

From the New York Times, August 7 1945. First Atomic Bomb Dropped on Japan; Missile Is Equal to 20,000 Tons of TNT; Truman Warns Foe of a 'Rain of Ruin' 

In 1963, Indonesia took control of Western New Guinea (formerly a Dutch colony whose status was separated from the rest of Indonesia/Dutch East Indies since 1949), and renamed it West Irian. One curious detail was that Indonesia issued a special currency, the West Irian Rupiah (WIR), which is exchangable 1:1 to the Netherlands New Guinean gulden, and is distinct from the standard Rupiah used in the rest of Indonesia. According to Wikipedia, only in 1971 was the Indonesian rupiah (IDR) introduced in the territory, used alongside the WIR until 1973 when the IDR becomes the only legal tender. The Wikipedia article says that the New Guinean gulden was a stronger currency than the IDR, and that the IDR was experiencing a high level of inflation. I guess this means the IDR was somewhat undesirable, but I still don't understand the logic of having a different currency in one part of your country, especially when it's a new region that you're trying to integrate. Wouldn't this be an obstacle for commerce with the new territory? If inflation is a concern, wouldn't the WIR still be susceptible to inflation? From the Indonesian point of view, what was the advantages of having the West Irian rupiah? How would things be much worse if Indonesian rupiah was used immediately? How about the negative effects from having separate currencies?