Superficially reading Piya Tan's translation difficult to narrow it down to one word hence giving a more detail quotation: 

Yes. Even in worldly affairs: - Mahā,nidāna Sutta Also the 12 link generic version of Dependent Arising: 

Extreme states are associated with extreme feeling. E.g. you feel extremely sleepy or restless. Be mindful of the feelings. If you want to learn / analyse how feelings are associated with the Hindrances in more detail, look at the Mental Factors corresponding to each Hindrance which is associated with each type of Mind State and the corresponding feeling of that Mind State. In short Ill Will be painful and the rest will be either neutral or pleasant but leave it upto the reader to figure this out exactly. 

Thinking as such is creates verbal fabrications. The objective is reduce fabrications. You should look as the sensations arising and passing without creating any craving and aversion. There can be no verbalisation, intellectualisation (thinking and pondering), visualisation, etc. 

In addition your breath becomes shallow and stops after a while as you go deeper into meditation. This happens when you calm the bodily fabrications (relaxing the bodily function) as the breath is the body conditioner. Relaxation of your breath through focus on the breath and breath alone relaxes your body and vice versa. The way to calm the body is to look at all bodily sensation scanning from head to the toes and back again with no reaction to the sensations. This progressively changes the sensation until you get Piti followed by Passadhi followed by Samadhi (The Upanisā Sutta, The Das’uttara Sutta, etc.). This also calms you breath. Physiological is that breath meditation: 

From what I have gathered from Zen Sickness this is fatigue due to excessive striving and beyond what the body can bear. Also possible that this is linked to insight knowledges. 

Disenchantment with the practice may arise when your spiritual practice does not go the way you want because you have built up expectations, which also hinders progress. Related to this, the unpleasant feeling of renunciation, is also touched in Sal,āyatana Vibhanga Sutta. Since you are doing this on your own perhaps you might have missed some aspect of the theory or practice. In addition if you are craving for results or doing meditation for the sake of result then the results become elusive. This may intern lead to spiritual doubt which is a hindrance. You could also be trying too hard. Also may not be balancing the seven sets / 37 factors of enlightenment properly. Also the unpleasant feeling generated due to this have a multiplicative effect. Developing equanimity towards it lessens the burden and pain. Some essential key point about the practice, through in a different context, can be found in this answer and my other answers. As long as you are doing a suitable practice and also doing it properly, do not worry about it results, as they will come in due time. Perhaps it might be a good idea to do a retreat to learn the technique properly. You can try finding a place near you: 

Source: The Path of Awakening The way, the life and the liberation of the noble eightfold path by Piya Tan 

If you have intention to deceive, you know what you are going to say is false and then say it then it is lying. In a job interview you might be asked questions you are not very sure about. Making an intelligent guess in those instances in fine. Not attempting may look negative or as a lack of confidence. Also interviewer will not expect you to know everything but an attempt will be appreciated. Much like in an exam. Lying about your experience may not be fine. Also spin doctering / white lies with a intention to deceive is not fine. Otherwise putting a positive spin is fine. Facing an interview is an art in itself which you can master without breaking your ethics and morality. 

Space (Akasa Pannattis) and time (Kala Pannattis) are a conceptual or perception based construct (Pannattis). Many of the population can perceive in 3D: Stereopsis. There are some who cannot perceive in 3D: Stereoblindness. So the dimensionality differs from person to person or how you perceive it. Buddhism looks at the world through the experience of a being than a generalised truth independent of a observer and his experience of it. See: Time and space: The Abhidhamma perspective, Professor K. N. Jayatilleke Memorial Lecture 2003 by Y. Karunadasa.. Also The Dhamma Theory by Y. Karunadasa which discusses Pannattis. 

For certain individuals they may be alert more in the morning and others during the night. Even for the same individual this may change from period to period. So it is vise to divide the session into two parts. Also more defilements gather when there are longer gaps. So 1 hour in the morning and one in the evening / night is the minimum. 

The method to do this is as described in Avijja Pahana Sutta 2 and Pahāna Sutta, whereby cut the source of attachments, through being aware of arising and passing of the sensations in what is felt. 

A full description and meaning of that Samma Ditthi in the Ariya-Ashtanga Marga is given in the Samma,ditthi Sutta. Giving a full description of this here will be too long for this format. The morality aspect of the path is mainly based on abstaining from certain unwholesome conduct. Right Effort is more in lines of developing wholesome mental habits which subdue the 5 hindrances, development of the Seven Factors of Enlightenment. 

Buddhism is a definite, and it is the same Dhamma preached by all Buddhas. Popular science is always changing with new theory replacing old ones. But having said this some similar theories have emerged: 

By taking refuge you are aspiring to build the qualities of the Buddha, Dhamma and Sangha in your self than any ceremonial right or ritual. There are virtues can also be further used as a form of recollection meditation to gain inspiration from the qualities and develop them within oneself: 

Disenchantment with the world of 5 argerates is a good sign and can be a inspiration for spiritual practice to get out of the unsatisfactory situation. You have to also reinforce the disenchantment you have realised intellectually through meditation, but in this case towards the 5 aggregates, not with the teaching as this can easily due to doing the wrong technique or not doing it properly. How to develop disenchantment towards the 5 aggregates through cultivation can be found in: 

Any external object brings pleasurable, painful and neutral sensations1. It is these sensations you have to let go there by letting go of the external object thereby letting go of the roots which create this attachments2. Say you are still reacting to external sensations by you have let gone of external objects your mind still can crave for them. 

It is our Perception of the Sensation / Feeling experienced when result bears fruit is what distinguished the Karma as bad and not. I.e., Bad Karma is what you Perceive the results as undesirable and Good Karma is what we would perceive the results as favourable when the doer experiences the result, as well as skill full when this is conducive to reach the Buddhist Goal of Nirvana and un skilful when it is un conducive in reaching the final goal. Say you kill you will experience the same when your actions catcher upto you. Hence what is needed is to treat other like you would be treated, or treatments you would evaluate positively if you experience it. Also there is skilfulness of your action towards the goal of liberation. In this light any action which creates fabrication which hamper concentration and insight or the opportunity to practice can be considered unwholesome. Killing has aversion and / or craving as base. This creates fabrication which give painful sensation when meditating which will hamper concentration, insight as well as the needed longevity and conducive human birth to practice Vipassana hence such actions are un skilful. For a worldly person (or someone not very deep and intensive in Vipassana) it is helpful to build-up Perception (Sanna) what these are good action and bad action so he is steered away from un skilful / un wholesome action towards skilful / wholesome action. As Perception clouds your sense of reality such mental maps ultimately have to be dissolved away too. 

This is though the pratice of Vipassana. You have to be mindful of arising and passing of sensation pertaining to: 

You cannot transfer merit from man to man but others can have appreciative joy at some good deed you have done and also make merit. You can transfer merit to certain type of beings on sensing this develops appreciative joy for the deeds you have done and gain the merit. Tiro,kudda Sutta: The Outside-the-Wall Discourse covers some interesting point on merit transfer. (In section 4) 

Craving, attachment in the present lead to becoming and fabrication due to ignorance. Ignorance is included and if it is not present there is no craving and clinging to feelings hence no fabrication. What is subjected to birth decay and death (in the future) is a being composed of the 5 aggregates due to fabrication and ignorance in the present. Craving, clinging in the past due to ignorance hence leading to becoming and fabrication creates the rebirth, mind and matter, 6 sense bases, contact and feeling in the present. 

If I am to add to the existing answers, it is like a singularity where all conventional laws break down. So what happens beyond on in this state cannot be communicated through conventional wisdom or language. Nirvana is the experience beyond the singularity. Once you experience it you have experienced it. You cannot unexperience it. Say you have gone and see Rome. This is a fact. Is it possible to turn back time so you have not seen Rome. Not possible. Likewise once you have seen what is beyond the singularity you cannot be made to be brought to the state where you have not seen it. Also you experience Nirvana when you are in Pala Samapathi. When you come out of it you don't experience it but the fact you have seen it will not change. Since you know how you got there you can get to it when you want. This experience has a lasting impression / imprint on you. So your ways will change once you come out of the Samapathi. To further elaborate. The lasting impression is like once your where in Rome had a life changing experience. This sticks. 

Sometimes when you are doing Asubha meditation you might get averse to the thoughts about Suba. There was a situation when some monks committed suicide because they got averse to their bodies as dirty. Here the mind's tendency to be attached to one's body turned drastically and became averse. The objective of Asuba is to develop a balance of the mind. When you encounter an object and get the sensation pleasantness and you perceive it as Suba your should contemplate it as Asuba. When you encounter and object and perceive it as Asuba you should contemplate it as Suba. This is like dampen the swinging pendulum, where you bring your mind to the neutral position quickly. [Indriya Bhāvanā Sutta] Ultimately the objective of doing Asubha is not replacing one extremity with another but bring your mind to equanimity sooner. Vitakka Saṇṭhāna Sutta also may be helpful in removing distracting thoughts. 

The latter is what relates to jāti. Past Fabrication due to Ignorance from the previous life creates a new body with sense faculties with associated consciousness to experience the world leading to jāti. 

Any meditation technique will not have the same effect on two individuals. Each individuals is sum total your previous Fabrications and our past habits. Also our temperaments are different. Say we have been practicing a certain meditation in your past lives also. In this life also it does become very easy to pick up. Also our temperament can decide on which meditation subject can work. E.g. in traditional Theravada Buddhism there 40 Kammaṭṭhāna which are segregated by temperament as each is designed to counteract a particular type of polarity of the individual's temperament. If you give a wrongly matched subject the effects will not be the same. Also the our past fabrication set us apart. Two people with the same temperament and very close habits can have two different experiences due to our past karmic buildup. Even for a single individual two different session the experience will be different since the effective karma as well as the sub total of karma from the previous session has changed. Many meditation centres you are not allowed to discuss experiences with other than the teacher as others will crave and what experiences others are having. So the following comparisons are futile: 

Another way to look at this is in the process of doing Karma you create a cluster of Kalapas. This arise and pass giving arise to other Kalapas. When one Kalapa passes it creates a new one which is progressively less potent. Look at this as a Discrete-time Markov process. Karma is a memoryless process (hence no keeper). You have hidden states not observable over a threshold (based on strength of awareness). There are external perturbation (result of past Karma, hence contact with the taste pertaining to the state) based on the potent of the hidden states to which you react and cause them to (state based on response to stimuli) multiply the hidden states. Each state has a stopping time when they decay away without result. 

Karma in giving is the product of the state of the mind of the giver and the recipients. If we give something in earnest and the recipient is not then the merit is diminished similarly when we do not have a strong volition but the recipient is overjoyed. The most merit results when the giver has strong volition and the recipient also has great appreciation. Also pure and focused the mind greater the volition and appreciation. So people in need getting something they need is means the recipient will appreciate it more and would result in better results. Rich or poor you should help at the hour of need. Also helping people with pure mind like meditators will give better results. The Buddha spent was amount of time to set establish the Sasana so anything inline with the Buddhas efforts and will brings great merit hence that is why donation to the Sangha is more meritorious than the personal donation to a Buddha.