First off, if you work in the United States, you are protected by the laws against workplace sexual harassment. You don't have to be targeted by the harassment. You don't have to feel discriminated against. All you have to feel is uncomfortable, which you obviously do if this behavior is leading you to look for other employment. The banter creates a "hostile work environment", in violation of U.S. labor law. You don't even have to mention the new co-worker trying to fit in; this behavior has affected you personally. This sounds like an extremely small company, if the owner of the company regularly mingles with the people he pays on a personal level. So, I'm going to assume there isn't an HR department to take your concerns to. You do still have a boss, even if that guy is the owner of the company that's joining in. Make your position clear; the humor is uncomfortable and (if you want to mention you're leaving because of it) that it has influenced your decision to seek other work. Your boss is required by law to do something about it once you have reported it. If your boss doesn't act, he and his company are liable for any damages caused by this behavior (to you or others; this includes the cost of finding a new job, compensation for any pay cut you may have taken to get the hell out, lost wages between the end of your current job and the start of your new one, increased travel costs for a longer commute, etc). Take your case to the EEOC; put the company on record as having a history of discriminatory behavior. You may not stay with the company (and thus be suffering damages) long enough for the case to be settled, but you start a paper trail that will stay with the company as long as it exists; if this behavior is repeated and another report is filed, the EEOC will see very quickly that these aren't isolated incidents and will put the company under a microscope. 

After some hours, still got no response so I reached out to him over Skype and we finally talked about it. Basically the gist was: 

I feel that this is unfair because MM assigns me tasks but doesn't want to develop me and give me an appraisal (as stated in the 1st and 2nd Link earlier). And its been many months since the "transition", but this is still the case. How can I assert to both RV and MM that I should only report to one Manager, and that there should be a clear protocol on task assignment? Just some notes to consider: 

I've even given him demonstrations and suggestions on how best practices will positively impact our work but he turns a blind eye on it. What's the best way or are there other ways I can convince him to adhere to Standard Practices not to violate IT policies? 

And many more other reasons. Fortunately, as noted in the 2nd link above, I will be transferred to a new Organization, which means I will effectively be under a new Manager ("RV"). I expected that normal protocol would dictate that MM would consult RV first before delegating any task to me, however, MM still directly assigns tasks to me. I talked about this to "RV", and RV recommneded that I oblige MM's requests for the time being since they were still "in transision". RV and I both agreed that I just include in emails and calls so she's aware. However, One time, MM suddenly called over Skype, asking me to take on an impromptu, urgent project. Before responding, I told MM that I will just pull RV into the call, but he said: 

Honestly, if whoever or whatever is sending the replies isn't bothering to take the time to actually read them and craft a meaningful response, I would decline and move on. How do you know this auto-reply HR isn't the kind of thing you'll have to deal with if/when you get hired? 

Nope, because the bonus due is due after you leave. The bonus is, among other things, an incentive to keep you around. If they payed out pro rata whenever someone left, they'd lose that incentive. In my line of work (software development), bonuses are sometimes offered as an incentive to get the project done on time. The bonus is thus conditional on two things; first, that the project is completed by deadline (completed having the meaning of "the client agrees that development is complete"), and second, that you are still employed as of when they pay the bonus. 

How you can improve the situation depends on your role in the team. Is this your team, as in you're a team lead or manager? Or are you "just" a team member who, in the eyes of those who didn't get selected, just got lucky? Are all of these people newly hired, or was the team formed by internal restructuring? Some of your coworkers may have a legitimate gripe based on seniority, if they've been at the company for 10 years and got passed over in favor of someone relatively wet behind the ears. If everyone was hired at roughly the same time, but someone might have more industry experience than someone who's going, they again might resent this opportunity being given to a relative newbie in the rat race. On the other hand, that may be exactly why these people were chosen for this "training"; they need it more. They're less knowledgeable, less well-connected to their peers, and so would get more than a free trip out of this opportunity. If you don't have disciplinary authority over your coworkers, then this isn't your problem and doesn't require your efforts to improve it. You owe your coworkers nothing but the effort towards the team and its goals for which you are compensated with your salary, and anything you try to give them as a consolation will either be viewed as woefully inadequate compared to a free trip out of the country, or it will enable them; they'll expect these "kickbacks" any time a benefit is given to you (even if it's more fairly distributed). You certainly won't repair any honest friendships (and any honest friendships would survive something like this anyway). If you have the authority to hire/fire, or at least issue directives that the team must follow, then this is your problem. You are being accused of favoritism (even if it wasn't your decision, as their "boss" you're the most visible proxy of the higher-ups who did), and even if any decision that could have been made would be no more or less fair than this one, the point remains that it's a benefit seen to be unevenly applied across the team. How you can correct this imbalance depends on your resources and those of your company. If you're in the U.S., it's baseball season; does your company have access to a box at the local field, to which you could give out some free tickets to a game? Is there a trade convention scheduled a little closer to home (or maybe further, like Vegas) in the near future that some of the members who missed out this time could attend? At the very least, maybe there's some "manager-approved time off" in order, for which you'd look the other way if it didn't make it into their pay period reporting. Now, I'm not advocating maliciously breaking any company rules, or acting in open defiance of any decision made by a higher-up, but if you have the responsibility for smoothing this over, then by the same token you generally have the authority to make the rules, at least as far as they apply to your team. 

P.S. I also sent this discussion over an email as to have documentation. It seems to me my manager doesn't have any plans to develop my skills and only provided open-ended possibilities and has no formal plans for me. I already sent him a list of formal trainings months back but he keeps on saying he's going to check with Management/HR. What can I possibly do to get an appraisal or get support for a formal training? Some context, my manager shares the same characteristics as the manager in this Question (How to proceed when remote boss doesn't answer emails?), Among others. 

I'm working as an offshore Senior ERP Developer with a BPO Company and have a Onshore Manager ("MM"). I have some issues working with MM, and to name a few examples: 

I felt that I wasn't growing both professionally and technically and that my manager didn't have plans of developing me: (Manager does not develop employees). I had not gotten an appraisal for the year that has passed, and didn't get an endorsement to my new Manager and Director: (My former Manager Isn't giving an Endorsement to my new Manager). And even though I am under a new Manager, my old Manager kept assigning me tasks: (Former Manager still giving me tasks). 

It totally depends on the company. Most "on-call" work isn't really "work"; you just get the beeper that the shift workers will page when there's a problem requiring a solution more technical than "reboot the machine and see if that fixes it". If this "on-call" position actually requires you to be on-premises during the on-call time, whether there's a problem or not, then you should be paid for it; it's time away from your wife and kids. If the "on-call" work de facto requires you to be in the office all night, there's a serious problem with your infrastructure and you should spend daylight hours working to fix the problems that are keeping you up on your on-call nights. At my company, there are a few individuals in various departments who are the "go-tos", day or night, for problems of various types (technical, interpersonal, business, etc). They are recognized by management and compensated for their expertise and work ethic accordingly, even though our business and its systems are, for the most part, pretty well-oiled and don't require a lot of technical intervention. Sounds like your boss may be trying to do an end-run around having to recognize anyone in particular for extra effort by spreading it out among the technical staff; if everyone has to do it, it's nothing special so nobody gets kudos for it. Understand that if this is the motive, the move, from a managerial perspective, is a stroke of genius; If on-call work is really a serious commitment worthy of more pay, then you're not doing the job properly during your daylight hours. If you are the only one coming to the boss asking for more money because of this new on-call rotation, then you stick out; everyone else is taking it in stride, so your concerns look minor. And even if the entire technical staff comes into the boss's office at once voicing concerns, someone's gotta be on call; this is the "fair and equitable" method. If everyone wants more money, it's harder to fire all of you or stand by while you all quit if he can't or won't agree, though I would be extremely surprised if that happened over just this one thing; your job would have to be a pretty serious hellhole long before this came up. 

Is it ethical to delay a promised promotion? Shouldn't I get retro-actively paid the salary increase since the delay was just complications in the process? What can I do to assert that they should make good on their promised promotion? 

I'm working as an offshore Senior ERP Developer with a BPO Company for over a year and I feel that I've been doing a good job, since I've always delivered my tasks on time and gotten a lot of praises for my work (with some coming from our Vice President), and always extended hours. However, I was unhappy because of a multitude of reasons. To cite some examples: 

I'm working as an offshore Senior ERP Developer with a BPO Company for over a year now and my Manager and peers are working in the United States. I've been successfully been taking on large projects and, in my opinion, I was able to do a lot for the company in a year From my past working experience, there has always been an annual performance appraisal and I wanted to know how I am doing as an Employee. (Please note that the company didn't provide me with an Orientation). And based on our ERP system (which i have access to), i am scheduled to have an appraisal. With that, I reached out to my Manager via Email (Titled "Career Progression for ____ " and asked: