There are few objects that might have even higher redshift. Googling I've found three accepted papers: 

To conclude: to observe Pluto or Ceres with high enough accuracy you would need a large number of large space telescopes very far away one from the other with perfect telemetry. It's far easier and cheaper to got there to take pictures. 

find it and try to get a first guess about the position and velocity (this requires multiple observations far enough in time to be able to measure an angular movement) plug the position and velocity info (and likely their errors) into a computer simulation that simulate the solar system dynamics. Fast forward the simulation to predict the future orbit. observe again the asteroid and compare its position with the simulation. Re-estimate position and velocity. Go to point 2. 

As the orbit can change significantly a continuous interplay between 2. and 3. is necessary. Once you have an orbit you can estimate the probability for the asteroid to pass near enough to the Moon or Earth to be deflected and hit us. But thankfully the solar system is huge, we are tiny and moving between the much much larger Sun and Jupiter :D 

You just have to know the orbit. But the orbit of asteroids is very complicated to predict, because they are influenced, sometimes dramatically, by the planets and by smaller bodies, like other asteroids, that we might not be able to see. On top of this we cannot measure directly the orbital speed of an asteroid. We can only observe changes in the angular position. If we know the distance (which might not be easily measurable) we can at least put a lower limit to the speed. The basic steps to study the orbit of an asteroids are: 

In watching this Hubble video on Omega Centari it got me thinking about how dense a galaxy can get. Do we know how dense a galaxy can get? Are there any good resources on reading more about very dense galaxies? 

When black holes are merging, and emitting gravitational waves, are we seeing those waves start when the event horizons are merging, or when the singularities are merging? 

Theoretical Planet Nine, proposed by Caltech's Mike Brown and Konstantin Batygin, is said to have a 15-20 thousand year orbit. Approximately how bright would the sun appear from Planet Nine aphelion and perihelion? 

Are black holes expected to contain the same ratio of dark matter to regular matter as the rest of the universe? I've heard that dark matter is distributed in halos around galaxies. Does that make it less likely to be ingested into a black hole? 

How big are the chunks of rock ice that make up Saturn's rings? Are there many objects larger than pebble size? 

How long would the orbital period be for an object the mass of the moon orbiting the sun at 1 light year in a circular orbit? 

Could you use gravitational waves to communicate from inside the event horizon of a black hole to someone who was outside? 

Caltech just released a report that says there is possibly a large (10 earth mass) planet in a remote orbit (10 - 20 thousand year) that explains a lot of observations of Kuiper Belt objects. How long could it take for this to be confirmed or refuted observationally? See this video 

The absolute limit of a telescope resolution is given by diffraction. No matter how perfectly built and aligned is a telescope, you cannot resolve angles smaller than $$\theta \propto \frac{\lambda}{D}$$ where $\lambda$ is the wavelength of interest and $D$ is the diameter of the telescope. This is why a number of millimeters and radio telescope (and also some -antennas) are huge. The first figure here shows the basic principle. Imagine that you can divide what you observe in tiny squares and consider each one as a point like source. Each one will generate a diffraction pattern when passing into the telescope and if two points are too near, you cannot distinguish between them. Wisely you put your telescope in space: turbulence in the atmosphere degrade the signal, and the best/biggest telescopes have hard times to go below $0.5 arc seconds$ Interferometry comes to the rescue increasing $D$ from the telescope size to the distance of two (or more) telescopes (called baseline). Interferometry has been used in radio astronomy since decades. From what I hear optical interferometry is much much more complicated and as far as I know the only large scale attempt is the VLTI project. So you could imagine to have a constellation of relatively small telescopes spread over hundred thousands or millions of kilometers. But this have the huge problem that you have to know the position and timing of every one of them with an impressive precision (my guess is that the precision in position is of the order of $\lambda$). 

There are also few gamma ray burst associated with objects at large redshift. This database containts: