The "fat burning zone" is a badly misinterpreted piece of information that has somehow become written in stone among exercisers. Your body burns fat at all times during exercise, the proportion of fat to other energy sources just varies according to how intense the workout is. Additionally, while you may exercise longer at a lower intensity, the total calorie expenditure may be less than a shorter, more intense workout. Heart rate is also somewhat unreliable as a metric to base a workout on, because there are many factors that can raise or lower the heart rate that are completely unrelated to the exercise you are doing. Dehydration and caffeine are two things that can raise the heart rate. Also, most of the "zone" charts that you see plastered on walls at health clubs are based on the atrocious concept of "220-age" being a maximum heart rate. This is one of the worst myths in health and exercise. So as an example, say you walk on a treadmill at a heart rate of 130, and normally this a 4 mph pace. Today you are dehydrated and you drank a cup of coffee to wake up, and now the same 4 mph pace you have a heart rate of 150. You aren't working any harder or burning any more calories, but suddenly you're out of that "Fat burning zone". 

You don't want to be staring down at your feet. Like mountain biking or other high speed pursuits, you want to be looking a few feet ahead so that you know what is coming for footing. So, you want a light that can shine out ahead of you as well as down, and provides enough light to illuminate the path ahead. My personal favorite combination (which is also mandatory for Ragnar events, which are 24 hour relay running event is as follows: 

Well, you've kind of asked the million dollar question, as there haven't been any really definitive studies (That I am aware of) specifying exactly how much protein is needed for training, and especially when related to fat loss, as that can be highly individual specific. This study examined nitrogen balance and lean body mass preservation related to protein intake, and found that when not training, bodybuilders needed little more than sedentary to maintain mass, while protein needs did increase during training, and endurance athletes needed more than bodybuilders, being 1.12 x sedentary control levels for bodybuilders, and 1.67 x sedentary control for endurance training. (They do not note sedentary levels in the summary). An article in JAMA talks about the protein needs from the RDA perspective, which does not include training needs, concluded .8g per kilogram for adults older than 18. This somewhat fails, however, in that it doesn't consider females vs. males, and elderly and/or middle aged. They do note, however, that there is no upper limit for protein intake (i.e. more won't necessarily hurt you), so if you take their .8g/kg rate, and multiply that by the 1.12, you come out just shy of .9g/kg. So 1g/kg should easily put you in the ballpark, and you could consume a little more without repercussion. This article (Sorry, but it is behind a paywall) discusses metabolic needs of athletes, and suggests that a diet that is at 30-35% of calories from protein (compared to the general recommendation of 15%) should be sufficient. (It also suggests greater fat loss and a couple of other effects, but again, many of these are not yet proven.) tl;dr There is some evidence to suggest that 1.0g/kg is a good target, and more than that probably won't hurt in any way, with addition of endurance exercise or very intense activity increasing the need for protein. 

That is actually more mileage than your current week of 16 miles. Put rest days in between each of your run days. On the * day, make that a harder, faster run. On the ** distance day, make sure that about 5-10 minutes of the run are 30 seconds at race pace, 30 seconds recovery, or 1 min race pace, 1 min recovery. Week 2 

This weekend I had a bad calf cramp in the last part of a combat stick sparring match (Calf cramped right as I pushed off for a strike, and then really locked up). Yesterday and today sore when walking at the push off of the stride. Gym today, and while the calf felt better, didn't want to risk either squats or the hip sled. So, I opted for leg extensions and curls. The extensions were fine, but when I was doing curls, I could feel the calf wanting to tense. I was using the curl machine where you are in a seated position, rather than one where you lay on your stomach. However, the curl should be a calf neutral exercise. I tried varying my foot position, concentrating on solely using the hamstrings, but unless I had the weight low enough where it was just an exercise in form, the calf rebelled. What form break am I missing that would cause the calf to be active in an exercise where (theoretically) it should be completely neutral? 

What's happening physiologically? Your muscles are constricted, and you are reducing blood flow and mobility in the wrapped area. My personal assessment is that it's a stupid idea, and it's another gimmick designed to fleece people of hard earned money. Now, that being said, there are some injuries that need bracing, and there may be a case made for stabilization of a joint, but in those cases I would seek medical advice and get a production brace made specifically for the condition you are trying to correct. Simply winding a large rubber band around an area may or may not help, and may actually hinder healing and support. 

At this point, recommending anything specific is just as likely to cause bad effects as it is good. By this I mean that you have no time to test during a race type workout that a drink with additives (Such as electrolytes, calories) won't give you an upset stomach or similar. By now you should have been on several training rides of at least the same distance as the race, so whatever you have been using during those rides is what you should use during the race. However, if you have only been using water during training rides, you may need some supplemental calories, as an Olympic distance race will likely take you 2.5 - 3 hours or more. I have had good success with Gu (100 calorie gel packs) and Clif Shot Bloks. However, if you have never eaten either of these, be warned that it may give you stomach upset. I usually chase the Gu with water as well, since for me it has a strong aftertaste. 

Your routine is fine for general weight loss and fitness, but I don't think (other than being able to complete the distance comfortably) that it is optimal for 5k training. I would recommend adding in a lot more running between now and then, being careful to not overdo the distance. Right now you are running 3 days a week, although you don't detail how much you run on those three days. I would start by adding in two more days of running, even if it is 10 minutes each of those days. Get to the point where you are consistently running 5-6 days a week, again, even if it is only 10-15 minutes on a couple of those days. (A 15 minute run makes a great circuit warmup). There are a couple things that will work in your favor. One is day in, day out consistency. The second is weight. Apocryphal lore is that you are 2-3 seconds faster per mile for every pound of weight you lose. My experience (with many years of running cross country and triathlons) is that I get about 3-4 seconds gain for every pound I lose. For the week or so before the race, I'd recommend light running, no more than 15ish minutes per session. You can add a few 30 second increased pace segments (Commonly called strides), but overall the week should just be a relaxer. The day of the race, get in 10 minutes or so of warmup as near to the start as you can (But don't miss the start, I've done that a couple times and it sucks). Ignore the field and just run your own pace. Once you are done with the race, then you can reassess your training regimen and set some new goals for yourself. 

If you have a higher set of parallettes, it will not increase the difficulty. A V sit done 12 inches off of the ground is not more difficult than one done 8 feet off the ground. What it does do is increase the safety factor, in that if you try to pull through from a V sit into a vertical handstand on the bars, if you fail or lose grip then you do not have very far to fall. However, you do need to consider the stability, so when you make them be sure not to cut the cross member "feet" too short. 

While I linked a couple of books for you in the comments, I think the best approach is going to be looking along the NSCA (National Strength and Conditioning Association) type of path, as they look at weight training not only as a stand alone activity, but as a key component of many different athletic training programs. You will need to have an understanding of the sport that you want to apply it to, and know how to break down the motions of each sport, and understand what types of weight room activity will support those motions. So unless you have a specific sport in mind and can look for a weight training book directed at that sport, you are probably going to want to look at books for either certification (NSCA, CSCS {Certified Strength/Conditioning Specialist}), or at kinesiology oriented textbooks (Which would also give you a lot of the physiology behind the exercises as well, which is never a bad thing). 

You should be aiming to hold a specific pace. It's not "impossible" to hold within a second or two for every lap, just about any decent college runner can run 4 laps and tell you his time (without a watch) within a couple seconds for each one. This is just pacing experience. For the intervals you describe, you want the entire effort to be as consistent as possible, the entire time. If you can easily make the pace at the first one as well as the last, then your target is a bit too easy. If you can't make any, it's a bit too hard. It will take time to get this pacing correct, but once you do you can easily adjust subsequent workouts. Eric refers to training with power, one of the seminal books on bike training (Training and Racing with a Powermeter) suggests that if you are doing intervals and your pace/power begins to drop, that you stop the intervals. Trying to complete the intervals at a lower level defeats the purpose of the workout, and that you are better served by redoing the workout at a later date at a more appropriate pace. Conversely, if you make all the intervals at the goal pace, then you should add intervals until you can't hold the pace and then the next time, adjust from the beginning. 

The problem with GPS and heart rate and all the data that the little gizmo's give you is that they are short term metrics, that are generally only applicable to that day and point in time. Yet everyone wants to use them to change the way they train tomorrow, and it doesn't work like that. Take your heart rate. Today you go out and you run a 6 mile out and back course, and it's windy and cold, and you end up with an average heart rate of 180. Four days after that, you run the exact same course, and it's windless with moderate temperatures, and your average heart rate is 165. Did you suddenly gain fitness in those four days? Data is data. It is best collected and averaged out over long periods of time (months to years), and instead of comparing one week to the next, you look for trends in whatever metrics you are tracking. So if you are looking at heart rate, you want to see a general trend lower over the same types of courses/conditions as you get fitter. Or, if your heart rate is staying the same, hopefully you are running it in a faster time. Conversely, if you track it and over the last 3-4 weeks you are noticing a rise in the heart rate, then you can look at factors that influence it. Have you been stressed, eating different, not sleeping, overtraining, etc. and correct it. The reason that I stated the only metric that matters is race times, is that you can train according to the numbers all you want, but if your race times are not improving, then either you have maxed out your abilities, or there is something else that you need to consider. FWIW, I track mileage and training times, and I track power with a powermeter on the bike, but I've never tracked heart rate at all. If they ever come out with a commercially viable powermeter for shoes (There are some attempts out there, but I'm not impressed yet) I'll be the first one in line, but HR (to me) just isn't a great metric, there's too much that influences it. However, other people swear by HR based training, so your mileage may vary on that one. 

Either one will suit. You won't be able to sustain the maximum wattage for more than a few minutes, and if you can, your wattage meter is lying to you. This is a link to an SRM (crank based power meter) power analysis from Mont Ventoux, one of the final stages of the Tour de France. The first part of the graph shows the "leadout" (Usually refers to the lead of a final sprint), which is where the domestiques (support riders) tried to crush it hard to eliminate anyone not ready for the climb. During this portion, they were averaging between 400-450 watts up a 6-7% grade, at about 30km per hour. The rest of the time they are around 350-375 watts. When sprinting, you can hit 1000-1500 watts (Or at least the top pro sprinters can), but these are short burst segments, sustained no longer than 30 seconds at the very most. Just as an n=1, I am usually right around an hour for the 40k, and I average 230ish watts, for about 3 w/kg. They average 5-6 w/kg. Your position on the bike and overall aerodynamics are going to matter much more than how much you can stomp on the pedals. 

Flexibility is training just like any other training. There is no gene for flexibility. And, just like any other training, it will follow the same sort of timeline as any other exercise regimen. Nobody can tell you with any certainty how you will respond to stretching, unfortunately. If you want to increase your flexibility, you need to be working all the major muscle groups in static stretches, each one held between 30-60 seconds for 2-4 reps. You want to do this when you are warmed up, typically you don't see as much gain and have a higher injury risk when aggressively doing static stretches on unwarmed muscles (And, there is some study evidence that static stretching before workouts negatively impacts strength/speed). Dynamic stretches are best before the workout. If you are a typical adult, you've spent 8-12 hours a day sitting ever since you were 6 (School then college, then work). Your body is used to that. When you can't stretch past a certain point, that's your body reacting to new motion by limiting the distance in an effort to protect yourself. That's what you need to overcome. Progress is going to be related to your background, much like any other exercise. If you were once flexible, you will return to it quicker. If you never were, it will take more time. General timeline (And your results may VERY much vary) will somewhat mimic working out for the first time, so you want to follow the same kind of adaptation routine as you did when you first started working out. Week 1 : Stretch 2-4 times per week, 20-30 mins per session. Don't push it too hard, and only 1 or 2 time reps per stretch. Expect resistance, discomfort, and possibly some DOMS (Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness). Weeks 2-4 : Stretching will become easier, you may notice some gains in distance. Keep the 2-4 times per week, you can gradually move up to 3, possibly 4 reps per stretch. Weeks 5+ : Add days. Ideally you should be stretching the major muscle groups 4+ times weekly, with 3-4 time reps per stretch. Once you get to wherever you are happy, you can drop the days to 3-4x per week, 2-3 time reps per group for maintenance. Depending on your goals, you can start looking at more advance/aggressive stretching techniques (Such as PNF stretching) after you've gotten accustomed to regular stretching on a regular basis. But, like anything else, if you don't keep to a regular routine you will lose the gains you made. And (to sound like a broken record) like working out, you will notice bigger gains in the beginning, and slower, more incremental changes as you go along.