How about a Figure 8 Bend? Easy to untie even under heavy load. We use them all the time in rock climbing. 

I have heard that you can use Wax to at least "fill" the gouges. Won't be as good as new, but will be a bit better. Remember, Nordic folks did just fine with no fishscales for, what? 100+ years? 

If a isobutane canister says 4 oz, does that mean it has 4oz of fuel or is that fuel+canister weight? And I assume that is 4oz of wheight, not volume, right? 

I am a side sleeper. I use a v2 Klymite pad but my hip still hurts during the night because there isn't enough vertical room. I'm considering: 

If you are starting facing the wall. Rotate your hips to the right so that your left hip is against the wall. Step up with your left foot. Put nearly all of your weight on that left foot. Keep your right arm straight so you weight is on you skeleton (pulling on right arm) Use your right foot to push against the wall to help your hips stay pivoted against the wall. All of you weight is now on left foot and right arm. You can use your right foot and waist to rotate your shoulders to the right which pivots your left (free) arm really high. See the photo. His weight is mostly on his left foot. 

use the backstep I don't know if that is the official name. It's what we called it. It's intuitive but it's incredibly effective to give you more reach. For supporting yourself on left foot and right hand: 

1 oz of isobutane will boil about 1.8 L (about .475 gallons) of water, for a Whisperliite Universal Stove 

I'm trying to figure out how many cannisters of isobutane to bring on a 5 day family backpacking trip. I figure we'll boil about 1.5 gallons of water per day (use this as a unit of measurement: gallon of water to boil). So, to simplify: Let's assume 8 oz of isobutane (or whatever unite you want to use) 

I tried pure gasoline (which is supports) and a lot of gas spilled out onto the stove and burned black, leaving soot all over it. Now the stove won't light. I'm not getting any fuel to the burner. I'm considering: 

I'm planning to use a butane "canister stove". The only canisters I can find locally are Butane/Propane mixes. My understanding is that Propane canisters are extra heavy b/c Propane is under higher pressure. Are Butane /Propane canisters heavier then other Butane mixes? 

How about if you hang the hammock so that there is 3' of space below it, then run a "clothesline" below it? then hang the boots and pack of the line. As long as they are below the hammock they shouldn't get wet. And I'd think it's fine to have the outside touching the ground. 

How can detect, in the outdoors with minimal equipment, if I am dehydrated or need electrolytes? Update Some background: I get overheated very easily, possibly because I don't sweat as much as most people around me (in the same conditions). When I get overheated I get migraines. I found that Hammer Strength Enduralytes (electrolytes*) really help with the Migraines. It'll basically keep a headache from turning into a migraine. I may just be overheating but I thought that perhaps I was low on electrolytes. 

First of all, in the Netherlands camping in the wild is prohibited, and they really don't like it. Now you're in need for some water, first the good news, tapwater in the netherlands is filtered and ready to drink but like you said, you won't find much public water because of the expenses that are needed to get the water to a fountain (you have no watertowers and the land is indeed very flat), so they'd need to put up pumps and everything. So i'd say the solution here is a large watersack to carry around. You'll have to get Drinkingwater from Restaurants, Bars, Cementerys (watch out, water in cementarys or the like shouldn't be drank because the water stands alot and this can make you sick), farmers etc. I always carry around 3litres of drinkingwater, and for showering and washing my clothes, i'd either use a river, lake etc. also you could need a douchebag, i got a 20l douchebag from ortlieb which, so far, never disappointed me. Just to stress it out a little bit more, if you get caught camping in the wild, the police can be a real hassle, and most likely they will. Better ask someone for permission to sleep on private property, and try not to sound German. 

Well first of all i have to speak up, if you're lacking the skill to get back into your canoe, you shouldn't be in it in the first place and the same goes to all your potential passengers. So as you correctly noted, most canoes float if they're filled with water. This will aid you when you're in a situation where you're in a open body of water and need to "let time pass" while waiting for your Rescue. But most likely you'll tip over because of the environment (pieces of wood in the river, unforeseen rough passages and so on). In cases in which you really can't get back into the Canoe, you should let it slide anyways (since the boat is probably not worth enough compared to your life). For all the other cases, there are floaters which help you to get back inside your boat. If you don't have floaters, a life vest or the necessary skillset to get into your Boat. You shouldn't be in said boat. Those are the Floaters - Paddlefloats 

Without those i wouldn't even consider going into the water, also it may be worth to get the skillset from either someone who can teach you or one of the many ressources you'll find on the Internet. So back to your original question: If getting back inside your canoe fails and there's nobody in sight you should try to reach land. In this case it's totally ok to slowly swim with your now immobile Canoe towards land or abandon it alltogether. 

I wouldn't keep clothes to wash in a drybag at all, it will smell worse than wearing those clothes. If you can't wash your clothes in one night, you'll probably be taking the wrong clothes with you. And all in all i'd take more smaller bags than one large one, because you can put them better in your backpack, and use the space given to you optimally. But really rather than keeping them in a backpack, put them in some cheap tights, because it probably won't matter if your dirty clothes get wet again, and it's able to breathe which means you won't get knocked out of the odour coming out from a drybag filled with dirty clothes 

I see no reason why not. I have no idea whether climbing is an optimal way to loose wight or not but an form or exercise which you enjoy and actually do is definitely better than one you don't. Equally what you don't want to do is try too hard and injure yourself. Having said that climbing a fairly easy route if probably a lot more fun than running a few km. You might even find that after a few months and losing a few pounds you have better technique than gym bunnies who just drag themselves up with their arms. 

The skin of snakes is covered with tough scales, similar to fingernails. On the upper surfaces of their bodies these tend to be approximately round or diamond shaped and on the underside are usually longer bands running across. These scales both provide protection from abrasion and can also help it to grip surfaces it is moving over. On some species the texture of the scales is very obvious eg the horned viper In general both top and bottom sides of a snake are well protected by scales but the bottom scales tend to be smoother and specifically adapted to give it traction for movement. This image of a cobra gives a good view of the belly scales and this one of a python 

An alternative you might want to consider is taking a model/diorama making kit. This is a technique widely used by the military, especially for infantry and SF platoon and section commanders. Although it is a bit of extra faff it makes explaining complex plans on real geography much much easier and is definitely worth the effort. The simplest method is just using improvised materials but a small kit can make the job much easier. In this particular case I would suggest. 

It is also a good idea to conduct a 'lost' drill early in the trip, it should be easy enough to make this a game. For anybody getting lost the biggest danger is panic so going through the emergency procedure in a fun way will greatly improve their confidence. Teach kids that if they realise they are lost they should stay put and shout out. I would also endorse the 'buddy' system from a previous answer, pair kids off and encourage them to look out for each other, emphasise that if they are worried about their buddy they should ask an adult for help. My own feeling is that giving kids a bit of agency in looking after themselves and each other is by far the best way both for them to get the most out of the experience and keep them safe. 

A lot of the cooling effect of sweat comes from evaporation so it is debatable whether wicking vs non wicking is better in hot dry conditions. Having said that in very hot and low humidity environments it may be a moot point. One area where it may make a difference is if you are wearing a large pack, in this case sweat can build up under the straps and back and the constant moisture and salt can cause skin abrasion. In this case a fast wicking fabric can be an advantage. My experience is that polycotton works well in these circumstances as it gives a good balance between comfort, breathability and wicking. Also don't discount wool, very lightweight merino fabrics can work very well in hot conditions as they have both absorbent and wicking properties. Another aspect to this is that in a desert environment direct sun is at least as much of a problem as ambient temperature so loose fitting very lightweight clothing may be the best option as the insulation provided by a large air space between your clothing and skin is most effective. Note that this is a different situation from cold weather insulation where you want to retain warm air in the space. So in some conditions it may be that a lightweight polycotton smock/shirt is better than a tight fitting wicking T shirt.