I would rather have the mechanic bend it back and offer a money back guarantee if its not perfect. Cheap and no risk to me as the customer. If you cannot (or are not prepared to) offer that guarantee, don't do it. Even if you are prepared to take the risk the customer comes back, the customer still has to come back, so won't be entirely happy with you. If you do what the customer asks, and it does not work, it costs the customer more. Even if he understands it was his choice and won't blame you in any way, how do you know this? How do you know the customer will not 'rant off' at you, or worse, your other customers about you, for doing a 'crap' job? Whats your situation with consumer protection law - will he come back at you and say the repair was not fit for purpose and demand his money back? If you stick to your guns, you might loose a job, but really, is it a job or customer you want to keep. 

My first though is the front wheel should go on the same each time - as you have experienced previously. There may be some variation, but there should not be enough to affect disk brakes significantly. As a result, I would suspect that the wheel is not seated correctly, despite your assurance it is. Remove it and install it again, before you clamp the QR wiggle the wheel a few times, clamp it, release it and wiggle again - all technique I am sure you know. The next most likely possibly is that brake was squeezed with the wheel off, and the pads are no longer sitting correctly. Remove the pads and reinstall them carefully -paying attention to correct alignment. If the caliper is out of alignment now, and previously it wasn't, it has moved. This should take considerable force - or if it's alignment changed with light force, it would change back when you applied the brakes. If you need to adjust caliper alignment, I would be seriously concerned as to why, and be looking for answers to that question before riding the bike. As far as caliper alignment - @jimirings gives an excellent answer, but it would not be my starting point for fixing this problem. 

In my view its unlikely the entire brake needs replacing, although if you have to pay someone for the time needed to resolve the problem, its entirely possible it will be the cheapest solution in the end. As already said in comments, the most likely cause is contamination of discs and pads with brake fluid. If the pads have been cleaned, the next step is to replace them and thoroughly clean the disk. Another possibility is the shop replaced the pads with new ones. In this case there are a couple of possibilities. It may be the new pads just need to be bedded in, and the problem will resolve itself with a half dozen high effort stops. You may also need to replace the pads on the other side with a matching set as different pad material have different characteristics. 

Where I live the employer would have an obligation under law to "Take all practical steps", however, one practical step for the employer is to remove the bike racks, as these are attracting the thieves, thus, the employer has addressed the issue. I do not think you want to go quoting various legislation at them. The better way is to sell the benefits of people biking (reduce number of car, healthier people- less time off work (careful here - accidents can count against you, happier more lively people - more productive when at work.). Sell the benefits of not have low life-cruising company car parks (it's not only cyclists who will get attacked) - they might take a liking to the bosses car.... When you say they refused - how and what did you ask for? Did you leave room to negotiate, to did you demand a they provide a solution to your problem? Was the refusal from one person (say a low level facilities manager), or from the Executive/Senior management team? A flat refusal with no good reason would seem unlikely to me. 

In your case I would go with tubes. The Tubeless evolution comes from the advantages you list and some disadvantages. The only one that is of interest to you is puncture resistance. By putting slime in tubes, you gain that without most of the the disadvantages of tubeless. As the slime dries is needs topping up, if using tubes and neglecting this maintenance won't induce a leak as can happen with tubeless. You will need to source tubes with removable cores in there valve. This not only allows you to insert the slime (without puncturing the tube), it allows you remove the vales when it gets gummed up by slime for cleaning or replacement. To be clear, the disadvantages of tubeless over slime filled tubes are small - initial seating of the tire and burping. You probably won't have a problem with burping as you won't be running low pressures over rough ground, so really once the tires are mounted, there is not all that much difference in it. 

I have never had a problem with Allan keys rounding. Using the correct size, using them correctly (Inserting them fully and not letting them slip out the bolt) and not using too much torque for the bolt size means even cheap Allan keys will last a lifetime. If the bolt head has rusted or has gunk in it, you sometimes cannot easily get the Allan key in all the way. I this case cleaning the hole is required. Abusing the bolt/allan key by only inserting it part way is the most likely cause of problems. Workshop quality tools will survive abuse such as this (although its more likely the bolt won't). If you are having problems rounding the Allan keys, workshop quality tools to likely just move this problem to the bolt, making it a much bigger problem. 

Last seasons models usually go for a big discount so its worth trying to find one, are you prepared to wait if needed. Consider the used bike market if you know what you are looking at, or have a mate that can help out. Even if you don't have the skills, a LBS might have used bikes. Best bike for buck for someone who is not familiar with bikes is to buy used from the LBS. Any bike in that price bracket will be reliable. They get reliable as soon as you leave the department stores and go to a bike shop. For those hours in the saddle, far more important that any bits of paper describing the will tell you is the bike fit. Most important is go to a real bike shop, not a department store. I would recommend a cheaper bike and paying for a proper bike fitting session, decent shoes and pedals, and good bike shorts/bibs. No point spending all your money on the bike and having a poor fit and uncomfortable cloths. 

Your pros list for tubeless is highly debatable. Tubeless are less likely to puncture and more likely to self seal if they do puncture, so you have to fix less often, but.... Fixing a tubeless puncture that did not self seal is a workshop job, not a field job. MTBers running tubeless carry spare tubes so they can get home if they puncture. Weight - much less a concern for DJ and BMX bikes. In reality, most riders could afford to loose 100 times more weight than the difference tubeless makes. Cheaper in the long right - very doubtful. Tubeless require a slime top up every 3 - 6 months. Tubes are a one off lifetime cost. As is you cons list. Maintenance - 3-6 monthly slime topup vs an occasional squirt of air into a tube. Cost - slime is not cheap. IMHO tubeless for a DJ or street BMX makes little sense as the single big advantage - running lower pressures to get more grip cannot be utilized. 

People say a lot of things... Be careful comparing yourself to guys that ride a couple of hundred miles a week (and have done for decades), it takes years and many long hours of riding to get that cycle fit. Also pelotons will travel a lot faster than solo riders, so when people boast about averages and PB's and Strava times, find out if it was solo or not. Plenty of riders can maintain 20MPH solo, but as you have noticed, plenty more cannot. If you are looking for motivation to push yourself a bit harder, when one of these fast guys passes you, drop in behind and see if you can keep up, even if for a short time, if you don't want to be rude, ask if you can tag along. A road bike will allow you to ride faster, but it won't turn you into superman. After a very quick look at the Boardman CX, I doubt a road bike will make a big difference. A few things you could do to help speed you up. 

A 9 speed cassette will fit on an 8 speed hub. The extra gear is accommodated using thinner cogs and spacers. You will also need a new shifter as its the shifter that provides the indexing for the gears. If you also increase the range of gears (increase the largest cassette cog), you may need a new rear deraileur. Its possible to run 8 speed chain rings with a 9 speed chain, but you will get better shifting upgrading the chain-rings. In this case, replacing the entire crank set might be cheaper. There would be little advantage replacing the deraileurs (especially the front) unless they are worn out. 

In addition to other answers, shagging around with the plastic cap is also likely to deform it, letting in more dust and water. This is likely to counter any benefit of getting extra grease into it, therefore doing more damage than leaving it alone. These bearings are (should be) cheap - they are designed as long life, no maintenance but throw away item - use them how they were designed. Shop around - you don't need to get them from the LBS at Bike Shop prices - its not uncommon to go to bearing specialist and get an identical part for 10th of the price of the branded one. I would be surprised if you went though one set, and stunned if you went though more than a couple of sets in the life of the bike. If you really feel compelled to maintain them, the best option is go down to a local bearing supplier, and get identical size open bearings which to can be easily striped and cleaned whenever you feel the inclination, (but at least once a month). 

In addition to a dual nozzle, its possible to use an adapter on may Schrader pressure guages - most bikes have them for a couple of dollars. 

I have to add another option to the answer. The most cost effective way to improve a bicycle is sell it and buy a better bike. This is almost always a better option for all bikes, from cheap to expensive, except custom builds. As a rule a bicycle is worth a lot less than the cost of its parts. Unless you can get parts for significantly less than normal prices, upgrading the entire bike is more cost effective. If you have a particular desire to keep the bike and upgrade it, often the most cost effective upgrade is a donor bike, unfortunately this requires a large outlay up front. The most expensive way to upgrade a bike is piece by piece as you can afford it. 

With Shimano MTB components the short answer is No, it won't work, the 10 speed shifters and derailleurs have different pull ratios. The long answer is it can be made to work. You just need to define what you mean by work. When I buy XT, I want and expect it to 'work, just like XT should' - reliably, for the life of the components. Its silly to spend XT kind of money to get Tourney performance. Mixing components from different speeds, even when using 'problem solvers' often leaves a less than ideal version of 'works'. That said, a few people seem to have magic hands and/or the patience of saints and get these frankeinsetups working smoothly and reliably. 

I have a Set of PD-M324's in my box of bits. Plenty grippy, to the point unless you are extreme down-hilling or free riding I doubt you need better. I have double sided caged SPD's with a cage similar to the look of the A530, also in my box of bits - no where near grippy enough, especially when wet. They are good for MTBing when you are unclipped alot - when learning SPDs or technical ground and lack of confidence, but now I am riding less technical XC I do not need them. Its not possible to make a grippy pedal that also has an SPD - how would you rotate to release the clip? Single sided pedals are a great idea that does not work very well most of the time for most people. Inevitably the side you want is facing down when you put your foot on the pedal. You cannot be certain, without looking, which way it is, so you cannot rely on the pedal when you need it quickly. They are OK for casual riders and might work acceptably for roadies who are not stopping a lot for traffic, but for me, and others I have spoken to who have tried them, they are just frustrating. I now always ride with my SPD's. If I was to start riding sneakers/street shoes, I would go to a caged SPD, and wear the slippages, but those rides would be down to the local store with the family. If you are not prepared to wear the slippages, go to proper platforms and discard the SPD's altogether, or swap pedals when you want to change styles. How badly do you want SPD's? Have you considered getting some SPD compatable sneakers/street shoes? If you do go ahead with the single sided pedals, I recommend the PD-M324, but consider something like the M647 (Clips both sides with cages).