To see the milky way, you need merely go out at night somewhere where there is a dark, clear sky. In northern hemisphere fall and winter, you'll also be able to see the nearest large galaxy, M31. The large and small Magellanic clouds, visibly grace southern skies. If you live in a city, a cloudy, hazy or very humid region, you're out of luck, unless you can get out into unspoiled countryside. Modern digital cameras are far more sensitive than the human eye. 

There is NASA/JPL's Solar System Simulator. It doesn't cover all points, but does include many of the interesting ones. 

Stereo Vision? Optically, you'll need something like a couple big Fisheye lenses mounted on a helmet. Looking straight through such optics yields horrible distortion, so you'd have to feed the lens' output into CCD/CMOS sensors, and massage that into flattened images your eyes can handle, on a video screen. Perhaps Google Cardboard? Probably doable and light enough to wear. A straight optical approach to correcting the fisheyes would probably end up too heavy to lift. 

I've been reading phys.org for years. It's right up there with physics.aps and physicsworld. All good sources that provide decent refs. Comments are often where people who like to argue, argue. Sometimes they are useful, often not. 

Jupiter is highly dynamic: Jupiter Animated Video Gallery (be sure to look at storm merger video) Differences Spotted in Jupiter's Big Red Storms Jupiter's New Red Spot Jupiter Loses Big Belt; Great Spot Left Hanging The persistence of Jupiter's Red spot is in fact a bit of a mystery. 

This page, from June 2012, contains a fairly detailed summary of three papers that considered the tangential velocity and collision problem. I'll quote a few choice bits from that page: 

Here's the bare bones reason for stars like our sun. The full story is much more...full. Expansion means cooling. Cooling means less fusion. Less fusion means less energy driving expansion, meaning the outward pressure is going down. Eventually gravity is pulling inward more strongly than radiation is pushing outward. So the material collapses again. Collapsing means heating. Heating means more fusion. More fusion means more radiation pushing outward on the star. Produce enough energy, and you'll overcome gravity and the star expands. Rinse and repeat. The star naturally sits at an equilibrium where gravity and radiation balance each other. Deviations from this are self-correcting. 

Well, there are microlensing experiments, the results of which have largely removed MACHOs as a significant source of Dark Matter. The background field of stars is usually a nearby galaxy (a Magellanic cloud one or Andromeda, say), or the galactic bulge, and the experiment looks for lensing objects between us and there. In particular, they're pretty much always looking for the microlensing effect within our own Milky Way or its halo. These experiments have detected a number of microlensing events (and many, many more candidates that were due to other things), so, yes, this is not only possible, it is already done. The wiki page I started with linking has this to say, in particular: 

Reasonably current data puts the current closest brown dwarf at 6.5LY (2 parsec) and less than 0.08 solar masses. A nearer one could show up, but it's not looking likely. 

Adding to Oceanescence's mention of Gamma Ray Bursts, someone's recently done some calculations: Gamma Ray Bursts Limit The Habitability of Certain Galaxies, Says Study 

So, whether by ionic or fluorescent emission, the moon's atmosphere does glow. Unless one wants to argue about the glow not being restricted to the poles by a magnetic field, or airglow, that glow counts as an aurora. 

The Lunar Reconnaissance Orbiter is still up there. At a compact 2000kg, it's likely too small to see via earth based telescope. Mission Page I think the Chinese orbiter is back on earth now, but there may be others. 

A body tide seismometer on the lunar far side would pick up both the solar tide, and the 20 inch body distortion produced by the earth. While "tidally locked", the moon is not in a perfectly circular orbit, and also wobbles a bit; libration. Your seismometer should pick up both effects. Watching the parallax of mars cycle every 28 days, as suggested in comments above, might be a simpler way to go. 

From the above, climate is obviously also a variable in star visibility. Added: Oh yes, aging is also a factor. The eyes opacify with age: 

In reality, both the extent of refraction of the sun's disk and the refraction of the apparent horizon come into play. Both depend on the atmosphere's density and temperature profile; which changes irregularly. That makes it impossible to predict exact sunrise or sunset times when there is an atmosphere. 

I'll note that $25 \text{ kpc} = 25,000 \text{ pc} \cong 81,540 \text{ ly}$, and that the Milky Way is only about 100,000 ly in diameter, so the "direct hit" definition is quite a substantial distance here. 

It's at Jupiter's distance and beyond that ices were able to form out of the disk of material surrounding the early sun. Go much further in and there is too much energy from the sun for them to stay as solids (and will sublimate into gases); this is why asteroids are principally rocks and metals. So at this distance more of the materials of the planetary disk can form the base planetesimals. At this point, your question is answered largely by a geometric consideration (or two) and one of Kepler's laws. First, the geometric consideration. A circle of radius $r$ has area $\pi r^2$. The bigger the radius, the more area. The material for Jupiter (or any other planet) came from an annulus: stuff outside one circle, but inside a slightly bigger circle. This annulus had a lot more area for the out planets than the inner planets, and so could contain a lot more mass. Of course, that could makes us think that Jupiter shouldn't be the largest of the gas giants: it's the closest of them all to the sun, after all. The density of the disk needn't have been approximately constant throughout these regions, though. Quite possibly the density was such that Jupiter's region had more mass than the areas for the other planets. As HDE's answer (posted as I was finishing this) points out, these ices probably also helped stop materials from passing into the inner solar system, maintaining a higher density than you might otherwise expect in the inner solar system, as well as causing materials to sort of "dam up" right around Jupiter's orbit. Now for the Kepler's law. The further you get from the sun, the slower your orbital period. Picking the correct units, we have $P^2=a^3$, where $P$ is the period measured in years, and $a$ is the semi-major axis of the orbit measured in AU. The further out you go, the slower you go around the sun; indeed, it's not just that it takes you a longer total time, but your actual velocity goes down. We can also see this as a Newton's law of gravity consequence. At Jupiter's furthest point from the Sun, the escape velocity is a little more than 18 km/s. At Saturn's maximum distance, the escape velocity drops to around 13.25 km/s. So things can go roughly 35% faster within Jupiter's orbit than they can closer to Saturn's, and they have less distance to travel to make a complete orbit. What this means is that it takes longer for planetesimals to get close enough to each other to accrete together the further out you go, and there is a longer mean time between collisions. Now, eventually, the Sun "turned on" and started blasting space with it's solar wind (before that, the heat came primarily from thermal radiation from the gravitational contraction of the sun). This ended up clearing out most of the unaccreted particles out of the solar system, stopping planetary growth (and removed portions of existing atmospheres; a very young Earth probably had a lot of H and He in its atmosphere, until the sun hit it with enough energy to knock any of it not locked up in rocks away). So Jupiter was probably in a bit of a goldilocks situation. The average density of the region it formed in was probably higher than where the other giants formed in, it was at the perfect spot for lots of materials to start accreting early, and the accretion process would have been faster. So Jupiter is growing faster, and this gives it a competitive advantage: the bigger the growing planetesimals get the further their influence extends and the faster they can pull in more materials, and subsequently interfere with the growth of other planets (or planetesimals). Somewhere around a mass of 10-15 earth masses, the giants can start pulling in large quantities of the hydrogen and helium gasses. And, again, Jupiter likely hit this mass well before the other giants, and had more material to pull from, so it became much larger than the others could before the solar wind stopped the process. 

Pretty thin soup. Sodium and potassium get kicked up by photons hitting the surface. There's also argon, helium and other minor components. As shown in this figure from the first link: The sodium in that atmosphere does glow; (Rayleigh unit definition). At least some of the glow is due to full fledged ions rather than charge-neutral fluorescence: 

It's cold out by Saturn, which reduces the tendency of gases to evaporate off into space. Black body temperature of solar system objects: 

Gravity plus dark energy reportedly can combine to do awful things to the amount of energy in the universe: 

If dark energy varied by location, then plots of 1a supernova brightness vs redshift should vary depending on which direction you look in the sky. AFAIK, that's not the case. For example, although coords are not accounted for, there's not a lot of scatter in this plot: 

Naturally the more abundant smaller asteroids collide more frequently. In fact Hubble seems to have caught the aftermath of such an event back in 2010. To answer the question. It seems Ceres will remain intact for some millions of years to come. But it does get hit fairly regularly, like the moon. If Ceres regularly took impacts large enough to preclude habitation, we'd expect to see co-orbiting debris clouds like the Veritas cluster, or in the 2010 Hubble images. We do not see such debris clouds near Ceres. 

The short answer is pela's comment: more mass equals shorter life. For a bit of a longer explanation... The only way the life of the star could be prolonged is if the new material can be transported to the core. This requires convection. Most stars are not fully convective, having distinct layers of either convective or radiative zones. The net effect of the collision in this case is to simply add more mass to the star as a whole while adding no new fuel to the core (or a burning shell); ergo, shorter lifespan. But some stars do (or may) have fully convective stages, such as the main sequences of very small (aka red dwarf) stars and very large stars with enough metals for a dominant CNO cycle. So in such a situation the material of the colliding body would be transported to (and from) the core, giving more fuel to burn. However, the star still has the same, increased mass, regardless of where the "new mass" currently is inside the star, resulting in higher core temperature. The net effect of which is that the increase to the fusion rate exceeds the proportional mass increase. So, shorter lifespan. The basic rule here being that core temperatures are dictated by the gravity well of the star, which is dictated by the mass (and a few other GR contributions, but usually predominantly mass). The more mass, the deeper the well. So adding more mass just means the core (and areas near it) are in a deeper gravity well, meaning the temperatures go up. Stellar fusion reaction rates are approximately non-linear polynomials in the temperature; some go as far as being proportional to $T^{40}$, the 40-th power of the temperature! It's this non-linearity which results in the fundamental relation of the short answer: more mass equals shorter life. Increasing the mass by a given proportion increases the fusion rates by a (much) larger proportion. 

According to this table, Hubble is good down to around magnitude 31.5. What with digital stacking of exposures, that number has got to reflect a point at which detector noise is equal to incoming signal. At the distance of M31, 778000pc, that brightness corresponds to an absolute magnitude of M = 31.5 -5((log778000)-1) = 7. That's about as bright as Epsilon Indus, a K3 class star, 0.45 to 0.8 times the mass of the Sun. If Hubble is seeing that deep, it's a little surprising how few stars it picked up in that image of our neighboring galaxy. 

Salem is at 42.5° north. At the equator, the position of the sun varies by 23.5 degrees on either side of the vertical over the course of each year, due to earth's 23.5° axial tilt with respect to the ecliptic. Saturn, however is not on the ecliptic. It departs by about 2.5° over the course of its 29.45 year, 9.5 AU orbit. So once every 29.5 years Saturn's angle to the ecliptic will add 2.5° to the max latitude the planet can be seen overhead. That adds up to 26° as the max latitude Saturn can be seen directly overhead. There's one more factor to account for though. Earth being 1AU out from the sun, it's only 8.5 AU from Saturn at close approach. That will add another 0.2° (by trig) to the max latitude at that time of year when earth is nearest Saturn. That gets us to the possiblity of Saturn appearing directly overhead at up to latitude 26.2°: Miami, Jaipur, or Dubai, not Salem 

As far as the question "what's the importance" in your title, it seems mainly to be a confirmation of something that has been predicted for a while, as well as providing more data concerning exospheres: the most common type of "atmosphere" in the solar system. 

The question leaves me confused on how to interpret it. As some of the comments have noted, observations have routinely predated a theory that (accurately) predicts them. In astronomy and cosmology this has tended to be the main driving force behind seeking new theories. Yet I sense a more subtle question concerning how scientists would view a theory that predicts everything so far, but nothing new. Ultimately I think there is a confusion concerning the typical mantra for adopting a new theory as the main theory for physics/science/whatever: if a new theory doesn't make any new testable predictions, and so can only reproduce what existing theories already predict, then preference is given to simpler and existing theories. This has nothing to say about a single theory. It's strictly about multiple theories being compared to each other. It does not imply that a theory, viewed entirely on its own, that makes no new predictions is undesirable. It simply means if we're going to replace theory X with theory Y, then theory Y better predict more stuff than X does. It doesn't care if X does or doesn't predict testable things that have yet to be proven/disproven. 

Off to the north and east like that, it's likely refracted early sunrise. That's a lot of streetlights for that time of the day; likely a longish exposure to capture aurora. That'd increase sunrise glare as well. 

If you've moved to an area with major aircraft traffic, you may be seeing fewer stars due to cirrus cloud formation. Such clouds are often subtle enough not to be visible as clouds but still block out starlight. For example: Forecasting Andean rainfall and crop yield from the influence of El Niño on Pleiades visibility 

Even vacuum is seething with virtual particle pairs, so photons always interact with something. Check Wikipedia on the Scharnhorst effect for a bit of an explanation: 

Yes. That's why we called the CMB isotropic until a decade or two ago; isotropic meaning 'the same in every direction'. Since that time we've had the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe, and its successors which show slight differences in it depending on where we point our antenna. We can easily measure our velocity with respect to this nearly uniform background radiation: Speeding through the universe. Subtracting that, we get Speed corrected WMAP data showing hot and cold spots. That's why we now call the CMB anisotropic. 

Although sources go way back, the current best estimate seems to be that of Abdul Ahad from March 2004: 

Gamma ray bursts are thought to emerge from the poles of supernova, so a star's spin axis would have to be in the right direction for it to hit us. Betelgeuse, a nearby supernova candidate has it's spin axis at an inclination of about 20° to the direction of Earth, so that star is not likely to get us when she blows. However, we don't have accurate information on the direction of the spin axis of most stars.