For situations like yours, I am reminded of the routine in Robb Wolf's Paleo Solution. He recommends a program very similar to yours to start out, but adds dumbbells and pull-ups when you're able. That way you remain challenged with regards to strength development. 

Mobility & Chest UP! Without a form check video--which is really the gold standard, putting this text-based feedback to shame--this sounds like a mobility issue combined with not keeping your chest up. Your back and hips (and ankles, from the sound of your other question) are not flexible enough to get into a deep squat position while maintaining a chest-up position. This is worst in the first few light sets because heavier loads on the bar push your hips deeper, helping you achieve closer to maximum mobility in the hip joint. Keep squatting, deloading if necessary, and keep your mind blazingly focused on CHEST UP. That means squeezing the shoulderblades together, puffing out your chest like you're on Muscle Beach, and taking (and keeping) a big breath held through the whole rep. If you can't keep these up during all your sets, deload. If the problem persists, consider switching to high-bar back squats or front squats. 

The Mayo Clinic is speaking to a broad audience, and so gives watered-down lifting advice. Since they're working with people who are decrepit, disabled, detrained, and have no in-person coaching, it makes sense for them to recommend lifting light weights for high reps while breathing. It's just not good advice for anyone who's engaging in actual training, instead of exercise-cum-physical-therapy. 

I'm the opposite of an expert--I'm still wrestling with these selfsame issues, and recently switched to high-bar squats in order to avoid them--but you could be holding the bar too low, even for a Rippetoe-style low-bar back squat. The other primary causes of elbow pain, I'm told, are not holding the elbows high enough and not keeping the shoulder blades packed tightly. I recommend studying this video deeply. I would not recommend avoiding the issue, nor supplemental elbow exercises. Happy hunting. 

Your math is fine. The problem is you're just plotting your current progress. From Aimee Avaya Everett: 

This sounds like classic overtraining. I'd try taking a full week off from all strenuous workouts. Instead of a workout, just warm up and stretch or go for a walk. Take it easy for seven days and see how you feel in the workouts after the break. In athletes, overtraining is closely associated with undereating. This is hard news for someone working on long-term fat loss, but it might be necessary to increase the amount of calories, fats, or carbs at least temporarily. It can be productive to reduce those macronutrients for body recomposition, but your body might have had too much. You might need to make adjustments to your diet in order to continue working out productively. 

Protein shakes are meant to be supplements, not replacements. Real food uber alles. It doesn't look like you're eating enough food to justify a shake anytime but post-workout. If you think you need liquid supplementation, do GOMAD. If you can't do GOMAD but want to supplement, eat a dozen eggs a day (or two). Six eggs would be more appropriate for breakfast if you're trying to gain weight, or five plus a piece of meat or yogurt with berries. Same goes for the salads--I don't understand why you're not using salad dressing. Fat is good. Eat fat. If you're not gaining weight (as noted in your other question), and you want to gain weight, I'd stop worrying about snacks and just aim to double the size of your meals. If the snacks help you, you could try converting them to a helping of meat, like tuna salad. I prefer to eat more veggies, but this looks like a good diet, though not one that would make someone grow bigger. 

I then do the band stretching per the video. I generally do a set of Yoga up-dog/down-dogs and some round-backed Good Mornings with a very low weight (this helps my back as well as my hamstrings). Consistency is key: I notice when I skip a day (I get tighter), and I notice when I stretch twice in one day (I make faster progress). I also do Romanian Deadlifts three times a week as part of my lifting workout. It's important to consider that strengthening the muscle is just as important as stretching it, both to avoid injury and to make the hamstring longer. What Seems to Shorten and Tighten My Hamstrings I've found some specific hamstring pitfalls: long car rides, sitting down immediately after running or lifting, sitting instead of using a standing desk at work, sitting with my legs underneath the chair.... Avoiding those has been key for me. Note: cycling is often found to shorten your hamstrings (making them tighter), instead of improving the situation. 

A couple exercises helped me with lower back weakness. In my warm-ups and morning workouts, I did these: 

If I find myself wanting more time between warm-up sets than it takes to change the plates, I know something is wrong. Most likely I'm not recovered enough, indicating my program or eating or sleeping or stress is messed up. It's not a big problem, but it's something to note. I should be getting warm and mentally ready for my work sets, not getting tired. Between work sets, I calculate time in minutes, or at a minimum, 30 second chunks. So for heavy sets of five I'll try to stay at three to five minutes of rest, whereas for heavy triples I'll try to keep it to two or three minutes, and for singles I sometimes go on the minute or 30 seconds. Between warm-up sets, I count time in thirty-second blocks at a maximum. If I need a breather, I'll take ten or twenty seconds to write something in my training log, but I'll also take a mental note to get myself psyched up, because being winded after a 50% warm-up set is not something I want to do. This generally helps. 

Handwraps, properly wrapped. You'll have to get someone to show you. Boxing instruction, since you might be doing something egregiously wrong that we can't diagnose over the internet. A little training goes a long way when it comes to preventing self-injury. A shorter time period. 15 minutes of bag work for someone new to it is a lot. You need to give your body time to build up to that amount of work--tougher skin, denser bones. Otherwise you might tear up your untrained hands or sprain a weak wrist. 

(Page 113, Rippetoe & Kilgore's Practical Programming) In other words, if you can get stronger by properly recovering from a single workout, you're a novice. If not, you're on to intermediate programming. Note that this shift may occur for an individual lift instead of all lifts at once, and should be preceded by a series of deloads as well as a rigorous review of one's nutrition and sleep in order to ensure that linear gains are indeed exhausted. Demarcating the Intermediate/Advanced Line It's unlikely that many of us will have to worry about this in our own lifting, but the shift from intermediate to advanced programming is marked by the diminishing returns of a properly implemented weekly progression program. In these cases: 

Choosing between those three depends on just how burnt out you feel, and whether you think it's because of a single error (e.g. skipping lunch) or sustained overtraining (e.g. you've been training more than usual, or you're feeling sluggish in multiple workouts). 

Either way, since I'd be a novice. Nearly all people new to lifting weights need the same thing: a basic program of squatting, picking things off the floor, pushing things, and pulling things. Barbells are the most efficient for this purpose, and I'll assume their use here. I'd so something vaguely similar to what was recommended to me as a beginner: 

Recovery is influenced primarily by your sleep, the food you eat, and how active you are. Going for sprints will hurt your recovery from lifting (and vice versa). Not getting enough quality sleep will hurt your recovery. And not eating enough will definitely hurt your recovery. Training requires fuel. You need fats and proteins (preferably animal proteins, like milks, eggs, or, yes, meat). (As a side note, BMI is a terrible metric and should be banished from the earth so please don't use it.) 

If you're not looking for squatting or benching numbers specifically, but are interested in strength using bodyweight methods more generally, I recommend looking deeply into gymnastics. Coach Sommer's Building the Gymnastic Body is a good place to start, as is Ross Enamait's work. But if it's really squatting and benching you want, best results will come from finding a barbell, weights, and rack for cheap on Craigslist or a yard sale. 

I would try that for a week and see if you still feel the need for the workout. Good luck on the mid-day exercise part of your question. 

The preferred way to load pull-ups is with a dip belt hung around the hips. This allows for variable loading from very little weight to multiple 45 pound plates, but more relevant to this question, it centers the weight on your hips instead of the shoulders. This means it doesn't change the angle you're pulling at, it simply makes you heavier. It should maintain the stress on your abs that you're looking for. Ross Enamait has video instructions (and static images) on how to put a dip belt together from hardware store materials. It's quite a straightforward, cheap, useful tool. You can also buy a specialized dip belt, which is still useful but not cheap. 

That could definitely work. Or do something else. At this point there is no reason to pick bodyweight work, or this outdoor gym, or StrongLifts: you have not clearly explained your goals or that you are willing to work towards them. At this point what we know is that you apparently put a lot of value on not going to the far-away gym, not buying a barbell or squat rack, and doing a hodgepodge of sport and play for several days each week. If that's what you want to do, then do it proudly. If you want to start training, however, you might have to reduce all this other stuff and make training your priority. At the moment your goal seems so broadly defined ("strength and overall fitness") as to reasonably suggest nearly any training modality. So just pick a program and do it. Use /r/bodyweightfitness or something from Ross Enamait or Building the Gymnastic Body or just start doing pull-ups and push-ups and sprints and squats and using the outdoor gym rowing machine. Don't pretend this program will replicate StrongLifts. Do it on its own terms. It will not look like StrongLifts. It will not progress like StrongLifts. It will not have the same kind of results, good or bad, as StrongLifts. It will be its own independent program. It could use these outdoor facilities or not. 

If you really can't get away from screens, take a look at f.lux, which changes the brightness and colors of your screen according to the time of day where you are. It won't fix the problem of screen-time near bed-time, but I've found that it mitigates it. It can be switched off quickly and easily if you have color-sensitive work to do. 

The safety bars should be set a few inches below the lowest the bar could conceivably go during a successful squat. This way, if the squat goes wrong in any way, you just lower yourself to the bottom of your squat. Do this fast if necessary; release tension in the core, if necessary; jump forward (if the bar is on your back) or backward (if the bar is in front of you) if necessary, but the goal is to stay as close as possible to a correct squat while the loaded barbell is still on your back. If you fall or stumble, the safety bars at this position will catch the barbell at a high enough position that it doesn't land on you in any way. It is a good mental reassurance exercise to set the safety bars at this height and then practice a fake failure with an empty bar at least once. Squat down correctly, then slowly release tension into a bad, round-backed, slack-hip position so that the barbell comes to rest. Maneuver yourself out from under the barbell. 

Screw BMI Body Mass Index (BMI) charts are wrong and useless and should be ignored. They're only used because they're easy: plug in height and weight, compare to The Chart Of Truth, and you're done. But they aren't useful for individuals to predict the bad health outcomes we want to avoid. BMI causes so many false "healthy" and false "unhealthy" results that it's simply not trustworthy. BMI was designed to be used for populations. If you're basing your workout, diet, or health goals on BMI, you've done something wrong. It's only a mistake of history that we still use BMI. It should be discarded. Screw IBW "Ideal Body Weight" calculations come with a disclaimer: 

You started squatting more so you would get better at squatting. It sounds like your plan is working. You're better at squatting since you squat more. One part of being better at squatting is that squatting doesn't make you sore. Two concerns: one, it's not clear what you mean by "attempted squat 5 failed attempts", which sounds a bit reckless. Two, if your goal is to get stronger, then you'll have to add weight, which you made no mention of. But not feeling soreness is fine. Soreness is not a great indicator of progress. 

I progress by doing three sets of a number of reps that is moderately challenging. Once it becomes easy, I add one. I do not go to failure. In the beginning I did five sets because my dips and pull-ups were too weak to get enough volume into each set. Now I find it counterproductive to do a ton of upper-body volume all on one day. 

Any training modality can omit muscle groups. A bodyweight training program can be designed so it does not omit any muscle groups. Right now you don't have a training program, so it can't address or omit any muscle groups. 

That plan is conceivably possible. But more likely you won't or can't restructure your life so drastically, or something will go wrong. Therefore you should define your goals, research a workout program that fits your goals, and ease into it slowly so you don't get injured. You won't stun your ex, but that's a silly goal anyway. Better to work out for you, to become the awesomest Matt you can be, than to chase someone else's fickle affections. Take the long view. Ross Enamait uses an example of someone who dramatically changed his body over the course of a year: 

Just steer clear of bodybuilding routines with tons of exercises, machines, and high reps (8-12). Then, specific strength After you have some general strength (and not before!), I would recommend focusing on exercises that involve maintaining posture against heavy loads, as well as upper body strength, particularly grip work. To me this means deadlifts, farmer's walks, Turkish get-ups, pull-ups/chin-ups, and presses. 

There are always going to be differences in form between different coaches. Therefore, unless one subscribes to the reasoning behind a particular approach, one cannot say that one form of squat is the best. However, we can point out the best instances of teaching what are generally regarded as safe and effective squat methods. If looking at sources on the web and in print generally, here are some pitfalls to avoid: - If someone says to be careful of squats because they damage the knees, set off an alarm bell in your mind. - If someone says not to squat too deep--for instance, only above parallel, or to a 90 degree angle between the femur and tibia--jam your ears and back away slowly. Some coaches who have particularly effective squat advice include: