Oil is is a very attractive target for insurgents; about half Iraq's oil in certain areas is still being used by various rebel groups, for example. It's impossible to say what would happen, but most likely, the Wermacht would not be able to maintain effective control and the hypothetical is moot. Realistically, the Soviets would just relocate their equipment and it would not even get to that point. It's possible that there would not be an insurgency, or that the Wermacht could effectively control it. But in practically all cases of a major resource center being occupied by a hostile power - Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Yemen - the result was a morass of instability that made the occupation barely if at all worthwhile. If anything, the Caucusus would be harder to hold than those examples, because the technological gap between modern states and poorly armed insurgents has widened. One more important point - Stalin genocided the Chechens so that they would not assist the Nazis in controlling the Caucusus. He thought that they would otherwise give the Wermacht a base of support in the area. 

Yes. As a matter of fact, 1980 was a pivotal election where the anti-establishment electorate and younger people started to vote conservative. Like Barry Goldwater and Donald Trump he was seen as an extremist and as not realizing what he was talking about. $URL$ Reagan wanted higher defense spending and less nondefense spending, which made him sound radically rightwing. He used the standard populist rhetoric about Washington being run by elites who thought they knew how to run the country better than its citizens. This was upsetting to the Republican mainstream at the time and caused him to lose in 1976. He was also attacked for his use of emotional arguments and lack of experience. However, when the economy was doing very badly in the late 70s, this distancing from "the establishment" was actually a benefit, and went on to help him win the election. He won mainly on younger voters and anti-establishment independents who previously voted democrat. 

$URL$ Narmer's tomb and remains have never been located. $URL$ $URL$ The oldest known remains are of Sneferu, from about 2600 BC. The unknown royals in the royal tombs at Ur are not far ahead, dating around 2500 BC. $URL$ 

There were many predictions about planes, computers, etc. They did not mention specific years however. $URL$ $URL$ Today technology is relatively easy to predict and companies have detailed time lines of what is going to be developed in the next few decades. For example, the buzz now is about Internet of things. This is because we have plenty of data on similar systems, and can make extrapolations. But Moores Law was the first attempt to make a specific quantitative prediction about technology, and it was only roughly accurate because semiconductors were new. 

By counterintelligence and air superiority. $URL$ The Axis allegedly was planning to assassinate Allied leaders at the Tehran Conference. The plot was never tried. However, it would have never worked because Soviet intelligence had intercepted the plans. Furthermore, the Allies had air superiority and didn't have to worry about something like the P-38 interception of the plane carrying Admiral Yamato. Roosevelt went by plane and sea. Churchill risked U boats and went by sea. $URL$ Stalin was reluctant to travel long distances, and given the Soviet Air Forces' unreliability, probably went overland at least part of the way. $URL$ The Soviet dictator refused to travel further than the Black Sea Resort, Yalta, in the Crimean Riveria (then part of the Soviet Union, now part of Ukraine) for the next summit and, once again, Churchill and Roosevelt were both the ones taking long and tiring trips to attend the Yalta summit. 

So the BoE probably took in, and spent, nearly all the precious metal in England. There was about 100k oz in 1763. 

Yes, it seems that common people were generally happy about Ivan the Terrible's rule, as far as we can tell. Source 

Add in the other ancient civilizations for which little record survives and the original number could be even higher. But very few of these survived. In all you would find around 10,000 books in such a library, nearly all of them written in Classical Greece or Rome and survivors of the Library of Constantinople, or preserved in a handful of Imperial Chinese collections. $URL$ As for the square meters question, that depends on how they are stored. Assuming each book is a typical 15x22x2 cm, you could fit about 8 high for a 1.8m shelf. Each book occupies 0.003 sq m floor space. All considered it comes out to only 4 sq m of books, with perhaps double that to account for shelf material and bookends. 

It's possible, although very unlikely. Almost all diplomats are at least 40 years old. This means that a diplomat alive in 1971 would be 113 years old, which is a rare and newsworthy age. The attachés, secretaries, and so forth are younger, but it is not clear how involved they would be in actually signing the treaty. 

About 10,000 ancient texts survive, which would require around 4-8 m2 of floor space stacked 1.8m high. The texts would be primarily from the Roman and Greek periods. $URL$ 

Britain never saw a compelling reason to take them. On the other hand, the Faroes were strategic to Denmark, because of their supply route to Iceland and Greenland. So it was probably the fact that other countries wanted the islands much more. $URL$ The first settlers in the Faroe Islands were Celts and Norse. Henry I Sinclair, a Scottish nobleman, married into the Norwegian royal family and took over the islands. In the 1500s, Norway had to drive off British adventurers from the island. The island eventually had problems with pirates and merchant power struggles and maybe wasn't an attractive place for England to conquer. $URL$ After going into exile, Christian II offers the Faroes and Iceland to Henry VIII of England as collateral for a loan. Henry denies. Historians believe this saved the two countries from losing their languages, as it happened with the Norn language in Shetland and Orkney. So England had a chance to take the islands- they simply weren't interested. $URL$ The Faroe Islands were associated with Norway and remained so even after the more southerly Shetlands and Orkneys were firmly established as part of Scotland. When Norway fell under Denmark, the Faroe Islands did as well. During the Napoleonic wars, Great Britain occupied Denmark to keep out the French. Denmark entered the war on Napoleon’s side and their Nordic rival, Sweden, then joined the anti-French coalition. Losers do lose and Denmark had to cede Norway to Sweden. The Faroe Islands were left behind with Denmark, as were Greenland and Iceland. So even when Britain defeated Denmark, it didn't want the Faroes. Also, the UK occupied the islands during WW2. Overall it seems like other people wanted the Faeoroes more than the UK did, and thus, it never took the islands for itself. As for your question about Iceland and Greenland, it's a very good one. Greenland is expensive and irrational to colonise. Iceland was willing to put up with Norway exploiting it, perhaps in exchange for protection for its fishing industry against the British. $URL$ $URL$ 

$URL$ The plan was to pin down the troops in their fortifications while encouraging the Austrians to split their forces. The Austrians would then be defeated piecemeal. This was successful in the past. It just so happened that, this time, Austrians got smart and instead attacked the French columns one at a time. In Carnot's credit, his generals were pursuing a retreating enemy and he was probably trying not to restrain their aggressiveness. 

As you can see, even small caliber shells and machine gun fire are effective against lightly armored areas. Furthermore, the main weapon on the Japanese destroyers would be the Long Lance torpedoes. These were far better than anything the Allies had and were greatly feared. The reason why Japan lost the first engagement had nothing to do with HE shells or the night action- which it won. Japan lost because it failed to press the attack. And furthermore, American air strikes after the battle ravaging the fleet. The subsequent engagements involving normal AP shells, which Japan won, were again strategically inconclusive because Japan withdrew afterwards. There is one engagment were the shell type was important- at Jutland, British shells exploded early and were not as effective. But this was an even fight between well armored vessels. 

First of all, most people didn't really live in a house. Mud huts more like it. Cities were more likely to have wood houses. If you were powerful you lived in a stone house. There were no wood treatments back then and wood rotted if used in a structure. So although wood was used extensively in buildings, they didn't last as long as they do today. The exception is certain military and religious buildings made out of stone in basilica or roman styles. Construction took from a few months to years, involving a couple to hundreds of people, depending on the size. As Christianity grew people moved away from Roman arch architecture to simple Gothic styles for churches. The main feature of Gothic architecture is the triangular shape of the structure rather than the arch shape used by Romans. This saved on materials and time. There was also Arab and Chinese architecture, which is a whole different story. Fire was a major problem in cities and everything was crammed together and unsanitary. Cities like London held up to 300,000 people per square mile, and without modern skyscrapers and so forth to make the space problem easier. There was some limited urban planning, mostly by the people who had power in the city- guilds, monarchs, and merchants. However nobody ever solved the human waste problem. 

Hunter gatherer populations have about 0.1-1 people per square mile. By this measure the Americas, aside from rare locations practicing agriculture, could have no more than a few million people. This contrasts with "diseases killed them" theories that make the proprotion of actual violent deaths look smaller.