I'd say because most of the (non-scientific) advice I've seen around the web is "endurance" stuff. So start with x squeezes every day and build up to 600 per day or whatever. If you exercise like that you're not really gaining strength (at least after a certain point), but simply building up endurance. So it's kinda like running longer and longer every day (at roughly the same pace) instead of weight lifting with progressing difficulty for strength/mass gains. To bring my point home, the way most people exercise their PC muscle can be done on a daily basis. But if you truly trained your PC muscle to reach peak strength (which is definitely what you need if you're after the male multi-orgasm thing), then you'd get better results with longer recovery periods. Because, at least to my knowledge, the PC muscle responds to training no differently than any other muscle in our body. 

At the gym today, someone advised me to vary my foot position to better target the different muscles in the calf. Specifically, they advised that I laterally and medially rotate my foot. Intuitively, this seems like a bad idea, since the ankle is most stable when straight. Thus, it would seem, rotating it would put it in a compromised position, conceptually similar to squatting with bowed knees. If it matters, the specific machine I was using was the inclined leg press machine. Is there actually anything to what they said or is my intuitive reprehension correct? 

It's impossible to say nothing's wrong with you. I'm not a doctor. If you have medical concerns, see a doctor. But that aside, I would say it is normal to be out of breath after a hard set of any compound lift. Heavy squats (for 5 reps) almost always leave me feeling somewhere between out of breath and about to pass out. There are things that can make post-set exhaustion worse, like low blood glucose, dehydration, or electrolyte imbalance. So make sure you're eating enough carbs, staying hydrated, and getting enough sodium/potassium/calcium. And like Dave Liepmann said, make sure you're breathing. That sounds obvious, but it's instinctive to hold your breath when you're straining and it's easy not to notice. 

You basically fast, except you only get in around 1.2-1.4 gm of protein per kilogram of your "ideal body weight" ($URL$ This is called protein sparing modified fasting and it represents the fastest science-backed method that allows you to reach high fat burn rates without causing major destruction of your muscle mass (apart from what you'll lose from being inactive). You avoid any cardio exercise (strength training could help you out even under "fasting" conditions, but that's a story for another day), because every hour of exercise in a glycogen deprived state can destroy upwards of 100 grams of your lean body mass (at least according to this nitrogen balance study: $URL$ 

While this question already has an accepted answer, I think I can shed some more light on this matter (with actual science, not just my opinion)... Here's one of the rare few studies ($URL$ that provides a good insight into the influence of (simple) carbs, aminoacids (AA), complete proteins and starvation on ketosis - even though this wasn't the exact original purpose of the study. Free Fatty Acids (a higher level indicates a "deeper" ketosis)- the highest during starvation, lower with AA and complete proteins (no significant difference between those two), and the lowest with carbs. Ketone bodies (a higher level indicates a "deeper" ketosis) - the highest during starvation, lower with complete proteins, even lower with AA and the lowest with carbs. Now here's where things get REALLY INTERESTING: Insulin (a higher level indicates a "shallower" ketosis) - the highest with carbs and AA (about the same), but the lowest with complete proteins and during starvation (about the same). Glucose (a higher level indicates a "shallower" ketosis) - the highest with carbs, a bit lower with AA (but not much), and the lowest with complete proteins and during starvation (again, about the same). The conclusion? Starving yourself or eating nothing but pure carbs represent the opposite ends of the ketosis spectrum (we know that already), there seems to be a significant difference between consuming proteins in a form of complete proteins or aminoacids. Proteins in their simplest form (aminoacids) seem to break up ketosis much more severely than the more complex forms of proteins. So if you're worried that the carbs and aminoacids in your shake will throw you too far out of ketosis - then just do what the "complete protein" group of people in the study did, and eat a steak instead. :) 

You're describing two different types if stretching: ballistic, when you push with momentum, and static, when you push slower and hold the stretch steady for 30 seconds or more. Static is safer because you are much less likely to push too far when you know you're going to have to deal with the pain for the next 30 seconds or more. With ballistic, there is more of a chance that you will bounce too far/hard and pull/strain/tear something by going past the point your body would stop you at if you were moving slower. With static stretching, you generally stretch kinda slowly, so there's no momentum that would push you past where your body would tell you to stop. I've always been told in my health classes that ballistic stretching should be avoided unless you know what you're doing. In general, taking what is normally a static stretch and making it dynamic by bouncing, is usually not a good idea. 

Measure the circumference of your waist at a horizontal level around the navel for men, and at the level with the least width for women. Don't pull your stomach in. Measure the circumference of the neck. Start below the larynx with the tape sloping slightly downward to the front. Avoid flaring your neck out. For women only: Measure the circumference of the hips, at the largest horizontal measure. 

If anything, I'd definitely avoid cardio in your case. Here's a study ($URL$ where people, who exercised after their glycogen reserves were already wiped out, burned away 13.7 grams of proteins per hour of exercise (that was measured through sweat alone), which is an equivalent of a little below 70 grams of muscle mass. Your training performance will also drop once your glycogen reserves are depleted ($URL$ As far as muscle preservation (or even hypertrophy) is concerned, strength training shouldn't be as much of a problem IF you keep your protein intake high enough and don't interrupt ketosis with carbs. But studies on nitrogen balance while strength training in ketosis (especially with powerlifting) aren't exactly plentiful...at least not to my knowledge. 

You may want to do back extensions instead. They're at least a more well known exercise that work the same muscles and are the lower back analogue of knee raises in a lot of ways. 

I've experienced this twice now. A few hours after my workout, I'll be lounging around (with my leg bent) and suddenly get a slight burn in my VM ("the teardrop"). If I straighten my leg, the burn intensifies. Is this a sign I really do need to start stretching post-workout or do I just need more potassium? I'm doing Strong Lifts, so my legs are getting worked pretty hard. 

Whether it's normal or not depends on how significant the difference is. It's normal to be slightly asymmetric. No part of your body is exactly symmetric. If it's significant enough for it to bother you, then you should consider doing exercises that are independent for each pec muscle. This is useful because, even though you try to balance it, with a push up or barbell bench, your body can compensate for a weaker side by pushing the weak side up faster. The physics of it makes the weight shift to the lower side. With something like one arm pushups or dumbbell bench, it's impossible to shift weight from one side to the other, so you should have equal development. To clarify in response to your comment below, you should do this independent exercise equally (same weight, reps and sets) for both sides. This will be easier for the strong side and harder for the weak one, so the weak one will grow more. Not doing so could possibly create imbalances where before you had none. For example, only doing one arm with dumbbell bench could cause an imbalance in your biceps, since the biceps is involved as a stabilizer in db bench. 

I'd definitely need to read the whole article to be 100% this proves bigger muscles are more resistant to stretching, but judging only from the abstract of this review ($URL$ this seems to be the case: "...passive extensibility is influenced by the size (mass) and length of muscle fibers...resistance to passive lengthening is influenced by the readily adaptable amount of muscle tissue..." 

Green tea contains caffeine, that has been proven to increase your metabolic rate ($URL$ and to help with the release of fat from your body fat reserves ($URL$ - but bear in mind that you still have to burn away those released fatty acids, or they will simply return to where they came from. So the first thing you need to decide, is whether or not you're even ok with consuming caffeine - which is a substance classified as a drug. Another study ($URL$ has confirmed green tea has an additional effect on the rate at which we burn our body fat when compared to caffeine alone. The chemicals in green tea that are believed to boost the calorie-burn rate are called polyphenols. All-in-all they measured a 4% increase in a 24-hour energy expenditure...so if you normally spend 2000 calories throughout the day, you can count on green tea to add another 80 to that (roughly). And as far as the safety is concerned, some cases of liver damage have been reported ($URL$ but the evidence on that does not seem to be conclusive. 

I have my own method for this and I'd like either confirmation that it's an acceptable solution or a reason why it's not and better alternatives. The reason I'm framing the question like this is because I like my method. It's convenient and it allows a practically unlimited amount of force to be used. (A lot of the articles I've read say that lifters sometimes need to add more force to get their mobility to change, due to having stronger/harder tissues.) My method is to lean forward against a wall with my feet some distance behind me and flat on the ground. The greater the distance from the wall, the more the ankle has to bend to accommodate the movement. If necessary, I move my feet further back and/or push against the wall hard enough to feel the stretch in the back part of my lower leg. I definitely feel it stretching my Achilles and calf, but my concern (leading me to ask about it) is that it may be leaving out other tissues that limit ankle dorsiflexion. As far as goals go, I want to be able to squat to depth without having to be forced down by weight. I can squat with reasonably good form with weight, but I can't get close to parallel (without my heels rising) with just bodyweight.