In the above scenario, I feel, he is taking things negatively. Instead of discussion actual his concerns of concepts he is making personal comments. This is what happens every time I suggest something and sit together to discuss some thing. And it leads to heated arguments. I really don't want these things happen further How to handle this team member? 

Our VP given large targets for the year and asked us estimates. We have done our realistic forecast with realistic staff needs for the model. My manager and MD supported these estimates and forecast. However VP rejected and he wants more work to be done for the lesser budget. When he open options Managers from V came with a proposal. As per the proposal V takes total responsibility of delivering whole work with in the budget and more the quality expected. But Current leads, management can not interfere their operations, process, model and interview. In a nutshell they will come up with process, model and people. We have to accept and we don't have option to choose. Contract signed. We have accepted, and I have given both existing and new team members. I already know my existing team members(Who are from V) capabilities and I understand with in one-month new team members are less capable than current team members. After 1 month the first delivery is disaster and V's team is failed to meet expectations. The project manager, who is employee, who is star reputation in Organization and also great experience in Company, and whom I admire and with whom I have good working relationship got very upset with these deliverable and acted hard on them. In the next meeting He told me in the same lines "This is disaster, if we accept this way we will definitely fail. They made their promises, and they have signed it. Don't give any considerations, be strict to wards deadlines and quality. The good things will happen if we deliver what is expected. If it required be Bad cop to make good things happen". And he persuade us to be hard and strict. When he is acting hard they start delivering better. And at one point of time I am starting be hard, strict and less friendly and push them beyond their limits. It worked and subsequent month we got better results. Now the project manager left as he got great opportunity elsewhere. And I feel the work relationship has been broken and people behavior is changed to wards me. No surprises. 

I have been recruited for a Project by my current Organization. This Organization is client for my Employer. My Employer is vendor to this Organization. This project belongs to a Department, Lets name it as B. How ever this Kind of project was successfully handled in the past by Department A. So Director assigns responsibilities of initial setup, team building and building base for the project to Department B and Department A take over one point. I have been placed as Senior developer for this project since from starting of the project. Eventually I have to take lead role for this project. Department A has 2 Leads, Let us name them AL1, AL2 And Department B has 2 other leads, Let us name them as BL1, BL2. Total 4 Leads. The Department A laid the following plan. Release1 Lead by AL1, Release2 Lead by AL2. With in these 2 releases Department A setup every thing required for Department B and then handover to Department B. Department B will take over from there and plans further Now we are in Release2. Now I am seeing difference in their interests. AL1 was more concerned about building strong base and managing rest of the things. I followed him closely on Release1 and he supported me, mentored me and helped me much. He is employee of Current Organization. Now AL2 take in charge. AL2 is also Contractor and he is from different vendor. He is more protective, helpful to other team members who are also employees of his employer. But he is protecting and supporting nominally for other vendors. Some of his methods and approaches are direct conflict with AL1. AL1 and AL2 privately and personally suggesting keep distance with BL1 and BL2 and suggesting don't simply accept their suggested changes without strong reason. In the meanwhile BL2 is trying to build good relationship with me by inviting me for outside Coffee/lunch etc.. and asking my cooperation for some of the areas. BL1 is not engaging any of these activities. But For any kind request/idea he is very formal. Very stringent for negotiations/changes. It is always impossible all these 4 guys on the same page and in agreement. I am now confused and scare how to handle them. It is very difficult to make them all happy at the same time. I am struggling very much not to be bad on any one. It is very hard for me to oblige all these 4 Leads at the same time. How to handle this situation professionally? How to manage all these leads with out disappoint anyone or without any negative feelings? 

Since you have already left the job with your previous employer the more damage can occur to your previous employer if any. The below points to help you to mitigate the damage 1. Check that Are you supposed to maintain confidential? Check with the policies and other rules of the previous organization or team which says that you need to make it confidential. And also it is good to check with previous employer about confidentiality of this matter. If you are not expected or supposed to make it confidential the damage and impact is less. The below points(2 & 3) are optional for you. If you are expected to make it confidential you have to follow points 2& 3 which are specified below. 2. Talk with the Person to whom you have revealed the Names Have a conversation with the person to whom you have revealed names. Tell him that It is a confidential matter and you are revealed him since you are trusting him much and request him don't reveal any one. 3. Talk with your previous Employer Bring this matter to your previous employer and apologize for causing this problem. And give the full details of incident. He/She will take care of controlling damage and also if they requested any thing to control the damage. And provide your full help and support to control the damage if any. 

I am working as Technical Team Lead for web application development Team. I have been there in the team since from 2 years. I have a team member who is performing below the mark, let us say his name is Mohan. Few positives about him are below 

I am working as consultant to US based Organization. I am development team lead and we are starting development of new project soon. The architect of the team proposed new approach and new direction for project development based on the nature of the project. This approach is ideal for our project. At present that approach provides marginal benefits over the current approach and it may be useful in very long term. And it takes some good amount of investment of time and effort from my development team. All of my team members are against this approach as they are not seeing any substantial benefit from this approach. Even my reporting manager also not willing to accept this approach. However current project has very strict and stringent dead lines. We don’t have any extra buffer. For me new direction always brings some sort of challenges and risks which are unknown at this point of time. At this tight deadlines, I am not willing to experiment that new approach. Finally I am the decision maker as I am responsible for project delivery. How can I handle this conflict gracefully and derive amicable decision out of this situation? 

I am working for an IT outsourcing organization. I have placed into a new project as a replacement of existing team lead. I have 3 members team at offshore in India. My role is client interfacing role and I am responsible for delivery of project. We have a critical delivery one week ahead. All the 3 members of my team are working from different offices in India. And one of the team member facing serious network issues which is impacting his work and in turn I am not getting expected output from him . We have escalated to current management and my manager is fighting with offshore managers. But still no progress since from one week. And also as addition to it Senior management is taking out one of the critical and senior team member from my team and proposing for another client for a new project. Though he is billing for the project that I am leading and he is pulled out for the meetings and other interview discussions for other project. It is seriously impacting the deliverables which we need to deliver. I have discussed with my immediate manager about this. He said that "I am tired and frustrated by fighting with my managers in this matter. I have already explained them the impact and risk. Still they are going ahead with their plan. I am helpless as of now." Now my questions are - how can I politely and professionally fight with management for solving these problems? - How can I mitigate risk? - If it is too risky situation how can I put my self in safer situation? 

Can you give reference other than manager? Some times your colleague at the same level, your senior or mentor also eligible to given reference. Please check with A, you can give other than your manager. If the answer is positive then please give some one you are comfortable and you trust When they will contact the reference that you have given and why? If they are going to contact before confirm offer and checking references is mandatory to release offer, then honestly explain the situation and convey them the fact that you are interested in Company A and quote the reasons as well. One Caveat here is don't say any thing negative about Company B. If they are going to contact the reference after you join with them, then you can give your manager and have inform your manager at B before you leave company B. I am assuming your relation with your current manager is good and you don't have any conflicts except turning down the offer. 

How can I filter only useful information and make it organized efficiently, so that I can retrieve when ever it is required with out wasting much time? 

The basic root cause for this issue is lack prioritization. Remember the fact we have limited time and we can not do all tasks. When you have 3 tasks you have to do prioritize tasks based on their importance and benefits you will get by completing those tasks. When I say benefits, I mean visibility and importance. The task which has high importance and gave high visibility should be top on the list. You should take tasks based on your prioritization. In your case it is missing. To answer your questions 

I am currently working as contractor to the client from Outsourcing Organization. I have got a latest job offer from consulting organization. And the role is consultant. Here my question is What is the main difference between consultant role and contractor role? 

I am working as a Tech Lead for a team. We have a Architect who has joined in our team recently. Some how I have noticed his working style, communication style is different. Because of this most of the times we are unable to see each other points, perspectives. This is happening more frequently and causing some troubles to working together. Below is one incident I have recently come across. We had a meeting on requirements with business analyst team. I have noted down my notes, questions . He also did the same. After the meeting I have sent my notes and questions to him to merge and publish. I got reply immediately by saying that all my points are not valid or not in valid format. And he published only his notes. After I read carefully, I figured out that most of my notes are covered in his notes. But he has written and presented in different format. Then I noticed that some of them are missed. So I have reformatted as much I can and send those back to him to publish. Then again I have got mail immediately saying that "I am not able to follow your mail" and then he set up meeting. After having 15 mins discussion we understand each other and came on same page. The above is one of the incident. But these kind of things are happening more frequently. It is always hard to understand each other and hard to be on same page. It takes some good amount of effort on both of us to make our selves on same page. With the stringent dead lines it is not always possible to setup meetings. How can we understand better and make our selves same page always? 

The best way to resolve this issue is (1) understand the situation and the need what makes him to act this. (2) Discuss and Provide alternative solutions and come up with agreeable plans. (3) Come up with workable plans with mutual agreement. Now the action plan for you is (1) Request for one on one meeting: Request him to one one meeting for the closed room discussion. Most of the managers have scheduled one on meetings with their team members. If you doesn't have any such scheduled meeting request his/her time for discussion and block his and your calendar for that meeting. (2) Be empathetic about his needs and situation: You first bring the topic to the table and don't rush into your concerns. First you show empathetic about his needs and the situation. May be he is working late and suddenly and he feels that if he shares information with you immediately and you can start your work on as soon as possible. There might be other good reasons and needs behind his actions. However you first show your empathy towards his situation and needs. And willingness to understand and support for his needs and project. If you don't know ask him and confirms that the reason behind your questions is understand the situation and support him (3) Explain him what bothers you: Once you understand his needs and the situation, now express him what bothers you or what concerns you and how it is affecting you in polite way. You can express your concerns to him/her on the similar lines of "I fully understand your needs and situation. However receiving messages @midnight disturbs my sleep a lot. After that I am unable to sleep properly and I am ended up with work related. Bad sleep makes bad start for the day and sleep deprived brain doesn't yield better productivity for the day.". (4) Suggest alternatives: Suggest alternatives which works both of you. Like request him "Send mail about the work to your official mail ID and flag it is Urgent. You promise that you will see all the Urgent mails first and act upon them immediately " or ask him similar alternatives. Come up with list of alternatives and choose one which suits best for both of you. (5) Come up with the agreeable plan or approach: Once you choose alternative come up with plan with mutual agreement. Next time onwards you both act as per the agreed plan. Hope it resolves your issue 

I am working as Dev team lead for an US based Organization.The requirements for the project has been written but those have many gaps. And also due to some Organization level decisions the requirements under gone changes and impact of those changes are discussed and not properly documented. Hence my manager gave the responsibility of getting Clarity to the requirements, document those clarifications and help the developers to implement right things .Hence I form a list of questions and send those questions to team who wrote the requirements and project manager setup a daily meeting to discuss those questions on priority basis. After the discussion I am documenting those clarifications in a mail and sending requirement authors for confirmation. This is the process that I have been asked to follow by my manager(Boss). But as team analyzing requirements they come up with more questions. But the requirement authoring team lead is not very comfortable with these questions and the process that we are following and making complaints to Project manager and my boss. Though they(My boss and PM) know that there is some problem with requirements authoring team, they instructed me play diplomatically and handle him make things went smoothly. Hence I went to him personally and appreciated his help and apologized if I caused any uncomfortable and asked his suggestions, how can I make the things amicable. First time he made suggestions and I have explained what kind of problems can occur with only depending on the process that he suggests and why we are following the current and how the current process helps the over all goal. But I also ensure that I will try to consider his suggestions as well. I sincerely implemented his suggestions to a certain extent where ever I can apply. But still I heard from PM that he has some concerns and complaints about myself. I don’t know how to make him feel good about me and make him not feel offend or feel bad about my questions Hence my question is, How to deal with requirements author team lead without feel offend and feel comfortable?