Svante Arrhenius was probably the first scientist to propose the idea of panspermia, that life may have come from, well, that black thing we all have over our heads at night, and all whatever hides behind that dotted blackness. Since it is genuinely unknown how life appeared, I think your question cannot have any good answer. Yeah, maybe microgravity doesn't seem to be any problem to microbes. Au contraire, those little bugs seem to love microgravity and multiply, and mutate, even faster there than here. That burning up of a rock in the atmosphere thing would've happened in many different ways, in different angles and speeds throughout the billions of years. The argument is that maybe once or twice... And maybe that's enough. You get a cold once and you got it. 

Space radio interferometers could have a baseline of millions of kilometers, but is there a point where a larger baseline doesn't improve the resolution anymore because the photons observed are distorted before they arrive? This question deals with technological limits of resolution. I'm instead asking about cosmic limitations due to for example interstellar and extragalactic gas which scatters light. This paper about results from the RadioAstron space/Earth interferometer is well above my pay grade, but it seems to be about this problem. The executive summary says: 

Last 65 days of Kepler's light curve for the infamous KIC 8462852 star is shown below from the published paper's graph. Skip the dips here, I wonder about two other features: 

Mars' thin atmosphere and lack of magnetosphere exposes its surface to lots of Solar UV radiation and cosmic radiation. But Mars also has some dramatic altitude gradients in for example Valles Marinaris. Are there any areas which in this way are protected from A) Solar UV radiation and flares and coronal mass ejections, and/or B) substantially protected from cosmic radiation? 

Each vane holding the secondary mirror in front of the primary causes a diffraction spike. Couldn't the secondary mirror be held with only one vane? If stability is the issue, couldn't it be substituted be steering the vane to hold the secondary in place with precision, similar to active optics, regardless of winds? And why does the James Webb Space Telescope use three vanes when it will operate in undisturbed microgravity and shadow? (Maybe the star spikes are desired 'cause they make stars look nice?) 

I suppose that 1 light year's distance is enough to cause disturbances in the Oort cloud and likely exhange comets. 

I suppose that (especially space) telescope costs is dominated by design and development, not by material and manufacturing. So once a telescope has been developed and designed, how much extra would it cost to build a second copy of it? It seems as if spy satellites are built in batches of similar designs. Would the science value of a second similar telescope be modest, compared to a unique instrument, or improvements on the single telescope, for the same cost? I suppose that using two telescopes as an interferometer would be quite a different instrument design to begin with than just two of the same. 

Johannes Kepler actually disproved geocentrism only a few years before the telescope was invented. He used Tycho Brahe's surprisingly precise naked eye observations of Mars' and the Sun's relative positions on the sky. He first proved that Ptolemy's, Copernicus' and Brahe's Solar system models were all mathematically identical, they just chose different frames of reference. Then he painstakingly founded astrophysics and proved genuine heliocentrism. Here's a free online study guide for Johannes Kepler's work "New Astronomy", with some interactive java animations. He was a contemporary with William Shakespeare, so it should not come as a surprise that he was pretty easy to read (in English translation, first available only in the 1980's!) for being a 400 years old astronomer, making personal comments and even some jokes between the lines. 

Is there a strict difference between gas and dust? In Earthly environment most things become gaseous if heated enough. The temperature of interstellar medium seems to range mostly between 10 and 10 000 Kelvin. Is gas/dust an analog for hot/cold, or does the phase diagram of the element in question matter too? Can metals and molecules be gas in astronomical terms? 

Does the big (0.012 Earth masses) Moon of Earth clear away NEAs, Earth orbit crossing asteroids, in a significant way? Venus and Mars don't have large moons, do they therefore have larger or smaller population of near asteroids than Earth would have if it were in the same orbit? The outer planets have large moons, but also lots of captured asteroids, trojans and centaurs. Does a large moon even help gathering such objects, rather than ejecting them? Moonless Mercury and Venus seem to be pretty clean. 

Astronomy was never easy, there's always more to see. Star namer van Biesbroeck in action with his flaring tiny red dwarf. 

BACKGROUND Hot Jupiters are thought to have migrated inwards, implying that another giant planet has been ejected in order to conserve the orbital momentum of those planetary systems. The number of interstellar "vagabond planets" has been estimated to be as many as the number of stars. And simulations show that if the Solar System started out with an extra gas giant next to Jupiter which was ejected, then one can end up with a very good fit with today's Solar System. QUESTIONS Where would such a hypothetical ejected ice giant be today? Should it be closer or further away than hot Jupiter-ejected planets because it is much smaller? Could it stay in an Oort cloud type orbit during several billion years (maybe ~15 orbits around the Milky Way) without being pulled off by passing stars? At what distance could we today observe a Uranus sized planet? Should it stay in the ecliptical plane or could its orbit have become greatly inclined when it was ejected? 

What kind of reasoning is appropriate to understand the as of today unanswered question of whether there are (other) interstellar space travelling civilizations in the Milky Way? We have already sent probes towards the border of the Solar system. And even landed human beings on another celestial body and brought them home alive and well. If we extrapolate the 50 years of space travel, the 100 years of electronics (radio), the 400 years of physical science, to just a fraction of the biological age of humankind into the future (like a few thousands of years), interstellar travel is not out of the question for us or at least our artefacts. So I imagine two possible alternatives: 1) The Milky Way is cluttered by lots of space travelling civilizations like us and our future. Once one of them/us gets going, they'll soon be everywhere. The Sun orbits the Milky Way every 250 million years, about 2% of the age of the galaxy. Going to the nearest stars is enough to soon be everywhere. But if they are everywhere since almost always, they should be here, we should be their seed. 2) We are the only space travelling civilization in the entire galaxy, ever. But then what makes us unique? We consist of the most common elements and volatiles of the universe and our planet and star and galactic location all seem to be very typical. There's no known trace of any uniqueness here. Whatever could it be? Are there more alternatives? While we cannot say today which alternative is true, we should be able to at least specify the possible alternatives. But to me they all seem to be absurd! What would be a rational logical scientific approach to this apparent paradox? 

Seven probes have passed by or orbited outer planets. I wonder how their photos differ from the naked eye view one would have if one were actually there. Saturn is 10 AU from the Sun, which means that it has just 1% of the sunlight we have on Earth. Would an astronaut orbiting Saturn, looking out of the window, even notice that Saturn is there? A clouded winter night on Earth can be really very dark, so you can't see where you put your foot while walking. But the outer planets at least have star light and a wage glimpse of the sun. Can the light conditions out there be compared to a clear night on Earth with a full moon, half moon or new moon? 

The main idea about dark matter today seems to be supersymmetry. That there exists a set of yet undiscovered fundamental particles which (in a mathematically most convenient way) mirror the particles already known. But has it been established that dark matter consists of particles at all? Couldn't it for example be a continuous property of space itself in some regions? That some parts of space are curved without the influence of any particles or waves. Is anything but particles ruled out? 

It would look like a solar eclipse! What happens is that Earth gets in the way between the Sun and the Moon. From Earth we see the Moon disappear, from the Moon one would see the Sun disappear. Earth is fix on the Moon's sky, because the Moon always turns the same side towards Earth. Earth as seen from the Moon has phases, like the Moon has when seen from Earth. You would see the Earth crescent waning and becoming completely dark as the Sun moves towards it and disappears behind the then invisable Earth. While as seen from Earth, the Moon and the Sun have the same size on the sky, when seen from the Moon Earth will look almost 4 times larger (in diameter) than the Sun, so solar eclipses will last that much longer and be more common than on Earth.