If I'm understanding the situation correctly the original set of documents you saw gave the February date and the documents HR have show the later (May-ish) effective date? And that your boss is suggesting that the original set are the incorrect ones? Assuming that's correct then you are probably going to have to take that one on the chin, yes the incorrect date and the fact that it led you to make a purchase you wouldn't otherwise have made is unfortunate but I think you going to struggle to get them to adhere to the "incorrect" date. IANL and this in no way constitutes legal advice so I can't tell you if a signed document like that carries a legal obligation on them to pay you that amount from the stated date but even if it does it sounds as if they aren't about to just cough up to it and the existence of the "corrected" forms with HR muddies the waters somewhat and it could very well be expensive, time-consuming and stressful to pursue that legally. Not to mention of course the fact that it would almost certainly be detrimental to your career prospects at this employer, and while it might not be "right" or "fair" the fact remains that you have to pick your battles and if you are otherwise happy working there it is probably best not to make a big stand over this. If you don't think you can continue there after this then by all means lawyer-up and fight them tooth and nail but be aware that you aren't just burning that bridge you're cluster-bombing it into the middle of next week! What I would do is talk to your manager, explain that you were upset by what happened but that you understand that mistakes happen. I'd thank them for their kind offer to pay out of their own pocket (assuming it was a genuine-sounding offer as opposed to an exasperated comment) but that you can't expect them to do that. Hopefully at this point in the conversation your manager will be feeling grateful that you aren't going to make this a problem and you can suggest some ways they can make it up to you, perhaps an increased bonus that year some extra PTO or whatever. 

Sadly I think you'll struggle to escape those things entirely. I do sympathize though, nine times out of ten I utterly loathe any sort of company-enforced "socializing" - but if you're working permanently somewhere then avoiding all that tends to be rather career limiting unfortunately. Going "corporate" won't really change that much I'm afraid. Probably a better bet would be to instead look at contracting or freelance work. Even better look for roles where you are principally telecommuting. 

It's sufficiently general that it doesn't identify client but still get's your point across that your work saved someone a boat load of money. By not revealing the exact amount of Z you are remaining accurate, implying that the amount could be even higher than what you actually saved, further obfuscating the identity of the client and not revealing exact details of your current employers business. Potential employers should understand the reasons behind your discretion and since they probably wouldn't like the idea of their employees giving out commercial details to all and sundry will probably approve of your discretion as something they would want from their own employees. 

Ideally you will want to avoid making the discussion directly about the IT director - it's more likely to come off as a personal attack on him that way. Instead you want to discuss the issues affecting the operation of the department and the negative affects they have on the business. It's not only more professional that way but also more likely to get results. So this would be bad: 

What you did was bad, in fact I'd go so far as to say appalling, but then I'm sure you don't need me to tell you that. And you certainly don't need an internet randomer having a go at you. What to do now? Pretty much stay along the lines you have already been following: 

While perhaps not as common as it used to be it's not unheard of, certainly in larger organisations where the individual is very senior and receives a large volume of mail. As pointed out in the comments by Masked Man depending upon the setup of the organisation's e-mail sometimes this will be made explicitly obvious that the e-mail was sent by a delegate, absence of such is not a cast-iron guarantee that it was sent by the person whose name is on it - I've seen setups where the PA logged into the executive's webmail and carried out actions from there for example. However while I understand that this isn't strictly what you asked but I would suggest you might be over-thinking this. A misspelled name on an e-mail is rarely anything more than that and attempting to read anything significant into that isn't particularly useful I'm afraid. 

Given this sounds like a particularly spectacular failure in the hiring process I'd suggest that the only reasonable course of action would be to have a conversation with the new employee and see if a suitable plan can be worked out between them and the company. Explain that you don't think they are going to work out in the position they have been hired to do and talk about the possibility of moving them to a Data Analysis role (if such a position is available - don't go around putting that sort of offer on the table without knowing that it exists!). If at all possible I strongly recommend avoiding using the word "demotion", it has significant negative connotations and is unlikely to result in any productive dialogue. Instead talk about it as a "move" or a "transfer", if it offers less money then the PM role then obviously you need to mention that but do so sympathetically. There's the very real possibility that the employee doesn't want a Data Analysis role (they did after all apply for a PM role) and if they don't then you can talk about the fact that they will have to leave. The key thing here is to involve them in the process, don't just dictate to them "you're a crap PM, so you're a Data Analyst now and here's your reduced paycheck" that sort of thing. Because doing so will likely result in a hugely demotivated and possibly disgruntled employee and that serves nobody. 

Obviously this becomes a moot point if you are working to salvage him in the company, if you decide against that then I think as you have a friendship with this person you probably owe him the courtesy of a private heads up but I can't tell you how to manage your friendships. 

Going over your manager's head is often a seriously career-limiting move, and to be honest if you go direct to the operations manager on this then I'd fully expect your manager to see it that way so you need to work with him on this. Your best approach is to raise it again with your manager directly, if you have a suggested solution to the problem then try and phrase it as if you're doing him a favor and suggest that your solution could be a way of avoiding it coming back to bit the company (and him!) in the behind later: 

I'm not sure exactly what you mean by "often" but if the frequency of these e-mails is too high you may actually be contributing to people's views that they aren't important and reducing their impact. They can easily become nothing more than "background noise". Let's look at your specific points: 

From what you've posted I would suggest going with either the CTO or your Project Manager. Given your PM handles leave requests etc (and is the person who would feel the most immediate effects of your resignation in terms of planning workload etc) I think they would be the right person to go to in the first instance. If they feel that they have insufficient authority in the company then they should be able to direct you to the most appropriate person but as your day-to-day point of contact it feels to me that they are the correct choice. 

By their nature the back-end elements of systems are essentially invisible to customers/end-users and as such they often have difficulty comprehending the amount of complexity and work that goes into them. It's not their fault, and it's up to devs like you and me to help them bridge that gap and put it in to terms that they can relate to. Metaphors are good for this, especially if you can use them to show the differences between a "bug fix" type change and a more significant change such as the one they are talking about. The exact one to use depends on the person you are talking to but likening it to things like changing a tyre (bug fix) vs a full engine change (changing to firebase) on a car , or replacing a window (bug fix) vs structural work on a buildings foundations (firebase) is the kind of thing that I'm talking about. This coupled with a reasonably detailed estimate/breakdown of the work involved should give you the best chance of them understanding As a slight side note it sounds like you aren't convinced that the change offers any real value (or at least not enough to justify the work involved), if so I'd say it's worth explaining the pros/cons of the change, say that you are happy to do the work if they want but that you aren't sure it will give them value for money. 

If the proposed delay is only a week or two (and they commit to a date) then it's not great but not entirely unreasonable either. If they come back with something longer than a month then that's not on and I'd say at that point you just have to move on - give them the notice period that is required in your contract with them and make it very clear that you are willing to "work" that period - this would preclude you being able to start an alternative employment during that time without their consent but as long as you observe this they can't sue you for any breach. The Bad News While backing out of the offer itself would be them breaching contract with you any employment solicitor or HR person with even one flickering brain cell would know better than to go down that route and would simply have you start under a pretty standard "probation" period, employ you for a very short time and then give you a week's notice and there wouldn't be anything you could do about it. Essentially you can't force them to employ you properly - pressing nicely but firmly for a start date they stick to is not unreasonable though. And if they aren't prepared to give you that I'd call that a major red flag that these are not people you want to work for! 

Everyone has a different threshold for how much is 'too much' when it comes to things like technical tests. Their process sounds intensive but not insane to me and there can be various reasons why they might err on the longer side. They could have been burnt before by a particularly good bluffer (they do exist sadly) and upped the bar to compensate and went a bit far, maybe they want to aim for more than 75% accuracy in their technical screens, or they might just be not as good at assessing skills as fast as you are. It's also possible that they were "testing" for something else - such as your ability to sustain intensive "work" over a longer period, your technical "stamina" as it were. Either way I don't think it's an out-and-out red flag but given the hiring process is supposed to be a two-way thing I'd just chalk it up as a mark in the 'cons' column and weigh it appropriately when you make your final decision (assuming they offer you the role), given the interview process is something you only go through once for a job I probably wouldn't put too much stock in this aspect though. For what it's worth the handwritten element would have bothered me as well - like you I haven't done any substantial handwriting in years and my already atrocious writing has been made even worse by lack of practice. I doubt that was anything more than a clumsy attempt to prevent you "cheating" by using google or stack overflow or whatever though. 

This is more encouraging (for you) but if your Director of Technology (who presumably is a peer of the Product Director) agrees with you and shares your concerns then why isn't he raising these with the CEO? That would be entirely appropriate. I can think of a few reasons why he hasn't 

Don't get too greedy with how much time you ask for however as a) they probably won't give it and b) it's not really fair to keep them hanging on if you likely won't take the job. You also need to be prepared for them to say "No" to any extension - assuming they have a need for someone to fill that role regardless of whether it's you or A.N.Other then they (quite reasonably) will want a decent length of time to recruit that person. If they don't extend then that obviously lessens your chances of knowing whether another company is offering you a job so you'll have to weigh up the options of whether it's worth taking the offer anyway and pursing more "interesting" opportunities later or whether you take the gamble that you'll be able to find something else in the time before you graduate. 6 months is a good chunk of time so unless entry-level opportunities in your field are rare or heavily oversubscribed it's not unreasonable to think it should be possible. You could always agree to the offer and keep the hunt going - with the plan being to quit the role at your existing company if/when something better does come through. A short duration job immediately after graduation is pretty common and unlikely to stray into "job-hopper" territory but you'd have to accept that doing this will almost certainly burn bridges with your current company pretty comprehensively. The ultimate choice is of course yours. 

I'm struggling to see any realistic interpretation of the situation where the other person is acting as a timewaster. Either their responses can be taken at face value - in which case they appreciate your interest and have stated multiple times that they have nothing suitable right now but if they did they would be in touch, or it is the case that they just aren't interested in you but don't want to come out and say it. In the latter scenario they still aren't wasting your time because they aren't asking you to do anything or spend any more of your time on them. You choosing to follow up every few months is entirely your decision to use your time that way. Also I realise that this wasn't the actual question but I wouldn't recommend sending your CV through on mass unsolicited e-mails. Especially not one-liners! An unsolicited CV for an internship or similar might have a slightly better success rate if it came with a kick-ass cover letter but as regards actual jobs I'm in the UK (which is where I believe you are based on your other questions) and while I've received more than I can count over the years I've only ever actually read one or two, I've certainly never hired anyone from one, nor has anyone else I know and I've never known anyone who got hired that way either and reactions to them range from being irritated up to the dizzying heights of complete indifference so with the best will in the world I think you are wasting your time there. Hope the search improves for you!