Are you familiar with the Vessantara-jātaka? As the last tale in the Jataka series, it is basically the story of the Buddha’s incarnation immediately preceding his life as Shakyamuni (so you could say it’s rather significant!) Be that as it may, what happens to the Buddha-figure's immediate family is rather shocking. The Vessantara-jātaka is supposed to illustrate the virtue of dāna, or generosity. The main character is a prince who goes into the forest (in effect becomes a renunciant) in order to save his father’s kingdom. His wife and two children go with him. At one point an old Brahmin whose wife needs a personal slave comes to Vessantara and asks him to give up his children, and he does. Later he also gives away his wife, but luckily it is the god Sakka who receives her. Later everything is reversed, Vessantara becomes king and riches rain down on his palace from the sky, so he is able to practice the dana virtue in an unlimited way. This Jataka has a prominent place in Thai Buddhism – everyone knows the story, it was used for teaching and is often recited at temples as an exercise in merit-making. Charles Keyes wrote that it was historically one of three core texts in Thai popular Buddhist practice, along with the Traiphum, a work of cosmology, and the story of Phra Malai, which contains a lesson about the future Buddha Maitreya. (By the way, neither of the latter texts appears in the Tripitaka at all.) Many Thais are disturbed about the seemingly anti-family message of the Vessantara-jātaka. (Other, less well-known jatakas can be disturbing too. There is one where a male hermit lets his female companion, also a renunciant, starve to death – she is just too weak to follow the path.) It’s all about ridding oneself of attachments, of course. One of the most difficult things about becoming a monk must be to do this, although in practice the severing of ties is not absolute – family members may continue to feed the monk by donating food on his morning rounds, for instance. The Vessantara-jātaka has a message for both laypeople (how virtuous it is to give) and for monks (a model for renouncing worldly ties.) That may account for its popularity - who knows really? Here’s a good summary of the Vessantara story – the full version is very long. The tale of Prince Vessantara 

Among the 31 planes of existence, two of it are the realm of humans and the realm of animals. Both of it exist right here on Earth. So, the realms are more from the perspective of different kind of beings, rather than different kind of planets and galaxies. Then you may ask, where are the tusita devas located? How can I find them? Well, I don't have the answer to that. But think about this. Ajaan Lee described how the realm of hungry shades look like (from here): 

The Buddha started out with the goal of finding the end of suffering and he found it. The Dhamma is his teaching of how to reach the end of suffering. The Parable of the Simsapa Leaves showed that the Buddha knows more than he revealed, as part of his enlightenment. Physics and science in general has a different goal. It has the goal of trying to understand how the universe works, based on empirical evidence from observation and experimentation. While the Buddhist path is an empirical one based on personal practice and personal evidence, science is another type of empirical path based on physical evidence. Both have different goals. When scientists say that the mind is based on chemical and electrical interactions in the brain, that is simply their hypothesis based on the available physical observations. However, science is continuously progressing, and their understanding of how this works would improve over time. This does not mean that science will over time become the same as the Dhamma. But they may get closer. I tried to explore in this answer, the possibility that physics is getting closer to the Buddha's teachings. On the other hand, I tried to consider the possibility that the Buddhist description of hungry ghosts may fit microorganisms in this question. If you look up YouTube video talks of physicist Prof. Lawrence Krauss, you would find that physics is slowly finding reasons for the lack of intelligent design in the study of cosmology. In this answer, you can find the links between neuroscience and Buddhist meditation. Also, you can read the 14th Dalai Lama's "Science at the Crossroads" talk given in 2005. Excerpt below: 

I’m not sure what you mean by six stages here. Actually, it seems that the rebirth/samsara concept was not that old when Buddhism came on the scene. Gananath Obeyesekere is an anthropologist who wrote a book about rebirth across a range of cultures. He begins by trying to situate the Buddhist idea of ethical rebirth in the history of Indian religion: 

Bytebuster, as a fellow Bangkokian I’m happy to try to answer this question! This arrangement of images in various postures according to the days of the week is a Thai Buddhist practice, and it doesn’t seem to be very old, dating from the early Bangkok Period (post 1780s). Let’s consider them from an artistic perspective first. According to Jean Boisselier: 

Billionaire businessmen can support society by creating jobs, fulfill the needs and wants of the people through supply for demand, and be philanthropists (similar to Bill Gates and Warren Buffett) who donate to charitable causes and also to Buddhist causes. As pointed out by Samana Johann, Anathapindika is a great example of a very wealthy man in the time of the Buddha, who used his wealth to contribute to the spread of the Dhamma. 

My understanding of dependent origination is very far from perfect, and this is how I see it. Imagine you were placed in very deep sleep (a medically induced coma) using General Anaesthesia (GA), maybe for a surgery. During this time, you have no mental activities, but you have brain activities. When you are off the GA, you slowly wake up again. Let's skip the ignorance part for now. You will have mental formations again. Here, it simply means that the mental activities reactivate as you wake up from deep sleep. A computer analogy would be software booting from reset. Next, the mental formations give rise to consciousness. Here, mental formations encounter the six media (eye, ears, nose, tongue, body or touch, and intellect), and become conscious, projecting awareness towards the six media. The software now initializes itself, and is ready for action. While eyes and ears are the hardware, eye-consciousness and ear-consciousness are the parts of the software that connects to that hardware. Think of it as a digital-to-analog interface in computer terms. Next, consciousness gives rise to name-form, a sense of being an individual. It's like software interacting with hardware (inputs, outputs, storage etc.), to give rise to a system. The software or "name" is feeling, perception, intention, contact, and attention. The hardware or "form" is the physical body. Think of it as software drivers all talking to the hardware and now initializing the hardware interface. Next, the six media are ready to encounter objects: eye, ears, nose, tongue, body or touch, and intellect. The hardware interface is now initialized and linked to software, ready to provide inputs. Next, the meeting between the object (e.g. milk for tongue), the sense media (the tongue) and consciousness (in this case, tongue-conciousness), is called contact. Next, contact gives rise to feeling, in this case, the taste of milk on the tongue. The others are vision, hearing, smell, tactile sensation, and intellectual sensation (thought). Next, feeling gives rise to craving. Here, like a newborn baby tasting milk, now likes this taste. The baby feels hunger (tactile or body sensation) and does not like it. Next, craving gives rise to clinging or attachment. The baby remembers and longs for the pleasant taste of milk, even when he is not directly tasting it, especially if he feels hungry. Next, clinging or attachment gives rise to becoming. "Becoming" here means "habitual or emotional tendencies". Now the baby forms associations or rules like hunger is not good, milk is good, when hungry cry for milk etc. The baby would be unhappy when it wants milk but does not receive it, so it will cry. While drinking milk, it will enjoy it and after drinking, it will be satisfied. These are emotional tendencies. The computer analogy is machine learning with reinforcement learning strategy. The computer learns what is good and bad, forms rules and acts accordingly. Next, becoming gives rise to "birth" - the birth of a person. The baby is now a fully functional person in samsara. All systems go. The computer analogy is a fully functional embedded computing device, living and interacting on the Internet of Things. When there is birth and existence as a person, eventually there will be aging, decay and death. After death, if there's still ignorance, then mental formations will rise again in a new lifetime. To end suffering, the Buddha taught in the Four Noble Truths, to end craving. And to end craving, he taught the Noble Eightfold Path as the technique. 

Basham cites the same Upanishad text as Obesekere as the first appearance of the rebirth doctrine, but in a “primitive” form. In this text, he points out, 

In The Wonder that was India, A. L. Basham writes about “transmigration” as a new development in Indic religion: 

So each posture is meant to show an event in the historical Buddha’s lifetime, they do not identify different bodhisattvas. Rāma III, a king who ruled from roughly 1825 to 1850, had a list of 40 postures compiled which became the standard for Thai art. Artists during earlier dynasties sometimes innovated new postures, an example being the graceful “walking Buddhas” of the Sukhothai period (13-15th centuries). Besides a posture for each day, there are postures assigned to the twelve months and the twelve years under the Thai calendar (a cycle similar to the Chinese year of the horse, tiger etc.) While these monthly and yearly postures are not as well known, you might find them represented in temple art if you looked. Here’s a list of the days and postures: 

Are there any rituals in Buddhism? Do rituals in itself can be become a source of attachment? The more grandiose the ritual , the more the merit! If there is a ritual, what is the right way of conducting a ritual that doesn't invoke materialistic thoughts and actions. 

What can be object of contemplation during meditation? Can I take a puzzle or mathematical problem for contemplation? What is the right way of contemplation? 

Which is the one Sutta/Text that covers all of Buddha's Teaching? I require only one book which I can carry with me and it should have Buddha's delivery in original language and its translation in English. 

I learn new things every day, which on use becomes knowledge and wisdom over the years. From Buddhism point of view, I can reincarnate in different world and time , can remember my previous birth. What does Buddhism say of samsaric knowledge gained on previous birth? Is it accessible to new reincarnate being? 

It’s impossible for us to know if the rebirth concept came from some other tradition within India, since no texts have survived. Anyway, it seems to have been “in the air” during the Buddha’s lifetime. Probably the intellectual appeal of the concept, the justification it gives to ethical behavior, helped Buddhism spread and establish itself. Also, the whole point of Obeyesekere’s book is that this idea is not unique to India – you also find it in Native American cultures, for instance. Sources (bold text is my emphasis): Gananath Obesekere, Imagining Karma: Ethical Transformation in Amerindian, Buddhist and Greek Rebirth (U. of California Press, 2002), pp. 1-2. A.L. Basham, The Wonder that was India, (Rupa 3rd ed., 1967), p. 242. 

From the Sigalovada Sutta, we find a quotation below that covers taking what is not given and lying, which could be related to money laundering. 

Also, don't forget that it may not be easy for unenlightened individuals to know who the Buddha really is, just like the case in the Dona Sutta and also the Ariyapariyesana Sutta: 

An explanation here from Walshe on the residual "I am" (for the case where Khemaka has no wrong views but he is still not yet an arahant): 

This is a teaching on anatta. However, this may not work for everyone as it did on Bahiya, because Bahiya apparently was already advanced in attainment. Please see this answer. For complete beginners, study of the Dhamma (in order to cultivate Right View) and practice of the five precepts and virtue (sila) is recommended. Please see this answer. 

Note that some very common and meaningful postures, like the abhayamudra or subduing Māra, seated with right hand touching the ground, are not part of this set. It’s true that these day-images are mainly for laypeople, and it may be frowned upon for monks to occupy themselves with something you might regard as superstition. Often when the images are arranged in a row with candles in front, people pay respect to each one in turn by pouring oil on the candles, rather than focusing on their day only. There are always more prominent images (and murals) in the assembly hall in any case. More generally, we shouldn’t be tempted to think of Thai Buddhists as solely concerned with protective magic and astrology. King Mongkut, who succeeded Rāma III, had been a monk for over 20 years. As king, he founded the Thammayut order partly because he wanted the sangha to concentrate on textual study rather than magical practices. Finally, let me point out that Burma has something similar to this. The Buddha images at each day’s station (arrayed around the central stupa) don’t vary, but there are different animals for each (a tiger for Monday and so on). Take a look at the wiki page for the Shwedagon Pagoda for details, as well as a picture of Barack Obama “pouring water over the shoulder of the Friday Buddha”! For the Burmese, the day of your birth also can influence the name you are given, one example being the 1950s prime minister U Nu, whose memoir was entitled “Saturday’s Son”. Note: The quote here is from Jean Boisselier, The Heritage of Thai Sculpture (Asia Books 1975) p. 202. For information in Thai, look for titles like พระพุทธรูปปางต่างๆ. ปาง (paang) is the Thai word for posture here. In English there is K. Matics, Gestures of the Buddha. 

Sometimes people think that the self doesn't exist. That's not true. The self definitely exists. However, the self is not permanent and it's not independently or absolutely existing. It's formed out of its dependencies to different aggregates according to dependent origination. The Buddha, you and I are therefore not wrong to use "I" to refer to ourselves. It's true in a relative sense but not in an absolute sense. The achievement of Nirvana goes far deeper than the artificial correction of semantics. 

Please see below. The taking of refuge is in the "ideal" Sangha when considering the accuracy of the teachings, but in the "conventional" Sangha, when considering a debt of gratitude to the "conventional" sangha. This means that you don't need to believe that a certain Ajahn or Mahathera is infallible in his accuracy of teaching, as the Ajahn or Mahathera can be considered to fall into the conventional definition of the word Sangha, since we cannot be absolutely certain of his spiritual attainment and virtues. When unsure, use the Buddha's Words in the suttas as your teacher, as it is said in the Mahaparinibbana Sutta: "Now, if it occurs to any of you — 'The teaching has lost its authority; we are without a Teacher' — do not view it in that way. Whatever Dhamma & Vinaya I have pointed out & formulated for you, that will be your Teacher when I am gone." From Thanissaro Bhikkhu's essay on Refuge: 

It’s worth remembering here that general naming practices in different Asian cultures often differ from our own. In traditional Thailand (before 1935 or so), government officials received a new name when they took up a new rank in the hierarchy, besides the actual rank title. For example, there is a scholar of Thai culture who is now known as Phraya Anuman Rajadhon (1888-1969). Phraya was his official title, the rest is the name he took when he received the title. (His descendants use A-R as their family name.) Earlier in his life, he had other names: since his family was Chinese, he was born Li Kuang-jung, and in Thai he was known as Yong Sathienkoset. When people have multiple names like this, each used in a different context or life phase, another name taken when ordaining would seem perfectly natural. Note also: in Thailand today, parents seeking a name for a new child will often go to a monk for suggestions. And a person who wants change his or her given name for luck or some other personal reason will also usually consult a monk. It may be that this is “not Buddhist,” but anyway it’s common practice.