This is a little crude, in more ways than one.  Perhaps somebody can suggest improvements to (cough cough) clean it up. First of all, they’ll want to have a reservoir (or cistern) at (or, more likely, below) ground level.  This would allow them to capture and hold spring water temporarily, in case the spring and/or the pumping mechanism have varying flow rates.  (I’ll get back to that.)  If they’re collecting rainwater at ground level, they’re probably already doing this. As in initial capability, immediately after the apocalypse (or maybe even before), this could be as simple as a pond around the spring.  Given time to establish some infrastructure, there should probably be such a cistern in each building; this provides some security against bandits/raiders.  Rig something so that the water from the spring runs through pipes or other channels into the holding tanks in the basements of the buildings.  (Try to make it hard for attackers to slip poison into the reservoirs.) One added security measure is “security through obscurity” — after you have built a plumbing system that pipes the spring water into the buildings, bury it.  This may make it somewhat harder for adversaries to steal your water or tamper with the system.  Ideally, it will make the spring invisible. The question of getting the water to the upper floors remains.  Renan suggested a “bucketwheel”: 

So in the end, you could certainly create a gun blade. It would break easier than either a sword or gun alone. It wouldn't support large blades or sweet sword fights while dodging bullets (which would admittedly look awesome). I guess in short, it can be done but it just isn't practical in any real way. 

1. Animal, Monster, Humanoid or Hybrid This is pretty strait forward. You have to have a design in mind, or you can go the other direction and have a niche, role etc in mind. Maybe it is something like "is able to successfully hunt humans." The role can define how the race is designed 2. General attributes. In the DnD world this equates to; Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, Intelligence, Wisdom and Charisma Each creature/humanoid monster is score on a scale of 1 to 20 (with exceptions). 10 is average and the creature incurs no benefits or penalties, the higher, the better the bonus, the lower the number the more of a problem. As an example, an animal, lets say a panther would look something like this (mind you I don't have my monster manual in front of me so I am making this up). Str: 12 Dex: 16 Con: 10 Int: 4 Wis: 8 Cha: 6 3. Now that you have your basic attributes you can start considering body design. More strength = more muscle mass, more dexterity, longer limbs perhaps, constitution more...bear like. Keep in mind the first three attributes are physical and the last three are mental. One good trick on this stage is to look at an existing creature that is known for certain things. Bears are really really tough so it can give you an idea of what a character with a really strong constitution looks like. Same goes for Str and Dex. Try to avoid cobbling pieces together too much, alien life forms can get weird and make people wonder how natural selection could ever have selected for something like it... 4. Skills Skills are simply what your race is known for being good at. Maybe they are super stealthy, athletic, magicians, etc etc etc, the list goes on and on in this case. 5. Environment This isn't so much a step as something you need to keep in mind throughout. The environment these creatures (with the exception of magically created or portal-ed things) live in will have defined how they look. You are not going to have a stealthy purple and red striped cat that lives in a brown environment...it would be seen by prey a mile away...then it would starve to death and die. Just remember to keep the world in which the creature exists in mind while you are designing it or you may get to the end and think...this makes no sense. Other notes: 

Polymorphs are similar to allotropes, but the term allotrope applies only to elements, while polymorph applies only to compounds.  Polymorphs are most often found in minerals and organic compounds (e.g., pharmaceuticals).  There are polymorphs of ice (solid $\mathrm{H_2O}$), but the ordinary ice that forms on puddles in winter (and that we make in our freezers and put into our drinks) is the only one that can exist at standard pressure.  However, Kurt Vonnegut’s novel Cat’s Cradle stipulates that there are others that can exist at standard pressure.  In particular, one called “ice-nine” has a melting point of $\mathrm{45.8\:°C}$ $(\mathrm{114.4\:°F})$, so it is stable at room temperature — and, indeed, on most of the Earth.  It has the additional property that if any liquid (or gaseous) $\mathrm{H_2O}$ comes into contact with ice-nine, it immediately freezes and also becomes ice-nine.  For most of the book, the ice-nine is kept carefully controlled and locked away.  But eventually it escapes into the environment and causes all the oceans to freeze, and it’s pretty much curtains for mankind. Oxygen has allotropes, too.  The best known ones are ordinary, atmospheric oxygen $(\mathrm{O_2})$ and ozone $(\mathrm{O_3})$, but there are others, including tetraoxygen $(\mathrm{O_4})$, which is unstable (or metastable).  Wikipedia notes: 

But you didn't want to know just how but rather why. Well considering they are not real I am pretty sure that just means you can dictate the answer...they are your creations after all. 

Large scale nationalized program. The larger the nation the more difficult this will be and the more the program will be violated, no matter the consequences. You could either go the strait up dictatorial mandate route with punishments and forced compliance, or you could go the directive with incentives route. 

There are several methods to accomplish anything and this situation is no exception but all the methods revolve around the same concept. Dehumanize the opposing faction, make them a threat to your group's way of life and then utilize trickery to get a fight started. Methods: Assumption 

The answer totally depends on the situation into which you are putting your spies. As the others mentioned odds are they should be dressing to blend in with their surroundings, so in those cases whatever the locals are into. If on the other hand you are setting up a series of tests with laser grids and all that, skin tight is exactly what you want. There is something to be said for a skin-tight outfit in hand to hand combat as well and it is the same reason professional military commanders started requiring hair cuts way back to antiquity. It gives the enemy one less thing to grab onto when grappling or using melee weapons. The short answer: It depends on the situation, but skin tight outfits (that don't impair mobility) are not as ludicrous as they may initially seem. 

They learned it by listening to our radio and television broadcasts.  They could have learned other languages that way, but America’s Got Talent and Britain’s Got Talent were the only shows they liked. 

but handwaved the power source.  (For the record, I thought of this before I read the answers.)  If there’s power to spare, there are many options.  But the question said that all the solar power is accounted for, and that fuel (for the generators) is scarce, and I assume that the building complex isn’t within walking distance of a forest, a coal mine, or an oil well.  If the spring provides enough power to drive the bucketwheel (or bucket conveyor belt) and lift water 18 stories, that’s great, but that strikes me as unlikely. One idea that hasn’t been mentioned is to have a dual-track bucket conveyor belt.  One track would bring water up; the other would take waste material down, and thus provide the power to drive the belt and lift the water.  I am thinking specifically of toilet-type waste.  There might be others, but I imagine that these survivors would recycle as much as possible. The rate of disposal of waste varies with the time of day.  This is why it’s important to collect the spring water all the time, so the water that emerges from the spring overnight, and at other periods of low waste-disposal activity, doesn’t just go into the ground. Of course, if they’re using washing water, urine and feces in their gardens, this won’t work. 

An idea came to me while thinking about the "how do you make the blade stop where you want it" problem. If you were to create a localized magnetic field (it would have to be quite strong). If you slightly modify the saber to include a cap of sorts... 

So you are rebel, your name is Norn, and you are hidden away in a lovely forest swarming with all kinds of little critters, in the middle kingdom where the king and his formidable military are hunting you and would like nothing more than to decapitate you and every one of your rebel buddies...the king is a bit of a jerk. You are unfortunately ill prepared to face the king and his armies, they are well armed and armored while at best you and your rebel friends are wearing a bit of leather here and there and metal weapons are few and far between. Your rebel group is brave but hasn't been terribly effective in achieving the long term goal of removing the king's butt from his cushy throne, and several generations of rebels have continued living in the forest (we are attempting to remove despot king #4 here...really slow rebels). Word from informants in the capital has reached you and it is bad news. The King's army is marching on the forest intent on eliminating your little band of merry men (TM). The army will outnumber the rebels by about 5 to 1, it will be a mix of unarmored archers, knights on foot (as heavy as possible armor), and lightly armored infantry. The kings forces number roughly 5000, and contain 500 archers, 500 knights and the remainder are mixed light infantry. Looking around at what resources are available to you it comes to your attention that the forest creatures are familiar and friendly with the rebels, many of whom keep them as pets and companions. Maybe, just maybe, you could utilize the creatures in battle. Certainly the pets will stay with their masters, but what of the others that may be willing to aid you? Limitations 

Building on one aspect of AndreiROM’s comprehensive answer, I am reminded of The Space Eater by David Langford, in which 

I haven’t done the math on this (but (a) you specified science-based and not hard-science, and (b) you’re allowing magic):  The chasm lies under a deposit of some substance that’s many times denser than rock (neutonium?).  It exerts an upwards gravitational pull on the space immediately below it; with enough mass, it should be able to create a region where the gravitational field is zero (or infinitesimal).  Unfortunately(?), that also produces a higher than normal gravitational field on the surface above the deposit (i.e., above the abyss), but (handwave handwave …).          It’s hard to image such a structure occurring naturally, or being stable if it does exist.  It would probably collapse under its own weight.  So enter deus ex machina… it’s a constructed artefact (perhaps by a lost civilization, or by aliens).  (The builders might still live a mile lower.)  To support this notion (pun intended), I’ve added a second layer of the substance below the chasm, with pillars holding up the upper layer. This doesn’t address the viscosity of the air.  But, if you stipulate that the chasm is accessed by tunnels from the ocean floor, you can argue that the atmospheric pressure is much higher than that at the surface, and that’s a start. 

The concept you have in mind is plenty believable for fiction but there are a few changes I think would be necessary. These aren't going to be trees. Tree is a specific name for a specific type of plant. Trees require soil and can't handle salt water (in most situations). They are also generally hard and inflexible which would be detrimental if they exist in a medium that is constantly in motion, meaning the ocean. So in short the type of plant you describe could likely exist but it would definitely not be a tree. It would likely be some sort of super seaweed. You would also probably need to consider allowing your super seaweed to take root in shallow waters allowing for more nutrients and larger growth. The size you are looking for will be tough to get to if they are completely free floating all the time. It may not be relevant to your story but in your head you should also probably consider that they had to have evolved the ability to trap and consume fish if you want to go that route meaning that being able to take root or something similar would have been needed earlier in the evolutionary history of the organism. Also...humans wouldn't evolve as humans on this world so keep that in mind...either they are transplants or humanoid but not quite human. 

Do this in a handwavium mine, and you’ve got parallel universes. You should look at the “Apprentice Adept” series by Piers Anthony.  It takes place in two parallel universes that have limited points of contact / overlap.  He doesn’t explain how this came to be; 

It’s not important that any of these actually be appropriate for or commensurate to the danger that’s within; it’s only important to convey the message that the builders of the prison thought that the demon was dangerous. There’s a concept in physical security of “security in depth”: protecting physical assets with locked doors, fences, human guards, dogs, motion detectors, etc.  Computers have similar layers of defense, such as firewalls, compartments, containers and domains.  This answer represents an “in depth” approach to the psychological aspect of this problem.  After 99+ millennia, the best schemes for documenting the evil may break down.  Even if the warnings are understood, some people will defy them, perhaps believing them to be a deception, intended to keep people away from something valuable (like the warning signs that muggles see when they approach Hogwarts).  The techniques described in this answer should be easily understood 100K years from now, and might convince people who (willfully or otherwise) are not deterred by the other warnings. 

Eden is going to be a handful and you are going to need tools specifically designed to capture this unique person. Lucky for you some of the tools already exist 

In short there would be major impacts on productivity half the year. Things would be slower and people less...awake so to speak. Though the six months fog free would probably be very vibrant and productive...so there you go. Oh...and solar and wind power are not things that are going to function on this landmass. 

Went and found a list of human blood components on Wikipedia. Every building block of human life is in there. Is it there in quantities to support a human who functioned on nothing but blood...probably not. Especially considering that a human consuming blood usually gets nausea. All the major proteins (that I can think of), fats, minerals, sugars, etc etc etc are present in blood which makes sense as the body's pick-up and delivery system. But you can make the assumption that vampires don't require the same exact nutrients as a human. If they're not biologically different then...well they're not vampires. So yes, you're sane. 

Now suppose that $\mathrm{O_5}$ is stable at standard atmospheric pressure and temperature.  And suppose that, like ice-nine, it acts as a catalyst, converting $\mathrm{O_2}$ (and maybe also $\mathrm{O_3}$) into $\mathrm{O_5}$, and that this conversion is very hard to undo (think particle accelerator).  It would be quite reasonable to expect $\mathrm{O_5}$ not to react chemically the way $\mathrm{O_2}$ does (remember the differences between the characteristics of diamonds and graphite).  Once this stuff got into the lungs of an oxygen breather, it would convert all the ordinary oxygen (including, eventually, the stuff in hemoglobin) into $\mathrm{O_5}$, which would not give the cells what they need.  You’d suffocate. Or maybe it’s just very, very bad for you — like ozone. I don’t know how $\mathrm{O_5}$ would be created with pre-WWI technology, but the existence of tetraoxygen $(\mathrm{O_4})$ was first predicted in 1924 as a result of experiments with liquid oxygen — so that technology existed then.  You would need very little handwavium to explain how somebody cooled oxygen, past the point where it condenses into a liquid, near to its freezing temperature, and this caused $\mathrm{O_5}$ crystals to form.  When allowed to thaw, they did not decompose, but rather started a Cat’s Cradle-like chain reaction that converted all the oxygen on the planet into toxic $\mathrm{O_5}$.