An asteroid impact in the ocean is an oversized example of throwing a pebble in a pond - both will produce waves in a concentric pattern from the point of impact. The height of the waves and the energy they would have would depend on the amount of energy the asteroid transferred to the water at the impact sight. The energy transferred will depend on the kinetic energy of the asteroid at the moment of impact, this being a function of the mass and velocity of the asteroid; based on the classical equation for kinetic energy: $E_k = 0.5mv^2$. Hence, an asteroid with a very large mass and high velocity could transfer enough energy that could create tsunamis. The best example of this is the impact that created the Chicxulub crater in the Yucatan peninsular, that lead to the creation of the K-T boundary and the extinction of the dinosaurs. That impact created a mega tsunami that affected the coastal southern state of the USA, from Texas to Florida. 

One issue that you've got is the area will be contaminated with fragments of plastic that are microscopic in size to large pieces and they will be at varying depths throughout the soil. To most people that wouldn't be much of a problem, but for you, who wants to grow food with an organic certification it's going to be a major problem. Setting fire to that land and burning the plastic with dried vegetation is not a option for you and your desired organic accreditation. If you can't use the land for another purpose, such a site for new buildings, a parking lot for visitors, or a new roadway you may need to dig deeply to remove the affected soil, and more, and then import replacement soil from elsewhere. 

Depending on the location, evaporation data is collected by some meteorological organisations. Class A pans or Symon's pans are used to collect daily evaporation data for selected sites. In Australia, such data is gridded to produce images like this one, from the Australian Bureau of Meteorology. 

National Geographic made a documentary called Drain the Ocean, this is You Tube link to part one. the other three parts are there as well. 

It happened and it is still happening: In the USA, there's the Bingham Canyon copper mine in Utah. In Australia, there's the Mount Whaleback and Mount Tom Price iron ore mines in Western Australia and former mines like Iron Knob and Iron Monarch in the Middleback Ranges of South Australia, near Whyalla. In West Papuan province of Indonesia there's the Grasberg gold and copper mine. The Ok Tedi copper and gold mine in Papua New Guinea is well into the process of mining the mountain. 

A flood occurs when land that is normally dry is covered by water. The source of the flood water is generally from bodies of water, such as: rivers, lakes, dams and even the ocean. Rivers can flood, when: 

In addition to the answer by farrenthorpe, the other way to try to valid someone's results is to develop procedures and computer programs yourself, from first principles. This is a lot more tedious and time consuming and can be difficult, particularly for complex models and data. However, it is a method by which validation can be confirmed or refuted independently. 

The naming of typhoons, in the north west pacific region, is different to that used by other parts of the world. According to accuweather, 

Both the tropics of Capricorn and Cancer are 23.43692 degrees from the equator. So the angular distance between the two is 46.8738 degrees (2 x 23.437) of latitude. One nautical mile is defined as one minute of latitude. This is equivalent to one 1/60 of a degree. Thus, the distance between the tropics, along the surface of the earth is 60 x 46.8738 = 2812.4304 minutes of latitude. Also, one nautical mile is 1.852 km and 1.1508 miles. Thus, 2812.43 minutes of latitude is 5208.6 km or 3236.5 miles 

According to the Seamount Catalog that particular seamount is unnamed. From the co-ordinates you gave (16.12 N, 152 E) the nearest seamount is Del Cano Seamount with co-ords of 16 N, 148 23' E, which is about 3.5 degrees of longitude to the west of the seamount you are asking about. 

The Earth's surface temperature is largely determined by the amount of energy it receives from the Sun and how much of that energy is reflected back into the cosmos. Weather system circulate that energy in the atmosphere. Heat within the Earth is the result of two main processes, residual heat from planetary accretion and heat from radioactive decay. The main decay elements are potassium-40, uranium-238, uranium-235, and thorium-232 . The temperature of the Earth increases with depth. For most of the Earth, the geothermal gradient (the rate at which temperature increases) particularly in the crust, is $25$ $^oC$ per km. In subduction zones, where one tectonic plate goes under another tectonic plate (two plates converge), localized heating occurs due to friction between the plates. Subduction zones are locations with high rates of volcanism, earthquakes and mountain building; as occurs in New Zealand. Geological hotspots are volcanic locations where it is thought the mantle is anomalously hot compared to the surrounding mantle. They occur on or near plate boundaries, or far away from them. Hawaii is a hotspot away from a plate boundary and in the middle of the largest ocean on Earth. Yellowstone is a hotspot on land, near the plate boundaries along the west coast of North America. Iceland is thought to be a hot spot on a diverging plate boundary in the middle of the Atlantic Arctic region. The Volcanism of Earth has nothing to do with the surface temperature of the planet, it's all about geological processes where molten rock is forced to the surface of the planet under pressure. Additionally, volcanism isn't confined to the Earth. Mars was once volcanic, Venus still is, as is the Jovian moon Io, the Saturnine moon Enceladus and the Neptunian moon Triton. These are examples of volcanism within our solar system. Except for Venus, all the other locations of volcanism in the solar system have very cold surface temperatures. On Io, 

The reason why fog bows lack colour, compared to rainbows, is due to the size of the drops of water. Fog is composed of very small drops of water - less than 0.05 mm diameter. Because of this the wavelength of light is critical, with diffraction smearing out colours that the larger drops of water in a rainbow would make. 

The other thing that Danny Harvey states in his document is that 4 Gt of limestone would need to be deposited in the oceans annually for at least 200 years for "a modest additional benefit". 

This is a very big stretch of the imagination and the technology to do so does not exist and most likely never will. But, adapting noise cancelling technology to cancelling the waves produced by earthquakes could be considered. A system to do so would require an earthquake monitoring system coupled with a wave & strength analysis system that would then produce an out of phase wave pattern to cancel out the earthquake waves. Some of the problems with this would be the response times required & how to generate a out of phase wave system of equal magnitude to the earthquake waves. Extreme care would be needed so that the out of phase wave generator did not cause a similar amount of damage, or more, than the earthquake waves. Also, the out of phase wave generator would need to be able to produce wave patterns at extreme short notice, repeatedly & possible continuously to ensure immediate responses. The wave generator would also have to produce waves of extreme complexity in three dimensions from pulse waves to shearing type waves. To ensure fast analysis times of complex wave patterns, quantum computers (which currently do not exist) would need to be used. Such a system would be complex and expensive.