Real closed fields are not complete (unless they are isomorphic to the reals), so the fact that some increasing sequence is bounded does not imply that it has a supremum. If x is the sum of the harmonic series, then we seem to get x=1+ 1/3 + ...+ 1/2+1/4+...>1/2+1/4...+1/2+1/4+..=x/2+x/2 = x, suggesting that x does not exist in any real closed field. 

My guess for some examples is the family of (genus 2) hyperelliptic curves y2=degree 6 poly in x passing through n "randomly chosen" rational points (for n=2,3,4,5, or 6). The family of such curves has dimension 7-n, and I would guess that if a hyperelliptic curve has n "random" rational points on it then the Q rank of its Jacobian is usually at least n-1. An obvious place to look for explicit examples is MR1406090 Cassels, J. W. S.; Flynn, E. V. Prolegomena to a middlebrow arithmetic of curves of genus 2. London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series, 230. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1996. ISBN: 0-521-48370-0 

Siegel showed that an Eisenstein series is a certain constant times the sum of weighted theta functions of all lattices in some genus. The lattices are weighted by 1/automorphism group. For example, for even unimodular lattices of dimension 8 there is only one such lattice, so Siegel's result says the Eisenstein series E4 is the theta function of this lattice. Siegel's result does not generalize to GLn in an obvious way, but does generalize to Siegel modular forms for the symplectic group Sp2n, where the corrresponding Eisenstein series is again a linear combination of theta functions (of several variables). Even the special case of the trivial group Sp0 is interesting: it is the Smith-Minkowski-Siegel mass formula giving the sum of the weights of the lattices in a genus. 

The series Σane-λnz are called (generalized) Dirichlet series, and are special cases of the Laplace transform of a discrete measure. For t=e-z you get the power series with fractional exponents you are asking about. See Widder's book "The Laplace transform" for more details. 

I'm collecting different apparently unrelated ways in which the ring (or rather Hopf algebra with $\langle,\rangle$) of symmetric functions $Z[e_1,e_2,\ldots]$ turns up (for a Lie groups course I will be giving next year). So far I have: *The ring of symmetric functions *Irreducible representations of symmetric groups =Schur functions *Irreducible representations of general linear groups = Schur functions *The homology of $BU$, the classifying space of the infinite unitary group. (It also turns up in several other related generalized homology rings of spectra.) *The universal commutative $\lambda$-ring on one generator $e_1$ *The coordinate ring of the group scheme of power series $1+e_1x+e_2x^2+\cdots$ under multiplication What other examples have I missed? 

According to this paper (MR0949111 Davenport, James H. Heintz, Joos Real quantifier elimination is doubly exponential. J. Symbolic Comput. 5 (1988), no. 1-2, 29--35) the problem of deciding the truth of a question in the theory of real closed fields (a slight extension of Euclidean geometry) is doubly exponential: the time needed to decide the truth of a sentence of length n can be as much as 2^2^cn, and I think there is an algorithm to do it in this time. This is about the same as the bound for D(n) given in the question. I have a sort of hunch that the 2 bounds may be related, but I can't offhand see a direct connection between them. 

I'm looking for interesting applications of Lie groups for an introductory Lie groups graduate course. In particular I'd like to hear of non-standard examples that at first sight do not seem to be related to Lie groups (so please don't suggest well-known things like Clifford algebras or triality that appear in standard Lie groups texts such as Fulton and Harris). Here are some examples of the sorts of things I'm looking for: *The cohomology of a compact Kaehler manifold is a representation of SL2, so the Hopf manifold cannot be Kaehler. *q-binomial coefficients are unimodal, as they are characters of representations of SL2 *Hilbert's theorem on the finite generation of rings of invariants can be proved using invariant integration on compact Lie groups. *Holomorphic modular forms are really highest weight vectors of discrete series representations of certain Lie groups. *Most closed 3-manifolds are quotients of SL2(C) by discrete subgroups. *Bessel functions cannot be expressed using elementary functions and indefinite integration. (Differential Galois theory was one of Lie's original motivations, but seems to have been eliminated from texts on Lie theory.) *Classifying manifolds up to cobordism uses orthogonal groups. 

The vertices of a snub cube form a metric space with 24 points that is homogeneous but not bihomogeneous: the edges of the squares have a "direction" associated with them. Added later: here is an example with just 6 points: take an equilateral triangle with sides of length 1, and take the 6 points on the edges that are distance 1/4 from a vertex. Added later: There are no examples with less than 6 points; for example, for 5 points there are 10 edges so there are at most 2 possible lengths with 5 edges of each length, which gives essentially only 1 configuration and this is bihomogeneous. Less than 5 points is easy to do case by case. 

Higman and Sims showed that the number of groups of order pm is somewhere around p2m3/27, up to some smallish correction that I cant remember offhand. This is vastly bigger than the size of the typical automorphism group of such groups, so dividing by the automorphism group does not make much significant difference to this number. The number of groups of order at most N is dominated by those of order a power of 2. (The next most common are those of order 3 times a power of 2). The number of groups of given order N has been worked out exactly for N up to about 2000. 

By high school mathematics I mean Elementary Function Arithmetic (EFA), where one is allowed +,×, xy, and a weak form of induction for formulas with bounded quantifiers. This is much weaker than primitive recursive arithmetic, which is in turn much weaker than Peano arithmetic, which is in turn much weaker than ZFC that we normally work in. However there seem to be very few theorems (about integers) that are known to require anything more than this incredibly weak system to prove them. The few theorems that I know need more than this include: *Consistency results for various stronger systems (following Godel). This includes results such as the Paris Harrington theorem and Goodstein sequences that are cleverly disguised forms of consistency results. *Some results in Ramsey theory, saying that anything possible will happen in a sufficiently large set. Typical examples: Gowers proved a very large lower bound for Szemeredi's lemma showing that it cannot be proved in elementary function arithmetic, and the Robertson-Seymour graph minor theorem is known to require such large functions that it is unprovable in Peano arithmetic. I can think of no results at all (about integers) outside these areas (mathematical logic, variations of Ramsey theory) that are known to require anything more than EFA to prove. A good rule of thumb is that anything involving unbounded towers of exponentials is probably not provable in EFA, and conversely if there is no function this large then one might suspect the result is provable in EFA. So my question is : does anyone know of natural results in "ordinary" mathematics (number theory, algebraic geometry, Lie groups, operator algebras, differential geometry, combinatorics, etc...) in which functions larger than a finite tower of exponentials occur in a serious way? In practice this is probably more or less equivalent to asking for theorems about integers unprovable in EFA. Related links: $URL$ about Friedman asking a similar question. By the way, encoding deep results as Diophantine equations and so on is cheating. And please do not make remarks suggesting that Fermat's last theorem needs inaccessible cardinals unless you understand Wiles's proof.