Use a water bottle. Every 100 (4 lengths or 2 laps), move the bottle one tile over. The bigger question is, what specific purpose is served by a workout of 1km straight swimming, other than to know you can do it? 

It depends, there are quite a few different formulas available, depending on who was doing the research, and when it was performed. To some extent, the method used to determine the calories burned can have an effect on the formula. $URL$ That is a link to a published study from Syracuse University, comparing several different methods of calculating calorie burn. If you are looking at a watch, treadmill or other device that is measuring it for you, somewhere in their literature they should be describing what method they are using. 

This was a report by a consumer watchdog organization. The industry asked for and got an independent review by NSF/ANSI, which basically a third party non governmental testing group. It passed their testings. The consumer group also reported that there were varying levels in samples, and not all samples produced the same results. That being said, I would classify the protein drinks kind of like the Hitchhikers entry for Earth - "Mostly Harmless". If you need a quick drink or are behind on protein intake for a day, then I have no problem drinking any protein drinks. If you find yourself needing it long term, then I would assess your diet plan to see why you are always coming up short on protein needs. There are also some concerns about the presence of aspartame, which breaks down in the body to formaldehyde and...formic acid? These have been known to cause migraines and other health complications. Also, heavy metals don't flush from the body easily, so if you continually have high intake, you could potentially see some complications. My best advice when you see something like this is to garner as much information from reputable sources, and consider the original source. The consumer watchdog group's prime reason for existence is to sell the results of their surveys. Their article even states that not all samples produced this, but it's a one liner tucked away from the blaring graph of the ones that DID have detectable levels. 

It's pretty subjective, as it's going to be according to your own healing rate. However, the reason that they have not really caused any pain before, is that while they are turning black and falling off, they are still acting as a protective cover for the nail bed (Much like a scab for a scrape/cut). In this case, I am assuming that for health reasons, they had to completely remove the nail (or a significant portion), so it is basically like having an open wound with no scab. If you can stand the pain, there probably isn't any danger in running, but I am not familiar with the potential for damaging the nail bed (And thus, having a permanently deformed nail), so I would defer that part of the question to a medical professional. 

Why would you want to cut your water intake? The sweating is your body attempting to shed heat and cool itself. If you deliberately cut your water intake, you are short circuiting your cooling efforts. Also, you are not only losing water weight. You are also using up glycogen, which has a weight to it. An hour run is long enough you will see a significant change in your weight due to both water and glycogen use. As you get more adapted to the climate, your need for water may diminish as a natural consequence, but don't try to force the issue. You may just end up introducing heat exhaustion/stroke instead. 

There are a few low tech methods: Toothpaste (Smear a bit then rinse free, be cautious as some people are sensitive to toothpaste around the eyes) Saliva Anti Fog spray I've had good results with the aquasphere line, but eventually all glasses fog over. I usually just spit on the insides, smear around, then rinse them out and slap them back on. During practice, I generally just smear pool water over the inside with my thumbs. After a while, fogginess just doesn't bother you any more. 

In general, it is not really necessary to swim overlong long distance sets, as there is no real training benefit other than mentally knowing that you can swim the distance. Even for competitive swimmers doing the 1500, workouts will rarely have that distance in the plan. There is more benefit to swimming a set such as 6x500 on :10 rest than there is in swimming 2x1500, or 1x3000, and if you can complete a set like that, then there shouldn't be any problem in being able to swim the distance straight. Example for clarification: If you have a 3000m race, and you are thinking that you can swim that in 1 hour (60 minutes), then you should be able to do 6x500, at the pace of 10 minutes per 500 (2:00/100) with a :10 rest interval. If you can't do 6x500 on 10:00, :10 rest interval, then your race pace is too ambitious and you need to aim for a slower pace. If you simply can't even swim 6x500m, then you have larger problems than worrying about pacing. If I were training for this, I would make sure that my workouts in total were more than 3000m, and that I had longer (400-800m) components to each set, but I wouldn't be overly concerned with set components longer than that. 

Given the above regimen, another sprint workout is the last thing I recommend. On that schedule, in your two sessions you are doing at most, 5 miles (8k). That is pretty meager training for the distances that you are considering. I would make your third run a slow to medium paced 10k run. Running long distance fast is about your base and consistency, and you need more distance a lot more than you need more sprint work. If you absolutely feel that you have to have more sprint training, I would throw in several 30 second segments of uptempo running into that longer run. If you were my athlete, then I would slash your swimming from 11 sessions a week down to four or five, and use the extra time for more running. 

Nobody here can tell you "yes, that's normal for you" or "everyone feels that". Simply can't be done over the intertubes. However, one thing that hasn't been mentioned is your form. If you are a little wild/loose with your form, you could be using the rear deltoid to lift your arm/shoulder slightly as you do the kickback. As the rear deltoid is easily fatigued, this can be causing the fatigue you are feeling. For a proper kickback, the only joint that should be bending/straightening is your elbow. If your shoulder is moving around, you've got form issues. Not only will it fatigue the muscles but it could also lead to injury. If your shoulder is not moving, and is still fatiguing, then you just need more time and exercise on that area as Peter suggests, and you can do other exercises (Such as tricep pulldowns with a rope) to target the triceps muscle. 

If you have not stopped growing, then you may add some additional height. However, the only real way to tell this is to have x-rays done of your growth plates. If they have closed, then you will not be able to naturally add height. Stretching and yoga may help the slow shrinking that everyone goes through as the spinal cartilage and discs slowly compress over the years. There is also the possibility of surgical intervention, but this is extremely expensive and painful. Basically your bones are cut and positioned with frames and rods to be slightly apart, and bone grows in to fill the gap. However, this may only result in an inch or so of gain, and has the possibility of being crippling. 

The shoulder muscles that contribue to the broad shape are primarily the deltoid muscles. This is the muscle that forms the bulk of the shoulder muscle mass, with three heads (Anterior, medial and posterior) that inserts on the humerus. This muscle is primarily involved with shoulder abduction, or moving the upper arm out away from the body. So for swimming, all the traditional racing strokes (front/Australian crawl, backstroke, breaststroke and butterfy) will work the shoulders. There are some differences, and things to consider however. 

Your best bet for a body fat measurement if you want pure metric, is to find someone local that is well trained in using body fat calipers. They measure in millimeters, and the formulas calculate out using that as a basis. However, any body fat measurement produces a percentage number. The math ahead of time is just numbers in a formula, it shouldn't matter unless you have absolutely no way to measure in inches. Once you have that number, you just apply it to your weight in kilograms instead of pounds.