With all the attention, lots of people from like-minded congregations visited (or just read the newsletters) and took back what they learned there to their own churches. 

The quote seems to be resting its entire thesis on a neglect of science being the cause of the collapse of the Roman Empire. If they had other good examples of this thesis in action, they probably should have used one of those instead. There are hundreds of different theories for the cause of the fall of the Roman Empire floating around. Its one of the oldest and most storied arguments in historiography. Back during the 80's, historian Alexander Demandt counted 210 different theories in the literature, and I think its fair to say a few more new ones have been put forth in the intervening three decades. So any attempt pass off a single one of them, in a short aside with no explanation, as the one and only true cause of the fall of the Roman Empire strikes me as highly intellectually dishonest. 

Hungarians: The history here is slightly similar, but with different sets of people and perhaps a bit more interesting. During most of the Medieval period, people speaking Finno-ugaric languages and practicing low-density pastoral techniques like reindeer herding likely ranged everywhere in northern Europe that was too cold for traditional agricultural activity or for the Altaic's horse-based pastoralisim. Here's a map of the modern distribution of this language family: 

Felix Frankfuter, before his SCOTUS appointment, was the founder of the ACLU, and an avid New Dealer. As such, the quote doesn't sound at all like him, or at least not the way its being used. He was just not a guy who thought about government in that way. For reference, here are some documented quotes from him about how he believes the USA operates. Both in outlook and vocabulary, they don't seem similar at all to the one you have. 

Are you completely sure the Philippines' amount of fossils are unusually small? I know of no less than 2 anthropological finds there, the oldest dating back nearly 50,000 years. That isn't bad at all, for a place that would have required boats (or a very unusual accident) to reach. Its thought that no hominid had boats before that time, so any significantly earlier hominid finds are unlikely. If you were hoping for other megafauna (like mammoths), again you have the boat problem. Flying creatures can obviously get there, as can smaller creatures by hopping a ride on a lucky piece of flotsam. However, it would be difficult to picture the errant floating log big enough to provide survivable purchase for a pregnant mastodon. So the only way they could get there was wait until glaciers locked up enough ice to wade there. But of course if you go back before the Pleistocene (about 2.5 million years ago), there were no convenient world-wide glaciations to suck up all that water. Then again, it really could just be a matter of activity. The Philippines in the 20th century wasn't exactly the safest place for western paleontologists to work, both for political and health reasons. Not only that, but much of the islands are covered with a dense rainforest that it is exceedingly difficult to get around in, not to mention difficult to work in during the rainy season. It is probably no coincidence that the stereotypical paleontology site is in a desert or semi-arid climate. 

This isn't related to the question, but as someone interested in the history of scientific knowledge, I found this bit at the end very intriguing: 

So the simple answer would be that he was executed for being a Protestant. However, that answer is too simple, because the HRE at the time was in the middle of the Protestant Reformation. Likely half the empire was Protestant at the time, most of whom were not being arrested and executed, so its reasonable to ask why Tyndale got special treatment. For this it would be useful to look at how he came to be arrested. An English agent was sent to infiltrate his circle, and that agent betrayed him to the HRE authorities for arrest. Who hired this agent? We aren't sure, but we can make some guesses. The English clergy at the time was splitting from the Catholic Church, but was still itself quite anti-Protestant. So most historical speculation has landed on that quarter. So in this case the cause is likely to be not that he was a protestant, but that he was a vocal and influential English Protestant. Part of their anger was certainly over the Bible Translation. There's a fun story about the English Church buying up every copy of the first edition just to burn it. The story goes on that publicly burning scripture was not a good look for the Church, while his publisher happily took their money and used part of it to finance printing a second edition. King Henry himself is also a possibility. At first the King was a fan, after reading The Obedience of a Christian Man, which was pro-secular authority. However, Tyndale argued against Henry's divorce, which served to put him in the same political hitlist as Thomas More. There are accounts of the King sending agents to attempt to capture Tyndale, and appealing to the Emperor. So it certainly would be within character for it to have been a Crown agent organizing the job. At the absolute least, whoever did it knew they wouldn't get any pushback from the Crown over it. At most, its possible what actually got him killed was arguing against King Henry VIII. Taking all this in, and looking back at the (according to my searches, quite common) claim that it was specifically the English Translation that got him killed, I don't think that's quite accurate. However, it isn't wholly inaccurate either, as that translation was the culmination of his life's work, and his life's work was certainly what got him killed. So if you hear someone saying it was the translation, I wouldn't bother to "well actually..." them over it. 

Both of these went into Sanskrit first, then into Persian, then to Arabic. The Sanskrit would indicate an Indo-European takeover of the words in the subcontinent. The Persian -> Arabic implies that the actual trade that moved these words west didn't happen until the Middle Ages. The Persians took over their namesake territory in the near east from the Greeks in the early middle ages. Arabic wasn't a particularly important (or well-traveled) language until about the 7th Century AD. So it looks like in all cases the outside world only knows these terms thanks to the (Indo-European) Sanskrit speakers. Where trade outside the subcontinent is concerned, the trading parties appear to have been Greeks and Persians, trading with Sanskrit speakers. 

According to The Atlantic, it was nearly 0 when he was elected in 1829, and on a downward trajectory. It had been under 10% since about 1800, and had been trending steadily downward since about 1820. So if any credit is due for this accomplishment, it should probably go at least equally to his predecessors from the other party (Monroe and then John Q. Adams). Of course it is the US House of Representatives that passes all financial legislation, so technically any deficit is their doing. However, there's a legitimate case that the President's role is to provide leadership in such matters. 

I'm not sure you can really state that thesis with certainty. The world's top two religions are indeed monotheistic. However, that could just be explained due to them both arising in the same region. The third and fourth largest religions, Hinduism (1 billion adherents) and Shenisim (about 400 million), are both polytheistic. The fifth, Buddhism (also about 400 million) either has no gods or is polytheistic as well, depending on how you want to look at it. None of these really seem to be in any current danger of being replaced by a monotheistic faith. One can also make a case that the two large Monotheistic religions were primarily spread by the sword, so its debatable how much their modern success has to do with their own internal qualities. Nearly all countries where Islam is prevalent are either Afro-Asiatic-speaking countries, or were conqured/colonized by Afro-Asiatic speakers during the period they ran the trade routes to the far east and sub-Saharan Africa (and all such countries lie along those trade routes). Nearly all countries where Christianity is prevalent are either Indo-European speaking, or were conquered and/or colonized by Indo-Europeans during their imperialistic age. So if I were to have to put a time on this... For Islam it would be the 8th to 11th centuries along the spice routes, and the end of that time for sub-Saharan Africa. For Christianity there would be two major periods of expansion: one from the time of Constantine (4th Century) to the end of the Roman Empire (5h Century), some slow progress in Europe after that, and then another that started with the Age of Discovery in the late 15th century, and ended (most likely) with decolonization in the late 20th Century. 

The kind of strike you are talking about is called work-to-rule, and is not limited to any single action in one country. Here's an article about a British teacher's union using the tactic in 2012. I first heard about it being used by aussies, but its Wikipedia entry implies (without any backup that I can see) that it is known to be a favored tactic in Italy. 

Rather than saying they had X number of wars, it would probably be more accurate to say that the two countries had a continuous ongoing conflict from 1895 until 1947, with occassional brief breaks for recuperation and retooling. In fact, the territorial disputes didn't even really end there, but the fighting did due to the Cold War. Since then I think just about all the disputes have been resolved, save for the status of four small islands near Sakhalin. 

First off, I'm going to give you the mainstream view. "Scythian" was the name the ancients applied to the nomadic Iranian-speaking people living in the area north of the Black and Caspian seas (but often stretching as far west as Bulgaria) from about the 8th to the 1st century BC. Their language was quite certainly Iranian*. There is even one descendant language you can look at today: Ossetian. There is also a cultural archeological continuity with the Iranian peoples who moved into modern-day Persia and India from this exact area. Here's a nice little animated GIF showing it: 

Most likely the indemnity was meant to compensate the various nations for the loss of lives of their citizens and property, pro-rated roughly to the amount of each country lost. I can't find exact records of deaths, but there were Norwegian citizens in China during the rebellion. The China Inland Mission was proselytizing in rural China at the time, and many of their missionaries were hunted down and killed. At least one member was Norwegian, although she escaped. There were likely more who weren't so fortunate. There were also quite a few Swedes in China doing the same kind of work. The same source says 41 of them were killed, along with 15 children. The besieged foriegn quarter of Peking also contained Norwegians.