There are many kinds of fruit in this supermarket makes the point clear that the meaning is as in 1.1. There is a lot of fruit in this supermarket suggests to me that the supermarket is well-stocked with fruit (in general); variety of fruit is implied but not emphasized. 

It all depends on how realistic you want your constructed world to be. Even if you choose a hex grid as the medium for your map, this needn't force you to map every aspect of the world following that pattern. That's worldbuilding advice, anyway. As for the linguistics part: there's no fixed distance or chronological separation (or any other simple-to-measure factor) that can predict that one language will split into two. There are, as explained in other answers, many factors that tend to make languages appear or disappear, and none is very easy to measure. Small bands of humans distributed uniformly, at relatively short average distances from each other, and separated by nothing but flat terrain, will most probably speak the same language (if there aren't many) or a bunch of dialects of the same language, each of them intelligible to their immediate neighbours, or maybe dialects of two or three different, but closely related languages (if the extremes points of the map are far from each other). It's a matter of neverending discussion when a dialect turns into a language. This, however, is not a realistic setting, or even close to realistic. Unless there's a reason not to, I would (if I were you) throw in some mountain ridges, rivers and lakes, deserts, and other obstacles (or enablers) of human movement. Then you could stop thinking about exact distances or timeframes and use those geographic accidents, along with whatever fictional history you wanted to include in your world, to figure out where the splits between languages or dialects should occur. You could use the history of actual languages as a guide. 

Languages usually mark those differences that the culture they're part of consider important, and downplay or erase those that don't seem that important to the speakers. I would expect the languages of primitive cultures (meaning less technological, less urban, historically ancient, etc.) to mark more, not less, distinctions among animals (but see below), as well as plants, for the simple reason that in primitive cultures the people are (as we would say) "closer to nature", and speakers need to note fine distinctions: different words for animals that can and cannot be eaten, or that can or cannot be dangerous to humans. I doubt you will find a language used by a primitive culture, in a part of the world where those animals exist, that uses the same word for "dog" and "wolf", because a dog is a hunting companion or a pet while a wolf is a predator and a menace. Now a wolf does look a lot like a big dog, and if someone from a primitive culture who has never seen a wolf before is presented with one, they might use their word for "dog" to refer to it--at first. Same goes for lions and tigers, which besides their appearance have completely different behaviours: lions live and hunt in prides, coordinating their pursuit of prey, while tigers are solitary --which is rather important to take into account if you're the one being hunted. All that said, the idea of animal species, families and genera is a late scientific development. Primitive cultures will not group animals based on modern phylogenetic criteria. If two or more species share some salient features they might be lumped together conceptually as one (here I'm thinking of the Old Testament's dietary rules, which are probably older taboos codified as religious law), and this might or might not be visible in their language. In any case, consider that while our modern languages have a lot of names for different species, most of us would only recognize and consistently use a few of them, and only a handful to refer to animals in our actual vicinity (i. e. not in some NatGeo documentary or someone's travel photo album). 

This is of course difficult to prove, but I would say traditional grammars tend to be prescriptive, i. e. they are conceived as a list of rules to be followed in order to speak the language correctly, and usually to establish a standard; deviations from the standard will be either pointed out and discouraged as "mistakes" or "deformations", or simply ignored. (This prescriptivism is the strategy adopted by certain national language academies, like the Academie Française and the Real Academia Española.) Whereas "scientific" grammars will probably tend towards a proper descriptive approach, a non-judgmental exposition of how the language is actually spoken in its variety of registers: formal, familiar, intimate, slang, etc.; this variety will be acknowledged and studied as part of the language, as will the variety of regional accents, of lexical forms, and the like. As an example of prescriptive grammar in the face of obvious deviations from the supposed standard, I might offer the fact that traditional grammars in Argentina, where I was born, taught us only the pronouns and verb forms employed in European Spanish, even though my dialect (spoken by maybe 30 million people!) uses different second person pronouns and a very distinctive verb conjugation for them. This was thirty years ago; a few decades before not only was the European standard taught exclusively, but the use of our dialectal forms was pronounced a "linguistic vice" and the teachers were told to erradicate it. It makes sense, of course, to design grammars that only focus on the standard, especially for second-language students who won't have the opportunity to take in the language naturally and don't have the time to learn all registers. But they shouldn't be in the same category as real scientific grammars. 

From a book titled Vernacular Universals and Language Contacts: Evidence from Varieties of English and Beyond, apparently citing this work about epenthesis: 

The double meaning of off has to do with its original use; since off has the sense of "away, departing", go off was used for firearms meaning "explode, discharge". It's a kind of event that makes something work and also renders it useless for a while. When an alarm goes off, it ceases to work in a way: it has warned you of something, but it won't warn you about what may follow. The verb cleave (another of your examples) comes from two different sources. At the beginning they were phonetically distinct and also conjugated differently, but then they coalesced, which is why they're used very little: 

The infamous inflammable / flammable pair stems from a confusion between the Latin prefix in-, which denotes negation and comes from the Proto-Indoeuropean root *n̥- (the origin of negatives such as non, nec, etc.), and the other prefix in- meaning "into/upon", which ultimately comes from PIE *h₁én. Auto-antonyms are not bizarre: they continue to exist as long as speakers are able to rely on context and common sense to distinguish between them, as pass out of fashion once they become a problem for comprehension. In this sense they're not different from other features. 

I've been reading up on pharyngealization and I have the somewhat foggy idea that it might be triggered by pharyngeal (obviously) and other "back of the mouth" sounds, but I haven't found any well-rounded study of the likely or attested (diachronic) origins of (phonemic) pharyngealization across languages and language families. My first question would be whether there's a cross-linguistic theory of the origins of pharyngealization, or something that might approach that. The second question would be: what sounds are most likely to undergo distinctive pharyngealization? The Semitic examples I've read about seem to imply that alveolar consonants are prime targets for it, but is that so? Are labial or velar consonants then less likely to be pharyngealized? What do they do instead, if anything, in the same context where an alveolar consonant is pharyngealized? 

I've heard the same kind of construction in Brazilian Portuguese but I'm not confident enough about their usage. 

that there are many types of fruit available in the supermarket; that there are a lot of fruits (apples, pears, bananas, etc.) strewn about the place. 

I would guess each of these words has a different history and therefore the reason for the existence of antonyms is not unique. For example, sanction comes from a Latin root that meant "to decree, confirm, ratify, make sacred" (related to sanctum "saint, sacred"); that's the original meaning, while according to the source 

There are not many of these determinatives in Mayan writing (the work cited above says "only a few"), so they're not comparable, I think, to the profusion of semantic radicals found in Mandarin Chinese. 

I haven't found a specific grammatical term or label for this usage, but all online resources that deal with the Spanish subjunctive explain it in the same terms as proposed in the question, i. e. that there's a verb expressing hope or expectation implied as the main clause (it could be esperar or desear). Pairs like ¡Que le vaya bien! and Espero que le vaya bien are semantically almost identical, but the intonation is rather different and a native speaker would not perceive the two sentences as socially equivalent. There's a reason why the former kind (beginning with que) is almost always written with an admiration point: it works rather as an interjection. It sounds emotional and spontaneous and it would also be the correct choice to insert an ironic tone. On the other hand the latter type of sentence (with the verb esperar) is a complete sentence with normal prosody (not an exclamation, generally), and it states or reports a fact: that the speaker hopes for something. You would use the former as you wave someone goodbye before a journey, as they board the plane; the latter would be used if you had a while to sit down with someone. In any case the difference is subtle. There's a third choice, too, which somehow bridges that gap: using ojalá to head the subjunctive clause. It works as a hoping/wishing verb; indeed it comes from Arabic لو شاء الله law šá lláh, meaning "if God wanted" ~ "may God want".