See title. Specifically it would be good to see something that proves some type of market economics and not just a simple monopoly model. This is not too broad because I am asking for literally one example. It has to be a consistent prediction and not a hit or miss guess. 

I'll start with some examples. State-level analysis of variation in infant mortality rate: A socio-ecological approach 73% of infant mortality explained in the US by just a few variables. Exponential correlation of IQ and the wealth of nations 69% of GDP per capita explained by IQ. Estimating Suicide Rates in Nations that Do Not Report Suicide Statistics 78% of variance in suicide rates explained in Model 2, table 3. What are some more examples of models with a lot of explanatory power for large scale social phenomena? 

$URL$ image $URL$ A few percent of that is with Russia which is not in the EU, the rest of the "Europe" part is overwhelmingly EU. $URL$ Thirty characters thirty characters thirty characters 

Yes. The relative performance of stocks and bonds depends on monetary policy. Stocks benefit from low interest rates and inflation while bonds benefit from high interest rates. Over the 19th century for example, stocks deflated along with the overall economy while bonds yielded a small positive return. 

$URL$ It's not a matter of debate. The Chinese government has always known that their GDP figures are made up. That is why they switched to electricity production quotas, which had more undesirable effects like spurring massive production of aluminum smelters. Chinese GDP statistics are well known to be fake, as are EU debt figures, government accounts in the US and elsewhere, and many other official stats. $URL$ Theres also arbitrary tweaks to the data such as the Fed recently counting patents as GDP to justify more inflation. There are no particular ramifications because everyone does this. 

Any situation where markets fail to clear leads to market failure. Some common reasons for this are: 

The retail price should include the total net present value of use of the item. At any given point in time, the value of the item is the purchase cost minus accumulated depreciation. Depreciation should include both physical wear and any non-physical types of depreciation such as obsolescence. 

Has anyone considered that recessions are just lotka volterra cycles due to fuel resource depletion? Or has this been completely ignored by all economists for hundreds of years? 

It destabilized the third world via food prices and killed economic growth. Yes it was noticed. Energy prices increase before every major recession. The financial and demand-based theories of recessions, although widely believed, are completely baseless and unfalsifiable. 

Does the finance system matter? Do bankers have important and difficult jobs that protect against destroying the economy from some paperwork reason? 

They use all types of methods. Often, papers will use a very basic linear regression model and submit to a low prestige journal so one can justify ones grant and boost the H index as much as possible when meta analyses cite your article to clean up the mess. It's up to the meta analysis to take into account that not all models have correct methodology and create a meta-analytical model to correct for all these inaccuracies. Fortunately, there are sometimes dynamic lag models and the like to compare to and guess at an appropriate correction term for the others. Here is an example for gas prices. $URL$ Edit: A meta analytic model is a model to explain why studies obtained the results that they did. Different samples, methodologies, and so forth will produce different results, and a metamodel expresses this formally. A dynamic lag model (also called a distributed lag model) is a model to predict the current value of a dependent variable based on past values of independent variables. For example, if a change in price causes a change in demand, you can model this by correlating price at time t-1 to demand at time t. 

$URL$ The decline in money velocity is due to enormous monetary injections, which mostly sat in recipient bank accounts and had no effect on the real economy. Under the Keynesian and monetarist theories that central banks operate upon, an increase in money supply should ease liquidity constraints and allow the economy to resume growth. In reality not much further growth was possible, likely because of the stagnation in conventional oil production. 

$URL$ Here's the best answer I found. It's some sort of lack of capacity or economies of scale problem. Or perhaps its just a more monoplized sector. Nobody seems to know why. It is known that diesel is more expensive than gas because of unanticipated demand. 

About 90% of the population has very little or negative savings. The savings is driven by the upper middle class which typically saves 10% or so of pretax income. You can look at the net worth percentiles here to get a rough idea: $URL$ 

Debt to the Federal Reserve is not considered debt by accountants. Thus, the economy is able to maintain the appearance of positive net worth. In reality all money originates from debt and nobody besides the Fed owns anything. 

Reduce work and hence let someone else work for him (increase employement) This will only help if the rich person is working in a relatively unskilled labor intensive field. Spend more money so he/she can keep up his/hers income (boost economy) - same as your fourth point Keynesianism- what youre apparently basing this on- leads to illogical predictions during recessions, such as personal saving rates falling faster than investor savings until consumer goods shortages occur, and doesn't apply to real life. Profit from social security, since increasing cash flow leads to (possibly) higher tax-income. Cryptocurrencies are hard to tax. Indeed the whole point is to deny the kind of control that you're talking about to a government. In conclusion, such a system would only be beneficial if you're trying to lower tax revenue. 

They must be counting full time/part time equivalents rather than individuals. They are basically comparing the hours worked versus the hours people report desiring to work. Thats the only explanation. 

You are using USD exchange rate GDPs, which are very volatile. The main effect is probably the fact that the Euro began to circulate in 2002, replacing the cheap domestic currency. Here are some more general reasons why the peripheral countries did well before the recession: 

GNP measures production, so is a better measure of how the country is doing in the long term at accumulating fixed capital and developing. Fixed capital has a much higher return than the financial capital that GNI is typically derived from. However, both measures are usually very similar, except for some tax havens such as Ireland that have significantly more GNI than GNP. Suppose a country consisted of one individual making trillions of dollars on the stock market and boosting GNI without any national product. If they don't own any fixed capital, this would be a very bizarre economy and not really "developed". On the other hand if a country has lots of production but has a negative GNI because, say, a domestic company issued a massive dividend to overseas investors that year, then the country could still be called "developed" because it has real people and factories and so forth. Neither of these cases have anything to do with reality of course, they're just examples. 

Because Russia is a bigger exporter than the US, thus the oil price affects it more Russia has external debt which becomes harder to pay as the ruble depreciates 

Yes Not yet No, it indicates a lack of viable uses for the cash Interest rates fell because of the relatively small decrease in banks balance sheets coinciding with a sharply declining return on capital, and thus diminishing incentive for investors to leverage, causing increasing supply relative to demand for credit 

Because you are taking other currencies off the market and/or selling your own currency, and increasing the supply of your own currency relative to others. 

Marxism is subject to a lot of semantic attacks such as this because it was never clearly defined. Although Marx claimed that surplus value existed, he never gave a single concrete example of how to calculate it in real life. I suppose that in some circumstances robots could be seen as exploited, and may become sentient enough to rebel and establish Communism. But Marxism was never intended to be the plot of Terminator.