In that case, have the three differently ranked in terms of priority. One of them is truly omnipotent, however the second is omnipotent as long as he doesn't oppose the first one and the third is omnipotent as long as he doesn't oppose the first two. or The gods are all omnipotent, except when opposing another. So a god can't stop another god from doing something, but can undo it afterwards. And a god can't make his effect unundoable by another god. So if one god wants to make a storm , while the other wants a baking heat, one must wait until the other is finished creating the storm before taking away the clouds and wind and turning up the sun. This, of course, may result huge chains or stacks of effects to "resolve" รก la Magic: The Gathering. But given that each one is instantaneous, even such a stack trillions of effects deep would not even be noticed by the mortals. (Or maybe it would... cue the mortals rolling their eyes, "the gods are at it again...") - Maybe in the case of a deadlock, the third god casts the "deciding vote". The possibility that all three could want something different and remain steadfast could be a plot hook. or Gods with infinite wisdom also have infinite maturity. Therefore they can always come to an agreement on a way to resolve their differences! 

I don't think anyone would use it unless they are in a desperate situation which could as easily be resolved by a well-thought-out "Justifiable Homicide" law. Because very few people actually opt to use their one murder out of conscience (after all, very few people would commit murder if they could guarantee they wouldn't be caught), and the ones that would consider it have this to think about: Who is more likely to be murdered? A murderer or an innocent? Thus, using your free murder makes you more of a target than someone who hasn't because now you're considered fair game. 

A possible straight forward answer for this is that fossil fuels - (or at least oil) - do not exist or were never discovered or the process for refining them was not discovered. This would make it difficult to drive the big machinery that you need for heavy lifting. 

How can it make him be capable of interacting with society and behave as closely as possible to a normal 18 year-old? Could it get him to feel emotion, etc. also? How quickly could it possibly do this? (i.e. as opposed to slowly feeding him information all his life) 

You could look to Ireland for example similar to what you are describing, gaining its independence from Britain. Although the split happened later in the rebellion than yours appears to have, it could be still used for inspiration. There were divided opinions on whether to accept Britain's terms of independence (the Pro-Treaty "Free State" group vs Anti-Treaty republican group). Although a vote ratified the treaty, the anti-treaty group were strong enough that there was a split in the cause which would go on to start a civil war after the Free State was gained, and be an emotional topic for decades, and resonates even now (nearly a century later) in the North. It would be quite easy to translate this to your situation, perhaps The Roost began to make progress but were being forced to accept certain terms that The Black Mane would not accept. 

I suppose the main question is, what is the goal of each of the belligerents? e.g. the Daleks want to "exterminate all life", including themselves? It's confusing, to say the least. So you can save the life of one person but not millions, this presumably is to stop it from becoming a race to go back furthest and just wiping out the enemy before they even know there's a war... Why would the Daleks not simply go back in time to before the Time Lords race even evolves and irradiate the planet while they are still just bacteria in a primordial soup? OK they'll cause the end of reality by it being a large change and violating the restriction you speak of, but I can't imagine them having a problem with that since it's their objective anyway! But for the Time Lords to try to do the same would break reality and so still put them on the losing side. Even if the Time Lords have their planet well-guarded from the beginning of time, the Daleks really only need to make any significant change anywhere in the universe to cause the erasure of existence. 

Third: a proud tradition. As the years, decades and centuries pass, similar to the "gun-control" issue that's currently topical in the US - many people simply believe it's their right to duel in order to settle conflict, and are so proud of this tradition that it's very difficult for anyone to change it, even while they build a semi-modern-democratic style legal system. They may even argue that if the practice is banned, life may revert to pre-revolutionary chaos as people get angry with each other and have no outlet for their rage and start to take the law into their own hands. 

Psychology Assuming the enemy don't have drones too... Maybe they were fighting with drones but found they lacked a certain charisma/psychological advantage. For example, imagine a ship outgunning an enemy and negotiating surrender via visual communication like in Star Trek. They may have found that the enemy responded more favourably when they knew they were surrendering to a sentient crew rather than an empty ship. Maybe the enemy tended not to take demands / threats / persuasion seriously when they knew they were talking to some coward hundreds of light years away through an empty, soulless, robot ship. 

Since you tagged it with "near-future" this might not be a good answer but if you were willing to consider the distant future... For some reason, you might want to move an entire city... (e.g. a proliferation of natural disasters, constantly moving war-zones / fronts / borders, the population collectively wants a holiday in the sun, etc.) A lot more practical if the entire city is contained in one building (and you have the technology to move a very large building) 

Just to throw in the mundane answer: "The more I practice, the luckier I get" Luck is a concept which measures what has already happened rather than what causes it to happen - i.e. you were lucky because something good happened by chance, not something good happened because you were lucky. So that being said, the only way to "increase" your luck, really, is to increase the probability of something favourable happening. And this is usually done through hard work, experience, practice, research, networking, superior or insider knowledge, etc. e.g. you're likely to win a bet on a boxing match if you happen to know one of the fighters went on an all-night drinking session the night before and hurt his wrist, than you are by pure guesswork. Those people who are always in the right place at the right time when an opportunity presents itself? Quite often this is because they've gotten their name out there, made friends, done favours for others, put themselves in the minds of the people presenting the opportunity, etc. So those "angels" who appear to have superior luck? They actually have superior knowledge, social skills, mastery of elements that appear to be chance (e.g. they have advanced long-term weather-forecasting and farming techniques so their crops always thrive)- but they don't reveal these skills, and make it appear like pure luck. 

Time travel to the future is no problem, all you have to do is go very very fast (like close to the speed of light) - this is in the theory of Special Relativity. Time slows down for you therefore you are moving into the future at a rate greater than 1 second per second relative to everyone else, and so effectively time travelling to the future. Time Travel to the past, though? I'll leave that as an exercise for the reader... 

They are cataloguing the planet, trying to get new information. Their job will be more efficient if they can tell each other what they have already found, thereby avoiding repeating each others' work. If they wish to explore the entire planet, they will need to share information on where they've already explored again to avoid overlap and waste resources. NASA can't plan their individual territories in advance, because they don't know in advance what they are going to find - one rover might end up spending the entire mission exploring one very interesting 1km^2 area while another may come across a huge featureless expanse and therefore cover a much larger area more quickly. Better to have an AI coordinate the exploration on the job. Additionally, if a rover finds something that, for whatever reason, requires more than one rover to investigate, they'll need to be able to call others over. Maybe one rover has many different types of cameras and its job is to take pictures and send them to another rover with high data processing power to analyse. 

Well first of all you have to deal with the old problem that changing the past removes your reason for changing the past... This might be harder than you think, the obvious solution is that when in the past your time travellers write to themselves in the future telling what they've done and why, and asking themselves to do the same thing. But with Cromwell defeated, nationalism might not be a thing in the future, so your time travellers might not want to do it (in fact propaganda might make him out to be the good guy, he's a lot more popular in Britain even now than he is in Ireland). In fact they might not even have been born and if they have, might not live in the same place (so it will be very difficult for their future selves in the past to find them). Assuming you overcome this, introducing modern technology to the past can have a kind of feedback effect. The sudden advance in technology they have might in turn advance our technology if you think they have been improving on it since then, so what the group would bring back would be even more advanced, which mean ours would be more advanced again, etc. until it reaches a critical point where it's impossible to improve in the time between then and now. History might have the Irish fighting off Cromwell with phaser rifles...