Weight on the bike is easier to manage than weight on your body. The bike will handle a bit differently, but you'll quickly get used to it. If all you use the bike for is commuting, you should get the rack. Like you, I commute with a backpack, but I wouldn't consider a rack because I also regularly use my bike for recreational purposes. 

That's funny! I found the same little metal balls on a headset I overhauled not long ago. They were on the fork threads. I'm not sure what caused them. As to the grease you need: as long as you clean the bearings completely, it doesn't matter. Use whatever grease you want, preferably on the thick side. 

This seems perfectly fine. Cyclists often stand up for various reasons, and there's no reason to think that it would startle drivers. They probably have no idea why you're standing up anyway. Some people may eventually realize that you stand up every time they pass you, but I doubt they'll be anything but mildly amused. Actual drafting (riding behind a vehicle) can and does stress drivers out on top of being rather dangerous for the cyclist. As to the speed effect, standing up will make you go faster if the air is moving faster than you are. Effectively putting this into practice has a lot of nuances though, and really should be a separate post. 

You could try leaving earlier, maybe before the day heats up. Granted that during the summer this means a very early start, but at certain times of the year it can mean pleasantly cool morning air and maybe less traffic. Look at the forecast and aim to wear clothing that makes you feel slightly too cold at the start of your journey, while carrying a few alternative layers in your panniers. It's worth taking into account wind direction when planning. On cooler days wear something windproof you can quickly unzip at the first sign of overheating. 

If you ride further or faster than you're used to, then some weariness in the legs is normal and should pass within a couple of days. I rode my biggest ride to date a couple of weeks ago and when I got home I nearly lost my balance walking around the house as my legs were a bit weaker than I expected. With a couple of days rest they were back to normal, however. Besides rest, what can help your recovery is static stretching (not bouncing or bobbing). Here are some suggestions for knee stretches. As others have suggested, a higher cadence (therefore a lower gear) may help, even if you can't measure it precisely. I have a knee injury from running, so I change down a gear the moment it gets uncomfortable. For bike fit, trial and error can work well, here's a link to some simple bike-fit tips which may help you move in the right direction. All that said, if discomfort becomes pain you should obviously stop doing what hurts and get advice from a physio, ideally one with cycling expertise. 

1) You might be able to do so. Caliper, pads, levers and wheels (apart from the discs) ARE compatible. (For non-compatible parts see 2) 2) You need: 

If it ain't broke, don't fix it! While the bike works and suits your usage, keep using it. Keep in mind that a cheap bike (which 120 pounds for an MTB certainly is) will need more service to keep it safe and functional. You'll likely want to upgrade once you start to wear it out. You'll have a better idea what to look for and (if you start saving now) a bit more money. What that next bike should be like is up to you, but for commuting and longer trips I'd go for a touring bike - a rack and fenders make the bike way more comfortable to use and it will still end up faster than an equivalent MTB. Also, don't buy a bike you cannot afford have stolen and get a good lock (10% of the price of the bike is recommended). 

While braking gently: Assuming identical hydraulics, pads and rotor material, friction will be linear with applied force. However, the larger disc is moving faster past the caliper, increasing the distance on which the friction acts and therefore braking power. The ratio will be about 7/8 (with larger rotor needing less force) with some adjustment for the fact that pads are not on the edge of the disc (making the difference somewhat larger). But: Braking causes weight transfer - the rear wheel has a tendency to lift while the front carries more weight. This means that the rear wheel will slip under significantly lower braking power than the front (I hear it is by about 50% for common designs). This means that under some conditions some levels of braking power achievable with the front brake will be impossible with the rear. (A detailed discussion of how to balance and combine the use of the front and rear brake is outside the scope of this question.) 

1 mile of elevation gain over 20 miles. This takes me 4 hours. It takes the pros 1.5 hours. We're riding at roughly the same cadence (if anything I'm a bit faster), but they're turning over a much heavier gear. (I know these things because I did this route on the day of a race) I'm on a repurposed mountain bike, so I have a proper granny gear. If I want to get faster at this climb, should I ride at the cadence that feels right (granny gear), or should I limit myself to using my middle ring of my triple, closer to the gear that the pros use? (Not sure if this changes anything, but my bike weighs about 35 pounds, 20 more than a race-grade road bike) 

"As it slowly died, and i bent the rear axle (Don't ask me how, i don't ride it hard) i debated buying a new bike" Hmmm… If the bent axle is the only major problem the bike has (by "it slowly died" I take you to mean that it was developing other less-serious problems too), if I were you I would do an overhaul and continue with the hybrid. I don't know if you have the knowledge/experience it would take to do such an overhaul, but if you were willing to put up $200 in quality components and elbow grease, you could probably turn your hybrid into something that's significantly better than any new $200 bike. If you decide to purchase a bicycle, definitely buy used. Don't get the Denali. A used $200 road bike will last longer. 

I'm increasingly riding long-distance randonees/audaxes and I'm pretty confident I can fix most simple things which might go wrong with the bike. However, I've never done anything with a chain apart from clean it and would like to be prepared enough to be able to effect some kind of repair if it broke, even if I ended up single-speed. I have an 11-speed Campagnolo Chorus chain. I'm considering getting this chain tool, but what spare pins or other kit would I need? I'd prefer not to carry a whole spare chain due to the weight and space. 

However, it's worth remembering that exercising in polluted areas is still better than not exercising at all. Try the same sprint somewhere less polluted and see if there's a difference. 

I guess the derailleur hanger or the bit of frame it connects to must be bent. These can be bent back. Of course Sheldon Brown has some advice, but I'd be afraid to do this myself and instead take it to the LBS who will have the tools. 

The short answer is "No". Intermittent fasting is not all about weight loss, although it can help with that, apparently without compromising performance. There's research showing that this approach can increase the effect of training, in particular VO2 Max, which is often of interest to cyclists. For example Adaptations to skeletal muscle with endurance exercise training in the acutely fed versus overnight-fasted state. 

No need to cold-set. I have a BSO with the same problem. The rear dropouts are about 6mm too close for the hub. I can just flex them apart and let the hub in. The misalignment of the dropouts would be virtually nonexistent at 4mm flex. If you remove your wheels often, and putting the wheel on is a pain, it might be worth cold-setting your frame. Other than that, don't bother. 

Clipless makes it hard to bail out when you're in trouble, which is why most DH riders use flats. A quality pair of flats + decent shoes are going to be just as expensive as clipless pedals and shoes. Unless you're doing serious downhill (and crashing a good bit), I would go straight to clipless. 

This is obviously antisocial behavior. I will sometimes get in front of people at a light, but only if I've been gaining on them. Is this okay under the circumstances, or is it low class regardless? 

I guess we can't be sure what you mean by "rough trails", but if you're talking about what I call "rough trails", a CX bike just isn't going to do it. 

Carved Wood While more expensive than plywood, bamboo or dimensional lumber, frames made from carved wooden tubes (or even monocoques) do exist. Advantages 

If you want to lose weight and enjoy the outdoors, I'd slowly add distance while maintaining a comfortable pace (just about being able to hold a conversation is fine). It will let you explore further from home, which is great. Once you know a certain route is easy, then you can try going faster. Don't go for numbers - it will encourage you to find an easier way to reach them (flat roads, faster bikes...). Ride for the sake of riding and take pleasure in seeing yourself improve. You probably don't need a new saddle. Let your rear get used to riding, also learn to stand up on the pedals for bumps. As for hurting your legs - avoid having to push hard on the pedals. In low gears you'll get tired or (at worst) over-work your muscles, which is a short-term problem. Hard gears can slowly bust your knees, which is much much worse. Oh, as a motivation: in three years since getting my first bike I went from "barely not falling off" and "20km/day" to "feels at home in dense urban traffic" and "200km in 13:20". 

Is there a significant quality difference between these frames? And if so, how can I appraise the quality of an aluminum frame (other than weighing it)?. I can see that the more expensive frame has smoother welds with larger, curved tubes, but it's a completely unscientific observation. 

Let's say someone had a heavy, overly strong front wheel on their re-purposed mtb. 26" wheel, 36 spokes. What would be a safe pattern to follow to remove between 6 and 12 spokes? 

That is a rather disappointing pressure rating... In this increasingly litigious world of psycho-lawyers, one can't be too careful. I'll bet they can handle 8 bar. If you plan to run your tires at 6 bar (for example), inflate one of them to 8 bar and let it sit for a day. See what happens. If it doesn't blow out then you're definitely safe at 6 bar. 

Well, sometimes the level of bicycle theft is rather unreasonable. The amount of time you will leave the bike locked, and where you will leave it locked are also variables. I get around Santiago de Chile with a $10 bike and a $10 lock. Combining this with a few more anti-theft techniques, I haven't had problems. This is probably way overkill for a small town. But it might not be enough for someone who wants to leave their bike locked overnight in London's worst neighborhood.