It were 2 strings of my hair inside the sink's hole almost washed down but wrapped around litter others leave. Bathroom... is completely dirty. I hate coming there, but have no other choice. All my proposals are ignored, the company doesn't bother with cleaning. It wasn't a problem while we didn't have company's WCs (and it was also a mess). I do clean after myself. But I'm on a verge of vomitting just thinking of doing it after others. I work in separate, just mine, office room and I clean my desk and stuff every week. Also, after reading SE, I got myself one spare mouse "for guests". Beside the dirtiness, it's a very good company and people. Right now I just can't afford leaving. At least for several months. And I am really pessimistic about it... 

The source was literally full of spaghetti code - I mean, it did not even followed basic directory structure for MVC, which in my opinion a big problem when it comes to maintaining and expanding the system in the long run. The project did not use a framework - This project is developed in PHP by the way. This particular project involves a complex business process (a lot of construction material types are being tested and computed manually and the Founder wants it to be computerized). I believe a framework is necessary for a project of this scale. Version control system was nonexistent - It is way too hard to track changes on the code of the project without VCS. Incomplete business/code documentation - Some business documents were lacking for the project. 

In my company we still use Skype for internal purposes. One client can have many projects and each of them can have one or more chats (sometimes my list can easily contain dozens of them). Even if you turn off notifications, those chats are always going up and down, blinking, making it harder to look for current projects info (another dozens of chats). Usually when you are being assigned to another client, a manager of former project excludes you from chats of their responsibility. The last time I switched projects one of the managers didn't exclude me from his group chats and recently one of those became so annoying I left it and others by myself. A few moments later a manager of one of the most annoying project's chat said that I was rude and said to just turn off the sound and never leave the conversations. I left that project 2 months ago and will never ever come back to it. The manager was one of the many and not a senior one. We have no internal regulations on this regard and I never had such problems before. But now it bothers me if he really was right. Are there any rules of etiquette that apply in my situation? 

I immediately saw problems raining down on me regarding the L.P.'s ways in my first day as an intern. I'll just enumerate the following that I have observed during my Internship: 

A Short Background The Lead Programmer (L.P.) was my professor at a college I attended. Then the Operations Manager (O.M.) was a student of the Lead Programmer. A year ago (February 2016). A start-up company has been founded by the O.M.’s cousin (with more of a Civil Engineering background than a software one). The O.M. hired the L.P. probably because he was her professor at the college she attended. So fast forward November 2016, I was looking for a company to finish my On-the-Job Training then my professor/L.P. encouraged me to try where he was working. Fast forward again I chose the start-up company for some reason, mostly personal preferences at the time. The company by the way has four employees: one which is L.P., coming from many backgrounds such as Multimedia, Game and Software Development, and the other three which was originally into Game Development. Days as an Intern I was assigned on a project where I have to continue working on the L.P.'s primary project (a new software for the Founder's main company). He turned me over his progress (incl. documentations) and I saw this kind of code structure almost all throughout the project files: 

Office manager saw my hair in basin in WC. It accidentally felt inside and has been partly washed away while I was washing my hands. She contacted me by Skype and asked to clean it in the future. Now I'm confused what to tell her. Circumstances: our company has started to rent an entire floor, so all the WCs there are in their responsibility now. They didn't hire a cleaning company or person and don't plan to. Only office kitchen gets cleaned once a several months. Other office rooms hasn't been cleaned for a year so far. Although I agree we should keep office clean, I feel strong revulsion at being forced to dig into the basins each time I wash hands. There is no equipment or disinfectant liquids to perform such manipulations, not even spare paper (company bought electronic hand drier to save money on that and everything else). I can't stop my hair falling even though I comb it regularly. My responsibility, which is written in office regulations and I agree with, is to keep my desk clean. I don't mind because I'm the only one using it. I'm usually not conflicting person, but this goes overboard in my opinion. I'm planning to disagree with her. The problem is I'm a bit socially awkward, our Office manager tends to be unprofessional with the stuff. She is often rude and talkative while I'm shy and can't find proper words to answer on time. So I haven't been able to come up with some lines besides "Should I clean the carpets too? My hair is also falling while I'm walking, I bring soil from the outside as well". We are somehow on good terms (but not so good to blatantly tell her this). Other women' hair also occurs there (we are just 5 females in IT company beside this manager), they leave coffee/tea and other lumps in basins. But I can't simply approach and ask them "What would you tell her in my situation?", because other employees are arguing aggresively and openly (I can't choose this option) with her or ignoring completely. Am I right thinking like that? What other people do with their falling hair? How to tell her I won't clean the basins in a most professional way? Update. 

My observations in number 1 and 2 were addressed during my Internship and the number 3 and 4 during my time as an employee. I was somehow able to get his attention on these problems and act on it. Days as an Employee (March 2017) While my time as an intern discovered technical difficulties, this time I encountered behavioral difficulties with our Lead. The very next day after I signed my employment, he was absent from work for four (4) consecutive days. That was when my colleagues (including my O.M.) opened up about the absenteeism of the Lead and they told me the work situation. When I asked the O.M. how come she did not get strict on the absences of the Lead, she said that it was because she feels embarrassed (and awkward) to reproach the Lead that once became her professor. My Question Then Is This: With this kind of situation in mind, I am not having a second thought to leaving this company for good and pursue a chance of a better career on another one. But before I do that, I would like to talk one-on-one to my Operations Manager about the situation(s) regarding our Lead. I would like to ask the following: (1) how should I deliver my concerns in detail to our O.M.? and (2) is it really a good idea to do this? why or why not? P.S. I would like to see this start-up company grow and thrive, even if it means I have to leave it. P.P.S. I'm a fresh graduate so I really have next-to-zero experience in dealing with these scenarios.