WW2, before the US entered, ran from 1939 Sep 01 to 1941 Dec 07. During this time, a lot of merchant vessels sailed in convoy to Britain. I am wondering, of all the people who crewed those vessels, how many were American, versus how many were Canadian or British. Note, I'm not asking for a death toll. I'm asking for a composition of them all. 

I wanted to post this question and the answer I found, because I stumbled across a gold mine for this sort of data, The Minerals Yearbooks. Edit: I've since found an alternate website for the same yearbooks, which lets you download the chapters in pdf form, but for some reason you cannot get the whole report as one giant pdf. For example, the 1941 yearbook, page 1031: 

When the Soviet Union was invaded in 1941, the authorities quickly decided to move their factories east across the Urals in anticipation of the Blitzkrieg. This saved a lot of production capacity and helped win the war. I don't know whose idea it was or how it was conceived, because as far as I know, this is the only mass migration of factories in the history of war. So I'm here to ask if that's really true. Is there any other instance of major migration of factories in any other war, before or since? 

Operation Paukenschlag (drumbeat/thunderclap), which Wikipedia likes to call the Second Happy Time, occurred from 1942 January to August. During this time, German U-Boats sank a huge amount of ships on the US East Coast. During this time, what was the state of US AA defenses on the East Coast? For example, how many AA guns did a city like New York have? How many airfields were nearby and how many aircraft were ready to defend? What kind of aircraft were they and what were their armaments? And crucially, did these AA defenses increase significantly from January to August? With hindsight, we know that Germany had no possible air power near the US East Coast. But at the time there were fears of an invasion. So I would like to know the state of the US AA defenses on the east coast. 

2) The number of women was kept to a minimum. In earlier times wives and children were often taken on campaign. With the Macedonian army this was no longer allowed as to make the army more manageable. Alexander’s soldiers could visit their family in Macedonia from time to time to make the separation more doable. This made the army as light as possible and capable of surprisingly fast marches. 3) Alexander also kept into account the beasts of burden and the slower vehicles. Carts were generally forbidden. Even those pulled by oxes. Their top speed was too low for keeping up with the rest of the army. This measures made the Macedonian army far more efficient than before, but the army still required several tonnes of food and water each day. Alexander took several precautions to ensure a secure food source. For a better look at this see: Ashley, James R. The Macedonian empire: the era of warfare under Philip II and Alexander the Great, 359-323 BC. McFarland, 2004. Even with fewer extra carriers and camp followers to maintain food was an issue. The Macedonian army was still several ten thousands strong with a great deal of warhorses. Ashley calculates that this would consume at least 750 tonnes of dry provisions. He mentions that Alexander took the following precautions. 1) He tried to spend as much time as possible next to a river or the sea during winter. This made perfect sense as this would make close access to water possible. There was also the Macedonian navy which could deliver food if needed. Alexander's navy was not large by any means, but it still existed. 2) He split up the army when a river or the sea was not accessible. A smaller group of soldiers is more vulnerable, but it is also more nimble and can gather food more easily. 3) He stayed close to populated centers. Populated centers needed a decent food supply, Alexander could also benefit from this. 4) The soldier’s rations consisted of wheat, barley or millet which are not going bad in hot weather and are easy to transport. All these products can be moved without harming them and stayed eatable for far longer than items like fruit would. Note by Ashley: During a march through harder terrain, like a desert or the Hindu Kush, the demand for food would become much higher often resulting in temporary starvation like during the march in the desert of Gedrosia. In general, logistics were well taken care of. According to Ashley the techniques of Alexander made his army twice as fast as the Persian one. My recommendation For further reading I would really suggest Alexander the Great and the Logistics of the Macedonian Army. The answer I written down here is but a pale shadow of its depth. I would expect most universities that have a department for Ancient History to carry a copy. You could also check Lonsdale, David J. Alexander the Great: lessons in strategy. Routledge, 2007. It makes quite a lot of good points about the importance of a decent cashflow, a reliable navy and the importance of weather conditions. I mostly left those out in my answer to keep the answer contained. Short anwer: Alexander understood that taking care of logistics was of the greatest importance and took great precautions to make sure they were reliable. 

"Engineers" in this case meant people who could build trebuchets and catapults and other siege machines. (It might also mean metalworkers, woodworkers, glassworkers?) How did they screen such people from the population? Did they have translators who could speak their language, and if so, where did they get those translators? And especially, how did they test liars (I'm an engineer, don't kill me!) from truth tellers? 

As you can see, it's very mountainous. In that respect, it's similar to Afghanistan. A war here would be very different from the war in flat East Europe. That does not mean it's impossible, but it would take a lot longer than normal. Turkey's area is about 783 thousand square kilometers (303 thousand square miles). This would actually be the 2nd largest country in Europe, if you considered all of Turkey to be part of Europe. (The largest, of course, is Russia---even if you only consider EuroRussia.) Population of Turkey in 1940: 17.8 million. From this we can estimate that the number of males aged 15 to 35 is about 2.37 million. From the mountainous regions, you would think logistics would be a nightmare too. However, the immediate question is, were there any railways in Turkey around 1940? And the answer is yes. I found a great site, trainsofturkey.com, that has a lot of historical info on this. First the 1914 map: 

Did apartments in Moscow have natural gas in the years 1917 to 1930? If so, were they supplied by utility pipelines underground? I am curious because underground utility pipes are expensive to build and maintain. I'm not even sure there were any long-range gas pipelines back in the early 1900's Russia. However, in all my reading, I don't think I've ever heard of electric stoves/ovens in Moscow. Natural gas seems ubiquitous and Russia seems very fond of it. Therefore I wanted to ask this explicit question. 

As conclusion: A ninja indeed used a specific outfit that blended in when infiltrating. The color black was used, but it was only a small part of the ninja apparel. Their clothes' color was adapted to their surroundings 

Translation from Plutarch. Plutarch's Lives. with an English Translation by. Bernadotte Perrin. Cambridge, MA. Harvard University Press. London. William Heinemann Ltd. 1919. 7. The story of Plutarch might very well be somewhat embellished, but Alexander’s later attention to his logistics during the campaign in Persia suggests that there was a core of truth to it. Let me paraphrase some examples from the rest of the book From p12 onwards: In general Alexander kept his armies' numbers at a minimum. 

The Macedonian army was indeed relying on a well-established logistics organization. The following book, as already mentioned in the comments, is probably the most well-known one about the subject and quite possibly the best too. Engels, Donald W. Alexander the Great and the Logistics of the Macedonian Army. Univ of California Press, 1980. According to the author your friend was quite correct in his statement that the Macedonian logistics were quite formidable, but often overlooked. To prove this point, he points to the fact that while Alexander the Great is foremost remembered as a great military commander during battle, he was also wise to the necessity of having a reliable supply line and the intelligence services needed to keep it secure. He points to a story from Alexander’s childhood for this. Plutarch’s Life of Alexander 5.1.