I like being out alone. Generally you have more time for introspection, for getting calm and enjoying what’s around you and inside of you. Of course there’s times when you have to deal with yourself and your fears when you’re out alone. Even after many nights that I have spent outside alone, I’m still a bit nervous when the sun sets. (I guess it’s an old habit inherited from the times people were not safe outside.) Usually I’m so tired that I simply don’t have the energy to be too nervous :) And the early dawn when the birds start to sing is always worth it: 

Bears don’t really hibernate, although they lower their activity during winter. Here’s one sample study of Black Bear winter behaviour in Sierra Nevada, California: 

Yes, I think I’m a stronger person because of it, as I’m a bit more accustomed to my own fear. As for dealing with awkward feelings when being out alone, it’s hard to give a good advice. In such situations I usually simply push myself a little bit; mostly the rational push proves to be beneficial in hindsight. I consider it to be an interesting skill to know when and how far you can override your instincts. 

I much prefer the regulated mode, to the point I don’t get why decent outdoor stuff manufacturers like Petzl still sell unregulated lamps at all. Second most important thing would be the power source. I’m happy with a compact lamp that includes the batteries in the same box as the light source. Depending on your requirements you might need a separate battery box. It offers more power and you can keep it under your jacket in cold weather to keep the batteries warm and happy. On the other hand it’s another thing to keep somewhere on your body and another possible point of failure (the cables between the battery pack and the light are known to be pretty flimsy). If you decide for a compact lamp where the batteries are in the same box as the light source, you still have the choice at least between AA, AAA and special batteries. I have a lamp that requires 3 AAA batteries and wouldn’t choose the same type again, because I can’t easily change batteries between my gear (the GPS and camera use regular AAs), the AAAs are little less common (so you might be out of luck when looking for cold-weather Lithium batteries, for example) and the odd number of batteries is a nuisance when charging. For similar reasons I don’t want a lamp powered by special batteries. I mostly don’t care for other things. Waterproof body is always a good idea. And there’s always the question of how much light power is enough. The simple answer is any modern LED lamp will probably do for you, unless you have some extra requirements like fast movement (biking, skiing or running in the night). If you do have these extra requirements, it’s good to see what other people in your target group use, and test in the real conditions. 

Snowshoe size is a key factor in getting the right amount of flotation. Generally, the heavier the person or the lighter and drier the snow, the more snowshoe surface area is required. You can follow the snowshoe chart here. 

One can always pass on the various techniques of situational awareness to others while in the outdoors by simply sharing your knowledge while hiking! In order to be good teachers, we must be versed enough in this art in order to pass on the knowledge we have learned. Some universities offer courses which include situational awareness within their particular course. An example would be 2014 Outdoor Council of Canada (OCC) Leadership course offered by UBC which contains the following in its course content: 

It seems to be that the only real requirement for solar cooking is sunshine and the more the better. There are a few disadvantage to cooking with solar energy. 

One could use many natural things as a projectile, but I will limit my answer to two items and the lethal possibilities would depend on how close you are to the victim. This is such an expansive question, I hope others will have better ideas. My first possible source would be rock salt or halite. 

What is great about railbiking (or draisines as some call them) is that there is such a diversity of styles in use all around the globe and have even been employed in the military occasionally. I generally only use abandoned railway lines as they are safer to use than active ones. It is as easy as riding any ordinary bike (my style). You simply are not permitted to turn your handle bars, for obvious reasons. If you are unaccustomed to riding a bike, than it may take a little getting used to. I live in British Columbia and there is not a whole lot of people interested in this. But it is such great fun. I ride something similar to this model: 

I am not sure, I would take this hike if I were inexperienced. At a minimum, please talk over your plans with an experienced local guide. Personally I would take a guide. 

In a truly wild area, I believe such an infestation would not be found, regardless of what type of lice is involved. 

While working outside in the rain and when wearing a rain jacket, I have two simple solutions for keeping as dry as possible when the weather is miserable. I do not wear wrist bands because I like to have some ventilation. You cannot stop water from creeping inside, so I use latex gloves inside my regular gloves, this way my hands are reasonably dry. The second thing I do (only if the temperature is warm enough) is that I roll up my shirt sleeves to just past my elbows. At least this way I am able to stay dry. This little trick I've used for several years now and it works quite nicely. When I take my rain jacket off at least I am dry, although I will be a little humid. Rain gear in general is not breathable. Note: If one is really desperate, there is the possibility of putting on long veterinary gloves under your rain jacket! 

The hardshell/softshell distinction doesn’t mean pretty much anything today. It used to be that hardshell was completely waterproof and windproof, implying limited breathability, and softshell was somewhat waterproof, somewhat windproof and much more breathable. In other words, softshell used to mean a material you could wear most of the time while being more comfortable than wearing hardshell. Then some of the outdoor manufacturers unfortunately realized that those softshell things sell quite well and reused the label for whatever they wanted to sell. Nowadays the softshell label can mean almost anything, so that it doesn’t make sense to say if it’s more durable than hardshell. (Especially given that the waterproof and windproof “hardshells” are today often built to minimum weight, so that the toughness greatly varies between different hardshells even within one brand.) 

I don’t think that will work for heavy rain. The waterproofing coating will make the water slide away from the garment (this is the so-called lotus effect), but that’s just one part of keeping the water out. The harder part is not letting the water through under pressure, like when you press the garment against something, under your backpack straps, under heavy rainfall etc. Here the simple waterproofing finish will eventually give way and the water will get through. 

Fenix HL30 would be my choice right now. Two AA batteries, 200 lumens peak output (for a limited time), regulated light, sturdy construction, reputable company. 

The chair foot is the body (sorry for not offering naked models), the part of the rope leading away from the picture will take the load. In this use case the knot should hold perfectly. On the other hand, you might get the idea to use the bowline knot to create a sling, say to rappel down from a tree: 

Here in Czech Republic we don’t have many bears, most of them cross from Slovakia, but around the state border it’s quite common to find bear footprints in snow during the winter. Draw your own conclusions. 

There’s quite a lot of people interested in fasting for spiritual and health purposes. When fasting, these people don’t drink anything but water and don’t eat anything at all, their stomach simply pauses. And it’s not unusual to fast like this for several days or even weeks. One of my friends tried a three-week fast and I happened to meet him just as he was ending. He was quite skinny, but appeared fully functional. Another friend of mine fastened for at least two weeks, I can’t remember the exact number. Both of them lead a normal life, the first one even kept running his usual kilometers and the second one kept working as a scientist. I am not saying that you should try this or that it’s completely harmless. (Especially the return to normal food takes a long time and you must excercise a great care and discipline.) My point is that three weeks without food is nothing unheard of and you don’t have to be a walking corpse in the end. I’m not sure if eating small amounts of food is better than eating nothing. During the first several days of fasting the body shifts to a different energy source, it could be that starting the stomach again would do more harm then good. Anyway, if you happen to be without food for a week or so, there’s no need to panic. You’ll be uncomfortable, but you’ll be fine. You can even try fasting for several days to see how the body works in those conditions, but in that case please don’t trust a random stranger on the Internet and find somebody who knows what he’s doing :) 

All said and done, I would not hesitate to recommend the use of a linen-blend underwear for very hot weather. 

Fishing in a river while wearing waders permits me to fish down stream and positioning my lures in the spot that is only possible while being in the water. This also helps me to avoid the many snags such as branches and tree trunks that are commonly found on the banks of many water ways. I can not tell you how many lures I have lost while fishing off the banks of rivers. If you fish from the bank of a river you must cast your line upstream. eventually your line will float downstream and make its way towards the edge of water. Hopefully in a spot one can retrieve your equipment for another cast. Fly fishing can only be done while in the water due to fact that one is moving the fly in in two directions, both in a forward and backward positions. It is the only way to avoid snags. Since most people do not wear waders while fishing or venture into the water I have many more options as to where I want to fish. There is nothing more challenging than fishing on a bank with too many anglers in areas that are renown to be good salmon spots. With waders on I am able to go upstream 100 meters or so from the group and get the big ones all by myself. The spot I prefer to fish in has trees and shrubs on both banks and making it impracticable to access my fishing hole from the banks. As a side note: Waders keep the leaches off! 

Bryce Towsley goes on to say this about handguns and bears in his article Packing Pistols In Bear Country. 

For this very reason, I always wear tall leather boots and long pants when walking in tall grasses, regardless of the temperature. Some people actually wear gaiters on their legs, but I have never done this. I like to stamp my feet as I walk through areas where snakes may be out and about. Although this is not a perfect method to help snakes move off your pathway, it does seems to work, at least for me. Snakes can be very stubborn, and at times, no amount of stomping will make them move. Also keep up a load conversation with your friends, as it will help give the impression to all the wildlife that you are travelling in numbers and all should use the same path. Never step over a log, but rather step onto it and jump off the log at least a meter or more from the log. A snake could be hiding on the other side. If chiggers or tics are in your area, tuck your pants into a pair of high socks to prevent chiggers crawling onto the ankle. You could also use a bug repellent to be applied to either or both skin and clothing.