I'd say that you should pay close attention to any kind of joint pain, and to avoid running if you encounter such pain in the hips, knees, or ankles. As we age, the cartilage and synovial fluid in our joints become less robust and able to deal with the high impact of running. Recovery takes longer, and if the joints experience excessive wear, this is something that no amount of recovery time will fully resolve, unlike many of the muscle pains typically encountered in running. Care should be taken to go slow at first, to not run with a speed goal in mind, and to not run in a way that requires a long stride. Shorter strides and avoiding extending the foot beyond the knee, are recommended: this avoids heel strikes and reduces ankle and knee joint stress. In terms of cardiovascular fitness, you can get significant benefits from running even if it is not particularly fast or tiring. I would begin on a treadmill and focus on your running form, before running outdoors. Good shoes are a must, but there are so many possibilities here, and everybody's individual biomechanics are a bit different, so what works for me might not work for you. 

Here is a real-world example that you can verify for yourself in gyms with those large multi-station cable machines with a pull-up bar in the middle. Typically, they have a pair of lat pulldown stations, a pair of cable row stations, a pair of triceps pushdown stations, and the interior pair is a multi-purpose cable cross. If you observe the pulleys for the triceps pushdown station and compare that against the pulleys for the cable cross station, you'll see that the cable goes through an additional pulley on the latter. This halves the force needed to move the same amount of weight (it also doubles the distance needed to pull the cable to lift the weight the same height off the stack but this is not relevant to the amount of exertion needed). So if you were to set up the stacks with the same amount of weight for these stations, and you configure one of cable cross station pulls to do the same triceps pushdown, you will find it easier on the cable cross station because you're only using half the effort. So the takeaway is that the weight of the plates on a machine only tell part of the story in terms of the force needed to lift the weight, and it is the amount of force that relates to the exertion or effort. Consequently, for a machine of a given, fixed mechanical design, the relationship is also fixed, but it may vary from machine to machine. The only way to maintain comparability of the weight of the plate to the effort needed to lift it, is to look at the same machine or machines of equivalent design. 

I would avoid the leg extension machine entirely, and focus on doing simple bodyweight exercises for the legs that you can find in books. Pilates is an excellent suggestion. But you should definitely find some way of getting some cardiovascular activity. If you can, take the stairs. Negotiate with your employer to make time: if they are really having you work so much you don't have time to maintain your physical fitness, then they are taking a short view of your value to the company and compromising your health for their financial benefit. Is that really the kind of company you want to work for? If you get sick more frequently or are more tired and stressed because you can't exercise, then will you be as productive? 

One possible explanation for the height discrepancy: consider that throughout the day, your precise height is not constant. In the morning after you wake up, you are actually slightly taller than you are in the evening when you go to bed. Another explanation is variability in posture, as well as measurement imprecision. As has been mentioned elsewhere, BMI is not a suitable diagnostic measure for medical problems. Its simplicity and ease of calculation, however, has resulted in its widespread use as a proxy for medical conditions (e.g., in insurance underwriting). The more important measure in the printout you have is the body fat percentage--in fact, it is this value that is what BMI was originally intended to correlate with (but this correlation is weak). Also bear in mind that body fat percentage can be measured and calculated in a variety of ways, and certain methods are imprecise, inaccurate, and/or unreliable. Bioelectrical impedance analysis is less accurate than hydrostatic submersion. Given the numbers in the printout, it is unlikely that the body fat percentage was calculated from the BMI (this, of course, is a wildly inaccurate method and is almost meaningless). 

There is certainly some cardiovascular benefit to lifting weights, but it isn't a whole lot compared to sustained aerobic exercise. The other thing is that each person's response to exercise is different--it depends on hormone levels, genetics, diet, age, prior experience with exercise, etc. So what works for one person may not work the same for another. You have to find out what works for you, not what someone claims should work for anyone or most anybody. In the beginning stages of exercise after a sedentary period, it is relatively easy to see gains. Almost anything is going to have a positive impact and that's good. This is what you're seeing in your measurement changes. Also keep in mind there is a certain amount of...imprecision in body fat and BMI measurements depending on the method used to calculate these numbers. If you are lifting, a better measure of your progress is to measure body dimensions using a tape measure. For cardiovascular exercise, I wouldn't go crazy with it: unless your goal is to run triathlons (which are pretty rough on the body), endurance training is not necessarily a good way to achieve your fitness goals. If what you want is actual cardiovascular fitness--and by this I mean lowered resting heart rate, pulse, BP, higher VO2max, higher RBC count--then that develops with aerobic exercise in all its forms, just as increased strength and muscle development comes with weight training in all its forms. If weight loss is you goal, proper diet is the key. In fact, I would say proper diet is the key for ANY fitness goal. 

Increases muscular strength and endurance Results in neurological adaptations benefiting coordination, proprioception, balance, and general musculoskeletal control Promotes increase in muscle-to-fat ratio with corresponding metabolic changes 

Just goes to show that there are very different notions of the ideal body...I'd love to have "chunky" calf muscles! That said, I'm a believer in the adage, "form follows function." In other words, what matters here is how your body performs at the activity of interest, rather than how it looks. Your question is based on a presumption of a cause-and-effect relationship that is reversed. If your goal is to have a leaner musculature, then this is driven by doing the kind of activities that result in that kind of development. However, if your goal is to perform better at the kind of activities that you enjoy irrespective of what your body looks like, then that is not automatically driven by changing your body to look like those who do well in those activities. 

In my opinion, after using both of these machines as well as done dumbbell fly while supine on a bench, I prefer the free weights above either machine. The hazard with machine 2 is easy to identify: it will tend to put a lot of strain on the elbow joints. Machine 1 does not suffer from this problem. But both machines have the potential to put excessive stress on the joints of the shoulders and arms, because they force the movement to occur along a predefined curve, rather than what is biomechanically natural to your body. What this means is that some people might use these machines for years and never have any issues, while others, no matter how they attempt to adjust the seat or arms, will find the motion painful or unnatural. I would recommend using free weights instead, and start with a minimal amount of weight, concentrating on developing proper form and range of motion. This also has the benefit of activating stabilizing muscles. Then build up the weight, but never to an extent where exertion comes at the cost of precise form and complete control. With this type of exercise, the amount of weight isn't as important as the proper movement and muscle activation. 

Have you seen cyclists? They generally have legs that are much larger than their upper bodies, especially those that do time trials. So, I don't recommend cycling if your goal is to prevent thicker legs. What's going on here is almost entirely genetic and won't be significantly affected by controlling diet. My advice is to focus on upper body compound exercises, such as chest presses, rows, and core workouts. This at least will help balance your proportions, and it may possibly help divert your body's tendency to build muscle in the legs. With diet and cardio, you can burn fat and get more lean, but it is my opinion that this isn't going to do a whole lot for your leg size, and it definitely will not correct the proportional appearance, unless your exercise focuses on upper body development. 

Drink water. Eat sugar and other carbohydrates that are rapidly metabolized. Caffeine. Do not eat protein or fat--it won't help. 

There are two artificial sweeteners in this product: sucralose, and acesulfame potassium (also known as Ace-K). The purpose of using two sweeteners is to get a better sugar-like taste profile than with a single sweetener alone. You can read the relevant Wikipedia articles on these substances, but suffice it to say that neither one is really all that good to consume frequently, even if they are GRAS (generally recognized as safe) or have agency/governmental approval. We can talk about extensive LD50 animal studies, or PK studies in humans, but at the end of the day, nothing is completely safe--toxicity is a measure of exposure over time, and an excess of anything is bad no matter what it is you're putting in your body. In light of this, the most important thing if you want to use supplements in a healthy way is to do it in moderation. As difficult as it might be to obtain your nutrition through whole foods, supplementation is precisely that--supplementing your normal diet, not substituting for it. It's not about increasing convenience by allowing you to cut back on eating as much of your dietary needs as you possibly can. 

The general rule of thumb is that for free weights, a weight that is designed to be used interchangeably will have its own weight indicated on it, whereas a weight that is fixed will represent the total weight of the object. For non-free weights, a weight that is located on a stack in a machine will indicate the weight of itself and all the weights on top of it; that is to say, it is given a value that reflects the effort to lift it and the weights stacked atop it. However, if it is attached to a pulley system, the actual force needed to lift it will depend on the arrangement of pulleys and may be substantially less than the nominal weight. There are of course exceptions (hopefully rare) to these rules. Because the weights shown in the picture are of the fixed type--the bar is not detachable from the end weights--the weight indicated is the total object weight, including the bar. By contrast, a plate indicates the weight of the plate itself and not the bar that could be attached to it, since the bar can be nonstandard. I won't discuss the apparent proliferation of fake plates that some lifters appear to be using when posting images and video on social media to give the impression of being stronger than world champion lifters.