So the question is : Does anybody know of a way of tracking down the location of the module file and the conf file that loaded it Worth noting that these are not loaded from httpd.conf (/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf) or the conf.d/*.conf location that httpd.conf includes. However there are conf files here that include other locations and these include others and its all a bit rabbit hole. So if there is a command to get the info I need then all the better 

When using HTTPs/TLS/SSL site traffic is encrypted between your browser (or the application initiating the connection) and the web server that is serving pages to you. This means that if any intermediary attempts to "listen" to your requests/responses all they will see is encrypted traffic. This encryption model is the same regardless of whether you are using a VPN or a standard internet connection. 

Using the guide here: $URL$ I have create a certificate authority using OpenSSL. However I would now like to use the Microsoft CA instead. The question is, is it possible to "import" the root/sub certificates I created with OpenSSL into MSCA? 

I am looking through the modules that my apache server has loaded. To get this list I am using the following command: 

EDIT 3 As the errors in the log seem to point to the issue that whose resolution is detailed here: $URL$ I have followed the guidelines in that KB, with the following outputs: 

When I perform the backup (initiated via a cron job) I set a .htaccess rule on my site to redirect any requests to a static "down for backup, back shortly" page. Once the backup completes I remove the rule and the site reopens. All well and good, it has been like this for years and as you can imagine this works perfectly well and I haven't had any issues. However... I would like to not have to close the site during the backup, so the question is can I do this with mysqldump? Is the tool capable of handling conditions where data changes after the backup initiates? If it does live backups can I guarantee that I won't get a corrupt backup? Is there a better way of doing a live backup? 

Very odd right? Where else could this header values be set from? Update : In order to see if the response Expires is being set from the app server I tried following : 

This is my first time doing something like this, so I m not sure what else do I need to do, and why is there this default . It has been like 9 or 10 hours of different experimenting and none of it worked. Any suggestions what else could I try? Update: It seems like that I'm able to add a http header or but can't override the existing value, by adding this to the 

Using lynx command line browser to hit the instance directly rather than trough apache I added the "%{Expires}o" to the tomcat server.xml valve log part, so I can check out the access log, and see what is the expires header returned from the server. After I examined logs, I found that the correct response header is being sent from year 2014, and not the one from 1994. I modified the mod-jk log level to trace because I wanted to see in which shape does the response arrive back to apache web server. And so in that log I also see that the app server sets the correct Expires response header from 2015 and not from the 1994. 

I see inside config file the option to start server with certain username/group i.e.: User c0mrade Group c0m Now if I start the server with my username, nobody can stop it except me. How can I configure server that is startable/stopable by certain other users or groups as well? Thanks 

I would get a 403 error back, however all I am seeing is page.php. Conclusion is that the directives are malformed and not being followed. Could anybody offer any guidance on where I may have gone wrong? 

Rather than copy the MDF files around, a better solution is to take a backup of the database and then restore that backup onto your target SQL instance. Assuming you are using SQL Management Studio, you can do this by right clicking on your database and choosing: 

As a possibly related issue, today I experience a server outage for reasons yet unknown. As part of the investigation into this I used Plesk to reboot the server. This action completed successfully and was the last action I performed in Plesk. Since the reboot I can access all services other than plesk itself. Having never encountered this issue before, and also being something of a newbie when it comes to administering a Linux based server, I have no idea where to go next? Is there are log file I can check for service start errors? Is the solution staring me in the face? Or maybe something else. Thanks in advance EDIT Something else that may or may not be relevant: After rebooting, and before attempting to access Plesk again I installed sysstat with yum in order to be able to use iostat. Other than that no other changes have been made to the server. EDIT 2 The last entry in the file is 

It would seem that when I attempt to access my Plesk admin page this is unavailable. After doing some cursory checks I discovered that the server was not listening for incoming requests on port 8443 (verified remotely via telnet). I therefore assumed that the service was not running and therefore issued the following command via SSH under the root account: 

I've got an app that runs on a tomcat web server, and I use mod-jk on my apache web server side. I think I've managed to configure everything to work seamlessly, I ran into issues when I wanted to cache static assets on webserver, for some reason my response headers expires is set to 1994, these are my headers for one of the javascript files I want to server as static asset and cache it: 

How can I disable firewall on ubuntu, or how can I check which ports are listening, and how can I add some new ports to be listened to? Thank you 

I have a dir which I can access from my windows machine goes like and I can see all the files in there, is it possible that I can wget or something those files inside this directory to my remote linux machine, both of these windows and linux machines are remote. 

So this pretty much tells me the app server is not setting the header to . Anyone have any opinions what do I do next? 

I need one email account to be able to send emails (password retrievals etc.). I read today somewhere that if you create unix account postfix will recognize it as email address so if your account username was your email would be . So I tested that and tried to send email to and I successfully received mail. When I try to send the email with ant task script, I'm not able to connect :