Genetically engineer ants to be biologically superior in some way that will favor them evolutionarily over normal ants apart from their ability to use tools. Whatever this advantage isn't super critical or interesting to me, but it will give the ants a bigger bump than tool use alone. Train/teach tool use in ants until they regularly show spontaneous tool usage or even better consistent tool adaptation. This is the point I'm going to focus on in my answer because it feels like the meat of your question. 

Generational Approach Clearly Joe is a government official in Puerto Rico who is a strong advocate for independence. He inspires a large amount of public support for succession from the United States and independence for the island through his impassioned and electrifying speeches. He becomes a thought leader and captures the zeitgeist of the population like the world hasn't seen since Lenin. Unfortunately for Joe, the United States prevents Joe from realizing his dream of an independent Puerto Rico during his lifetime. However a couple generations later when Mexico has recaptured the territory stolen from them through Manifest Destiny, and India is the undisputed world power that strategic marriage between Joe's son and a Brahmin woman with an infant son pays off big. That infant son becomes President of the of a greatly weaken United States, his last act before exiting office in disgrace due to birther revelations and being India's puppet is to endorse Puerto Rico's acceptance into the UN. After acceptance Joe gets a national holiday, and is credited with launching the independence movement in earnest. 

Time is complicated and difficult. Like you said it is best just to hand wave dates if you can. For example you mentioned 1582 as the adoption date but that is very dependent on your story's setting. For example France was 1582, but Prussia was 1610, and England was 1752 (and only had 282 days in 1751 as a consequence). As the English example shows years didn't even turn over at the same time everywhere. If you can't hand wave and have some proficiency programming I suggest you save yourself some hassle and write a simple program to do the conversions for you. If you know Java then the wildly popular Joda Time library is a good fit, and as you can see by the link actually attempts to support this transition. If you prefer .NET then Noda Time is an attempt to bring similarly improved date/time handling to .NET. This still doesn't make everything perfect though because time is hard, and countries in the past and present are able to adjust things by fiat. One example is the "New Years Day" isn't uniformly January 1st under the Julian calendar. So my advice is just try to get things reasonably close to what you want in a way that will make sense to your readers. Don't worry too much about getting it wrong because you're almost certainly are going to get some things wrong. If the natives of the age didn't care enough to have a sensible standard then why should you beat yourself up about minor errors? You can even argue that errors are more realistic since it was easy to make these mistakes during this time period. 

So from what understand they want the most militarized weapons, but also the easiest to hide --which is contradictory. I think what you are looking for is some sort of collapsible semi automatic long gun, It would probably have a stock which is folding, extendable or detachable, the barrel would have to screwed on (or assembled in some other means) perhaps be in two or three parts when carried, and the clip would kept in a separate place on the body (probably the boot and one clip in each). Maybe even a detachable grip. Thus the largest part of the gun is the the trigger apparatus So the gun would take some time to assemble, at least 30 seconds. That's not so much a problem though (could even provide some great story suspense that actually meakes sense). If you make it a 22 caliber rifle say (which would be all you need), you could get the individual parts down to size of about an adults man's hand and have say a trigger and chamber, folding flat stock, grip (that maybe expands from the width of finger to two or three inches long (still the height of a finger, a barrel that probably collapses into two three pieces like a blind man's cane, and the magazine(s). Hide the trigger/chamber in the small of the back, magazines in one boot, barrel in the other, grip probably in the sleeve and the leaves the very thin collapsible folding stock probably under an armored Kevlar breastplate 

If you want to look at why this happens in the real world, it's resource extraction. You see this in the European era of colonial (a lot), but even in modern times with powerful countries such as the United States backing regimes they don't necessarily like (such as Saudi Arabian Royal Family), against their rivals in the region because Saudi Arabia ensures them access to oil. Similar dynamics played out in Colonial India, in the "New World" with native tribes, in Africa (are playing out even today in Africa). Why does this happen? I mean, if the Aliens are more powerful, why not just wipe out humans to get to their resources? Well the United States Armed Forces definitely have the capability to wipe out every country in the Middle East and "take the oil." There are several reasons we don't. The biggest is probably that public opinion just wouldn't support it. Nobody in an educated and open society (or at least very few people) want genocide and or national piracy openly committed in their name. LONG SIDE NOTE: You could argue that in war time it would be accepted, or even in the wake of a 9/11 scale terrorist attack, but the world is too globalized now, too instant, too visible. What kind of support would the "moral bombings" of WWII had had if there videos in full color of charred bodies streaming live on youtube at the time. But anyway, unless humans attack your aliens, this whole side note is a mute point. The next more cynical reason is that dead men make terrible laborers. It's just a more efficient use of resources coerce or pay people to work than kill them, and if they are trying to kill each other... well backing one side is an excellent way to get them to work for you under threat of annihilation without actually having to even threaten to annihilate anyone yourself. The believability of this really depends on the aliens themselves. If they are James Cameron Alien type monsters or Invasion of the Body Snatchers single mind ends just means no regrets type aliens, it falls apart. However, if Alien society resembles our own with shifting political dynamics, value of individual life and limited resources: totally believable. Becky Chamber's novel "The Long Way to a Small Angry Planet" (which I'd recommend as fun read) actually revolves around this very dynamic. A powerful Galactic inter-species Federation(? forget exact term she uses for governing body) admits a faction of a new race into the federation (which gives this faction a defensive treaty) even though they are at war with other factions of their own species to gain access to resources within this species' territory. As far as which side the Aliens choose to back: it's either going to be which side the higher ups perceive as being in a better position to begin with (nobody wants to back a loser); which is more willing to work with the aliens, or aliens think would be more dependable to work with; which is percieved as the good side in the realm of alien public opinion... probably some combination of the three. 

Orbits between universes Perhaps two stars are on opposite side of the boundary but the planets orbiting them have orbits that cross the boundary. This would lead to strange due to stars effectively playing catch with planets as the planets go in and out of their sphere of influence. Multiple confirmed observations of this "orbit" are made with telescopes which prompts multiple conflicting theories. Our heroes are sent on a science mission to figure out which theory is correct. 

If the situation is truly as bad as you've described then you need to make some hard choices. You can continue to act like you're the apex predator and world super power or you can cede Earth to the apes and go in hiding in some remote area. If you continue to act like a world super power you will eventually die a violent death at the hands of these apes. After all you will need to successfully counter all of their attempts, whereas they only need to get lucky once. Due to their great capacity for innovation and superior numbers the odds are greatly in their favor over time. If you go in hiding the apes will either civilize themselves to the point where it is possible to peacefully coexist or kill each other off without your help. This is the pathway taken by several other species in my world ranging from Bigfoot, to the Loch Ness monster, or even the powerful Megalodon. During your self-imposed exile these apes will no doubt develop more and more efficient ways to kill each other. As they increase their population density and become more militarily advanced they will either develop more and more advanced diplomatic skills in order to ensure their survival or they'll kill each other off. Regardless you will be in a better position to negotiate a peaceful resolution. As an aside it should be noted that once their military might reaches a point where it can overwhelm you easily your safety is greatly increased. This is especially true if you learn to communicate with the apes. Their ability to dominate you will make them feel more at ease with your existence. In this way you use their strength of arms to bolster your survivability. 

As far as I can tell, this is minimum ratio of oxygen to CO2 in which humans and (all?) animals can safely live. What would be the meteorological, biological or physical implications of living in this sort of atmosphere? 

Who would enforce these "Retributions/punishment" if there is no government? One of the main reasons governments sprout up is to maintain law & order. That's why people consent to be governed, so they aren't murdered or robbed at random (only murdered and robbed in accordance with the rules of the state). Every society has a social contract, and societies larger than a tribe or perhaps confederation of tribes have central government mainly to enforce the social contract. Really the state is a mechanism to consolidate violence: and successful states standardize and minimize violence with a code of laws. Violence goes from random and widespread, to rare and practiced only by state on those who break the social contract to a pre agreed upon degree which warrants the use of violence. History is filled with violence because it's extremely successful, sadly. Man will always resort to it to accomplish goals unless they are dissuaded by the threat of violence returned unto them (and often resort to it in spite of that threat). There are no historical examples of the kind of society you lay out, at least that I'm aware of. I am not a professional historian. In addition, what if there's a contract dispute. Contract Lawyers have been around since at least Ancient Greece. With no government, who settles disputes to determine if a contract was actually broken? Are there courts? Who administrates the courts? So if we are talking about regular humans, it's completely unbelievable in my opinion. But you have other options. Drugs that make humans follow contracts that everyone takes willingly (under fear of being exiled or killed) that force people to follow contracts --Though I have no scientific way to explain this, so the drug itself wouldn't be realistic. Speaking of science-free you could do magic. This could be a story about aliens, aliens living surrounded by humans whose minds work differently than ours. Finally, my favorite, give these people a different language, a "magical" language with words that meanings and consequence are physical certainties. Maybe it's 4-dimensional language that determines (and must be in accordance with) the future and past to be spoken. If I used this magical language to tell you I will go to the hill at 3 o clock, I must go to hill at 3 o clock: furthermore, it will be a specific hill at 3 o clock in the afternoon today and you will know all that without doubt. Again, not exactly realistic unfortunately --but fun. Edit: Another answer mentions the Amish, but the fact is that Amish communities have a Mafia to punish those who break the social contract --such as steal, rape... Or at the very least are within the jurisdiction of law enforcement entities such as local sheriff departments. Furthermore, and perhaps off topic, how does this society defend themselves from attack without a central government to maintain a military? 

The first thing to understand is your scientists have to face is that advanced tool building ants doesn't necessarily mean that these ants are superior on that grounds alone to displace all other ants. Just because Homo Sapiens displaced Neaderthals, doesn't mean the scientists' super tool building ants are going to do the same in the ant world. So I think it is important that they have two goals: 

Could someone who has a PhD in nuclear physics build a functioning nuclear bomb using the 50+ year old fissile material buried in North Carolina? Or would they need additional controlled items like tritium and deuterium that wouldn't be present to build anything more than a dirty bomb? 

Naturally my understanding of building nuclear weapons is minute but I seem to recall reading that one of the harder parts is enriching the fissile materials. Since the fissile materials in a field in North Carolina are present that hurdle is overcome. It seems to me that a determined party could purchase land near the site and tunnel to the fissile materials. After all people were able to tunnel to a depth of over 200 feet on Oak Island so the flooding here should be manageable with enough determination. Assuming: 

Universe boundaries aren't static Perviously I was assuming that the boundary was static. Gravitational force still can't cross the boundary but what if the location of the boundary moves steadily in one direction? Everyone knows that gas giant XYZ doesn't have any moons which is quite odd since the inner gas giants all have moons. Then one year someone notices a strange anomaly where a puff of its atmosphere retains its momentum, converts its angular velocity into a straight vector velocity, and drifts off into space. People dismiss this as experimental error. However next time the gas giant is in the same position a satellite retains its momentum, converts its angular velocity into a straight vector velocity, and drifts off into space. As it is flying away it sends proof back to the home world that a large portion of the gas giant's atmosphere is leaving too. Your heroes go to investigate, discover the boundary. Experiments over time show it is creeping toward their home world, and to their horror it seems to be accelerating....