There is a "heretical" school of thought which says it is inconceivable that evolution has not already caused neural networks to take advantage of quantum computing in some way. And we really do not understand how brains work. So we cannot categorically state that the quantum processes of thought are restricted to local chemistry of single molecules in synapses, although that is the majority view. 

Vitamin D already covered. Your people would have serious problems with Alcoholism and probably with SAD. It is not known why people living in Northerly parts, and especially North of the Arctic circle, have high rates of alcohol-related problems. It seems to be universal, in that the problem is shared by Europeans, Orientals, and Native Americans. The only answer known so far is banning alcoholic beverages, or for individuals to abstain. Absence of sunlight is the probable cause. Also linked to absence of sunlight is SAD (seasonally affected depression). Some find staring at a bright light for some minutes each morning helps. It is very hard to get artificial light at sunlight intensity and even harder to match it's spectrum. It may be that solar UV on skin is the key, not bright visible light in eyes. We know about vitamin D but is there something else made in our skin? For some, only the certainty that Spring will arrive keeps them going. For some, even that promise is not enough. Suicide rates are anomalously high, along with alcoholism. And your people are never going to experience sunlit summer days. Finally there is "cabin fever" or "Yukon fever". After months cooped up indoors with extreme cold and darkness outside, people go.mad. Not sure if this is recognised as a medical Northern winter syndrome or not. 

Putting armour directly on the wings probably won't be too plausible. They would weight them down, might limit their mobility, and would defiantly be exhausting. I'm imagining flying armour on your wings would be like climbing a rope with heavy weights on your wrists. While I think your character wouldn't want to engage in hand to hand at all (flying out of weapons range and dropping hazardous objects would be hard for an enemy to counter), there could be ways to protect their wings on the ground. What about a thick cape reinforced with chain mail netting? Sure, they couldn't fly with it on, but they could carry if in a sack and put it on when they land. If the wings can fold into a way convenient for fitting through doors, this might be enough to keep them safe in a melee. If the cape alone can't provide enough defense, what about a solid metal "shell" shield that's worn like a backpack? Just unbuckle the shell when you need to escape into the air! This post is inspired by whenever I put my coat over my backpack when walking in the rain. 

One approach is travel at the speed of light. It needs some handwavium to accomplish but does not create causality paradoxes. For the traveller it is as instantaneous as teleportation, but if he travels 50 light years it is a one way trip 50 years into the future, and the only possible return is to a century in the future of his home. Check out Ken Macleod's "engines of light" trilogy, where the journey is eight thousand light years, to a destination that was not of the travellers' choice. A variant is to transport the traveller's mind state by radio or laser signals into a body built at the receiving station. This is easier if s/he is an advanced robotic construct rather than biological. Check out Charles Stross "Neptune's Brood" which includes some intriguing speculation on nature of interstellar money and finance. 

What about the L4 and L5 Lagrange points on the orbit of a giant planet that is in its Sun's goldilocks zone? An object near one of these stable Lagrange points orbits around it, but the orbits are irregular and easily perturbed. They'll take the planet nearer and further from the sun as well as changing it's position with respect to the giant on its orbit. Things get even less predictable if it's a dwarf star rather than a giant planet. They tend to be flare stars but it's the other star that's the main energy source for the planet so maybe the Lagrange planet is far enough away for life to survive the flares? One thing I'm not sure of is whether a planet massive enough to hold its water is "small" enough to have a stable Lagrangian orbit. 

This is an interesting situation, especially with magic having high costs on the user. To use an analogy, its situation were a single person could construct a building and wreck themselves in the process, or a large group of people could build the same building with less risk. The only difference from our world is that, in your setting, the building gets erected in the exact same amount of time either way. Historically speaking, humans have been more or less fine with endangering themselves if it meant getting more profit (see any dangerous but high paying profession) and the march of technology was slow until the printing press revolutionized education. Doing things the magic way and damn-the-human-cost might be a common practice in your world. Of course, then you have the problem that the same people who are being exploited for profit and the ones who have the means to resist exploition. "Phil, I'm going to need you to turn this water into Chianti, in the process lowering your lifespan or maybe permanently raising your blood pressure, while I take most of the profit." "Actually, boss, how about I take the entire profit and, in return, not transform 50% of you into a frog. Thanks for the magic classes, by the way." Then again, a profession that carries a high amount of risk, demands a large amount of training, has the potential to generate a lot of profit, and would be a stupid thing to teach lower-lass people to do already existed in our world. They were/are called warriors, people skilled in combat. Consequently, your magicians/wizards would likely be in charge or employed by people who are in charge. After all, if they are both finite and powerful, why waste them plowing fields when they can be used to secure land and resources or deter invaders with just their presence? Let the peasants invent plows, aqueducts, and roadways. We need the magic users in the kings army. Sorry I turned your mages into WMDs. I get excited whenever magic gets presented as finite commodities. 

The current answer to sea level elevation is a levee or dike. This has already been done historically in the Netherlands (Polders). This is in progress in Venice (MOSE Project). I bet that this will be the choosen solution as soon as Wall Street experiments acqua alta. 

The first 3D print made in space was a part of the printer itself. The aim of the whole experiment is to be able to make spare parts of equipments onboard ISS with minimal assistance from earth, and the printer is included in the list of equipments. There are still questions about which parts are 3D printable, how to assemble parts, where to find raw material, but technology goes towards self-replication. 

Since Ptolemy the World knows that Earth is spherical and the trade route to China was so lucrative that many people wanted to compete with ancient silk road. Therefore exploration couldn't stop after few lost expeditions. Discovery of Americas would just have taken more time and determination. One day or another, an expedition would figure out what the problem was, and come back with more military resources.