Tape drives are designed to be in server hardware with correct cooling and air flow setups. I would suggest you check the internal cooling arrangements especially in area of the tape drive and address this. But I have just checked our tape drives and they are warm but these are in s a tape ibrary. 

Part of most complexity schema's is that you cannot use the same password you have used since X, and X amount of last passwords. Have you checked what the complexity requirements are for this server? From memory I think that this is the last 12 passwords cannot be used. But I may be wrong. 

ESXi Host You should configure your hosts to sync with a Time source. This will enable logs and other events to be at the correct time. Some things that are included in the Host logs Snapshot operations Resuming of suspend vMotion Virtual Machine If the VM's are all windows an on a Domain set your PDC to sync with a time source (ideally the same one as the Hosts). If not I would set them to sync via W32TM, but to the same NTP Master. 

Also if you include the memory state of the VM at the time of snapshotting this creates a this again is a delta file and refers to the original memory files if needed. A file is created this lists all the files created at the time of the snapshot process 

You will need to complete this on \ServerComputer for this to work.ONce you have created the second shared printer you will need to add it to the clients that need this printer. But the basics are below. Open Printers and Faxes, Under Printer Tasks, click Add a printer to open the Add Printer Wizard, and then click Next. Click Local printer or stand-alone network printer, clear the Automatically detect and install my Plug and Play printer check box, and then click Next. Click Create a new port, and then click Standard TCP/IP Por Click Next to run the Add Standard TCP/IP Printer Port Wizard. Follow the instructions on the screen to finish installing the TCP/IP printer. Set up the printer how you want it to be set up and share. 

In the VSphere client click on the hardware status tab. You can see all the insight information. Also you can configure alarms via VCenter for status info off these. Also if you go into Configuration --> Power Management and click on properties you can set the iLO details for power management. 

I am in a catch 22 position. I need to do some work on a SAN that hosts our VCenter but due to the client only having Essentials Plus licence they do not have Storage Vmotion and can only cold migrate the VM. Obviously if I power down the VM I lose the features provided by VCenter. Is my only option to clone the VM power down the old one and power the new one back on the new data store? Would this cause any issues? Esxi 5.1. VCenter 5.1b 

First off you need to know your host configuration will it support 8V-CPUs? Most modern servers will easily meet or surpass this, but its worth a check. The second thing to ask yourself does this server NEED 8V-CPUs? Well giving it lots of VCPUs will make things faster right? Well if it’s the only VM running on the system may be, but in most use cases we virtualise to consolidate running 10/20 VM’s on a single host. Sometimes a lot more depending on the situation. So you will have a lot of VM’s asking for CPU time the more VCPU’s allocated out the more WAIT time Hyper-V will be asking for (essentially telling the VM to wait for CPU time) this can be from Nano seconds to seconds. There is some good reading here 

Yes you can do this. What you need is one of these: $URL$ Thw differance between MASTER and Slave is that master shoukd be used on devices that ring using the pstn (example a very old phone that draws power from pstn) A slave should be used for digial devices. The only differance is there is a capicter in the master to enable no influx in voltage. 

As stated in my comment above I couldn’t see a reasonable reason why you would want to do this unless you had a problem, and if you had a problem I would look at other troubleshooting before doing something like this. If you do your proposed test and get each client to download your test file I feel that you are going to saturate your network entirely. You have so many variables with testing this as well. Each client is going to be a different distance away from the AP. They will all be using different chipsets, (This WILL affect performance). Even if you automate this, you will get different results (very subtle) but a result from a client that has to take 2 hops to get to your server to a client that takes 4. As far as your lest part of the question goes. Has anyone complained? If not don’t fix something that isn’t broke. 

I have been asked to see if it is possible to count the number of print outs that are handle by our file server Background: we have a “Wall Board” for the amount of phone calls we take and now management are trying to push the green agenda (in a good way). They would now like to show the amount of print outs that we print out during a day (Before any one comments about the engery usage of the computer to handle this it is powered by solar power :). All our printers are on the same print server (Windows 2008 R2). I have been doing some Google-ing and seem to be coming up with a stumbling block if this is at all possible. How would one accomplish this? 

The best thing to do is take the site down. Restore from a backup and then patch the server/site/software etc. 

I’m looking to disable the Junk Email folder within outlook 2007 and 2010, Clients are Mainly XP with some Win 7 (32/64bit), and this is on a Windows 2008 domain. I thought the best way to do this would be via GPO. The GPO is applying fine and is applying all other settings but not the Outlook part. I have tried to use the following registry keys 

This is very hard to answer in its current format, we do not know if you use a CRM/ERP. Emails etc etc. But you need to look at where the paper is generated. You cant just install a single app and think that all paper will go! We run a paperless office but I can tell you we still have paper in the office. Clients still send things in and certain things NEED to be printed by law. My suggestion would be take a step back, look where things are being generated is it needed? Is it just easier for the user, could they have a little training to help? look at the applications that you have in house and sit down with users and ask why the print it. We found a number of people didn’t know they could save email text into our CRM so printed it out and scanned it in! After training we cut our print count by around 2000 pages a month. 

A service like LogMeIn or GotoMyPc will be the best option in this situation. They use encrypted SSL over http to connect directly to the server. You will then be able to connect from your laptop and can lock this down. 

I need to migrate my shares from an old Server (server2003 DomainA.co.uk) to a new server (2008R2 DomainB.Local) these are on different domains. My major problem is I need to keep share permissions on each of these shares. (There are hundreds) All the old shares have got Useraccount\DomainB.Local users with permissions on them. But are physically stored on a server in DomainA.co.uk. The server in DomainB has got a DFS share and this is where I will be storing the data. I just need help migrating the shares and setting the permissions. Doing it manually isn’t an option. PowerShell maybe? 

Yesterday we got hit by a barrage of spam around 250/Min and caused our exchange queues to go a bit spazzy (in a technical sense) I stopped mail at our External relay so we could get this back under control. Once the exchange server stabilised and I had killed most of the spam at the relay I allow mail to flow again (and its working finer now) But my issue is that: I have noticed that there are 110 messages stuck in the in a Suspended state and a few in retry state. These are all spam messages but when I try and remove them the tool does not appear in the GUI. I can use the power shell command to see the queues but when I try and drill down I cannot get into the Submission queue only our SMTP connector. This is Exchange 2010 SP2, 

I wish to enable Network Discovery on my network (For various reasons) I need to apply this via GPO due to the nature of our setup. This is on a Windows 2008 R2 Domain with Windows 7/XP Clients. I have tried to enable this in the GPO and it shows the below; 

I have Exchange2010 client is outlook2010. We have a user who has about 7 additional mailboxes due to her role. She is hitting the MAPI limit of 500 connections for "ObjectFolder" Event log 9646 is generated. I have tried to apply the fix of creating a registry key called "MaxObjsPerMapiSession" as per the Microsoft KB in . I have restarted the info store but we are stil seeing Event 9646 errors for this user. I need to up the limit for this user (or globally) I cannot remove her additional mailboxes. Any suggestions. 

I have office 2010 and Exchange 2010. I have send as permissions and Full access rights to a few mailboxes (System and Spam boxes mainly) with Office 2010 it adds in the additional mailboxes by default if you have full access etc. I use my desktop mainly for Mail etc, but sometimes need to use a laptop for console config etc and check mail. My problem is that it adds in the additional mailboxes in on the laptop as well. I suppose my question is can I stop outlook 2010 adding in the mailboxes on the laptop client. 

Bit of background. We map out network drives via GPO. This works fine for both XP and windows 7 clients. The GPO’s are served by a Win2008R2 DC. I have a user that has to works in 2 departments. The one she has got a Windows XPx32 computer in the other she has a Win7x64 computer. If she logs into the Win7 PC her network drives are mapped fine. But when she logs back into the Win XP PC the drives are no longer mapped, until I re-map these manually (or reboot a few times and they come back). Once the drives have been remapped wheather manual or via a few reboots and the GPO re-applying, this works fine until the next loging to the Win7 client. Running GPudpate.exe /force dose not work (Even when saying Yes to logoff) Running RSOP I can see all the policy’s apart from the mapped drives are applied. I have installed KB943729 to give legacy GPO support for the XP client. The user hasn’t got a roaming profile (and I don’t think it will make much difference) Thoughts? 

When you create a snapshot on a VM this creates a Delta Disk and the operating system writes to this file instead of the original VMDK. This file is called VM_Name-Delta.VMDK but if the system needs to refers to a file before the snapshot it will refers to VM_Name.VMDK increasing the I/O of this operation. If you take multiple snapshots you are referring to the last delta file of the last snapshot not the original VMDK thus increasing I/O. 

Even though this is a shopping question I feel inclined to answer. Peli-cases are the best thing for this situation. They make a case that fits 20 LTOs with foam slots. They are fully sealed, and available worldwide. They have holes for padlocks and are reasonable priced. 

A UPS uses a inverter to convert the 24V DC into 240AC. If you included this into a PC PSU it would make for one heavy PC. A UPS is more than just a battery. It also filters power so it is a pure wave at 50hz (or the variant for the AC you are using) some countries use 60hz. Also UPS's aren’t designed to power a computer. They are designed to allow switch over to a generator or clean shutdown of a system. A Laptop battery is designed to give runtime on the move (as a laptop has lower current demands) 

My first thoughts are if you are storing your archive backups onto a NAS and let’s says there is a natural disaster, fire, flood etc. You will not be able to recover your archive data. Only the data thatis stored on the USB drives as this NAS drive will be wiped out as well. From experience (100+ Clients using USB backups) we haven’t been able to do a full DR procedure with them. They all have been semi “Worked around”. All of our tape backup clients have been able to recover from a bare-metal recover in a maximum of 48 hours, and most of this time was waiting for tapes. I understand that you cannot go down the tape route but might be worth a little more education. Tapes will keep for years without the data being affected. If the hard drive gets a shock, dropped, too cold, too hot etc etc and there could be a problem. I know this raises more questions than answers. But these are my thoughts on the question asked. 

The Soloution as in my Quesion as to reg key \HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\MSExchangeIS\ParametersSystem. But this needed a full reboot of the server not just a restart of the Info stor as per the MS artical. 

My experience of multi-WAN Connections is that ISP DNS normally causes issues. I always try and use a ISP agnostic DNS Provider like Google DNS or OpenDNS. My ideal setup would be: ISP 1 – Google DNS / Open DNS ISP 2 – Open DNS / Google DNS This will then give complete redundancy. 

In outlook 2003/2007 click on tools -->send and receive -->download address book This will solve the problem. Sadly you have to do this on each client. Outlook will do a perodic sync as well. In outlook 2010 click on the send receive tab and click on download address book. 

You won’t be able to install this at all. You will need to be running ESXI5 at the very minimum. But I would wait for a few weeks as EXI 5.1 has just been released. The hardware version profiles just wont support it at all, and VMware will not write a new hardware profile for it. 

But this isn’t applying and the outlook client is still trying to filter the junk emails. Footnote. I am trying to disable this as spam is now being processed in the cloud and at the perimeter of the network and it is only internal mail that is being wrongly classified (mainly due to bulk sending from our ERP system) . 

Volume servers are normally referred to as 1 Server = 1 Role. Low Volume is normally 1 Server = Many Roles (Normally a Virtual Server). The term is normally used in design of Datacentre’s to the amount of rack space you would need to complete a function and as a single server performing 1 role takes up more space and power than a Low volume server taking circa the same amount of power but performing more roles these are the more welcomed in most modern datacentre designs.