It's hard to say without knowing what technology the colonising societies are using. Prior to the 1930s, Uranium's primary use was as a yellow pigment. Nobody could have guessed how valuable it would become! It's also important to remember that there's almost no material substance that could be gained from invading another star system that couldn't be acquired more easily from asteroids, moons, or other celestial bodies. If you can travel between the stars, you can meet your material needs quite easily. So for the moment, let's put aside the notion of conventional resources; they're just not rare enough to drive conflict or colonisation. There are two other things that might. Information We're already starting to see something of this in the modern world. The limiting factor in a lot of situations isn't the availability of raw materials, but access to the information and knowledge needed to take advantage of those materials. A situation where wars are fought over the control of major data archives or universities could be imagined. Complex chemistry This is the one thing we've discovered that seems to be genuinely rare - indeed, unique to Earth, so far. The complex chemicals produced by living things, indeed the complex process of life itself, seems to be rare, at least in our solar system, and so are environments that can naturally support life. A war could be fought over access to life-bearing planets, or perhaps planets where a particular form of life can grow (echoes here of Dune and the Spice that can only be found on Arrakis). Populations If you want both information and complex chemistry, and a base of people ready to use that knowledge, then a large population with a developed economy would be a useful thing to have. Wars might be fought over the right to exploit a given population, with whole worlds changing hands. An interesting wrinkle would be that all parties would want to keep the fighting away from the planets, to avoid damage to the prize. 

I would have thought the tides would be directly linked to the function of the moon. Remember that while the tide is connected to the moon on Earth, it's not as simple as Full Moon = High tide. You need to provide two high tides and two low tides per day (more or less), with the biggest tides coinciding with the full moon and the new moon (spring tides), and the smallest tides being timed to the quarter moon (neap tides). Now, your world is a plane, which is going to play all kinds of mischief, but from your description I get the feeling you'd like your world to mimic the behaviour of ours in at least some ways. Lunar Phases First, the description of the moon expending all its energy on the night of the full moon, and the phases that follow being a giant 'battery status' icon, doesn't match the phases our own moon follows. The full moon is followed by the waning moon, taking two weeks for the full face of the moon to retreat into shadow to become a new moon. In your scenario, that would make the most sense if it takes two weeks for the moon to discharge and push back evil - rather than a single burst at the full moon, you could have a full-power push at full moon, then two weeks of steadily weakening pushback, then deactivation until it charges up again. Tides So, we come back to the tides. We need two tides per day, a particularly strong high tide at the full moon, another at the new moon. We want whatever is causing the tide to be under the sea, so that the heroes can go there to fix it. So... 

This is a piece of nickle/iron alloy. Just iron, the same as your car is made of - but you'll never be able to make a piece of iron that shows a pattern like this. It's called a Widmanstätten pattern, and it will only form when the iron cools slowly. Very slowly. Like, over millions of years-slowly. It takes that long for large iron crystals to form. Marble, specifically, is similar - it needs to cool over thousands of years for its crystals to form their interlocking structure. Granite is composed of rocks that have been melted and then allowed to cool over thousands or millions of years. Sedimentary rocks that are melted can cool into granite. Rapid cooling of the same liquid rock would leave you with dense basalt or obsidian. So, while it's not theoretically impossible to use a combination of heat and pressure to reshape a sculpture or a carving back into 'virgin' stone, and while we could possibly do it today if we had a strong need, it's nearly always going to be much more practical to simply dig a new block out of the ground. 

Lookup the Discworld's Clacks system. It started out as a series of semaphore towers, with two flags at the top of a tower sending alphabetic messages a letter at a time to another tower, which then relayed the message onward along a string of towers. Over time, it became more and more elaborate, replacing the simple arms with grids of squares that could be open or closed to send messages, and more and more elaborate compression algorithms were developed - all done mechanically, with no hint of magic or electronics. It was designed by Terry Pratchett to be a logical extension of the early optical telegraph systems, which were being used as early as 1793. On the Discworld, the Clacks developed its own subculture, with people sending c-mail to one another, and even developed groups of hackers. 

Two important points to consider. First, orbital velocity is a function of the body being orbited, not the body doing the orbiting. That is, the mass of the moon makes no real difference to its orbit; all that matters is the mass of the Earth. This is an extension of the famous principle that the speed of a falling object will be the same regardless of its mass - a feather and a hammer dropped in a vacuum from the same height will hit the ground at the same time. Second, moving all of humanity and all of our infrastructure to the moon would increase the moon's mass (by a tiny fraction) - but it was also decrease the Earth's mass (by a tiny fraction). The mass of the Earth-Moon system will not change, just the barycentre (centre of mass) of the overall system - and that by only the tiniest amount. 

Each collector/habitat will be a truncated triangle, approximately two million kilometers wide by one million high. The inner face of some of the collectors will be inhabited, while others - those further in, exposed to stellar radiation at all times - will be entirely automated. I'm designing a society to live on one of the habitable plates of the swarm. Being further out, their plate spends most of its time shadowed by other plates, and is only occasionally exposed to the sun. The people of the plate have lost a lot of their advanced knowledge, and they see the star as their life-giving god, the plates closer to it as their heavens, the plates further away as hells. What I'm trying to work out is exactly how often would they get starlight at different levels of the swarm? How many levels have to be 'above' them for them to get, say 25% sun? Is this something that can be easily calculated, or if not is there an engine or similar I could use to find a result? Edited to Add: Detail I neglected to include originally - the closest plates to the star are about 0.5 AU out, and there's around 2 million kilometers separation between each layer of plates. 

Your world has a very long rotational cycle Consider our moon. It rotates about its axis remarkably slowly, taking around 28 days to complete one full day/night cycle. That means 336-hour days and 336-hour nights; dawn becomes a big event, a time of celebration and renewal, a time for weddings and preparations for the day ahead. Sunset becomes a dark and forboding time, a time to batten down the hatches, gather in your people, and eke out your resources until the light can return... Your world orbits a gas giant For a less extreme result, your world could orbit a gas giant planet like Jupiter, and experience regular, very long eclipses. Give your planet a fairly wide orbit and offset it from the ecliptic to make the eclipses of varying frequency and duration. The population would see the heavens as a perpetual struggle between the glory of the light and the domination of the dark, with the gas giant clearly visible even in the daytime sky. The gas giant might be seen as the devil holding the people in thrall. There is an active supervolcano A supervolcano that regularly burped out a few hundred square kilometers of ash could throw clouds of debris up into the atmosphere, changing the colour and strength of the sun until they settle out. The sacrifice of virgins would, of course, be required to return the sun to its normal colour and brightness. A comet swarm There's a star out there in the galaxy called KIC 8462852, and it's weird. Observation of the star by the Kepler space telescope has detected a series of sudden and dramatic drops in the star's brightness - much greater than would be caused by a planetary transit. One of the hypotheses is that there is a 'swarm' of comets passing between us and the star, blocking out a huge amount of the light. For our purposes, a swarm of comets is a possibility, or there could have been a recent collision between two planets in the system, leaving a huge cloud of debris sunward of our planet. Either of these possibilities would result in semi-regular dimming of the star as our planet passed through the shadow of the swarm/debris. The colour of the star could change as well, depending on the density and makeup of the debris cloud. As a bonus effect, your planet would have a lot of meteor activity, allowing for fun things like cities destroyed by sudden impacts, regular fireballs streaking across the sky, and other fun stellar fireworks. Magic The sun is alive. It is sentient, and it is angry. It watches these pathetic ants crawling on the surface of the world, and when it sees something it doesn't like, it does something about it. It may deprive the world of life-giving light until the appropriate sacrifices have been made; it may burn blazingly hot until the one that offended it has been identified and staked out in a desert somewhere to be burned to a crisp. 

They're not truly invisible Fundamentally, if something cannot be detected by any form of electromagnetic radiation (aka Light), then it cannot interact with matter. Physical contact, chemical reactions, lasers, all these things are based around the same fundamental force, electromagnetism. If your aliens can't be detected with electromagnetic radiation, they can't interact with the Earth at all; if they can interact, they can be detected. How are they reducing their signature? So our invaders are classically invisible: They can't be detected with visible light. Per the question, they also can't be detected in the Xray or IR bands. There's only a few ways they could do this. Metamaterials These are already being developed today around the world. Essentially metamaterials allow lightwaves to break around them, then reconstitute on the far side; by the time they reach a detector, there's little sign of the change. These materials, however, are very limited in the wavelengths they can disrupt, so the aliens would be visible to detectors working in the radio, microwave, UV, or gamma wavelengths. Fortunately, our radar works at just those wavelengths (the question mentioned that these ships were detected on radar). The fix is easy, then - use radar. Nearly all weapons are already radar-controlled, so if the baddies are expecting us not to shoot at them just because we can't see them with our squishy organic eyes they're out of luck. Active camouflage Essentially, rather than trying to bend light around themselves, they're generating appropriate images and projecting them onto the outside of their hull. That is, if you look up at their ship, you're actually looking at a picture of the sky and clouds that they're projecting onto the bottom of the ship. This works reasonably well - from one angle. If you and your friend both observe the ship from a mile or so apart, one or the other is going to see a discontinuity, and detect the ship. Also, this doesn't work against active detectors (like radar). They're folding space This is one of the weird ones. Rather than being classically invisible, these aliens are folding space around their ships so that they're always inside a pocket of spacetime that doesn't interact with the rest of the universe. They get themselves into position, then open a narrow window to shoot through. This is true invisibility. Unfortunately, it doesn't fit with radar being able to pick them up. It also prevents them from seeing anything that's happening outside before they open their gun port, so if you can predict what they're going to do, you can have an entire army waiting outside when they open up (or, y'know...a nuke). Handwavium Dunno how they do it. It's not important. They're invisible, okay? Okay. Not much we can say about that. Okay, so how do we detect these guys? Your question already gave the answer - radar. Radar is a very common tool; almost every part of the developed world is covered by radar, and most militaries have some form of mobile radar systems available, either ground based, ship based, or airborne. Basic portable radar systems could be easily adapted from police speed detectors for infantry use. Secondly, almost any form of invisibility - except perhaps the pocket-universe one - is going to have one great big problem: heat. Your alien ships are going to have to vent waste heat or they'll cook themselves That heat bloom is going to be detectable by IR sensors, even if nothing else is; follow it to the hottest point and stick a couple of nukes up their back end; aliens go bye-bye. 

Mount Weather Emergency Operations Center That's where current continuity-of-government plans will relocate high command in the event of a national disaster. Exact details about the facilities there are, unsurprisingly, classified; however it is known that the site has large stockpiles of food, water, and medical supplies, and access to powerful communications equipment, both via hardline and radio broadcast antennas. It's likely, of course, that Mount Weather would be a key target in the event of a deliberate attack on the United States; but for a zombie outbreak, it's absolutely where the President would go. She would likely travel to the site aboard either a VC-25 (the aircraft most commonly used as Air Force One) or, if necessary, an E4. Both aircraft are designed and equipped to operate as mobile command posts and broadcast centers, though the E4 is somewhat more capable in this regard. 

The concept is certainly workable, and is being actively investigated by a number of different groups. It's also been depicted in science fiction many, many times. A recent high-profile proposal for a vessel using such a system was the Nautilus X, a proposed multi-role spaceship that would use a centrifuge to provide around 0.5 - 0.6 g for the crew. A version of the same concept was also tried on Gemini 11. The crew capsule and its Agena target vehicle were connected by a tether and spun around their common centre. The experiment was not a total success, for various reasons, but they did generate a small amount of artificial gravity. To my knowledge, nobody has actually flown another mission to test the concept in space, despite many proposals. The Soviets experimented extensively with centrifuges as a habitat on Earth, but never in orbit. A module called the Centrifuge Accommodation Module was partially built for the ISS, but was cancelled before completion.