I generally wipe whatever greasy or oily rag I have lying around at the shop on any uncoated steer tubes as a habit. We're in a fairly dry area so it's not of great importance. If I was in a wet area I'd use a product called FrameSaver. There is no concern with slippage if the steer tube is greasy. 

Tri-flow generally works to free up stuck shifters. I've heard other mechanics suggest Clean Streak or plain diesel fuel. Another technique I've used successfully is a bath in Simple Green in an ultrasonic cleaner. 

Reelight makes magnetically powered lights that attach at the wheel axle. They are actuated by magnets attached to the spokes. The higher end models have built in capacitors so they continue to flash for a short period after the bicycle is stopped. 

You don't need to buy NOS. 7 speed cassettes are still manufactured, we stock them and they start at $20 all the way up to $36 for a Shimano HG50 which comes in 12-28. Go with a matching Shimano HG50 chain. Unless you buy a new rear wheel, you cannot go above 7 speed. 7 speed freehub bodies are shorter than 8+ speed freehub bodies. An 8+ speed cassette is too wide to fit your freehub. 

BikeGlow EL wire as well as Monkeylectric wheel lights would get you about as bright, but my guess is that bike was made to glow using video effects in post processing, not real life. 

Let me throw out RamMounts.com as a good option. I've been using one of their multi-device clamps and I'm very happy. They do make some i4 specific stuff. 

FSA Metropolis. $URL$ Advantages? No front derailer and better ground clearance at the crankset. Disadvantages? Expensive. Proprietary. 

To make it easier on myself I purchased a cheap wheel on eBay and added a trainer specific tire such as the Continental Ultra Sport Hometrainer Tire. When I used regular road tires, the rubber wore out quickly. The trainer specific tire lasts much longer. You do not want to run the trainer specific tire on the roads. So having a spare wheel with cassette makes it easier to put on your normal wheel for those nice winter days. 

I've got to suggest just a simple ziplock type of bag, put you phone in, zip it up and put it in your jersey pocket, so your not distracted. It is waterproof and I'll even start my Strava bike app to record my ride. No worries about it jiggling loose off the bike, or getting wet. You can get a box of these pretty cheap too! I'll get more than a few rides per bag. 

Definitely follow the other answers advice to find a shop that offers demos. I wanted to add that one of my local shops (that carries Bontrager) has a saddle sizing station that they have you get up on and measure widths/lengths and whatnot. The saddles for this particular sizing tool are Bontrager specific, but wanted to let you know at least. Be sure to wear what you plan to ride in you have a local shop that offers this service as when you get sized, you will want to be wearing the same gear you'll be riding in for the most accurate measurements. Even with this sizing, ask if you can demo the saddle for a week or so. 

I wash my workout gear (running, biking, gym, swimming) in cold water with a sports specific detergent. I add a little white vinegar as well. My favorite is Win Sport Detergent, but cannot find it locally anymore, so I have switched to Penguin Brands Penguin Sport Wash. Then I hang it all to dry, no dryer. This has worked well to get sweat odors and not damage the (expensive) gear. We now have a front load wash machine which is more gentle on all clothes and I think that helps for the longevity of my sports gear. 

You should talk to some local riders & bike shops as they'll probably know the terrain best and can probably recommend an appropriate tire. 

You left out reinforced plastic/rubber type strips. Kore Chastity Belt strips are my favorite and rated for 140psi. Very durable. FSA, Origin8, etc also make this type, available in many common sizes. Price ranges from $2.50 - $4 each. I do like cloth tape, but the adhesive can dry out (even before purchase). Velox is $5 a piece at my shop. Rubber rim strips are junk in my opinion, definitely a last choice. They are commonly the cheapest and sell for $1 each at my shop. I've not heard anything bad about Veloplugs. 

You want quality graded bearings. Settle for no less than grade 25. Lower number = better/more precise. Skip generic grade 300. 

A fresh piece of corrugated cardboard on a hard surface such as a coffee table. Sit down and try to mimic the upper body position you have on your bike. Your sit bones change position based on how your pelvis is tilted. Your sit bones should crush the corrugated cardboard slightly and leave two indentations. Measure center to center as best you can. 

Aluminum has better heat transfer properties than steel, the pads should run cooler. Shimano's XT rotors are aluminum sandwiched between two stainless layers and Shimano claims they run cooler by as much as 100 degrees Celsius. 

Mountain bikes don't see kickstands for several reasons. One, they are durable. You can lay one down and it's no big deal, certainly not as big a deal as crashing one. Next, when you're out riding terrain, there's almost always something to lean your bike up against like a tree, fence, etc. Also, as you mention, things can get caught in the kickstand. Lastly, unlike a commuter or errand bike, you don't make a lot of stops on a mountain bike so a kickstand is not as essential. If the mountain bike is being used for a purpose other than mountain biking, then installing a kickstand isn't really a big deal. 

Flip-Flop hubs have freewheel thread on one side, fixed-gear threading on the other side. Many SS bicycles come with this sort of wheel, if you have a sprocket on both sides of your hub, you already have a flip-flop hub/wheel. If you only have a single sprocket (and it is a fixed gear hub, see note below), you can purchase a fixed sprocket and replace the SS freewheel with the fixed sprocket, since both singlespeed and fixed gear hubs use the same 1.37 x 24 tpi threading for the sprocket. Note: @heltonbiker is correct, you will need a lockring with the fixed gear hub, they have a double thread, one for the sprocket and one for the lockring. You can put a SS freewheel on a fixed gear hub, but you cannot put a Fixed sprocket onto a SS hub (it does not have the step down threading for the locking mechanism) 

I try to make my old T-shirts last as long as I can for cleaning the drive train and getting the larger clumps of dirt, but then use Pledge disposable wipes (available at most grocery stores in the US) to wipe down/clean the frame, seat, post, handlebars, cranks, fork, spokes. They work very well, cheap and easily available. 

I wear my Craft Storm Tights for my winter commuting and even some recreational longer rides (I get too hot when I wear them for an interval type of workout). $URL$ They have a thermal liner and keep me nice and warm. I also like them for the ease of use, I just slip them over my underwear and off I go. Not skin tight but not loose around the lower legs. 

Last weekend, I was driving (yes in a car, something I rarely do) down a fairly steep and very curvy mountain road (thus with very poor sight lines/visibility ahead) when I noticed a cyclist in my rearview mirror. He looked "pro" and in control, but was close enough to me that I was worried that if I braked to slow down for one of these curves, I was going to have cyclist splattered all over the rear of the car. After longer than either one of us would have liked (two minutes or so), I finally got ahead of him enough to slow down a lot and pull far to the right on a stretch with enough visibility for him to pass me on the left (since he was clearly wanting to go much faster than I was comfortable with on the curves) and I rolled down my window to wave "OK" to him. As he passed he yelled at me (yelling's understandable in this cases, only have a second) about cars needing to pull aside for cyclists. I felt terrible if I'd endangered him or caused him to damage his brakes or whatever to slow his speed more than he liked. And I don't even care what the law says if I could do something better to accommodate fast downhill cyclists better in the future, I'm just trying to figure out what I should have done differently. I think the cyclist wanted me to pull over as soon as I noticed him. In retrospect I guess I could have done that safely by putting on my emergency blinkers to indicate to him I'd seen him and was planning to slow down. In the moment, I was worried about how close he was, how variable my speed was around the tight curves, how narrow the road was, and how scant little I could see ahead of me (i.e. I wasn't going to pull left to let him pass me on my right, since I could kill him if I needed to come back right quickly due to oncoming car.) Anyone have strong feelings about things I should/shouldn't do? I'm not worried about my rights - I'm far more often the one on the bicycle - so just help me figure out what I should do better next time to accommodate him if I were in similar situation.