Is using latex inner tubes worth it? My use of it would be on a racing bike, for training and racing purposes, only on road, mostly in good condition (but in an urban environment so there are some worse spots...). I ride on a set of Conti 4Season 23mm tyres which weigh 230g each and I love them so far (have them also on my touring bike and I suffered 2 punctures in 10000 km, find them fast and grippy). My current tubes are 105g and the latex ones I am looking at are 82g so an overall gain of 46g on the whole bike which does not seem completely negligible since it is a moving part... As I said, I intend using this on racing and training, so I will never ride without a track pump more than a day so pressure loss should not be a problem assuming it can keep enough pressure for a couple of days (I am saying two because I need one whole day of fully usable pressure). So will the pressure be an issue for me? How about comfort and rolling resistance? I read here and there comfort is increased and resistance is lowered. How noticable is it? and again: is it worth it? Also, I hear the elasticity of latex allows it to puncture less and even when it does to lose pressure slowly (compared to butyl) and ride home with a few pumps. It that true? And when it does puncture, can it be fixed with regular patches? Finally, are there any precautions to be taken while mounting it, pitfalls to avoid and so on? Overall, is it worth it? 

First of all: do not bother trying to patch too big holes. If it is just too big, just trash the tube. It is cheap enough and it's better than struggling and trying 10 patchings, wasting a whole patch kit all just to end up with it leaking and having a flat tire in the middle of nowhere. Now, I have already successfully patched a hole as big as 5 mm. It was that big that the tube could not even be inflated to find the leak, it was not a leak, it was just an opening... For that I used of of the bigger patches that are included in most kits. That worked just fine. Apart from that I learned that my biggest mistake of patching over time was not to let the cement dry long enough. 5 or 7 minutes seems about fine before applying the patch. And do not hesitate to put it on a large surface to make 100% sure 100% of the patch surface is on a treated surface. This is actually easy to overlook especially on narrower tubes (such as those for 23mm and less tyres). And when applying the patch, make sure to press it hard on the tube, and especially the edges: these are the critical parts that you want the most to stick to the tube since they will be the first to "suffer" when facing an inflation, and if an edge loses adherence, it is the whole patch that is compromised. I also had the feeling that the "feather" edges attach better handle better the expansion when inflated than the straight edges. 

I changed my shifters and need to change my front derailleur cable. I just don't know how to proceed exactly. A guide I found told me to: 

Should I buy 2 pair of tires? one spiked and one non-spiked? changing according to the weather? if so what would be a good choice for the non-spiked tires (the spiked ones would be Schwalbe's Marathon Winter in 700x40c, 35c or 2.00)? My mudguards are 35 mm wide. Can I keep them on with these changes? I know they will be mostly ineffective but will they leave enough clearance for the large tire? The brakes will need adjustments, does the fact that the pads will "meet a new rim" against which they have not been worn will reduce efficiency of braking? and can a brake cable be adjusted back and forth between several large adjustments the like of this without the need of replacement? Any other thought to be had? 

on big sprocket, small plate (is that the english word?? ;p), adjust the LOW screw so that the left side of the derailleur is 0-0.5mm away from the chain attach the cable on large plate small sprocket, adjust the HIGH screw to have the right side of the derailleur 0-0.5mm away from the chain adjust the barrel to get proper shifting for the middle ring 

True it might piss the drivers off but ensure your own safety first. The police is not that picky with cyclists and when they're riding on the right half of the right lane, everyone is happy I would think. 

Another way to see it is that while crosschaining is not that big of an issue with nowadays components (this has been confirmed to my on this very forum), the extreme cross-chainings are not very pleasant (noise, not completely smooth pedaling and so on,...). On the other hand, the second-to-last cog is very usable most on most (double) transmissions. Therefore, with a 11-25 cassette, you can ride on "small-ring"/12 rather than "small-ring"/13 like you can on a 12-25 cassette (regardless of whether the "small ring" is 34, 39 or anything else). In the same time, the 11 cog is not useless either as it can be used in downhills or sprints. On the other hand, if you are sure with your extreme gears usage, having the tightest possible cassette is better: I could rephrase your question and say: "why would one buy a 12-25 cassette when you can have a 12-21 which will allow faster speeds and has smaller gaps (actually almost none)?" The answer to that is actually the only right answer to your initial question and that is that your cassette must reflect what kind of rides you intend to use it for? loaded touring? flat racing? moutain racing? 

Just for the record, my rims are brand new (~800 km) and clean. I have a set of KoolStop salmon brake pads (actually 2 sets, .... well, front and rear). I installed them ~600 km ago and I already had to tighten them (adjust the cable tension) twice in the rear, once in the front. And looking at the pads, the rear are obviously thinner than they were when new and same in the front (although less noticable). The efficiency is still very good but is that kind of wear normal? what is the usual lifespan of pads like those? I heard only good about KoolStop stuff,... so don't think it could come from the very pads. The installation was done properly too, the pads do not touch the rims at all when brakes are released (~2mm away). 

Seems like the tube exploded (not exactly around the valve but not far from it: you can see the cap on the far right in the second pic) and blew off the "clich" part of the rim. What could have caused this? the tire is a Conti 4S that can handle 8 bar, the tube is a Schwalbe standard tube that does support 700x23 dimension. The rim was a Mavic Open Pro... Sucks,... did not feel like buying a new wheel now :( 

I am riding clipless with the MT43 shoes I bought at my LBS. They are great,... when it is not cold outside... and now it is cold outside... and my toes are freezing. I was thinking of getting Shimano MW81 Gore-Tex Winter SPD Boots but my LBS does not sell it and is not willing to order (they're promoting their own brand and only sell two Shimano references). So I was considering buying online. I know Shimano is know to have "funny" sizing, and that one usually needs one size or two over one's usual size. The thing is, my MT43s fit perfectly (tried 4 different sizes at the LBS) and I ended up with EU 46 size while I usually wear for city and sports shoes 46 to 48 depending on the brand which feels weird since Shimano shoes usually require one size over the usual... And now for my upcoming MW81: can I rely on my MT43 experience and get the same size? or should I get one size higher? (or should I order both and return the one that does not fit... but that wold cost me some extra postage)? Also, the 46-48 non-Shimano-shoe-size I had mentionned earlier was already true over a year ago and since then, I lost 80 pounds and when I look at my feet, they do look a little skinnier (I can now see some veins and bones which was not the case before), can this mean that I might have dropped to 45 for usual urban and 46 for Shimano? I mean my old urban shoes still fit and I have not felt much of a difference but I had to toss that idea in the pool... Thank you all! 

I have a question about chain "closing" (not sure of the english word, but you get it, right?). I know how to open a chain with a chain tool, and I know I must not "go too far" as to remove the rivet from the outside hole. And I consider I have gone far enough when the chain can be opened. So it's pretty straightforward. But when closing a chain, how do I know I went "far enough"? 

Is that guide correct according to you? On step 2: in which position should the shifter be when attaching the cable? I would think on the largest ring position but I don't really know... I don't have any barrel on my front derailleur casing, but the shifter has 2 close positions for the middle ring (I guess this is what they call the trimming thing), does this compensate the lack of barrel? 

I am considering upgrading my crankset, or rather I am considering considering to upgrade it. I would like to gain a few teeth since I am permanently riding on the 48/13-15 making the 38 pretty useless. I currently have this: Suntour NEX, 48/38/28. If I were to upgrade to something like : $URL$ what should I consider? Do I need to buy a new bottom bracket as well? Will my derailleur require any update apart from raising an inch higher to accomodate the 4 extra teeth? 

I recently had a rim failure, my LBS is offering me a ceramic rim. Assuming I go for that; I currently have KoolStop salmon brake shoes. I see they make those in green specially for ceramics. Can I keep my salmon shoes and get a set of greens for next shoe-change? or do I need to get the green asap? 

Had a puncture today, removed the tube, patched it and made it home. Obviously since I only have a mini-pump I could not inflate it to my 8 bar usual pressure. When home, I took the wheel upstairs to inflate it with my big pump. Inflated it to 8 bar and put the tire aside to mount it on the bike tomorrow. A couple of minutes later: BANG and when I looked, I saw this: 

It's an understandable feeling... As a matter of fact I had the same which is why I got flat bars to begin with. I switched to drops some time later which cost me a lot. Still, the braking is awkward to begin with but you get used to it. I won't lie to you, it's never better, nor even is "as good" as on flat bars, but it's more than enough to react fast. When you know you need strong braking (riding very fast downhill for example), you go down on the drops a have better leverage on the levers... But the pros of drops are way too strong to use flats... The biggest is the multiple hand positions. 

Maybe it is neither! Could it not be the moment you hit the ground with your foot which, even when doing it gently, is more of an actual hit than just standing peacefully. I would think that clipping in does some wear and it also removes the micro-bits of cleat the standing and hitting has filed down. What kind of cleats do you use? and more important, what kind of shoes? MTB, SPD shoes have the sole surround the cleat it is quite protected when walking and standing (it does hit the ground, but evenly so with the rest of the sole)? or more road shoes with the cleat protruding so that when you stand/walk, the cleat takes 100% of the hit at every step? 

The heavier the bike, the more weight you have to move with your legs as only motor. Sure you can achieve 60 kph with a 18 kg bike, but as you can achieve it way faster with a 7 kg one, why bother? And every gram weighs 1000x more in tough spots such as climbs etc,... So without being obsessed with it (riding without your valve cap to gain half a gram, with a titan multi-tool and one tire lever only to save the weight of a second one), being weight-aware is the right way to proceed. Also, the weight of moving parts, and especially spinning parts such as wheels, tires and tubes is multiplied by because of all the inertia, gyroscopic forces and everything: a 10 kg bike with 2 kg worth of wheels, tires and tubes will be faster than a 10 kg bike with 3 kg worth of wheels, tires and tubes. I experienced it myself just by changing tires and switching from 400g per tire tires to 280g per tire tires which in only a 240g improvement (+60g on the tubes); and yet, this change allowed me to use my big chainring on a regular basis whereas I would only use it in long downhills beforehands. More arguments apply, but yeh, weight is important... 

I have just discovered it (instead of the classical "one tool per hand" technique) and it helped a lot. 

Each tube reference size fits a certain number of tire sizes. For example, I ride 700x23c tires and my tubes are 700-18-23c. So just find out the size of your tire (should be written on the sidewall) and go out for a tube that will hav this tire size in its fitting range. Be careful about the valve specification too. get a tube with the same valve type as your previous tube/as your wheel supports : $URL$ 

This part does not specify the nature of the vehicle so bicycles are impacted. The "as much as the state of the road allows it" is a freedom breech that allows you to add good sense to this law: 

I currently have a touring bike, with fenders, rack, panniers, and so on. I currently run a triple crankset 28/38/48 and 9sp 11-34 cassette. I mostly commute and tour with this bike. And with a fair load, I mostly ride on my 48 in front and 14-ish and around in the back. I can climb most climbs with the 38 and sometimes as high as the 26 (rarely the 30 and 34t) As I want to go more on the workout/sport/exercise type of riding I am considering the purchase of a road bike (more of a racing type). I prefer a compact 50/34 crankset but am wondering for the cassette, do I need to go as high as a 10sp 12-30 to climb all I need? Because I also like the idea of closer gears, so is 12-28 or 12-25 too tough? 

Truing a wheel and lacing spokes is a big deal, requires a truing stand and everything. I know some do it without tool just with the spoke wrench and the naked eye, but feels like a big deal to me. When one breaks a spoke, I believe it is safe to say the wheel is out of true within a few meters. The question therefore is: is it worth it carrying spare spokes when touring longer distances (200+ km)?