Your boss repeatedly ordered and/or guilt-tripped you out of taking vacation time which you were fully entitled to take. You made a regular habit of putting in lots of overtime (I'm assuming without receiving any extra compensation for it? If so, make that unpaid overtime), but that still wasn't enough to stop your boss from holding your vacation days hostage. Or enough to stop him from berating you when you told him you were leaving (or at other times during your employment). Your boss/employer shortchanged you on all of those vacation days that they bullied you out of using, when you left the company. Note that depending upon your locale, this may actually be completely illegal. Your boss made vague promises of equity or other compensation in order to keep you on a wage that you both knew was too low. For 10 years your boss was "too busy" to actually flesh out or make good on those vague promises (but still had plenty of time to talk you out of taking vacations, berate you about deadlines/for not putting in enough overtime, and so on). Let's be clear, this didn't happen because you were too young, or because you didn't fix terms in advance, or because he was just too busy. It happened because he had no intention whatsoever of ever making good on those vague promises. 

This probably varies by region and culture, but here in the UK, you should leave out that statement. The normal assumption is that you have some referees - it's not something that needs to be stated. Stating it could make you look naive. 

Sorry to state the obvious here, but they've heard you crying alone in the office and so naturally they're worried about you and concerned that you aren't ok. (It sounds to me as though they're right to be worried; what you describe is not something that happy people do, in my experience). Are you being paranoid? If you think that this means they're somehow "out to get you" then yes. If you just think it means that they're worried about how you're doing then no. Again, sorry to state the obvious but that is what you seem to be asking... let me know if I've misunderstood. 

Both annual leave and sick leave roll over from year to year (if you have unused balances remaining at the end of the year). In certain situations, an employer can direct an employee to take a portion of their annual leave, or can pay out a portion of the balance outright if a significant amount has accrued. Note that if your employment is covered by a Modern Award (which it probably is, unless you are working in a heavily-unionized industry), then you should also check the Award agreement that pertains to your industry as it may provide slightly different (though generally, more generous) entitlements than the minimum that the NES calls for. Or, if you are in a heavily-unionized industry, then your employment terms may be set out in an Enterprise Agreement. You'd probably know if this applies to you or not (your employment contract should clearly indicate which situation applies). If your employment falls under an Award contract, you are free to make limited variations to the terms provided that: 

BATNA Explained, The Negotiation Academy While you remain completely committed to staying with your current employer, your BATNA is worth exactly $0. Worth noting that developing a BATNA doesn't mean you have to actually leave the company, it just means you need to develop some other options, so you find out what you would be worth to other employers if you did decide to leave. 

Instead, best to deal with the idea that they want to pay you to do nothing for 20 minutes once a week, simply in order to flatter their egos. It's not mature behaviour and it's not effective management, but you're not in a position to be able to point this out without doing yourself a disservice with the people in charge of you. And nobody likes a smartarse. So here's some options: 

Just accept the reduced pay if you're financially able to do so. As long as they don't also deduct from your annual leave then it sounds like their accounting is correct. In essence they're giving you 20 days of unpaid leave (since you had insufficient paid leave to cover the absence), and you will accrue an additional 20 days (or however many days you get per year) of paid leave this year. From a long-term standpoint there's no net difference between what they've done and what would happen had they set your annual leave balance to '-20 days' instead. And on the positive side it means you can take your next vacation that much sooner. Speak with your manager and/or HR, and see if they can update things to account for the absence as paid leave, and just deduct from your monthly leave accrual until the balance has been paid off. I suspect they might be unwilling to do so, as from an accounting standpoint it's likely difficult/messy to update this sort of thing after the fact. 

Understanding your pay: 5. Deductions from your pay, UK Government (emphasis mine) Legally, he absolutely cannot unilaterally (i.e. without your consent) declare that you must repay the cost of training already undertaken a year ago. If it came to court/tribunal, you would win. 

Short answer: carry a notebook and pen - it'll give your hands something to do. You can switch both items to a single hand for handshaking purposes. You can also use them to make notes, so you'll seem (and possibly be) well-organised. Long answer: 

Simple: explain the problem to your manager. Say that you'd like to share an office for a while with someone more experienced, so that you can pick up insights into the organisation's culture and the way that everyone communicates and gets things done together. It's a perfectly reasonable request - in fact I think it's more than reasonable, it shows that you've been putting some thought into how you can settle in and do the best work you can, which is great. So I suggest that you shouldn't be all afraid to simply bring up the topic with your manager and more experienced colleagues, and ask for help / advice. 

What's an appropriate cap on the maximum bonus amount? Currently I'm thinking 10%, but I feel that might be too low? What's a good time interval for conducting performance reviews? Currently I'm thinking annual, but maybe quarterly allows better flexibility? 

It's not entirely clear what your specific concern is, but yes, assuming you "act ethically in keeping any confidential and trade secret information" confidential/secret, then there should be no issues with you pursuing the new position. Note that this doesn't mean that your employer will be happy if/when they eventually find out about it, but in most cases you will have just as much a right to pursue a position with the vendor as you would with any other company. It may be the case that your company and the vendor company have an agreement to not poach each other's staff, but if this is the case then it's the responsibility of the vendor to abide by the terms of the agreement. So even if such an agreement exists between your company and the vendor, it's not something that you personally need to worry about. And the fact that it sounds like the vendor approached you strongly implies that no such agreement exists. Either that, or their recruitment person is about to get themselves into some trouble. Anyways, yes, it's okay for you to pursue the position. If you're concerned about the possibility of unintentionally letting any sensitive information slip as part of the interview process, then you might want to insist upon signing a mutual NDA with the recruiter. That way, even if you fail to act ethically (either intentionally or otherwise), any sensitive information you disclose cannot be used or reproduced by the vendor. If you want to ensure you're doing right by your current employer, a mutual NDA is an easy way to do so. 

"do hiring managers usually look over international applicants over EU ones for the ease of process"? In a word: yes. There's a significant administrative and financial burden on the employer if they need to provide visa sponsorship. It's much easier for an employer to hire someone who already has permission to work in the UK. More info: $URL$ 

OK, so if I understand correctly, when you're speaking, you're railroaded into silence by another person, and they do this constantly to you and to other board members (have I got that right?). So what you need to do is find an assertive way to respond which allows you to make your point. Address the person interrupting you directly, using their name: 

Agree some Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) which you can directly influence in your work and which the company agrees are factors influencing profitability. They should be numeric and unambiguous. Set a bonus structure based on those. KPIs for your specific role are better than overall company performance because there are a lot of other things influencing overall performance on which your personal output has no bearing.