he's above you, kind of. So if he's wrong, he's right anyways. you were not cautious by leaving an open bottle next to brittle electronic parts. Allowed or not. I killed a keyboard by spilling tea over it - fortunately, it was not a laptop's keyboard, but still. I took the risk. And if someone else had spilled my own tea over my keyboard, I still would have been guilty. If there is no risk, there is no accident. 

Your job is not only about your job. Your job is part about a greater picture. Your job is part of a full application that shall work as one single part, not like a gathering of seperate elements. Listening to other's job is often a chore, even for a veteran like me. It's nonetheless an important chore. By understanding better what others do, by understanding better where the application goes, by understanding better how others are working, you will, even if only unconsciously, do a better job. Better in the sense : better integrated in the whole product. Your concern about the conference room being too small in the future is irrelevant. Right now, it' is big enough, and understanding what is really happening elsewhere in the firm will help you, ultimately, doing a better job. Even if you do not notice it right now. Even if it's just unconscious. Plus, to answer your title question, yes it does : the more you look interested, the better will be your image, which is important too. But it's not the only reason. TL;DR : what looks useless will be useful long term. Both for relationships, and for your work's quality. 

If even you don't think it sounds like a real name, should you really be using it to represent yourself on a professional social networking site, or putting it on your CV? Hmm, I would think not.. I'm sure your real name is just fine, and recommend you stick with that when in a professional setting. 

I just recovered from strep throat, and today is my first day back at work. Since I've been absent half the week, a few coworkers have already asked where I've been during my absence, and I anticipate even more will ask. Should I be completely honest with them, and mention that I've been sick from strep? Or, should I intentionally be vague, as to avoid the, "oh, you must have gotten that from Charles" kind of statements? If I do tell them, and other people start getting sick, whether it was actually caused by me or not, I may turn into the guy that got everyone sick, for the next considerable amount of time. And just now, literally as I was typing this, I just had someone walk by me and say, "welcome back, sick boy!"... Did I do the wrong thing by telling people? 

Go a few minutes in your management shoes. Not only your direct manager : the overall management. What they want is operations that are working. Developing, a website or whatever in C, is giving the operations more tools for going faster and better. Resources are limited. You are a limited resource, as there is only one of you. The role of the management is to allocate the limited resources to the best interests of the operations. If the management as a whole decides that what you have to do in C/C++ is more important for the firm than the nice little tool you've done up to there, there's not much place for your personal wishes. If everyone above you thinks that the C/C++ code is more important, you're screwed(though I don't see it as a punition, but I'm not in your shoes). OTOH, if some important people want you to stay ine the web tools, be sure they are your allies, and ask them to do some politics in your own interest. Yeah, politics. A word we developers don't like. But it's important, and I hope for you you'll discover its importance with a positive outcome for you(hint : my discover of its importance was catastrophic at many levels, and my career suffered). If you play it well(hey, I'd love to help you, it seems so important, but I need my boss to assign me some time - can you touch him a word?), you can build yourself a strong network that will help you with short-term objectives(keep some web), but also on other topics that might appear later. If you don't play politics, the management isn't gonna play in your favor. 

For a CV, if you were using a pseudonym in real life, then you would put that and nothing else. You should not include both your pseudonym and real name; it defeats the whole purpose. Legally speaking, the only time that you are required to disclose your true name to your employer is when filing out paperwork with HR. At that point, you would provide both your pseudonym and real name. If anyone else is to know your real name, it's completely at your discretion. 

The reason why I'm perhaps giving extra thought to this is because most of the people I work with have families and are fairly high functioning people, so I feel like they would get actually get mad at me, or hold it against me, for not staying home a little longer. Also, from my own experience, people like assigning blame, rather than saying there's no exact rhyme or reason to something. And yes, the coworker who made that comment is quite immature, IMO, and I've actually posted about him before. But, it does show that people are talking about it, since I never mentioned it to him.. 

Nothing comes automatically, usually. If it is important for you, make it know to the decider. He might think that as you're asking nothing, you're not expecting anything. Either your manager thinks awards are awkwards, like Joel Spolsky, or he didn't think about it. Either way, as long as you don't ask, you won't know. If he thinks it's a bad thing, and then sees his best performer complain about it, he might change his mind, and if he just didn't think about it, a simple reminder could do a lot. And be sure to meditate DA's advice : is there any underlying value to this awards, besides prestige? Money, or career advance, or something valuable like that? 

Broken recruiting process is a standard, unfortunately. Most companies are very bad for communicating properly on this topic. And every company is different in that respect, and even within a given company, there might be great differences. Said otherwise, your experience outside the company is not a predictor of what will happen inside. Which is a positive thing, in your unfortunate case. There are two things to do at the same time, even if they do not fit well together : 

It sounds like your pseudonym was originally created, and is still mostly used, as a kind of internet identity. That being said, I would recommend you keep it to that, and not put it on your CV, or use it to represent your real-life self. 

I've been working at a private corporation (Fortune 500) for nearly six months now, and have noticed that 2-3 coworkers clip their fingernails while working in their cubicle. Is this kind of personal grooming considered to be unprofessional when performed at work, in one's own cubicle? The reason why I ask is because nobody else in the office does this, which leads me to believe that maybe it shouldn't be done. The noise itself does not bother me though, and is not of concern. Lastly, if this is unprofessional behavior, what would be the best way to address the issue? 

For websites that involve demonstrating yourself in a professional manner, or anything "official", you should use the same name that you go by in real life; the one you answer to all the time, to everyone, always. This should also be the same name that you put on your CV.