Does it? If everything is perception and perception comes from the brain, are you saying anything other than perception comes from perception? If perception comes from the brain, how would you even know that everything is perception, or, be able to tell if everything were not perception? If everything were perception how in the world would you even have the language to pose the conditional question, "what is the physical world if everything is perception?"? If everything were perception, you would have no means by which to verify the ontological status of the world and confirm any epistemic claims about the world. For all we know perception happens in the brain but it is insufficient to say that the brain causes perception without any clarification such that a neuroscientist would confirm. When light or audio waves reflect of a surface and fall upon optic and auditory nerves they "cause perception" as much as the internal neurological mechanisms relay the stimulus through your sensory nervous system. 

You might really enjoy Harry J Gensler's book, "Introduction To Logic" and in particular his accompanying software, "LogiCola" which is a fun way to practice parsing English sentences and analyzing statements in a logical form. 

The above can, of course, be used solicit agreement with interpreting a panpsychism of the type where "consciousness arises because every inanimate particle actually has some measure of consciousness" [your interpretation], as well as supporting the type which "assume[s] that consciousness, like mass, is a normal and universal property of matter (this is known as panpsychism), so that human beings, dogs, carrots, stones, and atoms are all conscious, though in different degrees" [Pullman's interpretation], as well as a dualist or monist interpretations, even existentialist, objectivist, et cetera. Of note, what are we to make of Pullman's assumption that consciousness is "universal"? What is even meant by universal? Does he mean the totality of all things? If he meant the world as known from the sub-atomic threshold of losing quantum coherence to the event horizon of cosmological black holes, does not "the world" suffice? Considering the etymology and morphology of the term "universe" are we to imagine Pullman actually means "uni"-"verse", i.e. "one turn" (e.g. his)? "One text" (e.g. his)? Not unlike the urging of the sly little weaver in "The Emperor's New Clothes" the question remains: Is the finely-knit raiment of "consciousness is a universal property of matter and everything is conscious in degrees" really there? And to this has Pullman given one iota of logic, reason, argument or evidence? Anything beyond pale utterance and assumption? Ultimately, do we not need to rationally assess panpsychism to address Pullman's claim? And what is panpsychism except incoherent nonsense? We can read Chalmer's and exclaim, "now there's a TRUTH!" and set about fitting the world to his view of it, but what of this: "I distinguish the phenomenal and psychological (functional) concepts of mind. I argue that every mental state is a phenomenal state, a psychological state, or a hybrid of the two. I discuss the two mind-body problems corresponding to the two concepts of mind, and discuss the various senses of the term "consciousness"" is ponderable or even palpable? In the words of Searle in their exchange published by the NY Review of Books: "What about panpsychism, his view that consciousness is in rocks, thermostats, and electrons (his examples), indeed everywhere? I am not sure what he expects as an argument against this view. The only thing one can say is that we know too much about how the world works to take this view seriously as a scientific hypothesis. Does he want me to tell him what we know? Perhaps he does." In short, "The problem with panpsychism is not that it is false; it does not get up to the level of being false. It is strictly speaking meaningless because no clear notion has been given to the claim. Consciousness comes in units and panpsychism cannot specify the units." John Searle, NYRB, 10 January, 2013, pg. 55, reviewing Christof Koch, Consciousness: Confessions of A Romantic Reductionist. So, is Pullman's characterization of poets of the Romantic era as panpsychists true? No, it is not a matter of true or false, he is simply drawing an analogy. Is he interpreting their work to fit his view of panpsychism (whatever that may be)? Yes. Hope that helps. 

A great place to start is with John R. Searle's refutation of "the bad argument" in his article, "Perceptual Intentionality." 

Unfortunately, you can't put intuition into words for the simple reason that intuition is prelinguistic (although perhaps "sublinguistic" is a more apt description?) That said, I will try and describe the basic idea of "if P, then Q" which is also known by "P implies Q", "P then Q", "P → Q" and such. Each term [P, Q] can evaluate to either and only (true or false). We can then rewrite the set of terms [P, Q] as a redundant collection of term conditions: [(true or false), (true or false)]. Note that with (true or false) we are using the logical constant "or" in an exclusive sense, not an inclusive sense. For example, if a parent tells a child they can have either a hamburger or a hot dog for dinner and the child requests both or neither, they have not met the condition established with the parents use of exclusively either a hamburger "or" a hot dog. When the child requests only a hamburger, the dinner choice established by the parent (the condition) is satisfied. When the child requests only a hot dog, the condition is satisfied. Four choices only: two fail (both, neither), two satisfy (hamburger, hot dog). In the case of the inclusive sense of the logical constant "or" when the parent asks the child if they want peas or carrots with their dinner and the child says neither, they have failed to satisfy the condition established by the parents inclusive use of either peas "or" carrots. When the child requests only peas, only carrots or both, the parents condition is satisfied. Four choices only: one fails (neither), three satisfy (peas, carrots, both). What is to be made of "if (true or false), then (true or false)"? What is to be made of "(true or false) implies (true or false)"? What is to be made of "(true or false), then (true or false)"? What is to be made of "(true or false) → (true or false)" and such? For ease of investigation, I will limit the next section to the P → Q notation and we can look at all the possible combinations: 

Given your statement in the comments that you mean the most prominent "philosopher who believes in the teachings of Jesus Christ and has philosophical works that try to show that this belief is justified" an answer will depend largely upon what you mean by "philosophy" because: 

In the metaphorical sense of "this world" as you are using it, sure, "your" "world" (everything that you experience and understand) will end when you die. In the empirically verifiable sense of the world - meaning everything that is - when you die, the world will continue without you. This happens every day, in fact, each time someone dies and the rest of us are still here to observe that we still exist. 

Is your question epistemic or ontological? If a token is identical to another token of the same type, they are still distinct tokens but we may know of them that they are equivalent and replaceable, such as a penny, nickel or quarter. [(X → Y) ∧ (Y → X)] → [(X ∧ Y) V̲ (¬X ∧ ¬Y)] If y whenever x and x whenever y, then either x and y are both true or x and y are both false, but this is not a comment upon whether or not x is y and y is x. 

When both premises are true and the conclusion is soundly drawn from the premises, then the argument is valid and sound: 

That an argument is in a syllogistic form does not guarantee the truth value of the conclusion. For example, a valid syllogism with a false conclusion: 

Empirical support can certainly focus your argumentation. Facts such as how many wild animals vs livestock exist. How much meat is produced vs consumed annually/globally and such. It is great not only to cite the source of the empirical facts, but it is critically important to not only cite verifiable facts, but to actually verify those facts. In the case of statistics especially, it is more convincing to cite several statistics which concur. 

See here re: Animal Minds and a counter-example to Hume's Guillotine then formulate desire-independent reason(s) for action based on an argument you can advance. Lastly, you'll want to use Rawl's Veil of Ignorance and apply it to those animal minds. I've heard that even plants have feelings... 

So what then to make of our epistemic limitations when knowledge is empirical verification (and this whether knowledge you undergo - perception - or knowledge you undertake - verifying)? Note that there are there are three kinds of knowledge: 

Boris, yes, those are good working explanations of the terms. Similarly, as intensionality (not to be confused with intentionality) is intrinsic, it can be thought of as "analytic" and, as extensionality involves things in the world, extension can be thought of as "synthetic". A more technical distinction per Searle: 

It is not the task of philosophy to convince you. Philosophy (read: respect for obtaining knowledge) is actionable and heuristic. I suggest if you have not that you take a logic class and study physics to ground your philosophical inquiries such that knowledge may be obtained. If you insist upon a solipsistic viewpoint that nothing exists except you, there simply is no refuting your insistence in much the same way that there is no countering a two-year olds "no!" Consider, however, that my solipsism is immediately refuted to you by you, and, your solipsism is immediately refuted to me by me. Consider also that we have a language which neither of us invented and that here we are communicating over the internet. 

While it might seem quite obvious that deity is incoherent, imponderable, nonsense which does not exist and is nowhere to be found except in language, these rational considerations and reasoned inquiries matter not one iota to the conditions of satisfaction posited by faith. Certainly it would be difficult to make it through a single day without any faith at all, no? (But what is certainty except a mood?) Whether faith that today will resemble yesterday, or faith that things which you do not directly observe will continue upon their pattern of trajectory or along their inertial paths... Note that I don't mean faith in deity, but faith in general as a psychological tool. And faith is a very powerful psychological tool. So powerful in fact that placebo's demonstrably are effective even if the placebo itself is completely inert. Is it such a terribly large gap to jump across from "taking things on faith" or "presuming good faith" to creating a narrative or an explanation, or a framework for psychological benefit which can be deified? Coming from a scientific position, consider the simple difficulty of removing bias and Wittgenstein's observation that "Nothing is so difficult as not deceiving oneself" (from his book of aphorisms, "Culture and Value" pg. 34). But even if one is not deceiving oneself (or deceived at all) not everything is a matter of evidence supporting an argument, hypothesis or proof. Much in life depends upon opinion, sentiment, agreement - irrespective of empirically verifiable and falsifiable fact; just as often brutish and not even aspiring to poetry. The world certainly owes us no easy explanation, but I suppose it may simply be so very easy to imagine one, no? Your question reminds me of a quote by Bertrand Russell from the introduction to his book, "The History of Western Philosophy and its Connection with Political and Social Circumstances from the Earliest Times to the Present Day":