Check any company handbooks or anything you've signed to see if you might be violating a contract by leaving for a competitor. Even if it is a violation, it is not commonly pursued and less commonly upheld depending on your locale. Get a written offer from the other company Accept other offer and provide the appropriate start date based on traditional notice periods (2 weeks is common in the U.S.) Create a resignation notice and provide it to your employer Since you seem to like and respect the manager, make sure you let them know before they hear it from someone else. Make sure you let them know it isn't personal and it is simply a great opportunity. Keep it positive and if the broken promise of management is brought up, simply say that was one of the things that attracted you to that position. 

I've been a dev supervisor/manager for over ten years. The fact is that most students didn't learn the exact tools that we work with; even if you are self taught on what you think the tools are that companies use, you most likely have several large gaps of knowledge. This should be expected. I feel there are things that make a new grad really stand out. 

Never make yourself indispensable. Doing so means it is isn't possible to move up or onto something different. If you can automate much of your job, you should. You can almost never have too many people that make things more reliable and lessen maintenance. These people pay for themselves over and over. Automating tedious parts of your job leave you available for more interesting tasks. Automating work saves the company money year over year for a one time expenditure. Obviously, there is a variable return on the investment, but in general, it's better to automate. People that take initiative in solving their work problems are not that common. Most people follow the motions and work within set parameters. These people are easily replaced and add minimal value. 

Personally, I would phone back and ask to speak to the person who interviewed you and make a casual "I just wanted to check that you had my email address correct" or perhaps "I've been having problems with emails not coming through and wanted to check I have not missed one from you" (less preferable) Make it not about chasing but just that you are confirming they have the correct information. If they have genuinely forgotten, it will hopefully prompt them to send the email through with the details. If there is another reason why the email has come through (as per your gut feeling), they will simply confirm the email address is correct. If you then do not receive anything, your gut was correct 

Personally, I do not think it is unethical at all. Certain types of employment (ie: sales) tend to have clauses written into employees contracts to protect them from actions people do when leaving (poaching customers and colleagues) so as @Vinothbabu mentioned, check that you have no similar items in your employment contract. At the end of the day, your co-worker is an adult and can make up their own mind. They can weigh up the pros and cons of joining your side venture for themselves, you are merely offering the opportunity. Also, this feeds in to a common thread that has started to appear in a few answers on this site recently - think long-term. What is of more benefit to you - developing this side venture or protecting your emplyment/reputation with your current employer? I appreciate it is not always a balck and white decision but you need to think what is best for you and your future. 

You should not provide your username and password and reply back explaining that the security policy prevents you from providing that information and this sounds like a phishing email; CC an internal security team or IT team to make them aware of the email going around. If it's a legit request and they press the issue further, approach them in-person to discuss and explain why you shouldn't. If they still insist, provide it in-person and not over email. 

Thank you for your time, but we are looking for someone with more proven experience. Thank you for your time. We will consider you, along with the other applicants, and let you know if we will be proceeding. 

If you have a phone number, call them to see if there is anything remaining you need to do and if not when you should show up and where. If not, send them back another email and explain that if you do not hear back from them, you'll have to consider other opportunities. Be very polite. After sending said email, start looking for other opportunities immediately in case they never respond or respond back that they are not longer interested. 

Contracts ending are normal in software development. I see many resumes each week with a bunch of three to twelve month employment stints; perfectly normal if the person was a contractor. So, I don't think you should worry about the "only nine months long and not a long-term engagement" part. If asked about the contract, focus on the technology. If they ask about the project in non-technical terms, tell them there were some challenges, what the challenges were (without being too critical), how you/the team overcame them, what you learned, and explain how it made you better at your job. Do not speak ill of the employer or the other employees. It just makes you look bad. 

I would say that without any proof, you are on pretty shaky ground and it would come down to his word versus yours and it's likely that the more senior employee would be believed either by the MD or your co-workers. Personally (and this is without experience of working for this type of firm/in the broker industry), if it is not noticeably affecting his ability to do his job, then it is of no business of anyones. Unless there are strict clauses in employment contracts about behaviour whilst on the company premises that he is contravening then he is not really doing anything wrong. I'm not sure what would be gained by mentioning this to your co-workers unless you already have an issue with the branch manager for some other reason. 

Start a toilet cleaning rota that has to be signed off when done (similar to pub toilets with the piece of paper on the wall!) and make it part of people's objectives/bring it up in performance reviews if not done. It is the only way to foster any sort of collective responsibility for the state of the toilets as it is obvious everyone appears to think it is someone else problem Failing that, employer a cleaner and inform everyone that there will be no bonuses this year due to the cost of having to employ a cleaner to clean up after everyone! 

It's not as obvious as some people think so I'll add it here - magnets on the side of PCs/CPUs are a no-no. IT Support staff all have war stories surrounding this! 

It is not your responsibility to tell your boss you are thinking of leaving/they need to hire another person. I'm assuming you have a notice period in your contract and if so, this is there for their benefit as much as yours. As you quite rightly say in your post, this could lead to an awkward relationship/atmosphere which is another reason to look after yourself first. Plus, what if you do broach the subject and then do not find another position for a while? The awkward atmosphere would have to be endured for far longer than you probably anticipated. Keep quiet. Let them do their job and look after yourself!! 

If the people in the CC are people and not company wide email distribution lists*, then reply to all. The first person wanted them informed, so you should keep them informed by replying to all. *We've probably all seen the email threads where it ends up being dozens of people saying to take them off the email. Don't include company wide DLs unless your company is twenty people. 

The reality is that you'll commonly be in this position when leaving; if you weren't needed, why'd they keep you around? I would recommend never giving more notice than contractually required (commonly two weeks in the U.S.). If you feel that guilty about putting them in a bad position, you should offer to work on contract (with a very nice pay increase), pick your hours, and how much time you will commit to. That way, you can feel better by at least offering them an opportunity to continue to get a limited amount of your time/help which should minimize the impact of your leaving. 

Feel not only comfortable talking about projects you've worked on but exhibit a bit of passion for it. We've all seen where you start talking to someone about something they are interested in and there is a bit of a spark. Have projects you are working on outside an academic setting. It might be open source software or Arduino or Raspberry Pi or whatever... have a technical hobby project you are working on. There is nothing wrong with not knowing something, but know and be able to explain how you'd learn about it. Be friendly and polite. It should not require being stated, but there have been so many interviews where this was not the case... so many... 

Yes, you definately should. Honesty is always the best policy. Plus, from the way you have described it, you are not re-applying for the same job you were rejected for previously. You were obviously not rejected as being unsuitable for the company as a whole (culture, approach etc) but for a fairly specific role based on a specific lack of experience) If anything, because THEY contacted you, I would mention it. It shows that you have been on thier radar before 

NO! Until you have an offer letter from a new employer in your hand, do not tell your boss/colleagues/company that you are looking for another job If you have a lot of tasks assigned to you when you hand your notice in, you will still have the same amount of notice period, regardless. Part of the responsibility for handing out all these tasks is with your manager to manage handover/cover/failover - what if you were hit by a bus tomorrow? Making you the single point of failure does not always mean it is up to YOU! to manage cover etc 

A lot of prospective employers now have a glance at a candidate's LinkedIn profile. I've written a couple of recommendations for ex-colleagues there in the hope that they will be seen by recruiting companies. It tends to hold more weight than the simple "number of connections" algorithm Most people put the link to their LinkedIn profile on their CV these days too (I do!) 

I work in an open plan office where there are 4 people to each bank of desks The lady who sits diagonally behind me will turn round and ‘stare into’ absolutely every conversation that I have with a visitor to my desk be it work related or personal (banter, what was on TV, sports etc). She also does this to the colleague who sits next to me, and especially when the two of us are having conversations. She very very rarely contributes to the conversation, just listens and stares but will occasionally make some unfunny joke to try and shoehorn her way in. NOTE: none of these conversations are in any way private or sensitive, either from a work or personal point of view She is someone who would not take criticism or confrontation very well so how should I deal with this? Everyone seems to know it goes on but no-one really confronts her on it (she has been at this place for many years prior to me joining and I have only been sitting in this position for the past 7 or 8 months) I am finding it more and more distracting. I’ve stopped myself a few times from spinning round and just snapping back with a ‘YES? CAN I HELP YOU?????' Should I speak to management regarding this rather than confront her directly? Moving desks is not an option for me sadly.