SHORT ANSWER Allen Dulles was forced to resign by John F. Kennedy because of the failed Bay of Pigs invasion in April 1961. Dulles' resignation came in November 1961 following two reports which placed a substantial portion of the blame on the CIA, of which Dulles was director. DETAILS Although the invasion took place in April 1961, Kennedy did not ask for Dulles' resignation until after two inquiries effectively 'confirmed' what he already believed. Kennedy asked General Maxwell Taylor to look into the Bay of Pigs disaster. On this, Jack B. Pfeiffer states: 

Students’ intellectual backgrounds very varied as some had had tutors while others were totally unprepared for the intellectual demands that universities would place on them. Consequently, 

Source: gcaptain via Wikipedia An exaggerated depiction of the Syracusia from 1798 This was surpassed in size by the Tessarakonteres, built by Ptolemy III's son Ptolemy IV but was apparently (according to Plutach) for exhibition only (so maybe this one shouldn't count). ANCIENT ROME Casson says that the sources for ships names are 'much richer' for Ancient Rome. Details are given in Chapter 15 of Ships and Seamanship. In another book, The Ancient Mariners, Casson says that 

(source: Hitler & Mussolini: The Secret Meetings By Santi Corvaja) Mussolini had several other questions for Ludecke, including why Ludendorff was associating himself with what Mussolini later (November 1922) called "extreme rightist elements." When he later received a report in response to his request (in November 1922) for more details on the political situation in Bavaria, 

Other sources: Emilie Bremond-Poulle, La Denonciation chez Marat Andress on Rapport, 'Nationality and Citizenship in Revolutionary France: The Treatment of Foreigners 1789-1799' 

Source: Shawn P. Keller, Turning Point: A History Of German Petroleum In World War II And Its Lessons For The Role Of Oil In Modern Air Warfare With the beginning of the Allied blockade in September 1939, the supply of US-controlled oil from the Americas (mainly Mexico and Venezuela) effectively came to a halt. Germany was to rely increasingly on synthetic fuel (made from coal and developed in Germany in 1923 by Hans Tropsch and Franz Fischer), as well as increased imports from Romania and the USSR (part of the 1940 German–Soviet Commercial Agreement, until the German invasion). Nonetheless, it is possible that Germany obtained some US oil in one of two ways: 1. It is conceivable that, as both sides were seizing neutral ships destined for the other side, Germany obtained some US oil this way, but this could not be described as 'assistance' or 'helping to maintain', and it is unlikely it would have amounted to much given the extent of the British blockade. 2. The Germans could have obtained US oil via Spain. It wouldn't have been easy though:, 

While horses are faster over short distances, camels are hardier, have greater endurance and can carry much heavier loads. Quataert continues thus: 

Illustrations were sometimes a commentary on the text but without knowing what that text is, interpretation of the illustration in the question above is all but impossible (if any interpretation was intended in the first place). However, I'll stick my neck out and venture some possibilities.. It is possible that the artist is referring (for some reason not evident here) to a high-born woman who enjoyed falconry/hawking (if the glove is intended to be a gauntlet). Another possible interpretation is that the part woman, part bird image is some kind of take on a siren. Or it is possible the artist did it just for the amusement of himself and / or the reader as there seems to be a tongue-in-cheek element to this illustration. Or it is possible that two of the above may be equally true...and I'm sure others could come up with other interpretations too... Concerning the two fingers, this may have been intended as a sign of benediction (thanks to T.E.D., rougon and bgwiehle for the comments / prompts). This is commonly found in paintings from the medieval period. The fingers are usually together but are sometimes slightly apart (as in the picture in the question) and sometimes crossed (as in several versions of Salvator Mundi. 

All of the above refers to men (or boys in some cases). For women, there were far fewer opportunities and the first degree awarded in a professional faculty in Germany to a woman was at Halle in 1754. Nonetheless, the situation was improving: 

Although the Ottomans primarily used camels for transport, they could also be effective against horse cavalry as they are more intelligent than horses and less inclined to panic in difficult situations. Also, horses don’t like the unfamiliar smell of camels and spook easily 

That the relationship between Titus and Domitian was far from one of brotherly love cannot be disputed, but there is the age-old problem of biased sources, in this case very much to the detriment of Domitian. Brian Jones, in The Emperor Domitian, says of Domitian: 

Concerning the frequency of attacks, Eric Christiansen in ‘The Norsemen in the Viking Age’ notes that: 

As a side note, there is also a reference in Looking for the Aryans to the Kassites "who appear to have a horse-based tribal name". 

The mummified head of Egyptian pharaoh King Ahmose I Also of interest, but a prince rather than a ruler, is Ranefer, son of the 4th dynasty Pharaoh Sneferu (died around 2589 BC). Ranefer died before his father. Citing Ikram & Dodson, Wikipedia states "Ranefer’s body is the best representation of what mummification techniques entailed during the Old Kingdom." Remains of West European rulers are much more recent. Among the oldest are those of the Merovingian King Clovis I (died 511 AD) which were relocated from their original site to the Basilica of St. Denis. 

Source: Napolipiu.com It connected Lake Avernus with Cumae and was constructed using counter excavation (from both ends) with shafts. This is the longest road tunnel the Romans ever built. 4. Cripta Neapolitana (circa. 37 BC, 705 metres long). Also definitely a road tunnel, it runs from Naples to Pozzuoli and the building technique used was counter excavation. It was 3 to 4 metres wide and 3 to 5 metres high and made it easier for the Romans to move troops between Naples and the Phlegrean Fields. 

ANIMALS Although not a historical animal, the country of Cameroon was named after an animal: Portuguese sailors called it Rio dos Camarões which means Shrimp River. There's also Grand Canaria, meaning Island of Dogs (from Latin) which 

Source: Atle Naess, Galileo Galilei: When the World Stood Still Galileo had not observed any of the comets as he was in poor health at the time. It was only after Grassi's work was published that he was stirred into action. 

Source: $URL$ In France, it seems that Charles VI (died 1422) was the first monarch there to have his likeness captured by a contemporary artist, in 1412. It also appears that the large majority of portraits of pre-1400 monarchs such as Henry II of England and Louis VII of France were done during the 17th and 18th centuries. This is puzzling given that accurate portraiture was common enough in ancient Greece and continued up to the 4th century in Rome (at least). After this, “the interest in an individual likeness declined considerably”. What were the reasons for this decline and why did it take so long (much longer than the Dark Ages lasted) for Europeans to become interested in lifelike portraits? Judging by the exquisite artwork found on early medieval manuscripts, the reason could not have been lack of talent. Granted, this is a different kind of art but there is no reason, I think, why skilled portrait artists could not have flourished had there been a demand for them. Also, for people (crusaders for example) who were away from their homeland for a long period of time: Wouldn’t people with sufficient means have wanted and been able to afford visual images of family members and loved ones? 

Wikipedia, citing Strouhal & Vyhnánek (2000), states Neferefre is "one of the very few Old Kingdom pharaohs whose mummy has been identified." Next oldest ruler with identified remains is Djedkare Isesi, also of the 5th dynasty, who died around 2375 BC. As with Neferefre, we can't be 100% sure about the identification: "the mummy currently thought to be Djedkare's suggests he was about 50 when he died." The oldest remains of a ruler (positively identified) which are on display is the mummy Seqenenre Tao (or Tao II), 14th Pharaoh of the Theban dynasty (Egypt) during the Second Intermediate period. We have some details of his (gruesome) death, but the date is uncertain: he is believed to have started ruling around 1560 BC (or a bit later). This source gives the dates 1558 - 1554 BC. 

No sources are cited for this assertion, but Chungyeol presumably had some influence as he was married to one of Kublai Khan's daughters. Koreans also made up a substantial proportion of both invasion forces (1274 and 1281). The Wikipedia entry on Kublai Khan isn't much help: 

After the Great Fire of Rome, it has been argued, Nero needed a scapegoat and the Christians were an easy target. 

Sweyn II had at least 15 sons in all: only one was legitimate and he died young. The others were by 'various concubines', so there were a few to spare. The only other example of 5 brothers becoming king I can think of is from the House of Wessex (the sons of Æthelwulf 839 to 858, the youngest of whom was Alfred the Great), but one of them (Æthelstan of Kent) wasn't really king in his own right, and nor was he King of Wessex like his father and brothers. Are there any other examples of 5 brothers (legitimate or illegitimate) becoming rulers of the same country in their own right? As instances of this must be very rare, examples can be from any period and any part of the world (but I'll edit this if my assumption is proven to be wrong). 

Source: Walter Frisch & Kevin C. Karnes (eds), Brahms and His World Brahms was also a German nationalist. 

In November 1120, a ship carrying three of King Henry I's children, including his only legitimate son and heir William the Atheling, struck a rock off the coast of northern France and sank. Also on board were over 150 nobles, including the King's illegitimate son Richard of Lincoln, his niece Matilda FitzRoy, and several key figures in Henry's government. The only survivor among the 300 passengers and crew was a humble butcher. The repercussions of this disaster were enormous and led to almost 20 years of civil war in England as William's sister Matilda and his cousin Stephen (who had disembarked from the White Ship shortly before it set sail) fought over the throne of England. There have been many maritime disasters with a far greater loss of life, but has there ever been one where there were so many notable people who died, and where the consequences were so far reaching? 

S.A. Smith, in The Russian Revolution: A Very Short Introduction gives a figure of 2 million by the spring of 1920 for the White Army. He also states that the Red Army numbered around 5 million by the autumn of 1920 but that there were never more than 500,000 in the front line. Mikhail Khvostov in The Russian Civil War (2): White Armies provides probably the most comprehensive data on the various White Armies and this is most likely what you are looking for. As this data is spread across over 40 pages (there is no summary), it is simply too much to include here. However, here are just a few of the armies he mentions: 

It is unclear if this 450 BC tunnel is the same as the Etruscan tunnel near the later Roman tunnel mentioned in several Wikipedia articles: the Wikipedia pages mention either 3rd century or simply Etruscan times. There are some visible remains but whether it was a proper road tunnel or just a pedestrian passage is also unclear. However, even if the Etruscans cannot claim bragging rights to the first road tunnel, they can certainly claim credit for showing the Romans how to do it. 3. Grotta di Cocceio (aka the Cocceius Tunnel, circa. 38 to 36 BC, almost 1km long). This definitely qualifies as a road tunnel and was constructed under the supervision of the architect Lucius Cocceius Auctus who was also responsible for the Cripta Neapolitana (see below) as well as (probably) a tunnel on the island of Ponza. 

There is also the USS Constitution, still afloat and built in 1797 but declared unfit for service in 1881, and HMS Cornwallis, built in 1812 and broken up in 1957 (144 years, but 'only' 52 years active service). It seems that teak is a particularly durable wood, which is one reason why the British had a number of ships built in India: 

It seems likely that the ship stopped off at Freetown (Sierra Leone) on the way in order to pick up additional troops. If only going to Prampram, add an extra half day sailing time plus time lost for the ship to stop at Accra (this stop could easily be a whole day as Accra was by then the capital of the Gold Coast and thus a major destination). 

Nonetheless, what many ordinary German citizens knew depended on, in part at least, what they wanted to know or believe. One has to remember that those who were still young towards the end of the war had effectively been subjected to Nazi indoctrination since childhood so believing anything other than what the state propaganda machine churned out was far from given, sometimes even in the face substantial evidence. Then there were also those who just shut out all bad news, or who were more concerned about everyday trivial matters (witness: the diary of Brigitte Eicke, a teenager during the war). By 1943, the allies were bombing German cities heavily: this had happened only sporadically before so it wouldn’t have taken a genius to work out that the Luftwaffe, at least, was not performing as well as it had previously done. Joanna Bourke in The Second World War: a People’s History states that 

Entrance to the Colosseum was most likely free. Spectators were sometimes given free food and gifts. Tickets were probably distributed through patronage and / or were obtained through membership of a club or society. Tickets had seat numbers. Seating was according to social status. 

The mounting (on black board) seems to have been done within the last few years as there is little sign of aging. 

GALILEO'S FIRST RESPONSE Discourse on the Comets, Galileo's response, was published using the name of one of his students, Mario Guiducci, though the work was clearly Galileo's. Why this pamphlet was a fierce attack on Grassi's work is discussed by both MacLachlan and Naess. First, the astronomical side. One key issue was (briefly), as stated by Naess, 

According to this online biography of Gavrilo Princip, it was his co-conspirator Nedjelko Cabrinovic who tried to drown himself (in the River Miljacka). 

He had a country, and later a war, to run. What 'free' time he had was mainly spent watching movies and reading (among other things, but no mention anywhere of painting). Considering that a fair amount has been written about Hitler's early 'career' as an artist, it would be strange if, when talking about Hitler's pastimes, painting would simply not be mentioned. Albert Speer, in his diaries, makes several references to Hitler making sketches related to plans for buildings etc from the mid 1920s until at least the mid 1930s, but he never mentions Hitler painting while fuhrer. This excerpt from Speer's diaries strongly indicates that he did no more than sketch and draw: 

Source: Simon Beattie "Printed in 1792, this is one of the first publications from the newly inaugurated Convention Nationale, the third government of the French Revolution, and in which English, Scottish and Irish citizens, resident in France, voice their support for the revolutionary government." Note the use by these 'foreigners' of 'citoyens legislateurs' and 'citoyens Britanniques et Irlandois Foreigners could, and did, participate in affairs at both the local and the national level. Initially, at least, they had almost the same rights and duties as the native French. Those who did not accept the new regime were not deemed worthy of the title 'citizen', though this did not suddenly happen, and nor was there necessarily agreement on who was or was not 'worthy'. Other foreigners sought refuge in revolutionary France to escape persecution for their radical beliefs in their own countries; they were deemed worthy of the title 'citizen'. In diplomacy, the usual title of 'excellence' was to be replaced by 'citizen' though this (not surprisingly) was "not well received at the formal Spanish court" according to Linda Frey & Marsha Frey in The Culture of French Revolutionary Diplomacy. Some diplomats followed the guidelines with more zeal than others: one was described as "more of a scoundrel than the Goths and the Huns" by the Neapolitan envoy, while another had reportedly