Pike refers to 'suffering', you talk of 'evil'. The logic of his argument is unaffected if you substitute 'evil' for 'suffering'. GOD, EVIL AND THE LOGICALLY POSSIBLE There is an inclination to say : but it must be possible for an omnipotent, omniscient, and omnibenevolent (perfectly good) God to create a world - the best possible - which is without suffering or evil. But God can only do what it is logically possible to do; God's omnipotence does not exceed the logically possible. To defeat Pike's argument you would need to conceive in full specificity a logically possible world, X, that was both the best possible and exempt from suffering or evil. I do not see how we can know an apriori or in any other way that it must be logically possible for God to create world X. Only if we can know this does your paradox or contradiction arise. Or to put the point another way : you can conceive, I don't doubt, of a world, Y, that is exempt from suffering or evil, but unless you can conceive of all logically possible worlds how would you know that that world Y in its totality is the best that is logically possible ? No religious motivation informs this answer. 

There's a choice : Gilbert Ryle : '... Professor A.C. Campbell, who has written several books on the freedom of will - or rather, one book several times' (Oxford lecture, 1967). Peter Strawson : '... like self-mutilation, which starts off as merely painful and ends as logically impossible' (Oxford lecture, 1968). Bertrand Russell on being asked what would be his response if, when he died, God confronted him in heaven and demanded to know why Russell had failed to believe : 'Sir, why did you not give me better evidence?'. (Leo Rosten, Saturday Review/World, February 23, 1974.) Bertrand Russell in response to the question whether he would be willing to die for his beliefs : 'Of course not. After all, I may be wrong.' (Think, Vol. 27 1961, p. 32.) 

There is no suggestion here that aesthetic theory cannot 'generate any new insights, only destroy old ideals of beauty' : and Marcuse was writing long after Adorno's 1966 Negative Dialectics. 

These points only apply if - what is not clear - you mean that all knowledge in the arts is based on inductive inference. If you don't, but intend only that some is, then : 

Democritus was a student of Leucippus of Miletus, with whom the (or 'an') atomic theory appears to have originated. In the background, too, was the Eleactic School of Parmenides and Zeno, with which Leucippus was almost certainly acquainted and against which Demoocritus reacted. For Parmenides the world of Being, the world that truly is, is self-existent, indivisible, uncreated, eternal unmoved and unchanging. For Zeno, there is infinite divisibility, no end to the division of a section into parts. While both Parmenides and Zeno believed much more than this, these are the points of relevance to Democritus' atomism. Democritus was convinced that there is change and movement in nature. If there is movement there must be a medium in which movement takes place. Bodies or material things cannot move unless there is 'the empty' in which they can move. Hence the Democritean Void. Democritus was also unwilling to apply Zeno's infinite mathematical division to the material or physical world. There may be an infinite number of points between any two points but physical division is different from mathematical division. Democritus points back in agreement with Leucippus : 'The atomists hold that splitting stops when it reaches indivisible particles and does not go on infinitely' (quoted in S. Sambursky, 'The Physical World of the Greeks', London : Routledge, 1963, p. 107). Democritus's 'atoms' are 'ta atoma (somata), 'the uncuttable bodies' (J. Barnes, 'The Presocratic Philosophers', London : Routledge, 2nd ed., 1982, 344). I think his basic idea was that you can take a material and physical body and 'cut' or divide it and carry on doing this but that there is a lower limit to the division of matter otherwise you would reach a dimensionless point which could not count as material or physical at all. The lower limit is that of the atoms. I think he merely hypothesised that changes and movements were due to the different shapes, arrangements and positions of atoms in the Void. Also, that the innumerable atoms in the Void bring objects into existence when they unite and destroy them when they separate. Why the atoms should move, and thus produce changes in the objects they constitute, Democritus does not tell us. The atoms exist, have always existed, in a swirl : this is a matter of necessity or fate for which no explanation can be given. Democritus has not been neglected. He was largely unavailable. It was only in the late-19th and early 20th centuries that the Presocratic fragments - which is all we have for nearly all of the Presocratics - were systematically collected, arranged and published by H.A. Diels. (His work was continued and revised by W. Kranz.) Marx, we might recall, wrote his doctoral dissertation on the material available to him : 'The Difference Between the Democritean and Epicurean Philosophy of Nature' (1841). 

It is true that there is a vase on the table. I believe, by looking in conditions of standard illumination and with 20:20 vision, that there is a vase on the table. Assume that I have no beliefs about the vase. I am out of the room. But, if it weren't true that there is a vase on the table, then put me in the room and by looking in conditions of standard illumination and with 20:20 vision to arrive at a belief about whether a vase is there or not, I would not believe that there is a vase in the room. Assume that I have no beliefs about the vase. I am out of the room. But, if it were true that there is a vase on the table, then put me in the room and by looking in conditions of standard illumination and with 20:20 vision to arrive at a belief about whether a vase is there or not, I would believe that there is a vase in the room. 

▻ FORMAL AND MATERIAL FALLACIES A formal fallacy is an argument that fails to fulfil the conditions of logical validity. A material fallacy is an argument that's correct or false - acceptable or not - depending on how the facts are. ▻ FORMAL FALLACY Formally the argument is fallacious. It would be logically valid only with the insertion of the premise : 'All who drive use fossil fuels' : i. You drive ii. All who drive use fossil fuels Therefore iii. You use fossil fuels Logically, driving doesn't necessitate using fossil fuels. So the argument is logically fallacious. But what of the other option ? ▻ MATERIAL FALLACY ? Materially, i.e. as a matter of contingent fact, it need not be fallacious. Not all drivers use fossil fuels since some, for instance, have electric vehicles, but the use of fossil fuels enters into the generation of electricity. If a vehicle runs on hydrogen gas, have fossil fuels been used in the industrial manufacture of the gas ? Yes. But suppose you put alcohol in your tank and drive on that ? I believe it can be done. Hard to imagine that fossil fuels were not used at some point in the production of alcohol. If as a matter of fact fossil fuels have entered into the production of non-fossil fuels at any stage, then in one sense 'You drive, therefore you use fossil fuels' is correct - though it would be more accurate to say that 'Since you drive, then you use a fuel into the production of which fossil fuels have entered'. But materially the truth of 'All who drive use fossil fuels' is contingent. As soon as a fuel is derived that fossil fuels play no part in the production of, then it's false. Such a fuel may already have been invented or discovered; I merely assume it has not. 

I should not recommend Aristophanes as an introduction to Greek philosophy for reasons I'll explain in a minute. But to address the immediate question, 'truest to the Greek original' might mean most literal or best conveying the sense and flavour of the original - and that might require quite a free translation. On balance I recommend Stephen Halliwell's Oxford translation in the World's Classics series, 1998. May I make two suggestions ? (1) In Plato's 'Symposium' Aristophanes is represented as making a speech about the original nature of human beings : each person was twice what they are now : female joined to male, male joined to male, &c. Their power and pretensions made them over-ambitious and they were duly punished by the gods who split them apart. Each then looked for its original other half. The 'speech' has inspired both thought and talk about love ever since. Outside drama, this 'speech' (brief enough and vastly entertaining) is gentle initial reading. Among Aristophanes' other plays, 'The Clouds', has a famous depiction of Socrates as a sophist and windbag. Now that might lead you into a consideration of the historical Socrates or the Socrates presented in Plato's dialogues. It is a mystery why Aristophanes guyed Socrates as he did. (2) If you want to approach Greek philosophy through plays, I would suggest Sophocles' 'Oedipus Rex' ('King Oedipus') where Oedipus is shamed merely for what he does innocently and unknowingly (kill his father and marry his mother). There is no moral guilt but there is intense moral shame : we see the difference between what E.R. Dodds called a shame culture and a guilt culture. The World's Classics tr. of Sophocles would be perfectly appropriate. It doesn't have to be either/ or. You could read Aristophanes or preferably Sophocles and one of the more accessible Platonic dialogues - I suggest 'Meno'. ENDNOTE The difference between a shame culture and a guilt culture is not just a matter of the sociology of morals (not that there's anything wrong with that). Nor it is just a matter of different ethical theories. It discloses different conceptions of morality : one, a shame culture, centred on what you do whether intentionally or not and on what happens to you (whether you can help it or not) and the other, a guilt culture, familiar in modern times, centred on what you do intentionally. Hope this helps.