Hate to say no, but... Not really. The tubing would all but negate the lightness of the helium, would interfere with structural design, and more importantly, would take up the entire building. Let's take a blimp. It has a tiny car and a massive balloon about 10 times its size or more. You do that with a building, and the whole thing is full of hydrogen, or in your case, helium. No space left, except a tiny amount. Much simpler to have buildings brace on to each other with some sort of brackets, and be thus inter-connected. This also lets you use that bridge idea. Furthermore, the taller the building, the less effective the gas. And from a design perspective, you have just laced the entire building with a highly flammable gas and put it near a bunch of other buildings with thousands of people inside. Big Badda Boom! That's for hydrogen. For helium, you've added a potentially devastating alternative medium that you can't breathe. Suddenly, you get a tiny leak, and people start talking in high voices and then keel over. TLDR: You end up composing the building mostly of said tubing and the gas therein, which is deadly in one or more respects. 

It is possible that a creature with massive eyes could eventually drop the need to eat. As a result, it could eventually move past most of the rest of its form. It's also possible that the eye could be designed to eject from its body and eventually such an eye could start to reproduce and/or survive on its own. In real life, some creatures like frogs can shoot poison or blood from their eyes. This could be adapted to be even more dangerous. You could also intensify the crystallin levels in the eye that form the lens and use it to concentrate a laser... With a little magic in there somewhere. 

Concept: For some twisted reason, a xenocidal space-race living somewhere in our vicinity decides that nothing deserves to exist. 

Make them a plant! As the plant evolves, it is known to the "master" species as a valuable tool, and thus the humans evolve into a symbiotic relationship with it, providing water, protection, and other such. Over time, the hardy "golem" becomes massively useful to humans, learning how to do more complex tasks and even understand speech in a mixture of domestication and symbiotic evolution. Eventually they begin to even take on human traits and shape to better serve their needed purposes. Part of this change includes them requiring less and less from the humans, trained in mind to serve the masters who no longer need to provide for them. Now the humans are parasites of a sort, admittedly, but on the upside, the golems are mindless and don't care. As for the anatomy itself of a clay-like structure, they would probably find carrying fertile soil around to be a very useful ability. They also learn to carry stones, wood, and grit to protect their innards. When they need a recharge, they just sprout some leaves, which die and eventually look like collected "stuff." 

My conclusion From my fairly large amount of cell knowledge, I would have to say that yes, you could, with a tiny amount of magic and some improvised materials. But personally, I would just have everybody be microscopic, making cells look big, and maybe... just maybe introducing a whole new problem. Cell Anatomy (Enchanted Learning) Cytoskeleton (Wikipedia) Chloroplasts (Nature.com) 

Have the children be a sort of snail or octopus, that can retreat by oozing its way into the shell. During puberty, the bones form/develop, blocking off this ability, or possibly the whole form hardens and is thus unretractable. A good question is whether or not this shell ever grow. Does it weaken and become more expandable as the brain gets bigger? Another thought: perhaps these creatures lay really massive eggs that grow quickly and harden, but not before the attached baby breaks off the bottom part and grows out. If so, this structure could be rather large, maybe torso-size. 

Have the element that is found in highest amounts be what it is called. Though small disconnect with "Carbon-based." Or maybe "(compound X) based" for highest occurring compound, like h20, you could say we are "Water-based." 

Do it Gideon-style! Cause them to hit each other a lot with all their ranged stuff and generally stir up havoc, making them mostly die on each others' swords. 

A popular trick among game devs and authors is the "infinite wasteland" trick: Go anywhere you please, but when you leave the desired zone, you won't find anything interesting. In space, this looks like the very realistic concept of seemingly going nowhere forever. Obviously, nobody wants to travel for days outside the zone where there is stuff, especially if they have work to do, so having nothing nearby is a good reason to not go nowhere. Why would you leave? Another trick is the "leave or get shot for defecting" standard: You run off, we will point the big guns your way and blow you to Saturn. This very nicely limits your "actors" to a bubble, or multiple bubbles, which they must not leave, lest they are destroyed. Play any FPS and you will understand. Your commanding officer does not approve of them leaving. Or you could use the "you drift into space, helpless" trick: You run out of fuel, and now you're hosed. You float into eternity. Some resource that you need, eg. sunlight, fuel, O2, runs out because the places/bases where you get more are not in your area. People need "stuff," and if they leave their "stuff spots," they will soon die. Or maybe just the "random instant failure": You go outside your zone and then some seemingly random event burninates you. An "actor" of yours decides to leave and takes a tiny asteroid through the face and dies. This isn't necessarily a limit, however, 'random stuff happens' is a surprisingly common trope that limits people in some way, if not obviously. And finally, "this is our turf": This is our spot, and since we are advanced, we have 'death-stuff' for keeping you off. The aliens, who are terraforming as you said, probably have this idea that you should keep away from their stuff, enforced by alien barriers of your own choosing. In the case of "two-dimensional?" aliens, I would suggest a big steel blade that slices you cleanly into oblivion. But again, choose your own adventure. 

I'm thinking... yes. No. Depends. Can your species evolve to, as in 2001, make technology to do this? We won't know for a long time. But if you believe in 'souls,' then it could be accomplished by slowly dropping the reproductive 'creatures' down to zero. At this point, with no physical mass, they would no longer have any ability to make more of themselves, evolution's biggest spiel. But on the other hand, with no matter, or corporeal form, they wouldn't have to worry about that. 

In the novel Ender's Game, all little kids are protected and closely watched via a 'monitor', a device that sees and hears through them. This happens from around age 1 to about 5 or 6. So my question is, how would being monitored 'round the clock change how people act, from ages of 3 to 12? Please don't say this is too broad: I'm asking how people would act when they know they're being watched, but specifically watched by a thing attached to them by the neck. 

Recently, there have been some great questions pertaining to monomolecular blades and filaments, so I wanted to ask two very essential questions. If we can't definitively answer these, we can never make such a tool. 

Politics would probably not make too much sense to robots. Make a set of rules. Follow it. Thus is the way of AI. The bigger group acts like video game characters and gets rid of or overpowers the minority, reprogramming it. They can be friendly, but they don't have to agree. No politics, just a universal mindset that will take a while to attain. 

Assuming you have something that makes a convincing wheel, you can create a creature that will grasp random objects to quickly move downhill between two long appendages, or four for two wheels, keeping balanced atop. The why is important: perhaps the organism migrates through hilly areas and uses the wheels, which it basically just grabs with revolving wrists, to get from one place to another cross-country, but not as a tool, just as an evolved way of using revolving "wrists" to grasp circular objects and move faster with them than without. They don't "build" anything this way.