Yes, if the Universe is matter-dominated and spatially closed, then a cosmological constant: $\Lambda > \frac{4\pi G \rho}{c^2}$ Where $\rho$ is the critical energy density (of matter) of the Universe, will cause it to expand forever. NB Where $\Lambda$ is equal to this value you get the (unstable) Einstein static Universe. 

For an observer hovering [I say hover because by definition there are no orbits for an observer at the photon sphere] at the photon sphere for a non-maximal de Sitter-Schwarzschild black hole, a simple accelerometer will tell an observer which horizon is which. The reason for this is that in order to hover at the photon sphere the observer must take up a non-inertial local frame with a directional bias decided by the direction of the BH event horizon. In the maximal de Sitter-Schwarzschild spacetime the BH singularity disappears and the observer will not be able to tell the difference between the two horizons as there is an automorphism of that spacetime which will map one horizon to the other. 

The invariant mass of a multi-particle system (in a galaxy the 'particles' being stars, etc.) can come (in part, or even in whole for systems of massless particles) from the kinetic energy of its constituent particles. The relativistic picture of gravity (i.e. general relativity) is a bit more complicated, but it is clear that in a multi-particle system (in its rest frame) the kinetic energy of individual particles contributes to the gravitational "force" in the form of the components representing pressure in the stress-energy tensor. How the total kinetic energy of a system, which is not at rest, contributes to its gravitational attraction is a more complicated question, particularly as for a body's total kinetic energy to have a gravitational effect it must be travelling at relativistic speeds, which means we have to depart from Newtonian approximations (such as gravitational force). However it is not entirely wrong to say that the total kinetic energy of a body does contribute to its gravitational attraction. Despite this, contributions to the gravitational attraction from the kinetic energy can be discounted as alternative explanation to dark matter for galactic rotation curves mainly because: 1) The centre of momentum frame of the galaxy is the correct frame to consider the contribution of kinetic energy, not its possible velocity relative to some other far away galaxies. Besides which the peculiar velocities of galaxies are very small compared to c. 2) Though the velocity of particles within the galaxy relative to the centre of momentum frame does contribute to the gravitational attraction, there just isn't enough mass moving at fast enough speed within the galaxy for the contribution to be more than negligible. 

MACHOs (massive compact halo objects) are thought to make up a portion of the dark mass and portion of these are thought to be black holes, but there are several very solid reasons why black holes not generally seen as a serious alternative explanation to non-baryonic dark matter: 1) Observed elemental abundances are not consistent with the amount of baryonic matter being produced in the early Universe to explain the dark mass 2) Microlensing searches for MACHOs of the size of black holes formed by stellar evolution rules them out as making a significant amount of dark matter in the Milky Way. 3) Black holes are observable through accretion. For black holes to make a significant amount of dark matter they would have to be in isolated locations within the galaxy so as not to be visible. However most dark matter must be distributed evenly throughout the Milk Way to explain the rotation curve. 

Mercury's surface was virtually unknown until Mariner 10 flew by and Venus is covered in clouds. Of the terrestrial planets, that leaves Mars. It was likely Christiaan Huygens in November 1659 who first realised Mars was rotating when he tried to map it. His estimate of roughly 24 hours was fairly close. I believe Galileo's earlier observations on Jupiter were with a telescope not powerful enough to resolve smaller 'surface' features (like the Great Red Spot), which may have either proven that Jupiter rotates, or at least that something on the surface is moving across it. 

Honestly, I hadn't heard the term 'zero age main sequence' until this question came along. The Wikipedia page you linked mentions the zero age term and provides a link to an explanation. Zero Age Main Sequence refers more to a specific point in a star's life. When determining the age of a star, astronomers will sometimes start counting from when it joins the main sequence (so it would be 'zero years old' when it does so). Before this time in this case, the object would be considered a protostar. 

When it was 5700km from Earth, the Rosetta spacecraft was misidentified briefly as an asteroid as it flew by Earth for a gravity assist. I cannot find any more information on other spacecraft observed without radio from further away (I'm happy to be corrected!). If landers count; as mentioned in the comments, spacecraft orbiting Mars have observed their lander brethren on the surface. 

I don't know what could cause Upsilon Scorpii to appear red as it is not noted as being a highly variable star. It's spectral type is B2, which implies it would be blue/white in colour. If you know the spectral type of a star, which many stellar databases will note, you can work out its colour from this. 

The Andromeda Galaxy's angular size is about 178x63 arc-minutes and the Moon is about 31 arc-minutes wide. Relatively speaking, the Andromeda Galaxy's apparent size is nearly 6x2 Moons. So from the photo, their relative sizes in the sky appears to be very roughly accurate. The galaxy appears to have been superimposed from another image just to show what the galaxy might look like in the sky if it were brighter. 

Neutron stars do indeed shine and some like this one have been observed in visible light. Like white dwarf stars, if they were scaled up to be the size of the Sun, they would outshine the Sun and most other stars in the galaxy. It is only their small size that make them hard to observe. As for neutrinos, it seems they do too. This link might help explain neutrino activity in / from neutron stars further. 

My understanding is that there is a gravitationally stable region between the Sun and Mercury where asteroids could - in theory - orbit for long periods without being perturbed. However these hypothetical vulcanoids are seemingly non-existent; it being likely that their orbits decay through other means besides the influence of a planet, such as the Yarkovsky effect. We also have trojan asteroids, which share the orbits of planets such as Jupiter but spend their time in the leading and trailing Lagrange Points, keeping their orbits stable. If a Hot Jupiter such as 51 Pegasi b were to host trojan asteroids, would their proximity to the planet allow their orbits to remain stable for longer, or would their orbits decay regardless? If a Hot Jupiter migrated inwards towards its star, is it more likely to have swept away any possible trojans? 

The Universe is remarkably homogeneous, i.e. the same everywhere, and isotropic, i.e. the same in every direction (NB homogeneity does not imply isotropy and there are toy cosmological models which are homogeneous but not isotropic) and this is the underlying physical assumption of big bang cosmology. When modelling the Universe the simplification of it being 100% homogeneous and isotropic is most often used as because on the very largest scale (i.e. the scale of the observable Universe) this is very close to being true and any deviations from this are small enough that they do not effect most of the properties being studied. In 100% homogeneous and isotropic Universe, expansion takes place at all places and at all scales. However we know that the Universe is not 100% homogeneous and isotropic, especially on a smaller scale; for example the centre of a star is a very different place from intergalactic space. It is a fair question then to ask in view of this how does expansion manifest itself on smaller scales. We know that in gravitationally bound systems such as our local group (which includes Andromeda) matter has the tendency to be drawn closer by gravity rather than to move away as objects do in an expanding Universe, so it seems our local group is not expanding. Still, it is very tempting to see expansion on this scale as being like a small repulsive force which acts against gravity, but is not strong enough to overcome gravity. So in this sense even the local group would be expanding However the view of expansion acting like a small repulsive force on a small scale is not necessarily the right view. A counterexample would be the Einstein-Strauss Swiss-cheese model where expansion only takes place in deep space and not in the space around stars (modeled as vacuoles). The Einstein-Strauss model though cannot be taken as the last word on the subject as the way it models stars in space is not that realistic. Overall then how expansion manifests itself on a smaller scale is still very much an open question and we just don't know what tiny corrections if any it would make on the dynamics of a very small system such as the solar system. 

I assume you mean is $\frac{dv}{dt}$ the same for all objects and/or is it constant for all objects, where $v$ is recessional velocity (and $t$ is cosmic time)? The answer is no it is not the same for all objects and it is not constant for all objects. $$v=\frac{dD}{dt}=H(t)D$$ Where $D$ is proper distance and $H(t)$ is the Hubble parameter. If we take the Hubble parameter as a constant, then: $$D = D_0e^{Ht}$$ Where $D_0$ is the proper distance at the present time. So, $$D''(t) = \frac{dv}{dt} = D_0H^2e^{Ht}$$ So the "recessional acceleration" of an object depends on its present proper distance and is exponentially increasing with time. Now the Hubble parameter isn't a constant and in LCDM cosmology is currently asymptotically decreasing to a constant. In the current epoch though it is fair to say that the "recessional acceleration" of an object depends on its proper distance and is increasing with time. 

It seems Walter Baade and Fritz Zwicky may have coined the term in 1934 (see here) and the name stuck around. I've known some astronomers to label them 'stellar remnants' for the reason you gave; they are not stars in the sense they do not produce energy via nuclear fusion, and that they are not made entirely of neutrons as the name would suggest. They seem to be called stars for lack of another layman's term (from our point of view on Earth, not all neutron stars are pulsars), and that they still share some characteristics of stars: they emit their own light, they have masses greater than the Sun and can even have planets orbiting them. 

Some of this might stray into WorldBuilding StackExchange territory, and 'when' will be tough to approximate as galactic rotation and stars going through different phases of their lives can make constellations and reference points obsolete with time. As StephenG mentioned, pulsars, owing to their (usually) unchanging and detectable rotation periods, can be used as reference points. The plaques attached to Pioneer 10 and 11 provide the solar system's location relative to nearby pulsars. Pulsar coordinates were also added to the Voyager Golden Album too. The alternative would be to adopt relatively fixed locations on your 'local' celestial sphere and determine your position relative to them, and therefore where your destination is. This assumes you know where your destination is relative to your reference points. The galactic core's location, the direction of galactic rotation, the Magellanic Clouds or other extra-galactic sources could be your reference points. They would hardly be accurate but if you are attempting a Voyager-esque journey through the Milky Way, it's a start. 

Mercury's surface was not mapped up-close until Mariner 10 passed by in 1974. This was followed by MESSENGER in 2008. I have seen several attempts of mapping Mars that came before space exploration, such as Schiaparelli's maps from 1877. With regards to Mercury, were there any documented attempts to map its surface with ground-based observations prior to unmanned space exploration? If so, however unlikely, did any observed features from Earth match up with Mariner or MESSENGER close-ups? 

To terraform Mars, broadly speaking would make it more like an analogy of Earth. As you say, it might be a little colder, but we would expect a terraformed Mars to have oceans, snow and maybe some imported plant life. How would Mars look from Earth? A good starting point would be to see it the opposite way around. Here is how Earth looks from Mars. Like Earth from a distance, a terraformed Mars would likely appear as a pale blue or white dot. If you want more snow or ice than water, it would surely lean towards white rather than a deep blue. 

I believe the two biggest things that determine whether or not a ring system forms into a moon depends on are the parent planet's Roche Limit and whether or not there are other moons that can disrupt the ring. The roche limit of a planet is how close a large body can orbit the planet without being torn apart by the planet's gravitational pull. The article I've referenced can show how this is calculated. Small moons like Jupiter's Metis can orbit within the roche limit as they are so small, the difference between the tidal forces acting on their near and far sides is not large enough to tug the moon apart. The presence of other moons - or in the case of stellar disks, other planets - will play a large role. Like this article explains about our asteroid belt, the gravitational perturbations of Jupiter prevented a planet forming between it and Mars. Smaller bodies cannot easily gather together when a beast like Jupiter swings by to scatter them all! This also means though that most asteroids within the belt are confined between Mars and Jupiter. Around Saturn's F ring, there are two small moons that slow down / speed up debris within the ring so that it remains gathered in a small space. This does keep rings and disks stable, but it also stops larger bodies forming. Long story short; if the disk if far enough away from its parent, and nothing else large is orbiting nearby, you should get a moon / planet. If it's too close to the parent and being shepherded by another large body, it's more likely to remain a stable disk.