Focus on the part of the candidate's background that is relevant to the job you are offering. If the candidate is fully qualified for the current position, then it shouldn't matter what she/he did in a past career. You can express interest, but it shouldn't distract you from the business of interviewing for the current position. That said, if the past career seems like something the candidate wants to do as soon as there is an opening, then you may sense that he/she will leave soon. That's something to dig in and attempt to determine. I'm in Software QA. When I have a candidate that was a Developer, but wants to be in QA now, I need to determine if this is indeed a permanent career shift, or just a thought of "I'll do QA until a Developer position comes along". I ask a lot of questions to try and discern for myself which is the case. I've also interviewed a candidate for a Development position who prominently had Acting on his resume. I hired him after I determined that the acting was now a hobby, and that aspirations of a full-time acting career were safely in the past. 

At least in my part of the world, there are very few professional, salaried positions where 35 hours per week (or even 39 hours per week) is the norm. And while many jobs have some flexibility regarding the starting and ending time of those hours, many professional positions expect a higher level of commitment. In France, it may be different. 

While I don't think it's a huge deal either way, I think the answer is generally "no" - don't using mailto formatting in your CV. If the reviewer is looking at your CV online, they almost certainly know how to email you without requiring a mailto link. And if the reviewer is reading your CV after it has been printed, the formatting may get in the way. 

Yes. The W4 just determines how much should be withheld from each paycheck for taxes. It won't matter for 2016, but might for 2017. For 2016, the employer already withheld at some rate, which you can determine from your pay stubs or from your W2 when you get it. If too much was withheld, you'll get a refund. If too little was withheld, you'll owe some taxes. (This has nothing to do with an I9 form.) 

Since you have no immediate interest in jumping to a new company, in my opinion it doesn't make sense to send your CV. While it's unlikely to be career suicide, you have correctly pointed out that there are a few potential pitfalls, with regard to word getting back to your current company. But in addition to that, how do you expect your CEO buddy and his Directors to react when you have taken up their time, but then say "I would like to stay at my company as long as possible"? I know that I would feel I was lied to, or at a minimum that I was being played. I think it would be far better if you were up front with your buddy the CEO. Instead of sending your CV, why don't you just say "I'm really not at a point in my life where I would consider moving to a new company, and I have no intention of leaving anytime in the near future. But I'd still love to have a chat with your Directors, if you think it would be appropriate, as your company does sound very interesting." That way, you might still get a chance to talk with them, but they won't feel odd when you just end things at that point. I've done this sort of thing in the past. For me it helped grow my network of connections. 

I'll assume that your feelings are correct, and that these are truly the only alternatives. In this case, then clearly you should approach HR first. Explain the situation from your point of view, but be aware that HR seldom likes to meddle in the affairs of departments themselves. You can always resign later if you determine that the situation will remain intolerable from your point of view. I would have offered other possibilities, but you are closest to the situation, and have decided that these are the only two. 

Certainly you suspect it will won't look great, or you wouldn't have posted this question. And you are right - short-term jobs always raise a red flag. As a hiring manager, I want to hire people for the long haul so that I can invest in them professionally. Whenever I review a resume, I look for job duration in prior jobs. If I see jobs of less than two or three years, I wonder why. 

Yes. A reference check is usually a conversation. During that conversation, either party can ask or say anything they like. When I have provided references for former co-workers, I end up knowing a lot about their potential new employer. They always tell me the position that will be filled by the applicant. 

That's hard to tell. You need to discuss your request with the person who could grant it. If that's the GM, then schedule the meeting with the GM. At the end of the meeting ask if you should inform the EM, or if the GM will. 

The truth is pretty much always the best explanation. Sometimes it won't prevent folks from forming an impression of you that you would rather avoid. But that impression can fade with time as long as you avoid similar gaffes. Usually self-deprecation told with a laugh is very easily forgiven. 

Probably not. Most likely thee two events - your hiring and your manager's moving to a different department have absolutely no connection. While it's a bit awkward for you (you now have a boss whom you haven't yet met), it's probably not much different than if your boss had transferred a year down the road. It might even be better. You'll just have to wait to find out. 

That isn't a definition of "home" that most people would use. Perhaps the time zone differences wouldn't matter, and you would always have a reliable internet connection. 

It is a missed opportunity to network with peers and colleagues. You can learn a lot from such lunches, understand your coworkers and the company culture, learn what is going on with others, and also have an enjoyable meal. That said, it's your choice to decide if the value you can gain from these lunches is worth the cost (in both time and money). Some prefer to eat alone due to cost, diet, or preferring to do other things during your lunch time such as returning calls or taking a quick walk. Others value having lunches with co-workers for social, networking, or learning reasons. And other folks mix and match - eating alone some days, and joining the crowd other days. If you haven't tried having lunch with your co-workers, you should go at least once. That way you can judge the value of being there with them and weigh it against your other options. 

That may be a reasonable definition, or may not, but more important would be the definition your employer uses. 

Since the application in question requires that you fill in the field with a single value, you must enter 3.3. You can explain why 3.3 doesn't adequately convey your abilities in a cover letter and during your interviews. In your resume you can put anything you like. Some folks with less than stellar GPAs like to include only their "major GPA". If you take that route, make sure it's properly labeled. You could choose to include "GPA discounting all the bad grades you got from your old engineering major", but that would be rather awkward to explain in a resume and might come across as misleading. If, as you have expressed, a potential employer will judge you strongly on your GPA, then you simply need to be prepared to explain your 3.3 and your college experiences as best you can. Emphasize what you learned about yourself when you changed majors and how your later years showed vast improvement. Most companies relying that much on GPA will want to look at your transcript and will understand what you are saying. 

You can say that you are disappointed in the offer. And you can explain that this will leave you with a net decrease in salary, and that you would hope they could adjust the offer to at a minimum make you whole. If I were the manager, this would be a powerful argument. Go into the discussion with a clear idea of what you want, what you are willing to settle for, and what you will do if you don't get it. You don't want to react emotionally, or without having thought the consequences through. You can accept their final offer, refuse the offer, or (I suppose) quit on the spot. Each of these options has consequences. Accepting their final offer might give you less salary than you hoped, but you could always try to find a more lucrative job elsewhere and then leave. Refusing the offer could retain your current salary. But it might mean that you won't be offered a promotion at this company again. Quitting on the spot might make you feel better, but then you have no job and might be in financial difficulty if you can't find a new one quickly. 

It is restrictive. That's the whole point of NDAs - to be restrictive. From what you have written, you can list the fact that you were employed by this company, without writing anything about the size of the company. If company size is as easy to discern as yo indicate, then anyone who is interested can find it, without your need to include the number on your resume. I think you have misread the statement - but consult your attorney for a legal opinion, if it's important to you. 

Always deliver disappointing information in person (or in this case by phone), then follow up with email. Call HR. A simple "Thank you for the offer, but I've decided to stay at my current company." would suffice. They may ask why, and you can decide if you want to go into details or not. Then follow up with a thank you email. Since you have already accepted their offer, and are now reneging on your promise to join them, it's unlikely that you can avoid burning bridges here. These things happen, perhaps this employer won't hold this against you. Just respond professionally and promptly and hope for the best. 

If you are talking to someone you manage, you are making a big mistake if you are not being honest about both the good and the bad of her/his work. How will this person know, if someone doesn't tell him/her? [edited to add an answer to the latest question revision] 

Nobody here can really know why - it's just guessing. Most likely they thought you were a good candidate and worth X, but may not yet have decided if you are actually worth Y. Perhaps they are having a difficult time internally justifying Y. Sometimes that means they had budgeted only X, or that Y is outside their typical salary range. 

Ask your manager for a quick private discussion. Explain why you feel that you were supposed to get a promotion. If you have any written documentation or emails to that effect, bring them. Then, ask why you haven't yet been promoted and when you might now expect one. Discuss enough so that you understand the answer. If it's something you are doing that you should change, work hard to change it. If it's something that you haven't done that you should, then do it. If something in the business environment has changed such that your promotion is no longer viable, then you might need to resign yourself to the fact that you won't be promoted. Recently, you indicated in another post that you don't have enough work and that you have a new manager. Perhaps the facts are all related? Perhaps your new manager wasn't the one who indicated you were "supposed to get a promotion"? 

You owe your boss your best estimate, along with the reasoning behind it. Your boss probably assumes that you can speed up subsequent steps due to what you learned in your earlier steps. Often, that's a reasonable assumption. But if you spend another day on it, you can report back how much more of the code base has been covered. And if you still decide you need a lot more time, you should give your boss your best estimate to cover the entirety. If your boss decides that you have less time, ask if there is a way to prioritize the code base so that you can cover the most "important" parts in your limited time. Sometimes end dates are driven by business needs - it happens. We have to learn to do the best we can with whatever we are given. And if your boss decides to abandon the project due to insufficient time to do the work at hand, that's something you'll just have to live with. It happens all the time. You still did valuable work (perhaps work that can be completed at some future date, perhaps by someone else).