It's not bad for you but it's not optimal either. It's not bad for you to drink this much and go workout instantly after, but it takes some time for your body to actually absorb all of the water and hydrate your body. You're better off drinking this amounf of water up to 30 minutes before working out. During the workout drink little sips of water to keep you hydrated throughout the workout. 

I would suggest doing heavy compound movements like deadlifting, squatting and bench pressing. Preferably doing sets of no more than 5 reps. You can even build up to 1-3 reps on extra heavy sets. Add isolation exercises to each muscle group and do higher reps on these, 8 to 12 reps per set. You could also add some cardio but this isn't necessary so if you enjoy cardio go for it, if you don't, don't. As for food, I would suggest finding out what ammount of calories you need to maintain what you already have. I'd go for a diet high in protein to build muscle. If you eat to many carbs you might find it hard to lose the excess fat, even though that is very personal (I personally don't gain fat on a high carb diet but I know a lot of people that do). 

I would suggest you skip the DVDs and get the StrongLifts app. It's a beginners strength program and the app makes it super easy to follow. If you're just switching to strength training I'm certain you'll see some really nice gains the coming months. Should you also want to keep your metcon up while using SL, then just throw in the odd Tabata workouts. Five minutes of intensive interval sprints will be more than enough. 

Generally it's much easier to, for example, skip eating a banana than to go out jogging for fifteen minutes. Personally I feel it's even more so when your caloric deficiency is more than 500 kcal per day. This is all just anecdotal, so I'd try it out myself if I were you. But for myself I'd just do some heavy lifting to maintain muscle and then cut the bulk of the calories at the intake instead. 

Great question! Especially coming before actually having had bail out (that's the terminology) of a squat. I'm guessing you're back squatting. When failing to stand up during a rep you'll at least have some power left to slow the weight down on the way back down. Use this opportunity and don't hesitate. Release your hands, sit up so the moves backwards, and jump forward. All on one fluid motion. That should give you plenty of room for the bar to fall to the ground while securing yourself. Be sure to check that the bar doesn't keep rolling away and over someone else. With a front squat, make sure your elbows are clear of the knees and simply lean forward, sort of just letting the bar drop to the ground. If you have bumper plates and are in a gym that can tolerate it, I'd suggest actually practicing bailing a couple of times. When lifting heavy enough you will eventually have to bail out and then you'll be happy you can do so instinctively. 

The form makes your arms stretch further than when doing normal curls. This makes it so that the curl starts from a dead hang at the bottom, which makes it harder. 

It's not optimal, but you'll do just fine for an amateur/hobbyist. The reason it's not optimal is you would want a maximum of 48 hours of rest in between working the same muscle group. I'm guessing you're doing bodypart splits? In that case there will be a lot more than 48 hours in between the workouts of the same muscle groups (up to a week probably). Doing a push and pull split with these trainingdays will probably work best, you should give it a go! 

You can do a lot at home though, as you said. You could look into resistance bands. They can help getting a better posture a lot. It's important to first find out what's currently "wrong" with your posture, and then find exercises accordingly. If your shoulders are rotated forward, push-ups will only make this worse, because it will strengthen the front of your upper body, and overpower the back. Another important fact is that, a lot of possible posture "malfunctions" to call it that, are found in how you place your feet, how you move/rotate your hips, and if your core if strong enough, so keep in mind that, even though the top of your body might look like there is something wrong with your posture, the problem might be found in your hips for example. 

Interesting challenge! I have no experience with deadlifting for disabled, so take this for what it is – pure speculation. Judging by the video though, it looks just fine. Maybe in the lockout she's struggling a bit with her right side but from what I can tell it's due to the strap being a centimeter or two too long. I wouldn't worry too much about this injuring your spine or shoulder. One risk could be that it slides off mid-lift. But with a proper harness I'm sure you could fix that too. Just be mindful, with or without two arms, should it start hurting. I'd look for something strapped around your torso. Two way and maybe connected to a belt? As long as the attachment point is where your arm would be it should mimic the motion. Don't know of any such harnesses though and I couldn't find anything when googling. Hope that helps a little! 

Sweating is your body's way of cooling down and it has nothing to do with burning calories. If you wanted to measure that you'd look for how much and hard you're panting – that's the fat oxidising away. The amount of sweat can very a lot from person to person and not sweating during a workout is of course okay but I'd question if you'd really gone as hard as you could have. 

This is purely genetics. The only thing you can do is develop your chest to make it show more, but you cannot change the shape itself. 

I never had any injuries to my wrists in any sport, but I started to pick up cycling again (about 2 days a week) and when I go on for over an hour my wrists start hurting. I used to do cycling when I was younger (competition, training about 6 days a week), I also used to do rides of over 4 hours, maxing out at about 6 hours I think. I never had this problem before, yet now I already start feeling it after an hour. Are there general tips to prevent this? 

Just to be clear, bodybuilding is a sport of patience. You won't achieve your goals in 1, 2 or even 6 months. That being said, if I'm reading your question correctly, you're already doing sets of 25. In this case, you're better off increasing the weight, rather than the amount of reps or sets. If you can't increase weight for some reason, you can try different variations of bicep curls, as well as concentrating on the negative part of the movement. Try some sets going up in 1 second, and down in 3 or 4 seconds. You'll find out it will get increasingly harder to do. 

It will, up to a point. If you can only do 5-10 straight reps before having to break then it's still heavy enough to build decent muscle for you. Once you can do around fifteen or more in a row, however, it'll start to become decreasingly effective. 

I was in the same situation a year or so after starting working out. It just plateaued. Though I will say it's easy to think your progress has stalled, when in fact you just don't measure it. Get a caliper for your body fat, measure tape for circumferences, a scale for bodyweight, weekly photos and record that. The biggest bang for your buck is in your diet. If you haven't given it a lot of thought before you will see incredible results after cleaning it up. There's many, many ways to go about it and you'll have zealots for every one of them, proclaiming their superiority. However, they all work because they force you to control your intake and be conscious about what you eat. My recommendation would be to eat lots and lots of veggies (biggest portion of your plate) and make sure you get around 2 gram of protein per kilo bodyweight (whether that's from legumes, nuts, grains, meat or egg – that's up to you). Measure the food! Put it in a food log like MyFitnessPal. That's the only way you will know your intake and you should not skip this step. Next is exercise. If you can't squat twice your bodyweight I would switch to a beginners strength program with linear progression. My personal favorite is StrongLifts but some people like Starting Strength too. The important part here is the built-in progressional load – it keeps pushing you to lift heavier and heavier, thus helping you break through plateaus. Add in 5-10 minutes of intense Tabata as often as you feel you can still progress. Sprints, rower, skipping rope, etc. Go as hard as you can for 20 seconds and then slower for 10. Rinse and repeat. 

I'm sorry to break it to you but there isn't such a thing as losing fat in a specific area. If you want to lose fat, you'll have to lose fat all over your body. I would suggest doing heavy compound lifts (squats, deadlifts) combined with some cardio. You will also need to work on your diet. You stated that you think it might be because of "lots of food and no exercise". Try to find out how many calories you need in a day and don't eat more than that if you want to lose some fat. Also, a small tip; doing ab exercises won't do as much for buring fat, as one might think. This is because you need to burn calories, and ab exercises don't burn a whole lot of it. 

The reason is that to maintain some form of muscle you need to feed your body. A person with a proper nutritional diet will have abs. If you feed your body properly while maintaining a low bodyfat percentage, your abs will be visible. People in famine don't have enough nutritions, so their body starts to burn anything to stay alive, including muscle tissue. Because of this they still have abs, but they aren't defined enough to notice. 

You are mixing two assertions. One is that many pushups doesn't require a lot of strength and another is that it doesn't build strength. The first is false but the second is kind of true. The stronger you are, the easier it gets and thus the more you can manage. If you can bench press 100 kg then it'll be very easy to rep out with just a 20 kg bar. However, if you're 1RM is 30 kg then you'll struggle going beyond 4-5 repetitions. A high-repetition scheme does build some strength but is far inferior to low-rep/high-resistance in that regard: 

You will burn pretty much the same amount of calories running 1 kilometer really fast, as lightly jogging the same distance. When it comes to movement the distance is what decides how much energy you'll burn. Running the 1 km will, however, be much faster than the light jog. If you only have half an hour to train you'll be able to squeeze more kilometers into that session if you move faster – thus burning more calories. You might tire more quickly when going too fast, forcing you to rest and netting you less distance in the end of the session, than if you'd paced yourself. It sounds bad but this intensive training will increase you aerobic capacity over time and enabling you to go longer and faster as time goes by. This will let you burn more calories over the long term. Short term – go only as fast as you can maintain movement throughout the whole training session. Long term – mix it up with high intensity interval training to increase your aerobic capacity.