One has to make a distinction between army, as in the Continental Army directly answerable to the Continental Congress, and militia, with far less military training and discipline. The Continental Army was generally equipped with the standard military smoothbore musket using a round ball smaller than the bore, designed for fast reload, and to be fired in volleys. Accuracy was terrible with smoothbore muskets: no rifling and the loose fitting bullet tended to rattle around as it moved down the barrel. The idea was to take a unit and turn it into a giant shotgun by firing volleys on command, letting random chance do the rest. For the most part, the Continential Army, or any formal army of that time, couldn't target enemy officers, because their muskets did not have the accuracy to reliably hit an individual at even 50 yards. Whether the policy of not targeting officers was a gentleman's agreement, or just a byproduct of the inaccuracy of available weapons, would make for an interesting debate. The colonial militia were another matter - most were untrained, many were unarmed volunteers, and those that were armed, were equipped with whatever they had, a 'shoot what you brung' affair. Armed militiamen often were woodsmen, already equipped with a Kentucky Rifle, a lightweight firearm expressly designed for accuracy (and expressly designed to be used in dense forests, but that's another story). These could reliably hit a person at up to 100 yards. Did the militiamen deliberately target officers? The closest I could find was this account of Tim Murphy (maybe) shooting General Simon Frasier, after Daniel Morgan had told his men to deliberately target Frasier. The loss of Frasier contributed greatly to the defeat of the British in that battle - an event that was to be mirrored in US civil war when Sgt ER Grace killed General John Sedgwick at the Battle of Spotsylvania Courthouse (at a range of over 800 yards, using a Whitworth Rifle), leading to the defeat of the Union forces. It should be noted that Morgan's unit was technically part of the Continental Army, but was formed from local, self equipped militia, and had a high number of long range rifles as opposed to smoothbore muskets. So it is not unreasonable to theorize that Morgan and his troops were not disciplined soldiers, and Morgan's orders to target Frasier were a matter of personal initiative and not formal policy promulgated by army leadership. Also, officers of that day tended to stand out, as they wore more elaborate uniforms than enlisted men, and usually were on horseback. By standing out, they make themselves tempting targets for a marksman at a distance. The militia and individual sharpshooters were already using the unconventional tactic of firing from cover at great distance, using the increased accuracy to make up for lack of numbers. Selecting the most obvious target would be a natural extension of targeting individual soldiers at great (for the time) distance, so it is quite possible that a lot of British officers were shot by marksmen simply because they were the most visible target. Still, I can find no reference that the formal Continental Army deliberately targeted British officers as a matter of policy. In a twist, a British officer, Col Patrick Ferguson (of Ferguson Rifle fame), did not shoot General George Washington, when he had an opportunity to do so at the Battle of Brandywine - Ferguson did not want to shoot a gentleman in the back. The term 'sniper' was not really in use at that time. Back then, the correct term was 'sharpshooter' or 'marksman', as in a person who possessed above average shooting skills, typically using a rifle of above average accuracy. 

Several factors came into play in the UK, that led to it pioneering modern industrial methods. Three that stand out are: The invention of the steam engine was probably the greatest single factor. This was the first form of human generated power, that could be used anywhere power was needed, and could be scaled up. Animal power, the horse and ox, could be used anywhere, but it couldn't be scaled up. Water power could be scaled up, just build a bigger water wheel, but could only be used where water was running downhill. Wind power was unreliable. Without reliable, scalable power, industrial factories cannot be operated. The steam engine was invented, and refined, in the UK, and gave it a huge head start. To a degree, religious discrimination played a role, specifically those people who refused to swear allegiance to the Church of England. They were referred to as dissenters, and had a number of their civil rights taken away. However, they were not forbidden to engage in commerce, an activity considered 'beneath' the landed Anglican gentry, so they gravitated towards northern England to escape the persecution, where the operation of whiskey distilleries led to a study of heat transfer that was to make the early steam engines more efficient, raw ores to make the metals needed for industrial equipment were widely available, and the interference from their dissenter status was minimal. And finally, England being an island, it was necessity to make more efficient use of what they had, as transportation costs of raw materials from continental Europe to the UK were not cheap, plus disruption of such supplies from the almost constant state of warfare that Europe was in, at that time. The origins of the Industrial Revolution in the UK can be found in the need to work with what they had on hand. 

Japan built several of the I-400 class submarines, two of which, I-400 and I-401, were operational in early 1945. These enormous submarines had a 37,500 nautical mile range, over three times the range of a Gato submarine, so one can presume that crew stores would be present to keep the crew functional for a voyage of several months. There seems little point in building that sort of range into a submarine if the crew can't last as long as the fuel. However, by the time the I-400's were operational, the war situation had changed to where the planned attacks on the Panama canal, Los Angeles, Washington DC and NYC were no longer considered to be practical. 

Another way castles hoped to outlast a besieging force, certainly in medieval times, was disease and general hardship. The castle provided cover from the elements and a steady supply of cached food plus some basic sanitation (cesspits), while the besieging force lived off of the land, with minimal cover for foot soldiers. Consequently, the forces surrounding the castle were more prone to disease and the effects of inclement weather. Once the besieging army had stripped nearby farms of all available food, they would have to devote more people to foraging further to stay resupplied. And in preindustrial times, humans were more prone to fatal diseases from exposure to the elements than they are today. One of Napolean's methods for success was a sophisticated supply system to keep his armies fed and supplied while on the march, making them less dependent upon foraging for food. 

First, consider that the N American continent wasn't as heavily populated as central and S America at that time, with the N American tribes being largely nomadic hunter/gatherers while the central and S American tribes had more advanced and established civilizations that were on the order of the early Egyptian societies, capable of supporting a larger population. N America has a wider range of natural resources useful to industry: iron, copper, etc..., but those require industrial methods to obtain and refine, so it was more conducive to the industrialized Europeans, as was the temperate climate. Central America was hot, and S America tended to alternate between rain forests and and temperate with very craggy topography, not ideal for industrial activity. The rising industrialization also drew a lot of European immigrants during the late 1800's and early 1900's. Almost none went to central and S America. It's not so much that fewer native Americans survived in N America, more that the Europeans heavily populated N America due to industrial growth. This reduced the percentage dramatically, not the overall number of natives, while central and S America didn't see near the population explosion, because the conditions there weren't conducive to industrial development. As for the idea that the Spanish and Portugese were somehow 'kinder', that ignores the African slave trade. Central and S America were rich in one resource: gold and silver. This may be one reason the central and S American nations flourished: gold and silver are easy metals to refine and work with, well within the capability of pre-industrial societies. A primary reason both metals became the first forms of currency. And it was the gold and silver mines that consumed the vast majority of Africans in the Atlantic slave trade. Destination of the ten million Africans taken to the American continent: Portuguese America 38.5% British America (minus North America) 18.4% Spanish Empire 17.5% French Americas 13.6% British North America 6.45% Dutch West Indies 2.0% Danish West Indies 0.3% The N Americans of African descent have increased in percentage, to around 11% of the total population. The former British colonies of Jamaica and Haiti are currently populated by people largely of African descent. In both cases, most of the slaves survived and lived long lives. Yet, in the former Spanish and Portugese colonies, the percentage of people of African descent today is quite low, despite the fact that over 70% of the 10 million Africans brought to the American continent went there. Why? Because most of them were dead within a year, victims of the harsh conditions in the mines, and the very hot and humid climate where the gold and silver were located. The Spanish and Portuguese had calculated that a slave only had to live one year to return the expense of their slavery. This also accounts for why the vast majority of Africans were taken to Portuguese and Spanish territories: the death rate was so high. That is an act of genocide, in the five to six million death range, for which the Spanish and Portuguese have never been held accountable. So the idea that the Catholic faith protected people, doesn't hold up when all relevant factors are considered. 

Like all things political, you can get just about anything if you're well connected or very wealthy. In the case of nazi Germany, the key was a document called an Aryan Certificate, which was your 'get out of concentration camps free' card. A few very well connected Jews were able to get these, including Milch. With that certificate, they were no longer Jews, but proper Aryans. 

They weren't slow to adopt radar. My father was battalion commander of the USAAF Signal Corp unit (largely radar operations) in China during the war, and related that the US Army had begun to establish radar units as early as 1939, not too long after the British had their early radar units operational. Given that bombs weren't falling on the US, while they were falling on Britain, and that (at least at that time) the US considered itself relatively immune from air attack due to the distance involved, the US didn't have as pressing a reason to fully implement radar in 1940. The adoption in the absence of an immediate threat was surprisingly speedy for the normally conservative US Army. Ironically, it was Japan who was slow to adopt radar, much to their detriment later in the war. To fully understand how Pearl Harbor happened, you must consider not just the events, but the context in which they happened, the mindset of the decision makers and military leaders in 1941. What the US was slow to do, is believe was that anyone could mount a major air attack on US territory in 1941. That is why the radar operators on Hawaii thought the incoming aircraft were US - it wasn't possible for Japan to mount an air attack of that scale from 3000 miles away. One or two unidentified planes might have raised an alarm... Japan did send some individual long range flying boats on nuisance raids to Pearl later on, operating from islands or ship tenders. But a large formation? The US was the only country that could fly a large formation near Hawaii... or so the military leadership thought. No military had ever operated a large group of aircraft over that distance. Not until that day. The US did think that Japan might attack some of their remote bases in the Philippines or elsewhere, which is why the carriers were gone on Dec 7 - they were delivering aircraft to Wake Island. But Pearl? Too far away. It is also important to consider just how risky that attack was for Japan. They committed most of their carrier force to an attack on a well armed opponent, with no friendly bases or support within over 2000 miles, meaning that damaged ships would have been lost, and the fleet could be subject to counterattack for the two weeks it would take to return to Japan after the raid. If the US had detected the fleet and ascertained their intentions, the Japanese fleet could have run into nine battleships, three carriers, and numerous smaller combat ships in mid ocean, and suffered great losses that Japan didn't have the industrial capacity to replace quickly. This was another reason that military minds in the US didn't consider a naval air attack on Pearl Harbor seriously - it was too risky for an island nation that depended upon it's navy for all military capability, to undertake. That could have gone very badly for Japan. The Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor was unprecedented in scope and audacity. They took a huge risk, and the fortunes of war smiled on them... briefly. This was not a matter of not adopting radar. It was a matter of not believing what the radar told them, and not believing it for good reason - most nations would not have done something that risky. A mindset parallel can be found in the 9/11 attacks. Prior to that, no one would have seriously thought that an attack of that cruelty, and on that scale, could be mounted by a terrorist group.