How much taxes were taken depended upon which year and which Act. There were many different acts by the British Parliament which taxed Colonial America in many ways not all quantifiable. Yes the British took tax revenue, or sometimes in conjunction with an act they prohibited a colonial industry in order to curtail competition with a native British Industry (aka the wool and steel acts). Or sometimes they would simple impose a monopoly for one British company over existing companies as a royal favor(1773 Tea Act). Some acts would require all ships coming in and out of the colonies to have at least half British Crews, or most goods to be transported on English ships (1651 Navigation Act). Or an Act which said British Troops could be Quartered and Fed in personal homes at personal expense. Such bills cost Colonial Americans money in the form of increased costs, and increased savings to the realm but could not necessarily be measured in revenue to the crown. The below bullet items are taken directly from the following primary sources: British Colonial Trade Regulations, 1651-1764 History of British Acts & Taxation in the Colonies 

On France widely believed to be stronger army than Germany in Sept 1939 In the Battle of France, France had a larger, more experienced and arguable better equipped army than did Nazi Germany. French Army's Perceived Advantages over the German Army in 1939 

I said religion waged it's war for supremacy of ideas with science into the 20th century. It was in the twentieth century when religion took a back seat with respect to science in certain narrow fields of study. It was in the 20th century when distinction was made between faith and reason in this conflict, arguable for the first time for the majority of people. Hell in the 18th century religions were still burning heretics at the stake. In the 19th century scientists like Darwin were still being branded heretics and christians broadly being forbidden to discuss, or learn of them. In the 20th century people were still being prosecuted by secular courts for violating secular laws enforcing the supremacy of the bible over science. 

The term I think you are looking for is Republic. Today we like to mix the terms Republic and Democracy. The founding fathers of the United States were very clear on the differences. The founding fathers didn't agree on much, but they all agreed they were creating a Republic and did not trust Democracies. A democracy killed Socrates. They were very concerned with a democracy's ability to protect the rights of a minorities from the tyranny of the majority. Concerns that the people would be influenced to act against their best interests, or those of their fellow citizens by smooth talking charlatans. That is why they created a constitutional republic, with a bill of rights and never intended to create a democracy. After the French revolution, and the mob inspired blood baths which followed. The popularly supported murdering sprees, the founding fathers believed they were wise to fear unchecked popular mandates from the people. That's why originally senators were appointed by state governments, and Presidents were voted on by senators, and only the House of Representatives with it's short terms in office were entrusted to the majority vote. It's also however why the house of representatives was entrusted with the power of the purse, the right to tax, the right to write the budget. The first popular vote for President was recorded in 1824, and that was also the first of five Presidential elections where the winner of the popular vote failed to win the election. John Quincy Adams became President in 1824 and not the winner of the popular vote Andrew Jackson. (*)In truth the founding fathers were very concerned with any abuse of power of a federal government. 

Given Amerigo Vespucci was merely an invited guest, observer of the patron of these passages. The expedition he accompanied was even informed of the existence of Brazil from the previous Pedro Alvares Cabral expedition which did not have the opportunity to explore due to a tragedy. Today scholars believe he didn't even identify the land as a new continent as had been believed in his time. Is this honor given to Amerigo Vespucci a mistake, an intentional snub of Columbus, or does it have merit? Sources:. Timeline of European colonization of North America Wiki: Amerigo Vespucci Wiki: Americas Santo Domingo Pedro Alvares Cabral 

Because communist Tito in the 1950's wasn't aligned with the Soviet Union. By 1951 he was receiving US economic and military aid. By 1953 he was tacitly aligned with NATO(1953). Threat of imminent Soviet invasion moved him from proSoviet to nonaligned, and that manifested itself as being pro western from time to time. 

Actually the South had the better trained army at the beginning of the war. This was very apparent in the first major battle of the war (First Battle of Bull Run) when the South held fast and the Union fled back to Washington dc in total disarray. General Mcclellan who picked up the peaces of the Union Army after Bull Run is not treated kindly in history; but one thing he is given credit for is rebuilding the army of the Potomac after that catastrophe. The Union's advantages at the onset of the war were economic, production, and population. They did not have an advantage in officers or training of the standing army. Why did the Confederacy think they would win easily.. At first Bluster, but after Bull Run they had reason to believe the war would be a quick one. Many people believe Confederacy lost the Civil war at the battle of first Bull Run. The Union Troops were in a panicked unorganized flight back to DC. General Joe Johnston the confederate general in charge of the battle had used 1 army corps to defeat the Union that day. He had an entire army corps in reserve. The confederacy lost the civil war when Joe Johnston decided not to pursue the union troops into the nearly undefended capitol and capture the union leadership. Stonewall Jackson wounded at Bull Run in the hand is said to have walked the camp seeking 200 men to follow him into Washington. He believed he could have ended the war with just 200 men (taken the Whitehouse ). I don't know about that, but with an entire Army Corps behind him, many believe the south could have won the entire war, in the very first major battle. This is a premise I first heard put forward by Col John Mosby, chief scout for General JEB Stuart in his autobiography. Col Mosby, an enlisted man at the beginning of the war, was at Bull Run that day, one of the second army Corps who weren't used. 

Suggesting Galileo's ideas were not suppressed by religious authorities is not a plausible line of discussion. Threatening to burn you at the stake and sequestering you for nearly a decade is in and of itself suppression. Further threatening to execute everyone who possess, discusses or defends your book is further suppression. The fact entire books of Galileo's are still unknown to us is further proof of scientific suppression. Trying to draw some odd distinction between the scientist and the science is also frankly absurd. The entire reason the scientist was threatened was because of his ideas, his science. It was the science they were after. 

Short Answer: While their was no blanket push to saddle the South with the Unions war debt; that could be an interpretation of what happened. The CSA debt/burden was larger than the Unions, and mostly held by southerners was not assumed by the North. The Unions debt, largely held by northerners took more than 30 years to entirely repay and the South re-incorporated in the Union did pay a proportion of that debt as part of the newly reunified United States. Long Answer: To give your buddy the benefit of the doubt. The Union did refuse to assist the Confederate States with their war debt. The Union further refused to pay reparations for slaves freed. Also of coarse the Union refused to cover any of the former CSA's war debt all of which were significant hits to the former Confederate States and the citizens in those states who financed the insurection. Furthermore as the former confederate states were reincorporated into the Union, they did participate in paying for the Unions debt, as it took 30+ years for the Union to pay down their debt and all that time former Confederate states were contributing to the federal income. So while I would say your buddy was mostly wrong, I could see how such a claim might be justified. While it's arguable not accurate, what is accurate is the citizens of the insurrection states who financed succession paid a huge financial burden. War Debt was the political football which the North and South kicked around for years following the Civil war. I think your friend was mistaken about the Union saddling the south with it's war debt suggesting the northern States didn't share in the burden. In the years following the Civil war the South was bankrupt. It's industry and farms were unserviceable and their credit was depleted. Making the South pay unilaterally for the Norths debt would have been the same as defaulting. It was not an option. The Union was much more concerned with the "repudiation crisis" / scenario. below based on Repudiation! The Crisis of United States Civil War Debt, 1865-1870 In the Constitution slaves counted for 3/5ths a person for the purposes of representatives in congress. When the Union passed the 14th amendment the fear was they had just handed the South a huge increase in congressional votes. Which according to the fear of the day could be used by the south to (1) cause the Union to default on it's war debt. or (2) make the Union assume the confederate war debt. This fear and what occurred in the name of that fear is called the "Repudiation Crisis of 1865". Both the North and South had significant war debt. The Unions debt had raised from $65 million dollars in 1860 to 2.7 Billion in June of 1865. debt per capita had increased from $2.06 in 1860 to $75.01 in 1865. The South had even more debt. Individual Confederate States owed 67 million dollars. The CSA owed about 1.4 billion. Compensation for freed slaves in 1860 amounted towards 1.7 billion, ( which the Union feared might be the price of peace). The North feared since there was no Constitutional amendment which said the US couldn't repudiate it's debt, the South would try to make the Union default as the CSA had defaulted. Union debt was mostly held by Northern Investors. To make matters worse the Secretary of Treasury Simon Chase, thinking the war would be a short war, had the majority of the Unions debt in short term vehicles which needed to be paid or refinanced. Refinancing that debt would require congressional approval. In 1868 there was a further Repayment Crisis (The Ohio Idea) over whether Union Debt should be paid in greenbacks or gold. The US had gone off the gold standard during the Civil war, and issued script called the greenback. After the war the greenback was trading below gold values. So paying the debt in devalued script was a mini repudiation strategy proposed by several Southern sympathizers including then President Andrew Johnson. Hence the 14th amendment to the Constitution which took effect in 1868 contained a section on civil war debt. 

This is a really good question. The interview in question was compiled from a WPA effort during Roosevelt's new deal, The Federal Writers' Project (1935-1939). The super set, "Slave Narrative Collection" was a combination of this federal effort and the follow-up state sponsored effort which came after (1939-1942). The WPA idea was to send out writers / interviewers paid for by the federal government to both employ writers in worth while make work projects during the Great Depression and to document these important historic stories for future generations. The Slave Narrative Collections were meant to document the views, experiences and opinions of surviving former slavers then 7 decades after the conclusion of the civil war and emancipation before these now very old folks, were all gone. 

I would like to bring up a few pertinent pieces of information which haven't been discussed yet. It shouldn't be just a Japanese / German comparison. There were three great powers in the Axis.. Japan, Germany and Italy. (1) Japan Attacked the United States at Pearl Harbor not Germany or Italy. Most Americans took that much more personally than did the United States Government at the time. Today we think of industrialized Germany as the more existential threat and perhaps it was. As the United States government sided with the British Government and agreed to fight the War in Europe first. But most Americans in 1942 thought of Japan as the real enemy. Japan had attacked the US first in a sneak attack without a declaration of war. We were in the war because of Japan, not Germany or Italy. It was Japan's fanaticism which inspired the most fear/concern/hatred among the American public during WWII. It is a modern contrivance which benefits from 20/20 hind site, that we think of Germany as the Primary enemy, that's not how the American public felt during the war. (2) After the Attack on Pearl Harbor it had been three Japanese American who aided a captured Japanese flyer (Shigenori Nishikaichi) to escape captivity. This was also covered widely in the press and placed into question the loyalty of all ethnic Japanese over American nationalism. The Niihau incident. When you think of most of the Pacific fleet being destroyed at Pearl harbor and many Americans fearing an invasion of Hawaii or even California, the sizable Japanese American populations seemed like a more legitimate concern given both the sneak attack and then the aid given to the Japanese flyer by previously unaquanted Japanese American citizens. (3) When the United States entered WWI there was great fear of German 5th columnists. In 1916 the German Foreign Minister (Arthur Zimmerman) threatened the American Ambassador to Germany (James Gerald). That Germany had a half million Germans in the United States which would rise up with pro-German Irish and overthrow the US government if the US entered the war. To which the US Ambassador responded that the US had half a million lamp posts to hang those German revolutionaries from. Still this was a very serious concern during WWI. The US entered WWI in April 6th 1917 and no significant mass fifth column ever materialized. So when WWII occurred, German American patriotism was another generation embedded, had already been tested, and wasn't nearly as scary to the American public as Japanese fanaticism. There were so many Germans and Italians in the United States most Americans were much better aquatinted with them and their patriotism. 

If that seems comical to you it is not. These far fetched war plans serve a real purpose. The United States Military is a large complex bureaucracy. To effectively wield such a monstrosity takes practice. What practice means is the United States has war planners write a lot of plans nobody ever expects to use. Those plans are then critiqued, discussed, graded, and revised. That is how inexperienced peace time war planners become experienced planners. Today these interwar plans are known as the Color-Coded war plans. After WWI the United States military developed 150 various war plans. To highlight how absurd the plans were, not just because the relatively small US Army in the interwar periods were keeping such extensive plans.. but that they did not keep their plans updated for the most likely antagonist, the power with whom they had just fought WWI. Germany. 

Dates for the French Revolution: Jul 14, 1789 – Nov 9, 1799 "Non-Curing priests". Pre-Revolutionary France was just about 100% Catholic. The Catholic Church owned sizable lands and wealth inside France. When they drafted the French Constitution, it "reorganized" the Catholic Church. Property was seized and sold with the state keeping the profits, clergy were made employees of the state, priests and bishops were to be elected by the people not appointed by Rome, The Pope refused to "approve" of this new Constitution. So the French legislature demanded all clergy in france had to swear a loyalty pledge to the New Constitution. Those that did not where referred to as "Non-Curing priests". In August of 1792, while the french revolution was ongoing. The French Legislative Authority (The Constituent Assembly) told priests who had not taken an oath of loyalty to this French Constitution, to leave within 14 days or face deportation to French Guyana.