I have been going to the gym for almost 3 months now, focusing on gaining size. I have been going 5 nights per week (Sunday, Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday) and have noticed good gains, especially in my arms, chest, back and legs. I have gained roughly 4kg, bringing me to 70kg (154 pounds). I haven't made major changes to what I eat, though I have been making the effort to have breakfast every day (previously didn't) and have invested heavily in high quality proteins such as Utilmate ISO Mass Xtreme Gainer. With that said, I do get at least a large serving of vegetables per day and don't eat anything obviously bad (like fast food, chips, chocolates, etc). I also haven't done much cardio, because from what I've read or heard that will reduce my gains. I'm putting all that I can into my goal which is to get quite big and then next year this time shred down. I want to go as far as I possibly can to gain quickly and effectively, so I've thought about going to the gym twice per day now. What I have realized though is I don't know what I should do in the mornings; whether it's some type of pure strength building workouts (like cross-fit style aimed purely at getting stronger), cardio and core, or just more weight lifting. The latter seems most appealing for my goal, but I'm not confident that lifting weights twice per day will be beneficial. I'm also finding it hard to include a morning weight session in my weekly routine without getting the feeling that I'm just going to wear myself out for that night, or the next day. Pure strength training sounds more appealing because I figure that will lead to me being able to lift heavier and thus gain more quickly, but I'm not sure if that's how that works either. A lot of the strength training stuff also seems quite cardio heavy and again I don't want to take away from my gains. Is it worthwhile going to the gym twice per day, or even just going in the morning two or three times per week? If so, what can I do there to best compliment my goal of getting big? I was also wondering if I could even just do cardio and core (to get abs as well) without affecting my gains too much, considering I will still be doing those weight sessions as per current 5 times each week. 

I've read a lot about size gains vs strength gains, where the difference is substantial and where size is certainly not linear to strength. 

I've read about / been told / agree with the fact that my workout should not be exceeding around 1 hour, however most of my workouts approach the 90 mins - 2 hour mark because I work out with a partner. When done solo, I can finish all of my workouts in under an hour 15. What does the 1 hour recommendation actually cover? Is that one hour of total weightlifting time, one hour of weight lifting inclusive of the minimum rest between sets, or just one hour total regardless of time spent waiting for my partner to finish his sets, waiting for equipment to be vacant, etc? If the final point is valid, does that mean that me and my friend should work out how to finish both of our workouts in under 75 minutes or so, maybe by using separate equipment? My goal is maximum size / mass gains. 

I love using a boxing bag. Before I got serious about hitting the gym and putting on size, I used my bag up to two times per day for 30-60 minutes each session. I was very strong even without lifting any weights at all, and had very defined arms, traps, back and core. With that said, I would not consider any of those muscles as being anything close to 'big' at the time. When I began weight training to gain size, I read a lot about the impact of cardio when trying to put on size. Because of this, I stopped using my bag altogether. I have noticed that since then (about 5-6 months ago) my stamina and overall fitness has degraded severely. My strength and size however have of course skyrocketed. I want to start using a bag again, but I am concerned about reducing my gains. I am not sure whether the boxing bag will restrict my gains to the same degree as say cycling or running, but I am much more interested in size gains than my fitness at this stage. I have compared running to boxing and to me it seems like if anything it may even assist with size gains, because of all the muscle groups used. I do still consider boxing as cardio though, which is why I've stopped doing it. How will my gains be affected if I start using a boxing bag frequently? Will how I use the bag impact on the results? For example, can I hit much harder and less frequently to reduce the impact on my gains vs a more agile and fast-paced heavy bag workout? 

Or if I'm going to find it impossible to get past this type of level unless I find a way to get active during the day too: 

I've been going to the gym 5 days per week rarely missing a day for the last 4 months now, with the aim to put on as much muscle mass as possible. Until about 3 weeks ago I have been able to increase the weight I have been able lift across all workouts except for squats, which I am still stuck on at a tiny 20kg. I have noticed reasonable gains mostly in my quads, chest, triceps and back. I've noticed now that I haven't been able to increase my weights, and have on some days even had to reduce the weight I am lifting compared to a weight I could lift perfectly fine the previous session. For example, when I started I was able to do 3 sets of 10 reps of bicep curls using the cable machine at only 14kg and about 3-4 weeks ago was able to do the same volume on 24-26kg, which was exciting. The last 2-3 weeks however I have been struggling, even having to drop to 19-21kg for the last set. I have noticed the same problem across most of my muscle groups including legs, back and chest. Understandably this is a little discouraging but I'm not sure if it's common to feel like I'm falling behind for a couple of weeks and then I'll jump back and start gaining again or if I am doing something wrong. 

Getting plenty of sleep is really important for putting on size - something I am very aware of. Unfortunately, various circumstances lead to me not being able to get to the gym until about 9:30PM at night. I work out for about an hour to an hour and a half depending on the day, and then begin a journey home which takes about 1 hour. I need to wake up the next morning at 6:30AM for work. Taking in to account up to an additional hour of overflow (time it takes to fall asleep, have a quick shower before I get to bed etc), this leaves me about 5-6 hours for actual sleep. Obviously this is not great company for weight training. Is there anything I can do to maximise my gains with restricted sleep? 

I do heavy weight lifting 5 times per week, and when I think back over all the times I have taken discs off the machines, carried them around to other machines, put them on the ground and so on, I have always used my right arm. Should I be concerned about losing a balance between the strength in my right and left side if I continue to transport equipment using only one arm? Or will the actual workouts maintain that? I've been trying to make a habit of alternating my arms but it's surprisingly easy to forget about it once you've gotten into the workout. I do feel as though my right side is slightly stronger than my left, but so far I have assumed this is natural because I am right handed. 

But I am very skeptical of having two large muscle groups (chest and back) on the same day. I have always been under the impression that recovery doesn't yield good results if you hit multiple large areas. I did previously train biceps and triceps on the same day with better results than I am currently experiencing, but my current routine overall is working better. Would this change have better results than my current routine? What are some pros and cons of what I am doing now vs the proposed routine? I've touched on some material talking about lactic acid moving around in a beneficial way during your workout if you alternate chest and back sets, but I'm not sure what is true and what's not. 

I have been taking my strength seriously the last 4 months and managed to get my deadlift from 55kg to 117.5kg. I have also ditched wrist straps and use alternating grip as it allows me to actually lift that weight with my tiny hands. I noticed that I always use underhand grip in my left and and overhand in my right hand. I tried a couple of repetitions the other way around and it felt really uncomfortable, and now I am concerned that I may have developed a muscle imbalance. I am not 100% sure if this is the case and I should force myself to alternate between the two hand positions, or whether this is just natural (like with writing) and such a small thing isn't actually something I should be concerned about. 

I've read a lot lately that if I want to build a lot of strength and start thinking seriously about putting on some size that I should use squats as a core workout. I'm only 65kg (143 pounds) and have never really done any weight training. I do however use my boxing bag every night for about half an hour and do a handful of exercises using my own body weight such as pushups / handstands / plenty of core work. I've given squats a go but I am having two problems: 

This is my current weekly routine below. For all workouts I do 3 sets of 10. Some workouts (marked with an asterisk) I increase my weight each set and often fail on the 8th or 9th rep of the last set. All workouts are listed in the order in which I complete them. Sunday: Legs 

On Thursdays I work on my chest and triceps. This is probably my favourite workout day, except for the final component which is flat, incline and then decline flys. My current Thursday looks like this: 

I find it really hard to believe that you have a meagre 15 minutes each day to exercise. If that is the case, you should take a serious look at moving around your schedule to allow more time, at least half an hour to 40 minutes. Stay up later, prepare meals in advance to reduce time spent cooking, etc. Before I explain some things that I do without equipment, I'd like to try persuade you into purchasing one great piece of equipment that I have used successfully to strengthen myself overall before I started going to a gym - a boxing bag. These are very cheap and in my experience one of the best pieces of equipment you can get to strengthen yourself overall in short sessions. It's also very fun. With a boxing bag, you can break 15 minutes down however you like for interval training. For a beginner, I would suggest 90 second rounds with a 1 minute break. This should give you 6 rounds total. As you advance you could move up to 3 minute rounds with a 30 second break. I found the boxing bag really worked my back, triceps, biceps, chest, traps and core. It also has a huge impact on your stamina and balance. Depending on your skill level, you can use a variety of punches and stances to further increase the results. For legs, you can unhook the bag and squat or sprint with it. As for workouts that I do without a bag, here are a few: 

I have a couple of muscle groups that I consider to be 'falling behind', or that I simply want to get bigger as quickly as possible regardless of sacrifices I have to make to training other areas. The best example of this for me is probably my shoulders, which are what I would consider to be out of proportion to my biceps and especially triceps now. What is the correct way to hit one or two muscle groups that you want to 'catch up' or simply want to have larger as quickly as possible? I'm not sure whether the right way to do this is to try and get an extra few hours sleep on shoulders day, try force myself to eat more that day, reduce reps and try up my weights, do more reps, throw in an extra workout on that day, work the group an extra one or two times during the week and remove another muscle group, etc. For all I know it means only working on that group only once per week on its own day at a really high intensity (like 5 workouts, 4 sets to failure). 

To help with the balance issue I have been using dumbbells in each hand (I find this significantly easier than a barbell on my shoulders). As for the latter issue though, I'm not sure if this is quite common and I should try stretching my ankles a few times a day until they bend forward further or if I'm doing something completely wrong. Did anyone else have this problem when starting out? How should I take care of it? 

Is this type of training effective, or should I just stick to one thing at a time (like weekly rotation between strength vs size)? I seem to be breaking past a lot of plateaus in terms of the weight I was able to lift, but I am starting to think I may have slowed my size gains down. 

As I said this was working well for me up until now - I think I heard somewhere that as you move away from being a beginner in weight training you need to reduce the amount of times per week you spend on each muscle group and increase intensity. Maybe that's where I'm going wrong (looking at the above I'm doing quite a lot for each group except legs and back). Another thing I've thought I might be doing wrong is 3x10 for every workout. I'm guessing some of the bigger workouts like bench press I could come down to 8 reps and try to go a little heavier. I've looked at routines like 5x5 Stronglifts but they seem to be more for absolute beginners looking to gain some initial strength before serious weight lifting for muscle gain. Maybe it's just time to change my routine entirely, but then I'm not sure what constitutes 'change' - whether I can just swap the days around and add another set or whether I need new workouts entirely. Maybe I should even just try changing up the order I do things in, I'm not sure. If there are any noticeably poor decisions I'm making then please let me know. Admittedly I didn't delve too deeply into articles or books about weight training and kind of just structured the above based on what I noticed was producing decent enough gains and what groups I could do next to each other without conflicts (i.e. I tried back day next to arms and my biceps were getting destroyed). I have a feeling there's too much happening but again I'm not even close to being an expert so I have no idea. Should I try 4 sets of 8? Should I stop going as heavy as I possibly can and just sit on a weight I can comfortably finish all my reps without failing on? Maybe I should try supersetting on different groups like arms? Any advice that can push me over the line of being a beginner to an intermediate weight lifter is greatly appreciated. 

Lately I've been trying out 2 sets for size and 2 sets for strength. So for example for barbell curls I might do this: 

As you can see, there's a lot going on. And to top it off, I train with a friend which makes this workout my longest one averaging at just over 2 hours. Another thing is that flys just aren't that enjoyable compared to the rest of the workout. Is it necessary to do this many variations of flys each chest day? I am seeing good shaping + size but I feel like that's coming naturally from press rather than all the flys I am doing. Would I see little to no difference if I rotated between flat, incline and decline flys each chest day and only did 1 perhaps?