Footnote: 1. The old joke: A Baptist minister once warned young people against sex because it leads to dancing. 

According to this theory, variations in moral systems come not from using different principles (everyone uses these five to some degree or other), but from the weight assigned to the principles. For instance, Christianity diverged from Judaism by reducing the value of 3, 4, and 5 and increasing the value of 1 and 2. Eating pork (a violation of 5) is allowed since it may allow us to treat others more equally (an affirmation of 2). See Acts 10 and this passage in particular: 

So at least two great Western philosophers believe that happiness is the cause of every human action. Aristotle's argument, which is quite thorough, seems difficult to refute. Are there alternative theories about how people are motivated? 

The principle of reciprocity can be seen in all human cultures, but the key breakdown occurs with the word "others". It can be imagined, for instance, that slaves fall outside the requirement to be treated as we want to be treated because they aren't really people. We find that idea repugnant, but if we could grant that premise, the principle of reciprocity need not apply to slaves. One area of study that may be helpful to you is Moral Foundations Theory, developed by Jonathan Haidt, which suggests these universal principles: 

Taking the above quote from Wikipedia, it would seem that the idea of a Semantic Web might be traced back to Aristotle himself. Broadly speaking, Aristotle believed that meaning can be found in the world around us in contrast to Plato, who believed that real meaning cannot be accessed directly from observation. The idea Berners-Lee endorses is that given enough data (and the Web has plenty of that), an automated algorithm might be developed that can make intelligent inference about human activity. It can, in a sense, distill meaning from the chaos. But the project also seems aware that people can give the Web a helping hand when it comes to producing meaning. The Web Ontology Language (OWL) provides tools for authors to establish axioms about their data. But I should be quick to point out that the word ontology has a different, but related, meaning in computer science than it does in philosophy. In fact the more I examine the subject, the more I think the philosophical terms owe more to the field of computer science than to philosophy as a more general discipline. 

So the general idea of humanity pulling itself to some transcended state seems to be a common thread, but whether the result is still human seems to be at issue. If I've got the order of coinage correct, all posthumanists owe their philosophical heritage to transhumanism, but not the other way around. 

My assumption has always been that modern science concerns itself mostly with first three causes and that the final cause is considered out of bounds. Apparently Francis Bacon put both formal and final causes into the metaphysical realm: 

When I was taught about Aristotle and Plato, the picture I got was very much like this image from a Raphael fresco: 

The existence of some greater set of forms, which are sensible, that the material world copies, reflects or emulates. (This is Plato's position.) The a priori assumption that nature is sensible. (Aristotle generally took this approach.) 

To put it another way, just because someone uses an argument in the form of a slippery slope does not mean that their argument is invalid or fallacious. It's perfectly possible to construct a slippery slope argument that works and is persuasive: 

In other words, among many other assumptions, the argument assumes that we can trust our empirical observations. If we take the Aristotelian assumption that the world around us is the only reality that exists, then we have no choice in the matter. But a simulation inhabited by human-like beings must contain a reality greater than its own. If we are to know anything about that other reality, we must develop an epistemology of transcendence. Our model ought to be Plato, not Aristotle. Our a priori assumptions must include some way of relating knowledge obtained empirically to knowledge of the transcendent reality. Bostrom, in his reply to Brian Weatherson [PDF], sweeps the issue under the rug; he argues that the simulated human is only likely to be wrong when it comes to the question of whether or not they are simulated and in all other respects are epistemologically competent. But the critical question is not whether the simulated human can have transcendental knowledge, but whether observations about computational power, human psychology, and statistical certainty are transferable from this reality to any potential transcendent reality. I would argue that if they are transferable, they must endure some sort of transformation themselves. If as a species we create a certain ratio of descendants that happen to reside in computer simulations to descendants that live in physical space, it tells us little to nothing about the ratio of descendants our creators have spawned of each type. Any conclusions we draw from this ratio must be tempered by humility. Conclusion As I read the paper, I kept waiting for the punchline. But it never came. Nick Bostrom seems sincere in his belief that the castle in the air that he has constructed is supported by empirical evidence even though our current observations show that no human-like being has ever been simulated on a computer and 100% of the people known to exist are part of the same reality that we inhabit. Therefore, if we are simulated, we have been deceived by someone very powerful and of questionable morality. 

I don't know about Hinduism, but you jumped of the track right off the bat with Islam. Muslims I've talked with believe that Arabic was the pre-Babel language and that it is a gift from Allah. They also pride themselves in knowing or learning Classical Arabic, the dialect of the Qur'an, which is viewed as being identical to the language the Prophet used. Arabic is said to be uniquely expressive so that translations into other languages necessarily diminish its meaning to the reader. There are even theological questions, as I understand, about whether the Qur'an was created or if it always existed. In other words, this entire approach is uncompelling, especially if you don't speak, read and understand Classical Arabic. 

In a word: no. You have it all wrong. That would be like suggesting that every time we take a journey or stay at home, we are taking a stance on the issue of Immaterialism. Or perhaps more to the point, we can reject or accept Immaterialism completely independent of how we chose to spend our time. Accepting it might slightly bias us toward staying at home (I imagine), but we wouldn't be rejecting our ideals by traveling to a distant country. Having struggled with the question of physical reproduction, I would further suggest that anyone who includes Singer's suggestion as a factor in their decision is a fool and deserves their own fate. I don't have any real argument for that, however. 

In context, these aren't an example of a linear argument, but four separate a illustrations of the idea that one who is good at doing one part of an occupation well is also able to other parts well. In fact Socrates introduces the idea with this phrase: 

It's important to understand that many examples of paradox among the various attributes of God were originally formulated to gain understanding of the nature of God rather than to dispute His existence. These struggles were not of a linguistic nature, but as part of broader struggles over the nature of humanity, the existence of free will, the meaning of God's foreknowledge and so on. At times, the arguments took on life or death significance as proponents faced charges of heresy or sacrilegious practice. A paradox such as "May [God] be able to destroy himself?" can often trivially be dismissed by quoting a passage near the place where the paradox was originally formulated. Divorced of context, these arguments may be fun to bat around, but are drained of significance precisely because there are answers that people no longer bother to read. In addition, many examples of theological paradox may be traced to the mathematical concept of infinity, which is anything but a linguistic issue as mathematics provides a notation with which to express these ideas. I'll let Augustine have the final word: 

Clarification: Some answers suggest that the idea is tautological. Aristotle acknowledged the idea immediately after the quote above: 

Seems like Lincoln is still without controversy, but maybe going a little further back we can find an action against a government that is less controversial. In addition, perhaps we can find the germ of Lincoln's justification (and the outrage of those who have opposed his justification) in the words that launched the United State of America as a nation: 

Tangentially, the value of existence over nonexistence is a critical premise in the ontological argument for God. As far as I can see, rejecting the premise is the simplest possible objection to the argument since it completely sidesteps the more difficult problem of whether the argument is itself valid. 

Reading the entire letter (and much of Paul's writing) suggests that he finds the process of, as you call it, "attachment avoiding" can itself become an attachment. His solution is to focus on something of great (or rather of greatest) value instead. That's what's meant by "Christ who is your life"—Paul is suggesting that when you avoid attachment, you must fill the void with something else. Obviously, the specific filler is unique to Christianity. I'm curious to know if there is a non-Christian answer in Western thought and if it suggests an alternate filler for the void or if the void is ever seen as a greater good in Western thought. Perhaps Friedrich Nietzsche or proponents of Nihilism have useful answers here. But as I've said, Western thought doesn't deal much with your question and we must hope someone who knows better comes along.