Most companies have a specific policy about this. Consult HR and ask. If the absences require a doctor's note per HR, then bring it up with this person right away, and require one. If there is a performance issue to the extent that you feel this person must be removed, then clearly you haven't been handling your managerial role in a timely manner. Again, consult HR for guidance and find out if a Performance Plan is in order, or if you should deal with the poor performance some other way. 

Again, not a big deal. For me though, I try to keep all the first-round screens as similar as I can, so I'd tend to require a phone screen unless there was a very convincing, unusual reason to do otherwise. 

You need to either learn to deliver what the boss expects, or find yourself a new job where their sense of quality matches yours. 

You are looking at this the wrong way. Paying you more will keep you employed at the CEO's company and give them more of the demonstrably outstanding work you've done for them over the past year. Last year is done and over with. If you decided to accept a salary that was 2/3 of what you thought you were worth, that was your decision to make and not something you should strive to "make up for" now. That's all over and done with. You don't get a raise for what you did last year. You get a raise for what you will do in the upcoming year. Get your head around this revised way of looking at things, and you'll be able to "Talk in terms of the other person's interest". 

Absolutely not. Playing music over the speakers implies that someone decides what music is best for everyone. I cannot imagine a scenario where everyone would like all of the same music. These days, knowledge workers are used to listening to whatever they like, or having the choice to concentrate on their work and not listen to music at all. I used to work in a retail store. It played music all day long - bad music. And in the holiday season, it played holiday music - ugh! If I had been a knowledge worker at the time, it would have been extremely annoying. That's not something I would wish on anyone. 

Ask the leader of the meeting. In most shops I have seen, nobody cares what you do as long as you speak concisely when it is your turn to talk and listen when it is other folks' turn. In some stand up meetings, they do a "follow-on" for asking questions. If you don't know in your case, ask. 

The policies have already been written - you just don't know them yet. Asking about them now can't change anything. Every company I've ever worked for in this situation has had a company meeting to explain the options/acquisition process, followed by individual documentation explain the pricing, etc. You will have lots of paperwork to sign; paperwork that is probably being crafted now. You can either ask when that will all happen or just wait for it. 

I'm not sure how that's any better. I suppose it might be, assuming it was the truth. I'd wonder why you didn't know any of the technologies for the job. And I'd hope that you would say how you learned them. 

If you really want to stay with your current company, then instead of asking for a raise, you should probably be asking for a promotion. You indicate that you are at the maximum range for your position. Thus, it will be difficult (not impossible, but rather hard) to get much more while still in this position. Most likely, your current employer knows the market rates, and has chosen to set the salary ranges for their positions as they are anyway. Handing them salary range data is unlikely to change that. Learn what the next position up on the career ladder would be for you, and lobby for a promotion to that position. That may be difficult, having been there only 1 year, but at least you will be setting the expectations for the future. In many companies, that's the only way to get a raise that is any more than the standard annual bump which is budgeted into the department. Since you've only been at the company for a year, it would be hard for you to argue "the market values me at a rate 30-50% higher, so I should get a lot more". Unless market conditions have changed dramatically in the past year, for some reason you ended up accepting a job at a rate below what you could have gotten a year ago. Typically, you cannot expect your current employer to make up that difference after a year. For most of us, we could almost always leave and get more money. If you accepted a job at a below market rate, yet it is at the top of the range in your current company, it will be difficult for you to get a lot more without leaving or being promoted. 

Before you start your first job, know that you will be well-served to become a life-long learner. Some think that their life is divided into three parts 

These are both common questions, and while it may be uncomfortable, you do need to be prepared to answer. Declining to answer interview questions is usually a way to miss out on the job. 

No spin about the relocation is necessary. If asked, the answer is simply "I've decided to move to [the new state]". 

That is correct. The company is basically trying to determine ahead of time if they would have trouble actually hiring you (mostly due to visa issues), should they make you an offer. They are trying to avoid last-minute surprises, and are signalling that they don't want to deal with any sponsorship cases. They want to ensure that you are currently authorized to work there, have all the relevant paperwork in place, and could be ready to start working without a lengthy application and approval process that may or may not result in your being able to work. 

Having a small amount of unemployed time after your employer went bankrupt would not be a problem for me, nor would it trouble any hiring managers I know. That sort of thing happens and is completely understandable. You do want to be careful not to stretch that out too many months though. Choosing to collect unemployment until the "ideal" job happened to come along might come across to some potential employers as laziness. You don't want to project that. Taking a job that you know you want to leave as soon as possible would be really bad for many hiring managers (it certainly would be for me). That's usually something I don't recommend. Think hard about what you want. If you want to pursue an MBA in a few years, that's one thing and might make for a good career move. But if you just want to park yourself in the first company that made an offer, yet you plan to leave in a few months, I'd stay away. 

If this is your only quick job exit, then you aren't likely to get labelled as a job hopper. One instance doesn't make a pattern. If this becomes a pattern, then you will be a job hopper. To avoid that label, by definition - don't hop so often or so quickly. 

First, check with your boss to make sure you are interpreting the policy correctly (that your boss must be the one to direct your activities, and that users are not free to work with you directly). Then, ask your boss how you should deal with business users that don't want to follow the policy. Your boss may have other suggestions for how to deal with this, or not. If the last two emails haven't convinced her, it seems unlikely that one more of the same will do the job. Assuming you need to respond to the user's email at all, this time respond politely that you aren't allowed to commit to work without your boss' approval. Explain any details of the process to this user (forms they need to fill out, the "To" email address they should use, any details that should be included in the Subject or Body of the email, etc). Copy both your boss and her boss. Hopefully, that will help. If not, just don't do the work and continue to direct her to your boss. Eventually, if she wants anything done, she'll learn to follow the required process. Why do it this way? Because you have two stakeholders here (your boss and your business user) that both need your attention, and are asking for the opposite action. Your boss already told you that "All requests need to go through my manager", yet the user has refused to go through your manager. As a manager, a large part of my job is finding ways to help my team be successful. Using this approach notifies your manager of what is happening, helps him/her be involved appropriately, and notifies the user that you are escalating the problem accordingly. 

Unless this is a required field, you should skip it. The intent is to see if the expectations are in line. But that really only applies to unknown applicants. This company already knows you and already knows what you are currently making, so you don't need to provide your salary expectation, since the implied amount would be "more than I am making now, and closer to my former bosses salary". They already know both numbers. 

Everyone has the right to badmouth anyone they choose. And nobody is obligated to recommend your services, should they choose not to do so. Unless slanderous or libelous, what someone says about you isn't under your control. That said, if you leave on good terms, they are unlikely to say anything at all. Since you already have a new job, I don't see why you would care. 

Your bug-tracking system may require more (Operating System, version, severity, etc) Then just sit back and hope that someone gets around to fixing it. Remember, that your bug may not be that important in the scheme of things, or that there might be far more important issues to be fixed before they can get to yours. 

Since it is so rare that companies offer private offices these days, any company that does so almost always proudly proclaims it on their "careers" or "company culture" or "about us" page. For example, Fog Creek Software Find the companies within commuting distance to you. Look at their web pages. If they have private offices for everyone - they will probably tell you! Alternatively, if you work with a headhunter, make it clear that this is an important requirement of yours. The good ones know their clients well enough to know if they have private offices, or they can call around to find out if the company offers private offices to some or all employees.