Just reading the reviews from my perspective as a student of Jewish history and religion, I find much to object to, although I don't necessarily disagree with his ultimate conclusion that the Jewish people believed so much that they were a special people, protected by God, that they evolved into one and survived in Houdini-like fashion. From one example in Hertzberg's review, regarding that there is "no evidence" that Jesus was a student of Hillel, struck me as a very uninformed answer. First, the two were 100 years apart. Second, Johnson seems unaware that there was a School of Hillel (Beis Hillel) that continued his teachings and philosophies in the years contemporary with Jesus -- therefore Jesus could have studied (and probably did study) with Beis Hillel. Another criticism is his failure to take notice of the Sephardic Jewish world in Moslem-occupied African and Asian lands, including the Lavant. If true, then that misses a great deal of history including Maimonedes and his great contributions to Jewish thought and philosophy, Nachmanides, and the codification of Jewish Law by Rabbi Joseph Karo. It is unlikely any Jewish history would miss either or the amazing scholarship of Sephardic Jews in the Iberian Peninsula prior to the 1492 expulsion. The reviews also take him to task for relying on secondary sources. I don't consider that a serious problem as he would need mastery of Hebrew, Aramaic, Arabic and Yiddish. Furthermore, to get a real grasp of rabbinic learning and philosophy from primary sources, I believe would take years of study of hundreds of volumes of books -- something most historians choose to forego (and why many historians do poorly when trying to describe Jewish history regarding religious teachings). But all in all, I respect the historians who reviewed his books and their mostly positive conclusions. 

The Torah is read Mondays, Thursdays, and Saturdays; but it is also read on Rosh Hodesh (the first day of the new month), which could come any day of the week. It is also read on festivals and fast days. However, the Torah readings for Mondays and Thursdays are previews of the coming Saturday's full reading. Rosh Hodesh, festivals and fast days have their own Torah readings. A knowledgeable Jew would be able to tell by the specific Torah section that was read whether it was a weekly Torah reading or a special one, the latter of which could occur on Tuesday. Source: E.g. Art Scroll Chumash; Hirtz Chumash; Kitzur Shulchan Aruch; and more. It is quite odd that the cantor, at the beginning of the Torah reading would announce the day (or more likely, have the psalm for the day read). Depending upon tradition, the psalm for the day of the week is read either at the end of the services (common in Ashkenazi synagogues) or close to the beginning of services (more common in Sephardi and Chassidic congregations). There are two readings of the "curses" (aka the "warnings" or the tochacha), one at Leviticus 25:18-53 (within the reading called "Behar"), and Deuteronomy 28:15-68 (within the reading of "Ki Tavo"), each of which are followed by a description of how Israel can avoid or pull itself out from the curses by returning to God. These verses, however, are only read on the Sabbath. In 1940, Behar would have been read on May 18th. Ki Tavo would have been read on Sept. 21, 1940, or Sept. 2, 1939 (assuming that the filming was done earlier than the film's release). Having not heard the recording or seen the film, I cannot verify any of this. I do think it unlikely that the Torah reader would call out the day of the week before the Torah reading. And I would think it fitting, but unlikely, that the Germans would just happen to bring their cameras when the tochacha was read on the Sabbath. If the whole thing was staged, and the director just asked them to read the Torah, then the selection of that reading would have been perfect. 

At Iwo Jima, Okinawa, and other island bases of the Japanese forces, the Japanese created a network of deep tunnels and bunkers that made US attempts to evict Japanese forces extremely difficult, time consuming and expensive in terms of loss of lives. Based on these experiences, U.S. military planners anticipated that the human cost of invading Japan would be severe. See Giangreco, D.M., "Casualty Projections for the U.S. Invasion of Japan, 1945-1946: Planning and Policy Implications," Journal of Military History, 61 (July 1997), pp. 521-582, at pp. 534-35. Given that MacArthur planned an amphibious assault against the Japanese homeland at Kyushu, an obvious choice that the Japanese expected, did the Japanese create defense positions similar to those at Iwo Jima at Kyushu, and if so, when did they begin work how much progress had they made on these defenses by the time the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima? 

In December 1971, Pakistan and India were at war over what would become Bangladesh. President Nixon ordered Task Force 74, led by the nuclear-powered aircraft carrier USS Enterprise (CVN 65) and supplemented by a marine contingent on the amphibious assault ship USS Tripoli (LPH 10). On scene, reportedly, was the British carrier HMS Eagle, the commando ship Albion, and their escorts. To hear some sources from India and Russia today, it would appear that the United States and Soviet naval task forces came very close to a nuclear confrontation. Russian sources cite a television interview of former Admiral Vladimir Kruglyakov, who commanded the Soviet task group, who said he had orders to stop the American fleet from interfering with India's operations. Kruglyakov's task group left Vladivostok on December 3, 1971, and consisted of a variety of platforms for coordinated anti-carrier operations and self-protection. It included a Kynda anti-ship missile cruiser, a conventionally-powered anti-ship missile submarine (possibly of the J-class), an anti-aircraft missile destroyer, and a F-class attack submarine already in the Indian Ocean. According to U.S. sources, the Enterprise left its station off the coast of Vietnam on December 10, 1971, headed for the Indian Ocean, pausing a day for its supply ship to reload. U.S. sources state that the task force had two missions: to assist with the evacuation of non-combatant foreigners and, if necessary, "to insure the protection of U.S. interests in the area." Besides the Enterprise and Tripoli, Task Force 74 included three guided missile anti-aircraft escorts, four Gearing class destroyers, and a nuclear-powered attack submarine. According to Adm. Kruglyakov, he surfaced his submarines to show the US Navy that they were there, and then "we encircled them and aimed the missiles at the ‘Enterprise’. We had blocked their way and didn’t allow them to head anywhere, neither to Karachi, nor to Chittagong or Dhaka.” Adm. Kruglyakov claimed also that the Soviets had intercepted American communications where "[T]he commander of the Carrier Battle Group was then the counter-admiral Dimon Gordon. He sent the report to the 7th American Fleet Commander: ‘Sir, we are too late. There are Russian nuclear submarines here, and a big collection of battleships’." Note that the US Navy has no "counter-admirals" and there was no Admiral named "Dimon Gordon." Moreover, the US Navy might refer to "warships" but not "battleships" because neither navy had any in active duty. According to a study by the Center for Naval Analysis, the events the Soviet Admiral described did not happen during the war. Because of the long-distances, the American task force did not arrive on station in the Indian Ocean until after foreign nationals had left and just one day before the Pakistanis surrendered. Adm. Kruglyakov's task group, however, arrived three days after Enterprise and was not in position to block the task force from entering the Bay of Bengal if it wanted to. The British fleet, by that point, had already left the scene. Some of the Soviet warships did seek out the Enterprise, according to the CNA study. Otherwise, all American sources I've read say nothing really about any Soviet naval threat. So is Admiral Kruglyakov speaking the truth? Was there nearly a major naval confrontation as there almost was when the Soviets deployed four victor class attack submarines in response to the mining of Haiphong Harbor? Or is this just a legend carried on for propaganda purposes? 

According to historian Lorenz M. Lüthi, one of the defining events of the Cold War, the Sino-Soviet split (1960 to 1989) was principally fueled by Mao's interpretation of Communist ideology and his appraisal that Moscow was not sufficiently radical. In 1969, a border war between the two countries had the threat of going nuclear, leading to a warning from President Nixon to Moscow that a nuclear attack on China could lead to world war. Andrew Osborn and Peter Foster, 13 May 2010, "USSR planned nuclear attack on China in 1969", Telegraph UK. A united Soviet bloc was certainaly not in the interests of the United States, and it can be deemed that Nixon ultimately took advantage of the split to open relations with China. But the result suggests a question: Did the U.S. help foster and exploit the conflict between Beijing and Moscow from the outset? Did overt U.S. policies lead Mao to lose trust in Moscow? Have any covert U.S. activities been revealed that may have had that result? 

Bei Bei Shuai was charged under a state law similar to one passed in 37 other states and a Federal law signed by President George W. Bush, codified at 18 U.S.C. § 1841, that makes it a crime to cause the death of fetus. Exceptions are provided for legal abortions, medical treatments, and so on. Although seen as an anti-abortion bill, the legislation would have the more primary impact of permitting a charge of two counts of murder when an assailant kills a pregnant woman. Did the drafters of the law intend to prevent a woman from causing the death of her child by killing herself? I think if you would have asked the Congressmen who voted for the bill, they would mostly say "yes." Their goal was to save the lives of babies, no matter what. So, I think that this is not a good case for you to say that the U.S. justice system has lost sight of intent. The Courts, actually, very much focus on the intent behind the language of a statute or the Constitution. As the legal reference book, Corpus Juris Secundum (CJS) says in its chapter on Constitutional law: 

Are there any records from the Constitutional Convention that establish why the District of Columbia was denied voting representation in the Senate and the House? Was there even any expression of concern that in DC there would be taxation without representation? 

Norris at 8. What the decision-makers knew or believed was a bit different. According to Ray S. Cline, President Kennedy was told that the United States “had at least a four-to-one advantage in ICBMs and perhaps an eight-to-one superiority in nuclear weapons capability if our powerful bomber aircraft force of that era were entered into the equation. Ray S. Cline, “Nuclear War Seemed Remote," Washington Post, February 5, 1989, p. D7. In contrast, Khrushchev believed that the US had a 17-1 ratio in nuclear fire-power. General Anatoli I. Gribkov and General William Y. Smith, Operation Anadyr: U.S. and Soviet Generals Recount the Cuban Missile Crisis (Chicago: edition q, inc.: 1994), pp. 10-11. Tapes of Executive Committe meetings in the White House reveal that "no one in the ExComm focused on the fact that the Soviets were far behind in the strategic arms race and might well be acting [in Cuba], in part, to narrow that gap or to stop it from getting worse." Bernstein, p.2. According to Bernstein's analysis of the tapes, perhaps because a U.S. first-strike could destroy a very high number of Soviet land-based ICBMs, and make any retaliatory strike unlikely, there was usually a "heady and profoundly unrealistic sense that the crisis could be well-managed: Serious mistakes would not occur, organizations dould not make dangerous errors, and crucial orders would not be misunderstood or violated." Bernstein at 3. Moreover, the Executive Committee's failure to try to understand the Soviet's motivation could have caused the US to push local units too hard, leading to an accidental use of nuclear weapons. Norris points out that this almost happened on October 27, when a communications intelligence officer of a Soviet Foxtrot submarine, unable to communicate with Moscow, “’became furious’ and ordered the nuclear torpedo to be assembled for battle readiness,” roaring ‘We’re going to blast them now! We will die, but we will sink them all -- we will not disgrace our Navy.” Fellow officers eventually calmed Captain Savitskiy down and the submarine surfaced. Norris at p 43, citing William Burr and Thomas S. Blanton, eds., The Submarines of October: U.S. and Soviet Naval Encounters During the Cuban Missile Crisis, National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 75, October 31, 2002, $URL$ Svetlana Savranskaya, “New Sources on the Role of Soviet Submarines in the Cuban Missile Crisis, Journal of Strategic Studies, Vol. 28, No. 2 (2005), p. 246.