You'll also need to know the manufacturer, so that the shifters will be compatible. Most likely it's Shimano, or SRAM. It should be written somewhere on the shift levers. 

You don't have to replace it with the exact same rim. Your wheel doesn't appear to be anything exotic, so anything with the same diameter (700/622 bsd) and the same number of spokes (20?) should be compatible. You'll also probably want to look for something that is about the same width, although you can make small changes to this depending on your needs and availability. 

You can get map files that work on Garmin devices (I haven't tried with Edge) from this site. You can select predefined areas (countries, provinces) of the world you want, or create custom selections of just your area. They generate a map of your desired area and send you an email when its ready so you can download it. 

Parts are more easily available. If you need a replacement tube, your local bike store is almost guaranteed to have one. With 24 inch tires, they will probably have one, but it depends on the store. Same goes for things like tires. Just about everything on the "urban" bike looks non-standard and would be difficult to find replacements for. When you have a commuter bike, it's nice to have something that can be fixed by the next day. Speed. There is internal gearing on the hub and it doesn't mention the ratios. But if it's the one I'm thinking it has ratios of 1:1 and 1:1.37. Which won't give you much speed especially with the size of the wheel and the small chain ring. While speed isn't essential it's nice to be able to get up to a good speed without a really high cadence. Also, bigger wheels coast a lot better so you'll be able to keep moving without as much effort. Ability To Upgrade. Both the bikes you linked to are pretty low end bikes. But the fixie has the advantage that it can be upgraded later if you want to. It would be easy to put better wheels on there, upgrade the brakes, better tires, add a better quality crank. It doesn't even look as though there's a good place to mount a water bottle on the urban bike. Use for other purposes. The urban bike looks like it would be fine for your short commute, but doesn't look good for much else. The fixie could probably be used for much longer rides, such as going out for fun rides on the weekend or at night. 

All Shimano 8-11 speed road cassettes fit on the same freehub body and you just have to use spacers to accommodate for the different widths. More info from Bike Radar 

I just leave a pair of shoes at the office and change shoes when I get there so I don't have to take them back and forth. It's amazing how much space shoes take up in a backpack/pannier. I think that even the "walkable" shoes aren't that comfortable to be in all day. And any cycling shoes that you did want to walk around in all day would lose a lot of the advantages for having a dedicated cycling shoe, such as a stiff sole. My office shoes are just cheap ones I picked up at Walmart. This also has the added advantage that if my cycling shoes get wet from the rain that I always have a dry pair to change in to. 

According to rule 8, your choices are black, white, or try to match it to the blue frame color, which my be difficult. 

Try to push the seat down slightly.The carbon weave can act the way those finger cuff toys we had as children did (the more you pull the tighter they get).By pushing down you release the grabbing action.Make sure you use something similar to Park Tool Carbon/Alloy Assembly Lube before you reassemble it,check with your local bike shop for their reccomendation. 

Before I purchased a cable cutter, I found the following method worked acceptably. After determining the cable length make a small mark with a permanent marker. Apply a small drop of superglue to the mark. After the glue dries, cut the cable with a pair of electricians pliers. The glue keeps the strands from unraveling. This still leaves the problem of cutting the outer cable housing cleanly. The pliers do not work to cut the housing. It gets crushed before it cuts. I used an air powered 3" cut off wheel. If you have to purchase either of these tools you are close if not above the cost of a Park Tool or other quality brand cable cutter. Some times the best tool for the job, is the right tool . 

Cane creek has a headset finder table on their website. You can search by dimension or bike brand and model. 

Try adjusting the tire pressure you may be to high or to low. If it is low the sidewall can squirm inturns making handling inconsistant, too high and the tire can be so hard it bounces off the surface when hitting any imperfection. 

Kool Stop Composite Continental pads are designed for use with composite wheels. They are available in different colors to match the wheel. Many BMX riders complain of streaking on the brake surface. I would carefully clean any residue off the braking surface. Failure to do so will likely result in uneven braking. If these pads are unavailable check for BMX "mag" wheel pads or pads for composite wheels. 

I have had similar issues with mountain bike tires. While the industry seems to have done a good job of standardizing rim sizes, tire width seems to vary. One brands 2.0 inch tire can be larger than another brands 2.1. Of course there is some variances with rim widths and tire pressure and tread design, but overall it seems there are no meaningful standards for width. This is where a good relationship with your local shop can be helpful. They may allow you to try sizes and brands to find a good fit. The added cost of buying locally may be offset by not paying return shipping. 

While this is not a definitive answer it may help with your decision. If you look closely at the mx80 you can see that some of the teeth on the larger cogs have some extra machine work (notches) done. These areas are to facilitate the chain moving from one cog to the other. For optimum performance the "notches" must be correctly aligned. The variation in the width of the splines on the freehub make this alignment foolproof. Looking at two 9 speed cassettes in my parts bin, the indexing of the notches on the cog and its position on the freehub is not universal between all brands. What this means is that while the cogs may fit, shifting performance may not be optimized. 

Chips that are deep enough to show bare metal should be primered prior to paint. Chips that are not treated can cause more paint to flake off. The frame can start to rust and loose even more paint. While aluminum won't rust it can still corrode if exposed to road salt. I have had success with Testors brand toy model paint. I get a color as close as possible and custom mix to match my bike. If the blue isn't dark enough I add some black, if it is too dark I add some white. It is mixed in small amounts say six drops of blue and two drops of black. You can then dab it over the chips with a cotton swab or small artist brush. 

I'm trying to get my front derailleur to stop rubbing in the high gears, smallest sprockets. To do this I am attempting to follow this guide by shimano: $URL$ It says that when in the largest chainring it should be possible to adjust the derailleur so that it is 0-0.5mm aways from the largest chainring on the side furthest away from the bike. This however is not possible and seems to have been set by the lbs simply by putting the cable at very high tension to push it over so it doesn't rub. I believe this may be slipping or stretching and causing the rub to return. What's the correct way to do this? Is this normal or is the derailleur being dysfunctional? 

First off given that I will be sightseeing as well is it worth the extra weight to take a dedicated cycle shoe and a walking shoe or is the extra hassle of having something else that can go wrong not worth it? I'm wondering what are some good combinations of pedal and shoe for touring. Should I go for a dedicated touring pedal like the A520/A530? I don't know anything about shoes so some recommendation would be good there as well. I will be touring japan in the summer so it will be warm but still possibly quite wet. Finally, how hard is a pedal/shoe combo to set up correctly for comfort? Is it something that's worth getting done in a shop? I have a good LBS and they will most likely do a basic set up for free. 

After a loose bottom bracket and some prevailing knee pain I have made a few adjustments to the bike. I have managed to greatly reduce the pain in my left knee but the right still has some pain. I have noticed that since the bottom bracket came loose that my right foot if positioned the same as my left will knock against the crank arm. I have to perch my foot on the edge of the pedal. I'm not sure whether this is something that could be attributed to a bending of the crank arm or something else? 

It's supposed to be on the outer casing (according to the shimano manual) but the Tricross has internal cable routing. Anyone know where it is? I really don't see it but I might be being a bit simple. 

Every time the right pedal goes over the top I get a single clack noise with a little more 'travel', a point where the bottom bracket moves without any resistance, from that point in the rotation. I have only just noticed it recently and it seems to be more noticeable on the lower gears where the cogs are smaller. Any thoughts on what to do or what might be causing the problem? 

I am doing a cycle tour of Japan starting from Fukuoka and ending in Tokyo. I will be flying with the bike and as my start and end points differ I will not have the opportunity to use a box (unless anyone has any ideas?). I will most likely use one of these bags and I have been told by the airline that nothing is necessary by way of packing the bike but I would naturally like to see my bike in one piece at the other end. The bike is a Specialized Tricross with disc brakes. Does anyone have any pointers as to the safest way to package something like this. I think I will definitely take the rear dérailleur off and wrap bubble wrap along the length of the bike to protect the wheels, pedals etc but other than that I'm not sure what lengths to go to. Does anybody have any experience or ideas?