Did people in socialist East Germany and Central Europe really watch Western television as casually as Westerners did, during the cold war? Were there laws against it? Were TV and radio receivers designed to block "enemy" broadcasts? How did the socialist governments handle the fact that people could see the wealth and freedom of the capitalist societies? Did the politicians really believe their own lies so much that they thought that allowing their enslaved population watching "degenerate" Western media would help their cause? A Romanian friend tells me that it was the soap opera Dallas, with straight talking JR Ewing if you remember, that actually tore down the wall. Access to Western media seams to have had at least some effect in undermining socialist governments' authority. 

Many western countries (Switzerland more than anyone) now and then arrange referendum about issues like membership in the EU, or keeping or abolishing military conscription, or whether or not to shift from driving (cars) on the left hand side to the right one instead. Has there ever been a referendum (the people's direct majority vote without any middleman elected) in the US? Since I think not, is there any one good explanation? On federal or state level. 

Muslims once translated many ancient Greek texts. Could it be that much more is preserved, but not available to the international historical community? Could they be kept in mosques in Saudi Arabia, or have they been searched by westerners during the colonization of the arab world after their defeat in the first world war? 

I found independent confirmation of this tradition in the 1848 diary of James C. Ward, which was serialized in The Argonaut in 1878. He described "the riding-dress usually worn here" as including "leather bottas bound around the calves, with knife tucked into the top of the right one". Zavalishin and Ward were from different countries and wrote in different eras. It does seem to have been common to carry a small blade in the cuff on the calf. 

Passenger vehicles such as carriages and automobiles require suspensions for ride comfort. Most today use helical springs, but leaf springs were at one time a major advance over leather strap suspensions, and are still used in some applications today. Making a leaf spring starts with forging a thin, curved piece of metal. Making a superior one calls for a smart cooling schedules (e.g. initial quench, then slow cooling) and a careful choice of materials. Around which year were modern smithies equipped and prepared to make leaf springs for carriages? Since their performance advance was so great, I presume that knowledge of the leaf spring technique spread rapidly. 

No expert scribe about to invest months of time, yards of prepared vellum, and scarce pigments would want to skimp on the black ink. In the middle ages, iron gall ink was the dominant standard for writing on vellum and paper alike. Nearly all black ink in colonial North America was of this type (Black Writing Ink of the Colonial Period, William J. Barrow). By comparison, I can't find a mention of anyone using berry ink for serious work. The berry ink mentioned in the Thousand and One Nights was supposed to be written on "white-stained gazelle vellum with fly-leaves of snowy papyrus", to put it in context. Norwegian merchants regularly brought tools and other status goods to Iceland. (Viking Age Iceland by Jesse Byock). As such, five of the six pigments in the Skarðsbók's illuminations were imported (Proceedings of the First International Seminar on the Care and Conservation of Manuscripts). Meanwhile, the black ink couldn't be identified. No evidence showed that it was locally made; I bet it was imported. Iceland's economic decline in the 18th century greatly reduced imports and could have prompted the invention of the local recipes mentioned after the medieval period. 

The Geneva convention of 1951 gives refugees from foreign countries certain rights. One might think that it was a response to the tens of millions of displaced persons from the second world war. But how many refugees actually crossed borders to foreign countries during and just after the second world war? Tens of millions of Germans moved from Germany to... Germany! About 400,000 Fins moved from Finland to... Finland! Did the Geneva convention refer as its ideal to the experience of South America which did receive some European refugees fleeing from death penalty for war crimes? 

In ancient times sculptures and buildings were painted and colorfully decorated maybe even with clothes and jewels, and sometimes made out of glowing bronze. What was the motive and, if any, the political driving force, behind replacing them with white unpainted sculptures and architectures sometime at the beginning of the renaissance? Speculating out of the blue, I'd suspect that it has to do with the ruling power demonstrating more deterrence. Clean white is the bones of dead people. It should be instinctively frightening. Below a building of power, looking more than anything else like a deadskull with its colorless gaping openings and spread out bone pipes like in a public mass grave. 

The luxury industry boomed with Louis XIV and his heirs. He made it mandatory for the nobles to invest their fortunes in the French luxury industry by following the latest fashion that the king indicated. And manufacturing exquisite clothes, metal and glass objects, fountains, fireworks, perfumes, palaces with outstanding perfection and finish requires precision and new engineering methods, chemical experimentation, search for new materials, better tools. Versailles created a mass market for textiles since people took after the nobles. Lots of second hand was available to inspire it. Even a beggar could wear a very fanciful hat if it were torn. Did Versailles hasten the industrial revolution in Europe? France was indeed ahead during the early industrialization. Are there any specific examples of luxury manufacturing that evolved into e.g. mechanized textile mass production? 

Imperial Spain and Portugal conquered and developed huge empires. Both monarchies were Catholic and seized huge amounts of land in the 1500s. Both European motherlands had numerous universities, but their colonies looked less similar. Brazil and the other Portuguese colonies had zero, while about ten Spanish colonies, including Venezuela, Chile, and Bolivia, did have universities, sometimes several. Portugal finally founded universities in some of its remaining colonies in 1962. What explains the two empires' very different priorities with regard to higher education in their colonies? 

You are describing something similar to the mitrailleuse gun, which had several manually-loaded barrels. It may not have been used by infantry, but seems to meet your other criteria. 

Perhaps not: this article by Alison Gopnik in The Atlantic suggests that Buddhism was barely known in Western Europe until the 1700s. 

Throughout the 17th and 18th century Spanish galleons shipped Chinese goods from Manila to Acapulco. After Mexican independence, Spain retained the Philippines and the galleons no longer crossed the Pacific. The designated Committee for the Development of California recommended the creation of an "Asiatic-Mexican Company" to trade across similar Pacific routes [Reynolds: Principal Actions of the California Junta de Fomento]. The Committee represented that only a government monopoly would be able to invest enough, and bear enough risk, to trade across the Pacific Ocean. The Company was never founded, but transoceanic trade with Peru and Hawaii did happen regularly in the 1820s and 1830s. When did the Mexican state or Mexican companies begin direct trade with Asian countries?