There's no minimum size. Consider: Larry Niven: The Integral Trees/The Smoke Ring. Both books take place within a gas torus pulled off a gas giant orbiting a neutron star. While both the neutron star and the gas giant are required to maintain the torus neither is inhabitable. The system could work although the gas giant is slowly eaten up. The tricky part is evolving to the point of civilization before the gas giant gets totally sucked up and the whole thing disappears. (In the books the life is native, the civilization is stranded human starfarers.) 

MAD. "There are 10 bombs in low Earth orbit, they are quite stealthy. Each is 10 gigatons. So long as we broadcast the proper code key of the day they will do nothing. If those broadcasts cease they will detonate when they pass over points pre-chosen for maximum devastation. They will detonate if attacked." If they don't believe you and attack anyway you detonate one over the South Pole. The EMP will fry the electronics in the bases down there and thus doom the crews but beyond that the damage will be minimal. In reality there are only 5 bombs, any attempt to find all 10 and take them out simultaneously is doomed. (Note: Bombs of this power will fry basically all electronics within a huge range and the thermal pulse will light so many fires that the area to the horizon--which is hundreds of miles--will burn unless there's simply nothing there to burn, such as with the demonstration over Antarctica.) 

Lets propose a drive system that admittedly has no basis in reality: It reacts against the basic fabric of the universe. (And I don't believe this goes against Einstein--relativity could be a simplification based on an inadequate observation point.) It creates only a pseudo-velocity--you move but you do not have the kinetic energy associated with that velocity and you will return to your original velocity the instant the drive is shut off. (The Lensman, Starfire and Fifth Imperium universes use a drive of this nature and I'm sure there are more that don't come to mind right now.) Now lets add another kink to the situation: The maximum attainable velocity is a function of your drive power and the local gravity gradient. Out between the stars you zip along at FTL velocities and combat is effectively impossible due to the difficulty in locating what you want to shoot at. Only when you get deep enough into a gravity well can you bring the enemy to bear. Missiles aren't used because in any reasonable engagement you can't hope to get them through the enemy's point defense. Long range beams aren't an option because the target can jink out of the way. Thus you end up with all combat being short range beam weapons used in the proximity of a planet. 

An extreme low-probability event but possible: two rogue planets collide at the L1 position, the merged mass ends up orbiting at the L1 position. While it won't totally block the sun it would make for a quasi-permanent (it's not exactly stable) partial eclipse. 

Overactor hit upon many of the factors but I don't find his answer complete. There is no chemical explosive powerful enough to throw a seed off an Earthlike planet. This doesn't really matter, though, because you can't push any reasonable-sized seed through a terrestrial atmosphere with a single launch impulse anyway. However, rockets could do the job. Why would a plant develop a rocket? It's on a world with no weather and no animals, it lacks any other means to disperse seeds. It would be an extremely unlikely evolutionary step but not utterly impossible if the core of the plant was an energy-storage chemical capable of self-combustion. Once you have even a crude rocket it could evolve from there. Alternately, it could be an engineered plant. Think of the stage trees of Larry Niven's universe. A long-extinct race of biological engineers created a plant that good specimens could be used as strap-on boosters for rocket launching. Now, combine that with a very small seed with a sail--it could be boosted to the stars by the solar wind. Incredibly slow but not impossible. Edit: Another version of this comes to mind: The rocket launches a seed pod, once the pod is above the atmosphere it separates into two parts--the rear one being a hydrogen bomb. The seeds would have to be very radiation resistant. The advantage of this approach is that you don't need anything like as powerful a rocket to do it, the plant doesn't need to be nearly as perfect. A nuke would most certainly require it to be an engineered species. We do isotope separation by means of things that proceed faster for lighter isotopes, there's no reason a plant engineered to do so couldn't separate the uranium out. The hard part would be separating out the deuterium--the separator can't very well have hydrogen in it's makeup and hydrogen is one of the big components of a plant. 

I don't believe it's possible to do an Alderaan. Eth gives a good start on it but there's a big problem with his analysis: As he says, the plasma is opaque. Virtually 100% of the incoming energy is going to be absorbed before it reaches the planet--you're going to have to destroy the planet with the energy re-radiated from the plasma. However, given the short time interval involved everything is an insulator. I seriously doubt you can dump those 2.5E32 J into the mass of the planet. You'll get a very big boom on the surface but the energy from it will depart into space--the blast wave won't go around the planet, but straight out. Even in the realm of the largest nuclear weapons we see this happening--making the warhead more powerful doesn't increase the destruction. To actually destroy the planet will take a much more sustained application of energy. 

If you have AIs that actually are the workhorses of civilization then recovery will be fast. Otherwise, I do not expect recovery in any reasonable time frame. 1) By going to ground like that you get basically random samples of the population. Unless the groups that go to ground are very large (and how are they going to sustain themselves without high tech---and thus get stomped on??) you can basically be assured that said groups lack some critical professions necessary to build their tech. As their stuff wears out they can't replace it. They fall way down the tech ladder. The groups on uninhabited worlds at least have the advantage that there are some easily-accessible minerals but they have no information as to where they are and likely don't have the information on how to refine them. At least they have a slim chance to rebuild. The ones on inhabited worlds are much worse off--there are no easy to get minerals unless they can salvage them from the stuff already built out of them--but the cities have almost certainly been burned to a crisp at this point (inevitable when there is no longer anyone who puts out the fires that do start, it doesn't need enemy action) and thus there will be little to salvage. Most metals will have oxidized and washed away before anyone is looking. 2) Having samples of their tech doesn't give them the ability to build the tech. I'm writing this on a box with a pretty nice processor in it--but that is useless from a standpoint of building a replacement. Chip fabricators are huge operations that require huge infrastructure support, many millions of people per fabricator. That means small groups (and how did large groups survive??) can't build such tech. Even with resources they're knocked back to the discrete component era and they're going to stay there until the population builds enough.