Expected Answers In am expecting answers of the forms, "No Finnegan is unlikely to be Anna's first husband because...", or, "No, in the monologue, Anna is more likely to be addressing her (current and only) husband HCE, because ...", etc. Explanation, however, would need to be given to the "pigs and scuts" answer, as well as to the "you" and "he" in Anna's monologue. I am also interested in any references to analyses of Anna's monologue. 

Really? The genius who took Stephen to Bloom and Molly (with Boylan), had nowhere further to take this key structure than into the abstract? No fundamental movement? Sure Shaun and Shem is interesting, but we have already met Stephen+Mulligan. Come on. "(please stoop)"! Joyce taunts us with the question "Who is he?" and tempts us with tidbits of answers. 

But the answers I have met in texts about Finnegans Wake seem empty. He is every man, but impossible to pin down. But isn't Bloom every man? Finnegan is a mythical/historical pre-shadow to HCE. But what about Bloom and Homer? Finnegan is but one form of HCE in dreamland with no referent in Heliopolis. So why the title to the novel? And the corollary question: Who is she? The Joyce I know from Ulysses, wouldn't leave these questions without proper resolution. I don't think Joyce would leave it so open that all possible answers are the solution to the problem. I hope. A bit unrewarding for the amount of work the reader must put in. And why no real drama for us to sink our teeth into? For example, both A Reader's Guide and Finnegans Wake: A Plot Summary read Anna's monologue as Anna awaking her husband HCE, in her mind, and then taking him on a stroll down memory lane. Is that really it? Not unlike Molly's monologue but without Blazes Boylan! 

In Heliopolis, Anna "resurrects" Finn every morning in her daily waking morning interior monologue. He must begin again. Anna is conscious of this activity. In dreamland too is Finn nightly resurrected, but that is obvious, and Anna is not conscious of it. This interpretation is supported by the monologue itself. 

The receiver of the confession, the "wee one", is the earlier one, i.e., Finnegan. He only existed earlier, and now only exists in the "wee" hours. (Of course, Finn is also late.) The symbol of "wee one" as small one is also valid, since Anna will shortly tell "you" that "You’re but a puny". 

An Alternative The novel ends with a woman's interior monologue. Part IV is a single chapter that begin in dreamland, with dawn breaking, and ends with ALP delivering an interior monologue, as the rain falls softly, but persistently, outside. Ten pages of uninterrupted interior monologue. A single paragraph readable to anyone familiar with Molly's monologue. By Occam's Razor, the owner of this monologue is the owner of dreamland, i.e., ALP dreams the wake (see In Finnegans Wake, surely the dreamer is this character?). So that answers "Who is she?". Anna's monologue is primarily addressed to a male "you" whom she 'awakes'. "Rise up, man of the hooths, you have slept so long!". There is also a "him". While "there’s a great poet in you", "so has he as bored me to slump." While mostly addressed to "you", often about "him", the reader must cope with sudden pronoun-referent shifts characteristic of any realistic interior monologue. As ALP thinks about "him", "you" is prone to change in referent, i.e., "you" refers to "him" suddenly. And naturally, there are few proper nouns, none definitive! But who are these male "you" and "he"? We are back to the question "Who is he?" but with a twist. Anna/Joyce, frustratedly, give us the answer as we transition into the monologue. 

At the end of chapter one, "good Mr Finnimore, sir" is urged to "take your laysure like a god on pension and don’t be walking abroad" since "you’d only lose yourself in Healiopolis now". Finn is kept up to date about "the lads is attending school nessans regular, sir, spelling beesknees with hathatansy and turning out tables by mudapplication" (Shaun and Shem) and "queer Behan and old Kate" (Saunderson and Kate) and " your missus in the hall" (ALP), but no mention is made of Issy. 

Issy is often likened to objects that participate in the water cycle other than the river and sea: dew, cloud, rain, puddles, tears, drops of urine etc. I don't think she is likened to wind, but I stand to be corrected. 

I wish to first introduce the current accepted interpretations of Finnegans Wake, and rail against these on purely aesthetic grounds. I will then pose questions suggesting an alternative reading, which now appears obvious to me. Finnegans Wake aside, Joyce has stayed with me, unlike most of the "difficult" postmodern texts, because Joyce's texts always resolve. The more you read the clearer Joyce becomes. Confusions clear into beauty. Once upon a time (and a very good time it was) I could not parse "a moocow coming down along the road"! Later for "Chrysostomos" and "Send us bright one, light one, Horhorn, quickening and wombfruit". There are now many readers' guides to Ulysses that (1) members of this forum would mostly agree on, and, (2) make an initial reading of Ulysses a pleasurable task. Twenty odd years ago, I began reading Finnegans Wake, and was immediately dismayed. No matter how I tried I could not parse even a few pages in. Armed with A Skeleton Key and A Reader's Guide I forced my way through. I was very disapointed and neither of the texts lead to Finnegans Wake resolving for me. To this day, every text I have read on Finnegans Wake seems hollow. Until recently so did Finnegans Wake. Here is the conventional wisdom. 

The receiver of Anna's confession, her father confessor, does not seem to be HCE, but rather some "wee one". So who is this "wee one"? Let us resist jumping ahead to the monologue for clues, and attempt rather to let Joyce reveal the answer. Since "wee" means small, one possibility is Issy. But the "you" in Anna's "comfreshenall" is most certainly male and hence not Issy. Issy features large in the monologue, but as "she". Recently for me, the pun dropped. 

Joyce is able to look beyond his death, and truly write a "Book of the Dead", since he still lives in Nora's mind. Nora, has had to move on, and here comes everybody. While Finnegan/Joyce/Bloom/Adam died (in this story) without completing their "master work" (Finnegans Wake in Joyce's case), ALP/Nora/Molly/Eve still reads this work, and dreams with its language. 

As an example of how this reading makes things clearer, consider the mystery of the four wise men "mamalujo". Who are they? Look in any text on Finnegans Wake and you will find the answer disappointing. With this reading, however, they are certainly Finnegans childhood friends, still very much alive tonight. Summary of Question 

[... This use of the V (particularly the V of Vs) has always shaped my interpretation of the symbolism of V, and am now wondering if I should draw anything from these structural usages. ...] 

In the Picador edition of Pynchon's V, there is a V of Vs on (pre) page 7, and each chapter title is structured as a V. 

While HCE, the "herewaker" will get up and face a new day in Heliopolis, HCE is not the "he what stays under the himp of holth". "He is another he". That other "he what stays under the himp of holth", will not be getting up to roam Heliopolis, because he is dead. In Heliopolis, he "stays under the himp of holth" "under our our mounding’s mass", "and their upturnpikepointandplace is at the knock out in the park where oranges have been laid to rust upon the green since devlinsfirst loved livvy". Sad, but true. Infact, "one yeastyday he sternely struxk his tete in a tub for to watsch the future of his fates but ere he swiftly stook it out again, by the might of moses, the very water was eviparated", since he had no future. "He addle liddle phifie Annie ugged the little craythur". But then, "wan warning Phill filt tippling full. His howd feeled heavy, his hoddit did shake. (There was a wall of course in erection) Dimb! He stottered from the latter. Damb! he was dud. Dumb"! The rest is herstory. 

Nuvoletta is a form of Issy (I), the canonical girl child. Issy has 28=(7x4) "nubied companions" (157.13). "Hence" Issy is 29, the leap-year child. She has witnessed her twin brothers quarrelling across the banks of a river. The text of Finnegans Wake is a river, and the mother of these three children, Anna (ALP), is all rivers ("Missis-liffi" 159.12), in the never ending cycle river-sea-cloud-river. As such, Anna is the renewer. Of course Anna was/is an Issy, and Issy must become an Anna. Nuvoletta attempts to get her brothers' attention using "all the winsome wonsome ways" (157.31), but fails, ultimately because they are men ("There are menner" 158.5) like their (step?) father HCE ("conclaved with Heliogobbleus and Commodus and Enobarbarus" 157.26). Washerwomen (themselves forms of Anna) come and take the boys home, leaving Nuvoletta alone. After leaping (suicide?), Nuvoletta becomes a tear, but falls into the river (her mother Anna). We know the tear is Novuletta (Issy), since the tear is a "leaptear" and . Nuvoletta is reborn and flowing again, and no matter how she feels, she "canna" (Anna) remain at rest. But what will happen if Anna stops flowing? 

Since the motivation and argument supporting my question is long, but the question itself is fairly short, I will state the question as a spoiler. If the answer turns out to be indeed yes, then it would certainly spoil a brave first reading of Finnegans Wake. 

In Finnegans Wake, no one ever disappears, at least not for very long, because they always have to begin again! While the song you are studying misleadingly ends (159.6-10) 

"You", "my cold father" confessor, is Finnegan, and "him" is HCE. That's drama. [... Note that John Gordon has "you"=HCE, because there is no Finnegan, and no explanation as to who might the "he" of the monologue might be. Further he has "wee one" = Issy, with no explanation as to why Anna confesses to a male. William York Tindal has the "you" in the monologue being HCE, although morphing into Finn at times, and with no analysis of the "you" and "he" in the monologue ...] Alternative Motif 

Issy is born of Anna and "that samesake sibsubstitute of a hooky salmon". "There’s already a big rody ram lad at random on the premises", namely HCE, and it is HCE, not Finnegan, "who will be ultimendly respunchable for the hubbub caused in Edenborough". He is Anna's "P.S.". He is " Soldier Rollo". Oh, and he is "ensectuous", which means, amongst other terrible things, raping your daughter: "went nudiboots with trouters into a liffeyette when she was barely in her tricklies". HCE is horrible. "Rolloraped". Here comes every man. #metoo #mishemishe 

On a simple level, the event suggests that even though Nuvoletta might be so sad that she wishes to die, her mother can heal "her heart [that] was brook". Because that is what mothers do. It signifies "death" leading to "rebirth" via Anna. But, every Anna is/was an Issy. Anna has such desperate feelings, only worse: everyone depends on her for rebirth. What happens when Anna leaves? 

P.S. Y'all know about this beautiful but abridged reading and these complete readings (some beautiful, some terrible, but between the lot of them, good readings of all but The Washerwomen chapter), right? Finnegans Wake, is best appreciated in spoken word. Most precious of all is this, which despite its title, is a reading of Part IV (with Anna's monologue) riverrunning into a reading of I.1. Enough to make you cry. The text of course is online in many forms. This is a call to arms.