I am not sure if I understand your questions too correctly due to the language barrier, but my innerself tells me that your real question is that while we take the accuracy of our outer senses for granted,, why is it that we keep questioning our intuitions from the inner world, why is it that the accuracy of the inner world intuitions is so low? To answer a part of your questions I would like to compare the senses of humans to that of a dog. While we can smell food and determine its freshness with a certain level of accuracy we can certainly not sniff out drugs like dogs can. And if we were forced to do so, most of us would either try our luck and some of us who are in touch with the inner world would look within to understand where the drugs could be. Alternatively, while both our intuitive abilities as well as our sense of smell are not well developed, our intelligence certainly is and so we would employ the specific breed of dogs to do the job. My point is that when we seek to employ an outer sense for something it is not very capable to handle eg human sniffing out drugs,, cognitive biases will certainly interfere. But talking about cognitive biases impacting a dogs perception is next to impossible because they are so well developed. The same is the case with our internal world,, we are not used to listening to our innerself so often, plus there is a continuous stream of thoughts which we sometimes or most of the times confuse as our own inner voice plus there are distubances from outside.. in such a scenario cognitive biases are bound to occur. 

Without knowing, you may come to believe that a feature came to be to achieve a goal, when in reality it has no function ("why do men have nipples?"). You will then end up chasing after "red herrings" when looking for causes of effects. You will be puzzled why seemingly desirable features do not exist ("why don't animals have wheels?"). You will assume that every feature is "as good as it gets", and then you will be surprised when some of them later manage to get better. You will accept as true some fantastical explanations which are impossible because the intermediate forms are too unfit, since you will assume that nature will "grin and bear it" through those "tough times" of very low fitness "for the sake of" the final outcome with very high fitness. (more broadly, this problem is known as "climbing a hill" in optimization) 

One will observe, after following this population, that the nature of the things making up the population changes over time. This is a bit of "duh" conclusion because, well, of course you will end up with a lot of the fast-reproducing ones and few of the slow-reproducing ones, and of course you may get a lot of much faster reproducing things than any in the initial population, because the fast-reproducing ones make more copies of themselves (even if some are a bit mutated). This also applies to theoretical constructs such as numbers as well as actual biological organisms, and everything in between (and is supported by ample empirical evidence at different levels). Copious repeated applications of this theme, adapted to individual cases, are pretty much the business of evolutionary biology, and these days, it's rare to find a biology that isn't even a little bit evolutionary biology as well. It isn't hard to see that in the above example, nobody tried to make the fast-reproducing things dominate, and nobody wanted this outcome. It's just what happened, because of different rates of reproduction they have. If you get down to the differential systems describing the system, you will see that setting it up in this way literally implies that the number of fast-reproducers will increase over time (and this is really what it means "to reproduce rapidly"). Moreover, the outcome of an event cannot also be its cause, because the cause is often understood to precede the outcome in time. My investment of money in stocks last month cannot have been caused by the profit I made today, because last month, I hadn't yet made the profit. The cause can be my anticipation that I will profit, but again, evolution does not require nor seems to exhibit evidence of any "anticipation" - it will continue to repeatedly generate mutants that are unfit even though they are "clearly" not going to work out well, and evolution still works in spite of this. Teleological arguments may explain the actions of rational actors, but who wants to prove that nature is rational and/or that God exists without making circular references to evolution? 

If really there was a god that created this universe and all of us, then he must have been a really pathetic creator with all the imperfections that are there around. I wonder why the creator made us all so different, some rich, others poor, some beautiful, others ugly,, some healthy, others diseased. Was he a biased creator,, if yes then he should not be called god, because that means something sacred like the one who would protect us always, be unconditional, take care of us, have all answers, be capable of removing all our suffering, be absolutely perfect with no flaws and be capable of making all beings perfect just like him. If there is anyone so perfect, it is just the tirthankar (refer jain philosophy). Tirthankar is perfect from all dimensions and shows the path of achieving the same perfection to all beings of the world including the soul that lives in a dog or a microorganism or a plant or a stone. But he himself says he is not the creator of the universe and that the universe has existed since time immemorial and will exist till infinity. He further explains the laws of this universe and shows the path to end all sufferings and achieve infinite peace and salvation. One of the laws is that only souls who are born as humans can achieve salvation, other beings don't have the intelligence to conceive such an idea and will eventually have to be born as humans to ultimately achieve salvation. There are infinite souls who have achieved salvation and infinite souls will continue to achieve it by following the path shown by the tirthankar. If you now wish to call him god, then yes god exists. 

So, I can see why you would think that the scientific analysis is "clearly" superior. However, please take close note to what I will present to you. For example, suppose that you are are in a room with a few other people and are perceiving this: apple $URL$ If you describe the shape/state to many others, they may or may not agree with you. Their decision in accepting what you perceive as real is dependent on many conditions. The circumstances must be examined for example: 

Your questions is fairly contradictory. If a word is undefinable then why would it even be created as a part of the English language? How can we possibly develop a word of whose definition we are incapable of grasping? If you mean concepts such as love, the infinite, or god which cannot be shown through material means, then that's a different story. Or even if you mean things such as 'the' or 'be/are/is' (bringing forth the argument of "How can we define existence), then you must be out of your mind to think that they are undefinable. We know (more or less) what we try to convey by existence: merely our presence in our physical form. Forgive me for being sidetracked. All I wanted to say is that, no, words cannot be undefinable. Think logically. My source: Type any valid English word on Dictionary.com. 

In modern evolutionary biology, teleology is considered to be an irrelevant explanation for what caused things to be. Nevertheless, you may find many biologists speaking in teleological terms - "The animal evolved wings so it could fly away from predators." or "Our brains became bigger to allow us to function better socially." This is a trick that evolutionary biologists use: It turns out that most language is clumsy and inconvenient for talking about the dynamics of evolution by selection, and evolution really looks almost as if there was teleology. The key word is "almost". There are subtle differences between how an evolution with teleology and without teleology would look like. Biologists use the "trick" because they don't like being wordy and think that they are smart enough to never overlook the teleological fallacy. Teleology is regarded as irrelevant because nature has no mechanism for deciding to obtain certain outcomes beforehand. Evolution is not a means to an end, it is a consequence of some individuals making imperfect copies of themselves more often than other individuals. Whenever one has a population of things, and the following claims hold for this population: 

The second choice instantly becomes obsolete; the existence of such a magician must first be proved creating an unreasonable burden of proof. Does the apple possess any properties that defy the laws of logic and physics (known to man so far)? For example, is it floating? If none of the conditions are met, then most likely, everyone will agree with you, because what you perceive is most likely not an error. Therefore, it will be agreed amongst all of you that you are perceiving a bright, red apple. Therefore, the problem of perception can (to some extent) be prevented. Comparing Phenomenology to the Cartesian method The Cartesian method is described by Wikipedia as: 

These two contrasting views dictate what you may and may not do. While Moral Absolutism is only with respect to the barebones of one's actions (and cares about nothing else), consequentialism takes into account the final objective/result that one strives to achieve. Let me give you an analogy: Imagine you have committed a crime, and thus, you are now on trial. You are given a drink that forces you to only tell the truth when prompted. Scenario A (Moral Absolutism): The judge asks you whether you committed murder. You respond by saying, "yes". The judge then immediately sentences you to 25 years in prison. The judge does not know (and does not care) that you were abducted, kidnapped, and tortured, and that the only way to escape was to kill your captor while he was distracted, take the keys from his pocket, and unshackle yourself and escape. Scenario B (Consequentialism): The judge asks you whether you committed murder. You respond by saying, "yes". The judge further asks questions to find out why you committed the crime. He finds out what the true reasoning the murder was and thus, merely sends you to a rehabilitation center to prepare you to re-enter society. Hopefully, these analogies gave you an idea of each view. Each view has its pros and cons. Of course, scenario A was fairly unjust (no pun/oxymoron intended) because the basis of the deeds was not taken into account. But on the other hand, consequentialism can also be twisted to reflect Machiavelli's "The ends justify the means" and be taken advantage of. Many questions come on the borderline and are difficult to answer such as killing one innocent person to save a thousand. The ultimate answer to your question lies with your decision of which view you believe to be the most suitable for the situation. 

That's not to say you don't have to look hard to find pitfalls of teleological thinking (although it's clearly illogical after considering the nature of evolution). That's why the "trick" exists - most of the time, you can carry on happily thinking teleological thoughts and never see any ill-consequences. But that one time when it causes you to be wrong is a possibility scientists do not like to accept. Being a heuristic, the pseudo-teleology trick is not very persuasive when you are trying to settle one argument and move on to the next gene already. 

The question "why did this feature of this organism evolve?" comes up again and again in biology. Besides simple curiosity, it also has practical implications, such as "what if this feature stops working?" or "what features would, if they stopped working, produce this effect?" (for causes of disease). When you are trying to to figure out the function of something by asking why that something is there (to clear away some of the philosophical issues, by function I mean how it helps and how its absence hurts), if your explanation starts with "it came to be so that it could..." then you know you are wrong, because nature cannot anticipate what will provide which benefit. It simply tries everything, and keeps the ones that work. Therefore, to explain why something in biology exists and is the way it is, you have two options: