There were 26 signatories to the Declaration of the United Nations on January 1, 1942. They included the following: 1) The Big Four, United States, United Kingdom, Soviet Union, and the (Nationalist) Republic of China. 2) Five British Commonwealth countries outside of Europe: Australia, New Zealand, Canada, India, South Africa. 3) Nine small countries in the western hemisphere: Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, and Panama in Central America, and Cuba, the Dominican Republic, and Haiti in the Caribbean. 4) Eight governments in exile in Europe: the Czech Republic, Greece, Norway, Poland, Yugoslavia, and the three "Benelux" countries. So the non-European countries you'd be interested in are Australia, China, India, New Zealand, South Africa, and the non-U.S. western hemisphere countries.The whole point was to make this a global, and not "European" alliance. 

The "western" countries had a common fear of Russian expansion, particularly through the "straits" around Constantinople, and in the Balkans and the Middle East generally. This fear was expressed in the 1850s in the Crimean War and went back to the 18th century. Hence, they were careful not to "formally" weaken the Ottoman Empire, even while doing so, de facto. 

China was a "Big Four" nation in World War II, as defined (principally) by America's Franklin Delano Roosevelt, that signed the Atlantic Charter with 22 smaller nations that later became the "United Nations" (Allies). To characterize China as a "third side" would mean that China was in a three way war, fighting both Japan and the Allies at the same time. In World War II, that simply wasn't true. China's accomplishments were not as well known as those in Europe of the South Pacific because it was landlocked and isolated during the war, and far from "news" centers. Nevertheless, something like one third of the Japanese army was tied up in China and Manchuria, (one third on the home islands), leaving the Americans and British to face only one-third in the South Pacific, Southeast Asia, and India. In fact, China's best divisions provided valuable "cover" to the British forces in their retreat from Burma to India in 1942, and in the subsequent reconquest of Burma. 

Germany would have been aware of many of Italy's deficiencies. They had been allied against Austria in 1866 when Italy lost its segment of the war, and was bailed out at the peace table by Germany. So Germany didn't expect much from Italy, who had done "just enough" to enable the Germans to win the war. Nor did Germany offer much. Basically, the alliance with Italy was a defensive alliance. The terms of the Triple Alliance called for Italy to remain neutral in the event of a war between Austria-Hungary and Russia. It also called for Italy to participate only if Germany (or Austria) were attacked by France, and vice-versa. (Italy used this loophole to remain neutral in 1914; Germany struck the first blow against France.) Italy did later violate the terms of the alliance in 1915 by joining the Allies, specifically the Russians, in a war against Austria-Hungary (and Germany). This represented a "downward deviation" from Germany's expectations. 

In asking this question, my big fear was that some Southerner, particularly Georgian, would answer based on a knowledge of the terrain around Atlanta and northern Georgia that e.g. "Johnston would have done far better to stop Sherman around Kennesaw Mountain", or "The ground around Atlanta is much better for offense than defense, so Hood did the "right" thing, even though he lost." Since no such answer was forthcoming, I'll follow my own instincts in using historical and statistical analysis. The North had a better than two to one advantage in population, which translated into a two to one advantage in troops, (even allowing for higher enlistment rates of Southerners). When led by a capable commander such as Sherman, the Northern forces could win, albeit with difficulty, with such an advantage. That was basically the situation Johnston was facing when he took over the army near the Tennessee border. The ratio of Union to Confederate forces at the beginning of the campaign was something like 99,000 to 53,000, close enough to 2 to 1. Hence Johnston had to act circumspectly and retreat, while extracting the highest price for land lost. When both sides got to Atlanta, the ratio of Northern to Southern troops was something like 74,000 to 60,000, or just under 5 to 4. These were MUCH better odds than Confederate commanders typically enjoyed. When you consider the troubles that Sherman would have in city fighting in Atlanta, plus Johnston's advantage of "interior lines," the Southerners were basically at parity. While there were no guarantees, Johnston had to like those odds. When Hood took over, Sherman's force was actually subdivided into three smaller armies, averaging 25,000 men led by Generals Thomas, McPherson, and Schofield. Hood's tactics were to try to "pick off" each of these three armies one by one, as they maneuvered in (for them) unfamiliar ground around Atlanta. In the "best case" scenario, he might have succeed in destroying one of those three 25,000 men armies, losing perhaps 12,000 of his own men, or half as many. That would have put his army at parity with Sherman's, forcing the latter to retreat from Atlanta. Given Hood's subsequent conduct, that would just have allowed him to "waste" this advantage further north, as he in fact did after the Atlanta campaign. What actually happened was that Hood was repulsed in all three "pick-off" attempts, with a roughly two to one loss ratio (roughly 25,000 to 13,000). That reduced Hood's army to 35,000 men and Sherman's to just over 60,000, almost restoring the North's original advantage of nearly two to one. Next to the utter destruction of his army, this was the worst possible result for Hood and the South. In chess terms, the Confederates enjoyed "draw odds," that is, the South wins all ties. In his characteristic "playing to win or lose," Hood squandered that advantage. Johnston may well have "drawn" at Atlanta, and depending on what happened elsewhere, that might just have been enough for a Southern win. 

The reason was that after the carrier battles of World War II, it was recognized that the greatest danger to ships was not "shells," but rather "bombs," and later, "missiles. Battleships had played a limited role in the war (at least in the Pacific). Battles such as Coral Sea, Midway, Philippine Sea, and Leyte Gulf were primarily carrier actions. So modern fleets were built around 1) carriers, and 2) supporting vessels, especially cruisers, and later, anti-missile cruisers such as the Aegis, as well as submarines. Battleships were "mothballed" in the 1960s and 1970s as the other vessels (and missiles) got more sophisticated. The requirements for these newer ships were not "armor," but rather, speed and maneuverability. In order to maximize these attributes, it was necessary to sacrifice all but the most essential armor.