One way would be to have the dualism be provable, but not exactly useful: Documented and verifiable out-of-body experiences. You've probably heard of someone having a near-death experience where they have a severe injury and went into a coma and then, after waking up, reporting that they had some sort of a vision while in the coma. Of course, none of these experiences in our world can be verified as being anything more than a form of hallucination. But what if they could be verified? For example, someone slips into a coma, and then learns something they could not have possibly known about any other way. Perhaps they learn the combination for a combination lock by seeing a doctor in a nearby room unlock it. Or someone who is blind being able to see or deaf being able to hear during an OOB experience. It would be easy enough to say this only happens while a person is in a coma, and that it has been documented sufficiently to prove that these OOB experiences are really happening. It would be even more conclusive if quite frequently a person wakes from a coma immediately after they choose to return to their body, and with no break in consciousness for them between being OOB and being in-body and awake. You have a lot of options with how to handle it from here. OOB experiences could happen every time someone falls into a coma, or only sometimes. It could be caused predictably (useful for spying) or not. Don't forget that there are going to be experiments performed to try to study this as much as possible. If medically-induced comas can cause OOB experiences, they'll use those. If not, whenever someone falls into a coma, you can expect scientists to set up equipment (hopefully not getting in the way of doctors, though) to try to detect the person while they are OOB. They'd want to try to get brain scans are frequently as possible and as safety allows to see if they can pinpoint when OOB experiences are actually happening. You can have rumors or references to more oppressive governments performing far less ethical experiments, such as "medically"-induced comas. If you so choose, these experiments can be mostly inconclusive. It is fine to say that the only detectable part of an OOB experience is brain activity flat-lining. It's okay if there's no way to detect if someone is using an OOB experience to spy on you. The spiritual half of existence can be effectively impossible to study, yet have enough OOB experiences to prove that it exists. You can, however, expect there to be a lot of effort into collecting statistics about what kinds of comas can have OOB experiences, how frequently a given type of coma will lead to an OOB experience, etc. You'll also have people falsely claiming to have had OOB experiences. 

This is quite a humorous comment, but there's a much more serious way to put it - separate bathrooms and showers will always be around as long as rape is still a thing. One rape is all it can take to bring a costly lawsuit down on the heads of whatever organization owns the building. The only place for co-ed showers is one in which everyone using them feels safe. It's hard to imagine a society in which every single woman feels comfortable having men be able to see them naked without the woman being able to do much about it. Men can also be victims in situations like this - there are male victims of rape. Co-ed showers can be put in place in limited locations, such as the "clubs and venues which target alternative lifestyles" that @HenryTaylor mentioned. The people that go there expect it, and choose to use them because they still feel safe there. I wouldn't be surprised if society moves in the opposite direction that you're thinking - rather than having a single co-ed shower, we'll have more single-occupancy showers. It doesn't make as much sense from an efficiency standpoint, but what is there about legal issues that would make you think efficiency is anywhere on their minds? Also think about this question - how can the mother of a 6 year-old girl tell the difference between an honest transgendered person and a committed pedophile man? The best way for a facility to protect itself from lawsuits from both the mother protecting her child and a transgendered person wanting to use the bathroom they think is the right one for them would be to have single-occupancy and family bathrooms. Even space constraints alone won't bring about co-ed showers - if you have enough room for two showers, there's no reason you can't have a divider between them that turns it into two bathrooms. So you've either got a single-occupancy bathroom, or enough room for more than one. A dystopian government, like the one @MrDracoSpirit mentioned, might impose co-ed showers on certain groups of undesirables, but I would not count that as becoming a standard. That government would need to keep enough people happy to prevent a complete revolt, and those people would not be forced into co-ed showers. So rather than becoming a standard, co-ed showers would be seen as a sort of punishment. @MrDracoSpirit's third point is something that would definitely make co-ed showers likely. If culture lost interest in sex, then rape would most likely stop being a thing. And that, as I said earlier, is something that would make co-ed showers reasonable. 

Imagine living in the Roman Empire around 100 AD. The empire controls most of the known world! No foreign power could possibly defeat the empire! The Romans will be in charge forever! ... except we know that's not what happened—the empire declined and fell apart. The fall, however, did not happen overnight. The empire went from prosperous to not so hot to oblivion over the course of centuries. It doesn't seem hard to imagine what it would be like to live in the midst of prosperity, or what it might be like to live when an empire is in clear decline. The middle ground is where it gets interesting. The honest among "the powers that be" would be aware that their civilization is in trouble, while some others would be drunk with power and either not realize or not care that their actions are contributing to the destruction of their civilization. But what about the people who are not in charge? How would an average Joe realize that things are going in the wrong direction? If he knows in advance that things are going south, then he can prepare for both himself and his family. Some notes: 

According to Wikipedia's article on photosynthetic efficiency, sugarcane, which is abnormally efficient, can store 8% of the energy of sunlight it receives. Let's say that your genetic engineering is pretty good, so the pigs are able to reach this level of efficiency. Sunlight is 120 W/m2, which is equivalent to 0.029 Calories per second, or about 104 Calories per hour of sunlight. Let's say there are 10 hours worth of sunlight during the day, both for ease of calculation and to account for dawn and dusk not having as much light. That leaves us with a potential of about 1000 Calories per day of sunlight. Given that pigs can grow to almost 2 meters long, and that they're longer than they are wide, let's just say the pigs will have 1 m2 of exposed skin. Putting these together, your pig will get about 80 Calories per day from sunlight. I found this source that says an adult pig should get 9000 Calories per day (I think this is for pigs that are being raised for meat). That's less than 1% of their daily caloric needs. Based on these numbers, I don't expect this to happen any time in the near future. It would take a lot of time and effort in order to figure out how to get the 8% efficiency of sugarcane instead of the more typical 1% efficiency of most crops. Then, once you've reached that point, you get a very marginal benefit. 

Moore's law may have run its course. Whether or not you've heard of Moore's law, you've probably noticed its impact - the speed of processors doubling about every two years. If you bought a computer twenty years ago, you could expect it to be rather obsolete after four or five years. However, we're running up against physical limits of transistor sizes - we can't really make them faster without significantly increasing their heat output, so it takes more to cool them off, and other problems. Recent improvements in performance have, in part, come from using multiple processors and better parallelization techniques. There's no guarantee that any fundamentally more powerful technologies (such as quantum computers) are possible at a practical level. If you don't want to have AGIs, then you simply need to declare that in your world all attempts to move to something more powerful than silicon chips failed. This also gives you some options with your story to have an alien civilization that did figure out something better, or an alien world with some extremely rare resource that makes it possible. Another thing to consider is the P vs NP problem. Without going into detail about complexity classes, if P != NP (which many people believe to be the case), then there is a large number of problems for which no efficient solution exists. There are also problems that are even more difficult than those, and undecidable problems that can't be solved by an algorithm at all. So, where does that leave us? As we have not yet developed any AGI, perhaps it simply requires more processing power. Unfortunately, the processing power required to develop a true AGI simply might not be possible. It's also possible that P != NP and there is an aspect of some NP problem with AGIs. This would mean that you can have true AGI but there will never be a "singularity" - when the AGI emerges it will be fundamentally limited by the capability of hardware. Combined with there not being anything fundamentally better than silicon chips, the AGI would be prevented from ever becoming far more intelligent than human level. This could actually be very interesting in a story - being limited by hardware, an AGI can't improve without physical upgrades. Even then it's improvements would never produce anything way beyond human comprehension. Doubling the size of the datacenter may only give it a linear improvement in its intelligence, i.e going from a 10,000 m^2 datacenter to a 20,000 m^2 datacenter would allow it to move from being as smart as 20 people to being as smart as 21 or 22 people. You can have AGIs present without them ever becoming so smart that they are disruptive to society. 

If Bob arriving alive is merely desirable instead of required, you can put Bob in a situation that requires him to stay awake in order to stay alive. For example, have him hold a grenade with a dead man's switch. If he falls asleep, boom. Something like a taser might work as a less-lethal version of this, with intense pain replacing the boom. One way that this could work without actually endangering Bob is for Alice to find some non-lethal scorpions in the area and place them on Bob. Then, she tells him that this particular type of scorpion won't sting, unless you're asleep that is. After warning him that getting stung is so agonizingly painful that he'd likely be unable to sleep for days, she bids him good night. She also has to make sure that she takes visible measures to keep herself away from the scorpions, and that the scorpions either won't want to or won't be able to crawl away from Bob. 

One thing a "theory of everything" must be able to do is explain why previous theories have worked as well as they do. For example, classical Newtonian mechanics are not fully correct but it is not trivial for someone to figure out where they deviate from reality. The theory of relativity matches Newtonian mechanics at slow speeds, and only starts to deviate when things are moving at a significant fraction of the speed of light. Deviation from existing theories is also how a "theory of everything" would be tested - as @Secespitus says, a theory providing opportunities to prove it false that don't end up proving it false is how we can gain confidence in the correctness of a theory. For example, the differences in Newtonian mechanics and relativity let us know that we needed to test things moving very and/or things with significant gravity, and when the results matched relativity instead of Newtonian mechanics we gained confidence in the correctness of the theory of relativity. Right now, quantum field theory and general relativity together are able to explain pretty much everything, but as the Wikipedia page for the Theory of everything states, physicists have determined that there must be a flaw in one or both of those theories. The problem is that "As it turns out, this incompatibility between [the two theories] is apparently only an issue in regions of extremely small scale and high mass, such as those that exist within a black hole or during the beginning stages of the universe (i.e., the moment immediately following the Big Bang)" In other words, it is indeed likely that a theory of everything would be untestable - not because it is unable to make predictions that deviate from quantum field theory and general relativity, but because the deviations would occur at such extreme circumstances that it would be very difficult technologically to produce the circumstances necessary for the deviations to be significant enough to be measurable. 

This setup is kinda weird and needs some more fleshing out. A lot of how people would react depends on the details of how this is happening. Simply saying there are "loopholes in laws" won't cut it - if today someone clever figured out how to "legally" sell people into slavery thanks to some loopholes, you can bet that legislation would make it through the government in record time to close those loopholes. No politician would dare oppose or even delay that legislation as it would be political suicide to do so. Even the normal riders and amendments that get added to bills would be absent as anyone adding those could easily be seen as trying to delay the legislation. So in order for this to actually happen, either the population cannot stop it through normal means, or a significant number of people accept slavery. Let's look at each of these two cases: Lack of power: The people are living under a dictatorship/totalitarian government/whatever, or the 1% have figured out how to completely exclude the lower classes from political power, or perhaps the Illuminati have grown bold enough to seize control to a degree that they reveal their existence. Legal slavery is unlikely to be their only complaint - if the ruling class can get away with that, then they have strong control over the population. People will secretly be happy that the bombing happened, but you would not be able to tell that from looking at them. Fear of reprisal would be high - if a picture of someone celebrating the bombing (even in private) got out, the ruling class would use it as an excuse to declare them a co-conspirator of the bombers. That unlucky individual could expect to be jailed, tortured, given to the slavers, disappeared, or even publicly executed (depending on which ruling class you have). There are unfortunately plenty of modern examples of societies living under horrible, repressive governments, so you can read more about them if you want to get more ideas about the setting and what the repressed people think. Acceptance of slavery: I believe this scenario is more likely. Because slavery is not universally acknowledged as being a bad thing, politicians aren't committing political suicide by not closing the loopholes. If it is like the United States in the early 1800's, then you're going to have the kind of tension there was then. The areas that oppose slavery will cheer the bombers, while the areas supporting slavery will treat it as a vile act of terrorism. If you don't want the setting to be moving towards a civil war, you need the people for and against it to be much more mixed. There can be some communities that are primarily for or against, but they should not be too large. Slavery for economic reasons probably won't work, but having cultural reasons for it could. In this more mixed case, the reactions will be similar to when people have bombed abortion clinics. Those who support it will view it as a horrible thing. Those who are against it will be split between those who view it as a bad thing because it is too extreme, and those who believe that slavery is bad enough that eliminating it justifies more extreme means. Note: I'm assuming that you're talking about the kind of slavery that people of African descent were being put into in the past. People going to prison can be viewed as a form of slavery, but someone bombing a prison is not going to get very many people cheering about it.