Real life is not a mathematical world (where you can have such a thing as "something is demonstrated", "something is impossible", etc.) but a physical world where we have educated guesses and at best quasi-certainties (and it is impossible to prove that something does not exist, which is a good reason why we have presumption of innocence, otherwise no one could ever be acquitted of an accusation). In doing "scientific reasoning", we need to keep into account the applicability of axioms, as well as the soundness/demonstrability of the theorems. Futhermore, there are many subjects where there is no agreed-upon axioms or unambiguous laws (which is why we have debates, conciliations, arbitrations and courts). You could have such a "logical checking" only when two parts in a debate are agreeing on axioms, definitions, theorems, logic rules and the procedure for verifying facts. But then, if that was the case, what would be the point of having a debate? We would just have to put our question into a computer program and get an unquestionable (or at least unquestioned) answer. In real life, deduction is only one of two forms of reasoning, and it is usefully applicable to (alas) only a fraction of the phenomena we find around us. In the the immense, marshy, bushy or virgin territory that surrounds our human knowledge, we have only induction as our compass. And that is largely out of limits for computers, let alone logical notations. Which is why we have human researchers in mathematics, physics and other subjects (as well as forensic detectives), who are paid to make educated guesses that others can put to the test. Sadly, education programs in mathematics are so engrossed with the (actual) wonders of deductive logic that they often forget to mention that, in the imperfect state of our knowledge, it is not always applicable to real life. 

Indeed, as jobermark noted, you started backward (implicitly) from the assumption that God does not exist and then proceeded to make your point. As a rule of thumb, you can say any type of question on StackOverflow about arguments to "demonstrate" the existence or non-existence of God is likely to be a fallacy. The reason is very simple: questions such as "God", "spirit", "conscience", "free will" are axioms in a philosophical system of thought. And as a matter of logic, you can't "prove" that an axiom is right or wrong. It just does not make sense. The question "is an axiom useful or not useful?", could be more interesting. As things stand, an axiomatic system with or without God can work just as well for physics. You could ask, in that case, why include God in your philosophical system (principle of economy)? To which one could retort: why are you raising the subject? What problem are you trying to solve? Indeed, physics courses don't need to start with a theology introduction, so they don't. That being said, if that line of thinking is leading you toward a certain intuition, or if that observation reinforces that intuition, that is fine for you (the process in which you are involved is more in the nature of induction). But since it is a matter of faith (or if you prefer: hypothesis), the condition for presenting it to others is to frame it as such, fully accepting that someone might or might not agree with you. Unless you like argument for the sake of argument; but that is no longer logic but rhetoric. 

The main problem is rather the method: this is old school syllogisms, especially since mathematical notation and Venn's diagrams have made it easier to find flaws in those forms of reasoning. Basically, these propositions are largely undecidable, for lack of formality. The obvious objection is, of course, that there might be churches that don't trace to Jesus (actually predated him, this violates the principle of time anteriority of the cause); and therefore that Jesus may not be a cause of all churches. Hence the first task would be to give a formal answer to this question: how do you define your set of "churches"? Also, in the end, ** the most beautiful or authoritative syllogisms are useless if they are not applicable to "nature" "experiment" or "experience" ** (see Feyman's quip about this). What should be clearer, is what problem you are both trying to solve. I hope the ultimate purpose is not to "prove" divergent philosophies on dualism versus monism with syllogisms. That's because trying to "prove" one or the other might turn to be the actual fallacy (since axioms are starting points and one doesn't "prove" them). Since they are mutually exclusive axioms, you might have a better go at discussing how useful or applicable these two sets of axioms are to "life, the universe and everything". 

If I understand well where you are coming (mathematics and physics), my answer to your question is "yes" there are intertwined. Furthermore, since the notions of "I" and free will (or lack thereof) are fundamental assumptions (hypotheses), any reasoning concerning them is likey to be circular. Possibly, discussions on their respective merits are also moot. I assume you are hovering around the logical question of a prime mover unmoved. Something that can issue an original idea must be a cause without an effect, if only in a microscopic part. In energy terms, it must have issued something from nothing. There are two ways to look at it: 

this takes us back to Enlightenment, by which I understand the maxim sapere aude, i.e. personal observation and reasoning, as well as radical rejection of external authority -- no more, no less. In particular I do not mean here by "Enlightenment" the philosophical movement of the same name, or the period, or some historical interpretation of how human knowledge has evolved (except for the fact such issues were being raised at the time). The one answer to a social taboo from a person who honestly applied the maxim is the earlier quip attributed to Galileo Galilei after he had escaped punishment from the Holy Inquisition: Eppur si muove ("and yet it moves"). Perhaps it might be more readily understood under a heading like scientific integrity? 

For your question I would recommend the preface of Henri Poincaré's Science and Hypothesis (1905), particularly this piece: 

Perception and Prediction Actually, prediction is at the core of the scientific method, because it is a very important criterion in determining whether a theory is valid or not. If researchers, scientists or engineers (when working on the drawing board) could not indulge in the highly productive activity of prediction because 'it does not exist', then this would slow down the progress of science and techniques. In particular, it would oblige researchers to do very costly experiments upfront to measure everything, instead of calculations (simulations) that could give an indication whether it is worth continuing in a stated direction. And apparently, quantum mechanics is full of enlightened guesses which are surprisingly helpful to make calculations and predictions. More broadly, if we considered that what is not observable does not exist by the mere fact it is not observable, we would live in a very flimsy reality indeed. First of all, what do we mean exactly by observable? In astronomy, many planets that are considered to exist have never been observed but have been "calculated into existence" because they seem the best explanation in the variations in observational data. The same applies to black holes, which are not observable by definition because they emit no light; what is observable is indirect effects. Difficulties of prediction The traditional mecanical world (Newtonian) could perhaps have open and shut discussions about this ("I believe only what I see or touch"); but with the onslaught of new phenomena which are far too big for our senses to perceive or sometimes even to grasp for our mind, or conversely too small, the notion of what we call reality had to be relativized. In fact, science did not even need quantum mechanics to get to that conclusion: 

Of course, human beings did not wait for modern science in order to develop notions about the world, a gestalt about some group of phenomena, or religious/philosophical systems. We can assume that they worked as best as they could, with intuition, observation, reasoning, imagination, piecing together elements, etc. Then a natural selection among these ideas obviously took place by social interaction, betweeen members of the same group, or different tribes or cultures. People talked or read, and thus changed their minds and adapted their ideas, and the most functional model for something tended to emerge (whatever the function of the model was). But for an introduction on how to master the scientific process of "making new entities" (which is really modeling in order to solve a problem at hand), I would recommend the classic popular book How to Solve It, A New Aspect of Mathematical Method by mathematician George Polya (written in 1945). 

I am no specialist of Szasz, but it seems that you are raising both a philosophical (ethical) and a practical (judicial) question. A priori, I see a weakness in this sentence: 

I will attempt to expand on my previous answer, from a different angle (and hoping that it helps): the term post-truth seems to contradict not only itself, but also the definition attached to it. It has entered common usage and is accepted by dictionaries, so we might have to use it for now. It remains nevertheless problematic because it smacks of doublethink. Truth, philosophically, is supposed to be (regardless of how we define it) is generally understood as a rather absolute notion. It carries with it the idea that if something is true and remains ontologically unchanged, then it continues to be true. Now, what is post (after) supposed to mean in that context? Just because a group of people are rejecting that truth, truth stopped existing? What kind of "truth" would that be? Furthermore, "truth" is a rather lofty idea and for now there is not even a scholarly consensus of what it is nor whether it can even be reached. Evidently, the word "truth" here does not mean "truth" in a philosophical sense, but something else. What would that be? Is it intended ironically, i.e. does it imply that "truth" doesn't exist anyway? But if we read the definition ("…relating to or denoting circumstances in which objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than are appeals to emotion and personal belief") it seems to imply that there was some initial standard anyway. The catch is that "truth" is a misnomer. What the definition seems to refer to ("objective facts") is not truth, but reality, in a scientific sense -- a verifiable account of observable facts. At the cost of repeating the obvious, scientists are not in search of "truth" but of models that explain how some phenomenon works, so that other people can use replicate an experiment and get (or not get) to the same conclusion (on this see e.g. the Introduction of Poincareé's work Science and Hypothesis). Speculations or discussions on whatever the underlying truth could (or could not) be, e.g. whether electric current flows from plus to minus or vice-versa, are of entirely secondary importance as long as results are the same. I am not sure who invented the term post-truth, but the proposition that a person who is saying something not objective is violating some truth is undecidable. But apparently that leads to the idea of creating "Truth Authorities" who will punish those who go against whatever they establish as "truth". We are fortunately not (yet) in a society where there is a centralized Authority that defines what "truth" is erga omnes -- that would be a tyranny of the worst kind and probably the death of scientific independence. It all (IMHO) boils down to the fact that whoever devised that term ignored (voluntarily or unvoluntarily) the way in which science works -- i.e. by personal observation and verification, something which implies a radical rejection of Authority. To add to @gonzo's pointed mention about the 

Science versus philosophy In any case, by pursuing existence in science, we could get into particularly convoluted paradoxes: for most people, the workings of computers, astronomy, quantum mechanics, even a car engine are a matter of faith. They have never looked into a CPU or a piston, they have only been told about it. Does it exist for them, since they never perceived it? It depends on the definitions. Even in the daily life of this automated workd, quite a lot of things that we assume (or "predict") are there, we never get to experience directly. But we do assume they are "real" because it fits, it works and we are so rarely disappointed about them that we hardly give them a second thought. When book an airline ticket via the Web, we take an enormous amount of things on faith (a money transaction, an airline, an airplane, a seat, a crew, an airport etc.) and the only thing we have is a confirmation. How do we know, at that time, that they really exist? To avoid such quandaries, one solution for scientists is to stay away from philosophical questions of ontology: to content oneself with (direct or indirect) perception and prediction, and to admit that (scientific) reality is some kind of enlightened social consensus about how things (are supposed to) work. 

We would have to agree on definitions. If we considered that "hope" is for something more or less definite (hope for something) or at least the idea that things could get better. Hence it is an idea for the future. Destroying hope, thus would be removing something that contemplates the future. I would understand hopelessness as a general feeling that nothing can be done, accompanied by despondency (similar to desperation). This is an emotion that may or may not accompany the loss of hope (one could lose hope without becoming hopeless). So destroying hope would remove a forward looking emotion, but would not necessarily impair the subject's capability to direct their hope elsewhere. Bringing hopelessness would create a state of mind were no further hope would be possible. 

Note that both are daily used by teachers or lecturers. Finally, I suppose that your concern about the leading question, is that it could be used with a "pitch" (a salesman) or a "curve" (a political or court opponent), in which case the question might also be loaded! In that case, the purpose might not be to increase your knowledge, but to muddy it. 

Equality is a highly polysemic word and might have to be defined on a case by case basis, according to your needs. A key question is whether you consider that two objects that do not share the same location and time can be equal. In other words you need to define an answer to the question: "can this distinct apple replace this distinct apple?" Does it matter to me, at the grocery store, whether I take this one or this one (because I just want any apple) or do these two apples have distinct properties that are relevant to me? It's a matter of the definition that you chose to apply to your particular model, which depends on your purpose. Assuming two things equal when you can, allows you to greatly simplify your model (principle of economy). This allows you in particular to count items, de-emphasizing the fact that they are distinct. For example, in Newtonian mechanics, two objects that are not in the same coordinates at time t, may be (roughly) equal in mass, energy, etc. are clearly not the same. You assume that F and mass x acceleration are "equal" because that is very useful. It is relatively clear to me that relativity requires to think about "sameness" with more attention, since time is no longer absolute; what may happen in Quantum physics is beyond my current knowledge (in the latter case, I suspect that physicists try not to wander too far off the formulas, for fear of getting lost in philosophical mazes). Sometimes the location (or some other secondary property) matters, sometimes it doesn't. In particular, we have the notion (useful in finance) of fungibility. Fungibility, as the word suggests (from Latin fungi "to serve [in place of]"), depends on the function of the object you are looking at. A one-dollar bill is absolutely "equal" to another one-dollar bill, provided it belongs to an issue after such and such date, and it is not damaged, etc. Or you don't want them to be "equal" because you are interested in their serial number. Indeed, the whole idea of finance is to disregard location as much as possible: whether your one-dollar bill is at bank A or bank B or in your pocket, it is still "equal" to another one-dollar bill. This is also how you get "clearing" between receivables and debts. In any case, sameness (which intuitively, for a physical object requires sharing same location in space and time) is only one of the possible definitions of equality. If you want to get a sense of what the various meanings could be (and assuming you are knowledgeable about programming or willing to become so) you could take a basic Lisp course. It is highly symbolic language where the creators had to bang their head about on the concept of equality, resulting in an impressive list of predicate functions with different nuances. Or perhaps you have already done so. 

One possible way to go about it could be that a strict prohibition is violating, in a number of cases, natural law (which, to paraphrase Montesquieu) is "rooted in the constitution of all human beings". It is obvious that the laws of man are defeated when they violate natural law (a good example would the difficulties of making an economic system without private property, where people would be hoarding or otherwise possessing in secret, or start possessing in fact though not in law). And indeed, even prohibitionist countries are making allowances for abortion, at least to save the mother from death. If in those countries some women take illegal (and thus dangerous) paths to abortion, then yes, the statement is perfectly sustainable and worthy of attention. How one answers that argument is, however, a different debate.