I find myself not agreeing with any of those possibilities by themselves, yet agreeing on some on some levels. I think there is no such thing as malevolent intent for a drone, so every damage would be an accident. I hence doubt we could treat such a drone like a human and have it put on trial. An accident then could either be caused by a force majeure, e.g. due to a natural disaster, or be boiled down to technical failure. For technical failure, it would be either the the company's fault for not testing the device enough or the developer's one for making a mistake. The severity would then be determined if it was a somewhat understandable oversight or a grossly negligent act. I think the real question hiding in there is: What kind of security standard do we want to apply as a society on such devices without hindering innovation too much? Or don't we want them at all? If a company or a developer must fear high compensation for damages, wouldn't the rational choice be not to build such drones? 

Philosophy of science is the science about science, or to put it differently the theory of science. It is a meta-science which determines which endeavors are scientific in the first place and not merely pseudoscience. So basically, it asks what science is. What do we have to assume to conduct science? Can we know anything (for sure) and, if so, what can we know? What rules one should apply in science? Which standard should we adhere to, strict or pragmatic? Is there such a thing as scientific progress? Are there different fields which require a different methodology, e.g.: Can we conduct "physics" in the same way we conduct "sociology"? Can science influence our sense of morality? Can it affect ethics or is that something else entirely? It is a very broad field, and for me philosophy of science is quite frankly the king of all sciences. 

I have some formal training in philosophy, but I have lots of gaps in my knowledge. I mainly read what interests me, so the same gaps tend to remain - usually about things that doesn't draw my attention that much. A even bigger problem is that I don't even know how large those gaps are. I'm trying to find a good resource to help me handle that. It'd be great to have something made with that purpose - tracking what I don't know -, but I think it's probably too specific to exist. So I was thinking about maybe using a philosophy undergrad program and go through its reading lists as well as assignments. I've searched for a full program in a bunch of universities but only got partial ones so far. Where can I find a full undergrad program in philosophy - preferably by a good university -, including all readings and assignments? Also, any other type of resources that could help me acomplish closing those gaps? Notice that I don't want a history of philosophy book or anything similar. Although the history of philosophy is part of what I want, my main purpose here is not historical. 

A good word for that is "umwelt", in german. It means more or less "the world each one lives in", but has a lot of variations and nuances. I've seen sometimes in philosophy the word "world" meaning a similar idea of the "personal world" in contrast with "reality" for the "shared reality". A more specific one is "linguistic world", if you consider something like Heidegger's "language is the house of being" 

Human reasoning evolved as a tool to ensure our survival on this planet. If a monkey miscalculated the distance of the next tree branch, he would be a dead monkey. This means, that our brain has to create a somewhat consistent model of the world, yet by no means was there evolutionary pressure to think logically in a strict formal sense. A lot of illogical fallacies are in fact encoded into our way thinking. Humans, for example, tend to think that if one object of a certain kind has a specific property, that all objects of those kind will have it. That may be okay if we want to eat apples, and conclude that because one is not poisonous that all are not poisonous. Yet it may hinder us on social scale if we start to generalize population of other nations this way because of wrong perception of a few individuals. This encoded way of thinking can be called our "common sense", which remains a useful tool, yet also a pretty dangerous one. Or as Albert Einstein said: 

One of those thing will be true so the statement is always true. Yet is says nothing about the actual ability. Trivial sentences say nothing. So as a different approach, let us look at the term believe. It is often used to convey an assumption. So the statement might as well be: 

My background is in Computer Science, so when I started reading philosophy seriously, I had a similar reaction. A lot (maybe most) of what I've read (that is not that much, I admit) from the great philosophers usually ends up falling into one or more of those kind of problems, specially the ones regarding logical rigorousness. But some philosophers like Hegel, Wittgenstein, Russel, etc did know a lot about logic. So let me say how I think this can be handled (although it's not completely solved to me): 

I personally fit better in 2b. I'd love to read everything about every philosopher, but I have neither the motivation nor the time. So usually I prefer to read about previous philosophers by contemporary ones, and read from the originals when I think an idea is worth understanding better. And remember, in philosophy even logic is open for debate, so you will find that sometimes what you have with some philosophers is a different set of premises, including the ones that do not value logic that much. 

I would say that we can divide criticism to logic as pre-logic and post-logic. In pre-logic criticisms, people don't quite understand logic and are resistant to it already. Often they have only that stereotypical notion that logic turns a person into a non-sensitive robot. All their contact with logic was superficial and at a distance. In post-logic criticisms, someone knows logic well enough to get close to its boundaries. Then that person can start to discern where logic can or cannot go, and even deal with that kind of statement that "I can imagine such and such". Probably the person you're refering to is in the first category, but using ideas that are dealt with by people in the second one. The approach I try in those cases is usually acknowledge what the person is arguing, but saying that those things can only be really dealt with after you have some good grasp of logic. And to do so, first you have to get within its boundaries, and within its boundaries, necessary truths are... necessary. :) Besides, when a person argues like that, they are usually trying to make a point by using logic - at least in some sense. They are trying to make you conclude, by the premise of their imagination, that there can be such a universe. Logic is a wonderful system that we stumbled upon - maybe by inventing it, maybe by discovering it - that for some reason works amazingly well. And I think that is enough for us to give it a good credit, even if afterwards we question its limits. 

No, there is no must per se. There is only a should in order to ensure an outcome, and as you stated, your intent is to retain the capacity of self-legislation. Another question that is hiding in yours is, "Must any freedom be guaranteed?". If so, where does the necessity derive from? And how are conflicts of certain freedoms be solved, e.g. when people use free speech to agitate or spread lies? In the end, it's about values and how those values are prioritized. In Germany for example human dignity takes precedence over freedom of speech and therefore among other reasons Holocaust denial is considered a crime. A constitution reflects values of a society at the time when it was written. It does not ensure that those values remain the same over time. And there may be a time when people will value other things more than freedom of speech and maybe they even want to give up the capacity of self-legislation. You cannot stop that. And then a constitution will be changed. And even if the people would still value those things, you cannot ensure that a political system will remain in place with the help of a text. A powerful minority may use loopholes or start a revolution and proclaim their own set of rules. 

If you establish that distinction, then you are saying that there is some "not-I", defeating the idea of solipsism. If you don't, then all you are saying is a kind of tautology in which "all that exists is", since you cannot separate anything to refer as "I" in "everything is I". 

I'm reading Samir Okasha's article "Does Hume’s argument against induction rest on a quantifier-shift fallacy?" and in page 240 there is this: 

There are two things here. First, maybe ad hominem was historically born for using with individuals (I don't know about its history). But since its purpose is to point to a logical error, I don't see why one could not use it to refer to the same error, only applied to institutions. I don't know of a fallacy specific to insitutions, so I don't see a problem in referring to ad hominem. Well, that said, there's the second thing. A fallacy is usually an error in argument. In this case, if one says "A because of B", I'm commiting ad hominem if I argue that it is wrong because the person saying is ugly. That is because the ugliness of a person is irrelevant to the argument's truth and validity. Even if we use "stupid" instead of "ugly", it would still be a fallacy. Even though "stupidity" may hinder someone's capability of argumentation, their argument should be considered on its own merits. But that doesn't mean that anything citing someone's characteristic is an ad hominem. For example, if I say "A because of B", there is the premise B and the conclusion A. You could challenge my conclusion by saying that A logically does not follow B. Or you might challenge my premise B. If you know I'm a pathological liar, and you don't know if B is true, then you have all the right to question my premise B based on my history of lying. So you can't say that my logic is wrong because I'm a regular liar, but you can doubt the truthness of B. Yes, it is "against the person" in a way, but not necessarily irrelevant to the argument. Hence an ad hominem fallacy does not necessarily apply.