You ask whether it is possible to frame the laws of physics in terms of operational properties. But how do you know which quantities are operational? You could look for an explanation of what quantities are operational, in which case you are no longer solely using operational quantities since you are picking the operational quantities out of a set that are not all operational. If you don't look for such an explanation you may miss problems with your assumptions about what is operational. 

A person will often claim he had no motivation for some action he wants to disown. This is a lie. He has a motivation but wishes it was different, or wishes to con others into thinking it is different. So he claims he was in a state where he could not refuse to take some action as a result of drugs or hypnosis or mental illness. The problem isn't that he lacks motivation but that he wants to obfuscate it and lie about it. Person A will often claim person B has no motivation if A wants to coerce B through threats of violence, confinement, forced drugging: the sort of stuff psychiatrists do as a matter of course. Person A might sometimes also offer B money or food or accommodation if B acts the way A wants. A might sometimes wants B to be dependent because it feeds A's vanity to have people he can help or ruin on a whim. Bribes and threats work precisely because people do have motivations, so employing them gives the lie to psychiatrists' claims that mental patients have no motivation. To understand the situation with mental illness properly see books such as "Insanity: the idea and its consequences" and "The meaning of mind" both by Thomas Szasz. I haven't gone through every situation you listed. You should try to work out the rest yourself. You write: 

Thinking about philosophical issues in terms of definitions is a mistake. Definitions are useful as abbreviations for discussing explanations when you understand the relevant explanation. So then the issue is what role does free will play in our explanations? If a rock falls off a mountain and kill somebody nobody will prosecute the rock. If a person pushes a rock so that it falls and hits somebody then we may prosecute that person because he had free will. What is the relevant difference? The rock will fall if and only if it is set up in the right way. Nothing we do to the rock can change that. By contrast, how a person will act depends on what knowledge he has and it is possible for him to learn different ideas than the ones he has now - to change his mind. If he has not learned that murder is a bad idea then there is some flaw in the ideas that he enacts that stopped him from learning. And until he learns differently we may reasonably expect that he might murder somebody else. Determinism being true doesn't stop people from having ideas and acting on them. It doesn't stop us from talking to people who do stuff that is bad or foolish, or from locking them up if they pose a threat. At this point the usual objection is "but that's not what people mean when they say free will". The problem with this objection is that you still need a word to distinguish between physical objects that can learn and those that can't. You can invent a new term if you want but I don't see the need to refrain from using the term "free will" as an abbreviation for the explanation I gave above. 

I don't think Popper ever used all that synthetic a priori, posteriori stuff. As a result, you whole objection is based on an interpretation of Popper that doesn't have anything to do with what he really wrote. As a previous answer pointed out your misreading is irrelevant anyway. Popper rejected the idea that arguments of any kind provide justification: they do not show an idea is good or true or whatever. Any argument assumes premises and rules of inference that may be wrong and as a result the conclusion of an argument may also be wrong. The value of the conclusion is that it provides us with guesses to test, not that the conclusion is justified. Whether the argument is labelled this way or that way has nothing to do with the problem. See "Realism and the Aim of Science" Chapter I. Now, some of the objections in other answers should be addressed: 

Is there any justification for why sets exist? No. But then there is no justification for any position. Arguments make assumptions to try to show all of those assumptions true would lead to a new argument with a new set of assumptions that have to be shown to be true and so on: infinite regress. The question you should ask is what is the value of arguments like the one that models the properties of natural numbers in terms of sets. The answer might be something like it's a good idea to try to model natural numbers in terms of set theory because it ties natural numbers and set theory together. If this works you have discovered a deep connection between these two areas of mathematics, if it doesn't you have discovered a flaw in our understanding of maths that should be fixed. For more on non-justificationist philosophy of maths you might want to read "Realism and the Aim of Science" by Karl Popper, "Proofs and Refutations" by Imre Lakatos and "The Fabric of Reality" and "The Beginning of Infinity" by David Deutsch. 

In laissez faire capitalism, you are allowed to acquire property by trade or gift. Deceiving people to get their property is fraud. If you commit fraud you can be prosecuted. In addition, trying to maintain fraud in the long term requires keeping track of what lies you have told people. This is difficult because if you keep records of your lies that is evidence that could be used to prosecute you. And in any case, in some situations you may not have access to records and you would have to make something up on the spot. This is difficult to do while maintaining consistency since you can't refer to what actually happened to check your recollection. So it's not in your self interest to acquire property by deception. You haven't said what material you have read by Rand. If you're interested in reading more, you might want to try "The Virtue of Selfishness" and "Capitalism: The Unknown Ideal". 

Your question has a number of problems. You ask about being confident in positions and whether you should believe in them. What matters is whether your positions are right or wrong. Your feelings about them are irrelevant. Indeed, whether you believe an idea is irrelevant. You use lots of knowledge that is never instantiated in your brain, such as knowledge instantiated in computer programs. You may have books. The point of having a book is so that you don't have to remember ideas. You don't have to believe them. So your question as you asked it is far too narrow. It leaves out loads of potential errors in favour of focusing on something irrelevant: your feelings. You seem to be labouring under the false impression that knowledge is created by induction, but it is not. Induction is impossible. No knowledge has even been created by induction. Nor will any knowledge ever be created by induction. Explanations do not follow from observations in any sense. Nor do observations prove any idea. Nor can any observation make any idea one jot more probable. Inductivism is just another variety of justificationism: the idea that it is possible and desirable to prove ideas true or probably true. Justificationism is wrong. In reality, you can't prove any position or show it is probable. Any argument requires premises and rules of inference and it doesn't prove (or make probable) those premises or rules of inference. If you're going to say they're self evident then you are acting in a dogmatic manner that will prevent you from spotting some mistakes. If you don't say they are self evident then you would have to prove those premises and rules of inference by another argument that would bring up a similar problem with respect to its premises and rules of inference. In reality all knowledge is created by conjecture and criticism. You notice a problem with your current ideas, propose solutions, criticise the solutions until only one is left and then find a new problem. Experiments are useful only as criticism. Ideas can't be derived from experiment any more than from any other set of premises. Rather, the idea is that you work out how the consequences of one theory differ from those of another. Then you conjecture ideas about experimental setups that would enable you to see the relevant consequences and criticise them. Once you have a setup that works about as well as you can make it work you use it to do the test. If the results are compatible with one theory and not the others then you may have successfully refuted some false ideas. Sometimes a purported successful experimental test will be successfully criticised because a test is a conjecture about something that happened and that conjecture may be wrong, so experiments don't prove anything. Your knowledge is all guesswork and the only way of sorting those guesses is by criticism. Experiencing something directly is not a prerequisite for criticising stuff other people say about it and improving on it. You can look at their stuff and ask whether it solves the problem it sets out to solve, whether it is consistent, whether it is explains with experimental results, whether it clashes with other ideas and lots of other issues I haven't included. If you haven't looked into an issue the appropriate position is to have no position because there is a criticism of the idea that you should adopt a position: you haven't considered any of the relevant arguments. If you have considered an issue you should advocate whatever position you have when it is relevant. If you're wrong and other people have arguments against your position then you might learn a better position. If you're right, then there's no problem. Either way if you are interested in the issue you're better off having a position than not having it.