This Elemental force (E-gravity? gravitee? Etraction?) doesn't attract plain water to other plain water, for example. This means that buoyancy doesn't happen with respect to this force, because the displaced plain water wasn't affected by that force. (i.e. there's no extra pressure created by it). We know this because Newtonian mechanics + fluid dynamics can accurately model the Earth's oceans (e.g. sea level heights around the world, and the deformation of the oceans due to Earth's spin rate). I think our models are detailed enough that we would have noticed if water attracted other water more than gravitationally, rather than just got the wrong value for some other free parameter. Buoyancy due to gravity can overcome gravity + the extra force, if they're in the same direction, otherwise not. 

I was thinking face-masks. People usually focus in on the face when identifying somebody definitively, which means a face mask will be front-and-center when it comes to identifying people. Additionally, if people are very against being mistaken for other people, than focusing in on the little identifiers (clothes) is probably less effective than addressing big identifiers like having the same face. How would it work? I would guess cloth face masks, since they will be more comfortable to wear long term and light to carry. It would also be pretty easy to personalize, too, between cloth choices, embroidery, and other decorations. They don't have to be full face masks, either, choices among partial masks can be an additional layer of identification, with one person preferring a full face mask, another just an eye mask, and a third a mask over one side of their face. And one pocket or pouch full could carry a lot of masks, for a person to change into. Culturally, the mask would then be your "face" in a way skin-and-bone would find problematic, when bodies may be shared among so many people. It would be no more abnormal to them than us wearing other kinds of clothing (or identifying things about people from such). There could be a set meaning to going bare-faced, like signalling changing personas, or it could be a privacy taboo, where people do not bare their faces without a very good reason and perhaps people would keep a blank mask to have something to cover their face with if something happened to their personalized one. If, for whatever reason, it is important to identify people form behind or without seeing their face - it may be useful to pair with scarves or shawls. I mean the light, thin ones large enough to drape (easier to carry multiple, then), possibly reversible to maximize the number of variations for less cloth carried. Color plus pattern plus wearing habit (tied shoulder-to-hip, draped around neck, wrapped around shoulders, as a belt) can again individualize a person pretty distinctly without seeing the face and without having to make elaborate changes. I think it would still be best paired with masks, since it's easier to notice differences like sash or scarf when not using the same face for identification. 

Water density in the air is peanuts compared to a nearby ocean, even during a heavy rainstorm. A $1/r^3$ or $1/r^4$ force would make the effect of a storm more significant. A water elemental leaving the ocean is like a human climbing a mountain. It's "uphill" all the way from the centre of mass of the ocean. Being at the edge of the ocean is like a human having climbed up a vertical shaft from the centre of the Earth. However, the ocean is more like a thin disc than a sphere of water, so getting to the edge takes you farther from more of it. Unlike climbing outward from a sphere (where your weight will peak at the surface), your weight will probably drop off some as you approach the shore (especially since coastal water is shallower). However, with a $1/r^2$ force, the difference between getting to the edge and going another kilometre beyond is less significant than with a sphere. You're already pretty far from most of the water, so the total pull you feel doesn't drop off as much with distance from the shore. (So again, a $1/r^2$ force isn't going to give you much of a "break free of the ocean" effect). If a Water elemental can "climb" more easily through water than by walking on land, it's going to be much easier to leave the ocean by going up-river until they're near an equilibrium between a large lake and the ocean. 

Someone else has already mentioned pawn shops and antiques. Just, it's a really good cover for all sorts of knickknacks and oddball items, especially if you use your ability to copy, or repair, or supplement genuine finds. Also, for seed money - you can probably create a hefty chunk of cash with a one-time creation of precious metal jewelry - plain chains or bracelets or earrings in gold and silver, maybe different thickness and styles. A one time sale, or actually selling one or two at a time from an obviously limited stock, can be explained away as an inheritance, or gifts, or whatnot - especially since you'll only need seed money for raw materials at this point, so you can keep the amount low and make your major money in art, and build back up to precious metal when you have the cash flow to cover the difference in your raw materials and outputs. Also, as a side note, I'm assuming that the power isn't to create matter from nothing (that seems a bit too universe breaking, not to mention dangerous), but rather to transmute one kind of matter into another - so it is possible to take up a block of wood, and shape it to a sculpture (or at least it's easier than trying to form it from nothing, which might take mass from air, or extra-extra energy, or something). Picking up a stone, and changing it to gold, or a book, or some bread, is quite universe-breaking enough. So I am assuming most of the raw materials are used up as, well, raw materials. 

CO2 partial-pressure is also a big deal for humans. If it's too high, CO2 won't diffuse out of the bloodstream back into the air in the lungs, leading to changes in blood acidity as more CO2 builds up. CO2 toxicity is a thing. It's nowhere near as bad as carbon monoxide, and I haven't yet found a reliable number on CO2 partial pressure that would be dangerous. What I've found so far suggests that increasing oxygen partial-pressure wouldn't compensate for increased CO2 partial-pressure very much or at all. 

Other answers have addressed the issue of O2 partial-pressure that humans can tolerate. I want to point out other potential issues. Oxygen is very reactive. The higher the oxygen content, the easier it is for a fire to start / spread. And anything that can oxidize will do so more quickly when exposed to the atmosphere. A 100% oxygen atmosphere is not very plausible, AFAIK. I don't think any naturally-evolving life could maintain it, since it would always be reacting with things to produce other gases (e.g. CO2). 

So, go back to your 3-4%. Your god talked to them at the beginning of the year, recall, and not only asked them to not support or deny him publicly, but also not to speak of their reasons why - without telling most of them what else was going to be happening this year. Why does it matter? because this is also a test of faith - a fairly good one. These are people who believe, and strongly (your god picked them out of the people who probably would not turn away, recall) - and they have seen their society crumble around them while they had to remain silent. They will be looking at the societal crisis of faith, and thinking what they would have, should be, could be doing to support their students, and friends, and mentors - to do their jobs. To help their people. It will be very tempting for these people to give in, or give up, and explain to people why they have been silent - that they didn't falter in their belief in the god. Those who manage to keep faith, and follow your god's instructions even when it must have seemed to them as if the end of the world, have passed a pretty strict test even if it isn't the same one. Those who gave in and spoke up, have failed - even though they are professing their faith in the god, they didn't have faith that his instructions were the right path. If your god is willing to accept this alternate, backwards test-of-faith, then between the extra percentages now passing the test, and the extra percentages of wiggle room for those who can't be convinced, I think your society now has a good chance of hitting that 95% population with 95% certainty. 

If you want more of a "break free" effect, maybe have the force proportional to $1/r^3$ (inverse cube, like the force between two magnets) instead of the usual inverse square (gravity, electrostatic force). Or even $1/r^4$ or whatever you want. It can still scale linearly with mass the way gravity (${G M m}/{r^2}$) does, you just vary the scaling with distance. That would also make it plausible for small nearby things (like fireballs) to have more of an effect than the Sun's pull. (Which only affects fire Elementals, not the Earth's orbit around the Sun, so would tend to pull fire Elementals off the surface during the day, counterbalanced by the pull of magma and stuff underground). It's completely plausible for a force to have very different scaling with distance than gravity. Just don't call it gravity! For example, the Weak nuclear force is very short-range because the force-carrying particles have non-zero rest mass (unlike the photons that carry the electromagnetic force. This is why the electroweak force is unified at high energies: there is enough free energy for pair-production of the force carriers, so they can pop up like photons). I'm not saying you should go into that much detail (better to be vague than obviously wrong to people that know the subject), just that non-gravity-like forces happen without magic. So you could even have a force that's more or less inverse-square over short ranges, but falls off dramatically at a certain distance. There have also been proposed theories of gravity that modify it slightly over astronomical distances to explain things like the Pioneer (space probe) anomaly. (That's now pretty conclusively explained by thermal radiation pressure, ruling out some of the gravitational theories.) 

It actually makes just as much sense for the populations of these creatures to be reversed, if that is what you want. If an ice creature lives at the poles, or a fire creature in the (especially volcanic) tropics, it will have a lot of ammunition to hand - but on the other hand, a fire creature has a very good natural defense against the cold, so the ability is very valuable at the poles. The ice creature has an excellent tool in the tropics - not only can it regulate its own temp easily, very few creatures would have any sort of defense against the cold in that ecosystem. So there's a good reason why a creature might have an "opposite" magic ability to its environment, that is likely what makes the ability so valuable in the first place! Moving on, I would expect that it would take a long time, and a lot, a lot of these creatures living in high density, to even begin to dent the local temperatures and shift them. Think of air conditioning and heating, it doesn't really make a dent on the temp of the surrounding areas even if people are using them a lot (global warming being a touch more indirect) - the creatures will be using them in the open, yes, but that will also dissipate the effects more quickly... and using the ability will cost in effort and energy, so they likely won't be wasteful about it. If it is possible, I would expect them to make a local difference first (the area in which they congregate, like a city, is just a bit cooler/warmer, maybeso a few degrees), and only with high populations and many areas where they live would the surrounding temp begin to take a hit, a degree at a time. Actually, I would think changing their surroundings in this way would be a problem for them, more than anything else, if they started in their habitats and somehow altered them to the opposite extreme (as opposed to being magically displaced into each others territory or something) - their ability would be found in the opposite environment because it's valuable there, so shifting the overall environment is likely to disrupt their living, their prey or foraging, the conditions they themselves are adapted to. They may find themselves suffering from trouble maintaining their temperatures, or finding food, as the changing temperatures devastate the original ecosystems. The other thing is, this kind of setup would not change the nature of these areas - the global average temps are not really maintained locally through biofeedback, or anything like that, they are the results of how much sunlight and warmth comes though the atmosphere. As long as the overall planetary temp remains the same, I don't think the atmosphere or anything would be effected. So there will always be more sunlight (and radiation, and warmth) at the equator than the poles. That the populations are countering that natural resource to make the areas icy or warm, would be unnatural - it won't change the behavior of the areas, or reset them to a new equilibrium. It would actively take them continually heating/cooling their environment to the correct degree to maintain, and would reverse itself the moment they stopped. If the heating/cooling was involuntary, then too big a population change, or actively using their powers too much, would create further temperature changes that would have have negative effects on the surrounding ecosystems that have adapted around them - again, the surrounding areas that they have to live in, where they are finding food, that they themselves are adapted to. If the change is quite gradual, it is possible that the ecosystem might adapt around them, and they maybe might survive - but any large scale use of their powers, or pushing the temp too far out of alignment with a population change or change in amount of powers used would likely devastate the local ecosystem and stave their population out. There's also the question of where all that energy would come from, to unnaturally alter the planetary temps to such a degree - to cool or warm huge swathes of land so far out of their natural equilibrium. Maybe the species are linked, the thermal energy absorbed by one is dispersed by the other? Maybe the two areas temperatures aren't just being maintained by the two species (with the equivalent of enough energy to heat/cool the whole planet), but are somehow, for some reason, magically swapped via the species? That might almost make sense, although again, the species would need to be in equilibrium with each other for this to work and somehow be stable, and the process would need to be very slow to let their surroundings adapt (and therefore the species in question be able to continue eating) So, given that my vote is for the populations of these creatures to have a probably negligible effect on the surrounding areas (unless they reach really dense, high-level populations)... how might you find ice at the equator and tropics at the poles, naturally. Tropics at the poles might come from volcanic activity, hot-springs all over the place, or possibly from the planet itself being very close to the sun (enough to keep even the poles warm, but them something else is cooling the equator). Ice at the equator might come from something shading the area, blocking sunlight (possibly planetary rings?), high altitudes like mountains, or the planet being really far from the sun so that even the tropics are icy (though in that case something else must be keeping the poles warm). 

Remember that the shell theorem only holds with $1/r^2$ forces, so a short-range force will tend to pull Air elementals into the sky when they're on the ground. If it's stronger than gravity, they'd have to actively fly downwards or hold onto things to stay at surface level. 

This sounds a lot like Douglas Adams' HHGTG $URL$ Fall but get so distracted that you forget about falling. (The joke being that you forgetting about physics turns into physics forgetting about you. Think about it too much and "physics will notice you". A lot like Wile E Coyote not falling until he looks down.) This is not how nature works: it "pays attention" to everything in parallel all the time, not like a simulation on a CPU. This is why physics simulations take so much CPU time: you have to calculate what happens to each atom, or rigid body, soap bubble, or whatever separately, but real physics just happens in parallel on everything consistently all the time. 

One thing you might think about is environmental influences on appearance. These might be much easier to make uniform (or majority) over a large population than genetic changes, given the restriction on how quickly genetic changes might spread without some outside circumstance like genetic engineering or founder effect. EngelOfChipolata touched on the possibility a bit when mentioning foods, but there are more possibilities. So, how would these environmental changes work? Depends on what you want done, I can think of a lot of possibilities, plus the possibility of several stacking up to form a pretty striking difference fairly quickly. 

Depending on how limited the phenotype you're looking at is, you might make the scenario work if you can keep your desired phenotype manageable to a sex-linked trait. It will only work with traits limited enough that they can be sex-linked, since those genes are only a portion of their overall genetics - but I suppose a limited gene on that chromosome could activate, or work with other genes to create the phenotype you're looking for. Most genes are duplicated, there are two copies (one from each parent) - this is a backup and safety net, but it will also allow recessive genes to hide, which you're trying to avoid. Sex-linked genes can avoid this redundancy, to some degree - matched genes (and therefore recessives) are only possible with females (XX), while males are defined by their unmatched genes (XY). In either case, since the genes are split by parent, and there's no room for redundancy, you can get a sort of generational cutoff, where genes are either expressed or not present, just where that lack of overlap happens So, looking at your setup, something attached to the Y gene will always breed true to sons, and never to daughters. Something attached to the X gene can't be passed on by sons if they themselves don't show the trait - if it doesn't express itself, they don't have it. A daughter cannot pass on any portion of a trait from her father's Y gene, and a son can't pass on anything from his father's X gene. Y linked traits, therefore, would either be present or not, full stop - no recessives. X linked can be recessive, though only in daughters, so you might need to think about it a little more. You might make it work by simply have two or three Y-linked genes (either one, two, three, or one, two, neither), for your three phenotypes, and leave it at that. Having two x-linked traits might almost work with a little tweaking, since boys would have one, the other, or neither (three states), girls could have one or the other, with having neither for the third state - you would have to assume the traits are dominant, and that those inheriting both are simply non-viable and don't survive, or else that will get tricky. Pairings between parents with different traits will simply result in no daughters, as well, but it might be possible after all that. Of course, this is starting from earth humans - if you're building a people, you might make something more workable by tweaking the genetics. Any gene which not going to be matched can eliminate recessives - perhaps your species doesn't need redundant X-chromosomes, allowing for XO to be female (eliminating the possibility of recessives again, they will be expressed or not). Or perhaps there's a different set of genes which goes through a haploid cycle, for whatever reason. Plants, I think, alternate haploid and diploid generations - something like that will eliminate the possibility of recessives, whatever is there will be expressed or it was never present. 

Another plausible explanation for scaling different than inverse-square: extra spatial dimensions. i.e. direction(s) that Elemental stuff can move in that's perpendicular to x, y, and z. Inverse-square scaling happens because the area of a sphere scales with the square of radius. In 4-dimensional space, the analog of a sphere has a 3-D analog of area (actually a volume) that scales with the cube of radius. So if the force (and force-carrying virtual particles) spread out in a 4th spatial dimension, it would scale as $1/r^3$. And you can still use the word "gravity" if you like. Real theories have been proposed with properties like this, especially String Theory's extra dimensions which are "rolled up" / curved back on themselves, which limits the strength of the effect. One proposed effect is/was gravity being slightly weaker than $1/r^2$ over astronomical scales. For this case, presumably it's a dimension that only Elementals can move in, not ordinary matter. So it can have a strong effect on Elementals without affecting normal physics. Perhaps moving in this dimension takes you between worlds, or between elemental planes and Earth. Of course, it's easy to introduce inconsistencies if you aren't careful. (e.g. if there are lots of Elementals only a couple km away, they would exert some pull on Earth's air / water / fire / earth. (Assuming this force affects the inert element with an equal and opposite force to what the Elemental feels, otherwise you're violating conservation of momentum and conservation of energy.) Anyway, safer to just have the force carrying particles / fields spread out into the extra dimension(s), and not have the Elementals able to move along it. Otherwise they could bypass walls by going around them using this extra dimension, and stuff like that.