The question about using mathematics to model economic phenomena is a rather old one dating back to at least the marginal revolution (19th Century). A couple of the key figures of this era were William Stanley Jevons and Leon Walras. I don't aim to provide a complete, or terribly accurate, history, but let's just focus on Walras. In the preface to his Elements of Pure Economics, Walras paints a picture that suggests mathematics is a necessary input (basic ingredient) of economic modelling. He says: 

There's a difference between "free software" and "free software for students studying economics". For example, when I was studying economics at University, the University provided (free) access to software such as Maple, MATLAB, Datastream, and Stata, to mention just a few. These software packages are not free, but to economics students at many Universities, there is free access to all of this software making it free, effectively (to the economics student). As a result, I'd recommend that economics students consult with their instructors to find out what software is being made available to them. The University doesn't pay the licence fees just for kicks. 

In most of Europa the physical price for electricity is determined in day-ahead spot auctions. Essentially it is a free market, where anyone can buy and sell power, given you that you can fulfill the regulation set forth by the different national power exchanges and system operators. This means that every day before 10.00 - 12.00 AM all producers and consumers must have told how much power they wish to sell and buy. From 12.00 and to around 12.42 a number of welfare optimization algorithms are run. After this, the different power area prices are published, along with the supply and demand curves for almost all countries. In essence it is a where supply meets demand. This is complicated a lot by different bid-types, power connections across borders, physical constraints on cables and so on, but you can download the newest curves from Germany and France each day from epex.com if you want. Because there is a lot of competition, you will mostly see power producers selling their power at their marginal costs. Because of subsidies this means that renewable energy sells as low as -300 euro pr. MWh - yes, they actually in some cases pay people to take their product. Nuclear and lignite power is around 10-18 EUR, the comes cheap coal and hydro (depending on season), the more expensive coal, gas and finally oil. From the price you can more or less tell which kind of production is running in any given hour. 

Let's begin by fleshing out what the EViews code is saying. The EViews code says that the variable CLOSE depends on its first difference and there is also an ARMA(3,3) error term included in the model. Supposedly, the ARMA error process is to whiten the residuals, which can be, and has been, argued against as a modelling strategy. It's also worth noting that there is no constant term in the equation. The reference to BACKCAST indicates how the MA process is initialized - the details of which can be found in the EViews documentation. ESTSMPL typically refers to the estimation sample. Having understood the EViews code, the question is now: how does one estimate a linear regression model with ARMA errors using MS-Excel? The easiest solution would be to find an existing add-in that provides this feature. An alternative method would be to write the code yourself using the MS-Excel programming language (VBA). Beware though, what makes this application tricky is the MA term; AR processes are easier to program and more common in certain fields, e.g. VAR models appear more frequently in economics than VARMA models. Another approach, if you are willing to delve into some code, would be to look at some R source code (either base code or from some time-series package) to get a sense of the task ahead if you do decide to program from scratch. Programming this from scratch seems like overkill, though, as this sort of estimation has been around for decades. Why bother if all you're interested in are the estimated parameters and not the underlying routines? It doesn't answer your question, but my advice would be to use R if EViews is not available to you. Or, seek out an MS-Excel add-in that will do the job for you. A useful thread from the EViews forum is here: $URL$ Note: "Estimation, and forecasting of MA processes is complicated, especially when backcasting is used to obtain starting observations for the error terms." Good luck! 

Let's all agree that the use of "thymology" is annyoing and instead call it psychology. Then the answer is easy; Yes, behavioural economics looks specifically at factors that determine choice, and tries to understand what factors influence choice. But, even better - psychology really studies this area! 

Neoclassical economics or rational analysis should always be a starting point for an analysis of how a given system or model works. However, that is all it is - a starting point. You cannot use a model that is solely rational to predict or infer much about how the real world works, because humans are not rational. That is why rational economics are critized, but do not match up with observed behavior. Therefore, any real critique has to show how rational economics do match up with observed behavior. 

Barry Eichengreen is one of my favourites for this period. So, I am just going to let him explain it. From : $URL$ 

They don't include anything. It is the pure price for 1 MWh. Edit. The producers have been paid the tariffs, which lowers their short run marginal costs quite a lot. There has not been added any taxes to the consumers at this point, however. 

Alfred Marshall expresses a similar view with regard to mathematical language being a more efficient tool than words. He says: 

If we now fast-forward to the present day, we see that mathematics is everywhere in economics. Thinking of doing a PhD in Economics? Well, mathematics (and statistics) is going to be served up first - no question about that. So, what can go wrong when using mathematics in economic modelling? The main problem, I believe, is not being able to see the woods for the trees. This point is illustrated in Klemperer (2003) Using and Abusing Economic Theory. In this paper, Klemperer gives the following example: 

Lastly, the OPs question could also be addressed from the viewpoint of econometric methodology, but I'll omit that aspect because there are numerous controversies in econometric modelling. Names to look up would be: Clive Granger, David Hendry, Edward Leamer, Lawrence Klein, Christopher Sims, to just scratch the surface! 

The above quote marks the problems that arise when mathematics is not used in economic modelling. Walras makes a further statement with regard to mathematical language, offering a critique to his predecessors. He says: 

The most obvious answer is: What is the alternative? To do nothing? If you do the best you can - with the best knowledge you have at the time, it is hard to fault people for wanting to change something they think can be done better. Second part - When the Lucas critique was published - it was part of a movement towards micro-economic models - which is great. However, these models where all/mostly based on an assumption of rationality. As behavioural economics have show - homo economicus is a horrible way to model actual human behaviour. Basically, You should use rational assumptions to see how your model behaves in the most simple settings. Then see what happens - stepwise - when you let real-world behaviour influence your models. This was not the aim of the Lucas critique. But it should have been. Also, there is so much inertia in the economic world. It seems that most of the current professors where educated in the 70-80's, and most economic students have to study many years before they meet something else than strict rational assumptions. Or actual just have to stumble out into the real world :) And in the real world there is pressure from the politicians to actual do something about the economy - probably the real answer to your question.