What material – such as polyester, polypropylene or wool – or combination thereof, both works to keep you warm when wet and dries quickly, as an alternative to neoprene? I'm looking for something cheaper and simpler than a dry suit but less restrictive than a wet suit, for paddling in cool but not very cold water. Something you can submerge in and still keep reasonably warm. 

It will depend on whereabouts along the Thames you live but there are many canoe and kayak clubs and water-based outdoor recreation centres around. It is possible to get into it without any training but that's not advisable. Most clubs or centres will have some kind of beginner classes. Just do some searches. Canoes and kayaks don't need to be licensed but many rivers in England often require specific licenses to paddle on. Before enquiring, be clear on the difference between a canoe and a kayak: strictly speaking, canoes are paddled with a single-bladed paddle and kayaks are paddled with a double-bladed paddle. (However, in the UK, "canoe" is often the generic term for both.) Both are fun to paddle, in my opinion, so try them both. Two more things to consider, but later on, after you've got some experience: Inflatable vs hard shell and single vs double. (In open canoes, the latter is known as solo vs tandem.) You and your friend might like to paddle the same boat, but it's a good idea to both try out your techniques in single/solo boats first. 

You may also want to have a ridgeline so that you can pitch your hammock between trees that are farther apart. This could be a good option. 

Rope to attach your webbing to your hammock. Armsteel is gold standard for hammocking setups. It has zero stretch and is super small and light. For convenience, I would strongly recommend a set of Whoopie slings. These are the easiest way to adjust the height of your hammock - no knots required. 

The Claw works great in mud and sand, although on harder surfaces, I sometimes had trouble getting it to grab. How much scope? How much rope or chain do I need? Typically, if you are using chain, you need to use 3 feet of chain for every foot of depth. In your case this would mean 30 feet, if the water is 10 feet deep, and 60 feet, if the water is 20 feet deep. If you are using rope, you need to us a 7 to 1 ratio. The key is that you don't want to pull up on the anchor, you want to pull it a long the bottom. Setting your anchor 

Webbing or Tree Straps - These are critical so that your rope doesn't damage the trees that you are hanging from. You probably don't want to use webbing between your hammock and the tree, because it will stretch and your hammock will become lower over the night. 

You did not say whether you were going downhill skiing or cross-country. The difference is significant: When downhill skiing you are being carried uphill each time between runs and so are not generating much of your own heat and so are not going to sweat much. You are also never very far from warm shelter where, if you feel cold, you can usually (a) consume hot food and drink and (b) blow hot air into your (temporarily empty) gloves and boots. Thus, so long as you have enough clothing to keep you warm, it needn't be "thermal". In fact, it is even safe to wear (the dreaded) cotton next to your skin. I do. When cross-country skiing -- or snow-shoeing or winter hiking -- you must propel yourself up every hill and doing so can generate much heat and cause sweating or giving off moist air. Because you are going to be relatively far from shelter, it is critical that you have "thermal" underwear and breathable outer shell that helps keep you warm and dry. Synthetics or merano wool will do. 

There are some very crude outdoor compasses which tell us the direction of true north (and assume we can estimate angles from north). The following also assume we're in the northern hemisphere. A sun-stick-shadow compass: If the sun shines, place a vertical stick in the ground. Every 15 minutes or so, mark the end of the stick's shadow. The line of shadow marks will lie in a west-to-east direction. And if you happen to do this at mid-day, the very shortest shadow points south. A crescent moon compass: A morning moon looking like this "(" will have its bulge pointing east and an evening moon looking like this ")" will have its bulge pointing west. And the moon will be roughly in the south. More accurately, south is where a line joining the "horns" of the crescent extends down to and meets the horizon. The pole star compass: On a clear night the star called Polaris is virtually exactly pointing north. (Not part of the question but useful to know: the elevation angle of Polaris above the horizon is your latitude.) 

Interactions with other boaters This is probably the top thing that I would consider when anchoring. Key questions include: 

Drop it in the water where you want it to catch. Slowly backup your boat, spooling out line/chain. Don't drop lots of rope or chain at once, because you risk tangling it When you have reached a reasonable scope, stop letting out rope/chain and use your engine to reverse on your anchor. Your anchor should be as strong as your engine. Enjoy Fireworks 

What anchor? I have personally had good experiences with both personally Bruce Claw Anchors and Danforth anchors. More info. 

If you want to get Webbing & Whoopie set, this is a good option. Note: All links and Images take from Dutchware's site. I am not affiliated with them but did purchase a set of whoopie slings that I was very satisfied with. Note 2: Stay away from any kind of climbing or boat rope. Even if they are marked as 'will not stretch' - they will. Rope stretch for the purposes of hammocking, is different than other uses. 

Planning a camping trip for next weekend. It is looking like it may be the end of winter. We have about a foot of snow right now. What problems am I going to run into if the weather is above zero and/or we get some rain? Anyone have any tips on staying comfortable, happy and dry? So far on my list: