Therefore, Buddhism accepts there are differences or diversity in nature and, as a result, extends tolerance, non-hatred & non-violence towards diversity. For example: 

In summary, ideas about reincarnation are completely incompatible with not-self. They are completely different teachings. 'Not-self' is for enlightenment & reincarnation is a teaching to keep ordinary people (puthujjana) moral. These two teachings & their purpose are clearly delineated in MN 117, which states: 

What is important above is "themes & details". What this means is if you are man and a voluptuous woman is walking towards you, you, for example: 

For example, imagine a person who clings to the precept of non-killing; believing in vegetarianism. If this person does not have sufficient wisdom, when they experience animals killed for food or people eating meat, they suffer. This persons gets angry or otherwise unhappy. This unhappiness, anger, suffering & experiencing what is undesirable is what the Pali suttas call "hell". 

Therefore, a 'kappam' or 'kalpa' is not always calculated in the same way. Sometimes a 'kalpa' ('period of time') is very short. 

The way to speed up samadhi is to practise according to the instructions, which are to use 'letting go' ('the giving up of craving', called 'vossagga') as the meditation object. 

Pleased to meet you Robert. It is very difficult to answer your question precisely however it is certainly likely/probable that practicing the meditation & the accompanying mental solitude is digging/bringing up something (i.e., a disposition or mental tendency) buried deep inside your mind. I doubt you are doing anything wrong. As said, the mental solitude & quietude of meditation will bring things up, including existential fear. This is generally related to the ego diminishing, which in the beginning will generally be somewhat traumatic. Even when the mind becomes increasingly calm, such as from Anapanasati, a certain threshold of calmness may threaten the (conditioned) ego, resulting in fear arising. Such fear may not be explicitly related to your personal childhood experiences because such existential fear is a normal event when "crossing-over". Some meditators use an old Christian mysticism phrase for this existential fear, namely, 'Dark Night of the Soul'. However, that your mind projects this existential fear into ideas of being abandoned by people may possibly relate to your childhood experiences & underlying fear of aloneness. I offer the following suggestions: 

The Pali suttas are silent on the matter of homosexuality. The matter of homosexuality is only mentioned in the monk's Vinaya, where certain types of ex-homosexuals (but not all) are forbidden from ordaining as a monk. Further, homosexuality does not fall into the definition of 'sexual misconduct', which essentially is having sex with individuals who are in existing relationships (such as having sex with another person's husband or wife or with a child/teenager still living in the care of their parents). It follows homosexuality itself is not a 'sin' or 'transgression' in original Buddhism. 

My understanding is the 3rd frame of reference (cittanupassana) does not involve observing thoughts (vitakka). It involves knowing whether the mind-heart (citta) is defiled or not. Defilements (kilesa) are not thoughts. Although there can be 'defiled thoughts', 'defilements' (kilesa) are the energy/drive/mood of greed, hatred & delusion, which are not thoughts. For example, when there is sexual lust, anger or fear, the energy or vibrations that runs through & simulates the physical body with lust, anger or fear, giving rise to all kinds of physical reactions & tensions, is not 'thought'. The teaching about the 3rd frame of reference does not mention thoughts. It states: 

I think it is more accurate to refer to "wrong concentration" rather than "too much concentration" because right concentration is a factor of the path. Wrong concentration is pushing the mind with too much effort/craving. Where as right concentration is lead by right understanding (per MN 117). Is like have some rocks near a cliff that need to be disposed of. Wrong concentration & wrong effort are taking a hammer & smashing up the rocks. Its hard work. Where as right effort is simply pushing the rocks off the cliff and right concentration is watching the rocks fall off the cliff. Right effort is the effort to let go, which arises from right understanding of & faith in the four noble truths, which explain letting go is the way to end suffering. Right concentration is the clear stable aware mind arising from letting go. Of course, there must be the constant mindfulness (non-forgetfulness) to engage this path of letting go. This is how the five faculties interact in noble path meditation. SN 48.10 states: 

It sounds depressing if it is believed & further misinterpreted the misinterpretations of Buddhism that are read. 

Quit meditating. Do the therapy, which is hopefully a kind of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) where you learn to rationally reflect/think that there is nothing to fear. This is similar to the Buddhist technique called 'wise reflection' ('yoniso manasikara'). If you decide to meditate again, meditate at a good competent Dharma centre with a group of people. I always recommend meditating with others is the best way to start meditation. The group vibe is helpful to reduce or remove anxiety. Also, hopefully meeting trustworthy reliable friends provides a necessary social support. Do not use recorded guided meditations when alone because these can take the mind deeper than the mind is prepared for. In general, avoid all guided meditations (including in Dharma centres) that go beyond the mere basics of letting go of thoughts & observing the breathing. Any guided meditation that seeks to diminish the ego or observe emptiness, space or clear light should be avoided. 

Obviously this does not mean promotion of the Dhamma in public places or the Internet to vast audiences because the Dhamma teaching principles are explained in many places, such as: 

For sotapanna, the mind must know the absence of craving & attachment is peacefulness and liberation. Here, the mind will have no doubt about the Teachings, will not cling to unnecessary rules and will know 'self' is not anything real. For sotapanna (noble disciple), the luminous citta must be experienced. The Pali suttas say: 

From a Buddhist perspective, it is not wrong 'to wish' you could die. However, Buddhist principles would encourage you to be cognisant of that wish and view it merely as a wish & passing emotion (rather than act upon that wish). Endure the wish, be cognisant of the wish, embrace the wish, let those emotions flow out. Personally, I feel much empathy towards the honesty expressed in the question because, although I am personally not suffering, I view life a lot like in the question. While I do not wish to negate or belittle your suffering, what you are going through is very common. I have spent the last two years helping a lady through this. I have been through similar existential disillusionment. The Buddha expressed enlightenment & liberation in many ways, including as: "revulsion towards the entire world" (somewhere). However, it takes a fair amount of existential endurance & lengthy practice to reach such composure. 

The Pali should be translated as "body fabricator". MN 44 defines the body fabricator as the breathing in & out. Calming the kaya sankhara means calming the breathing. That simple. The breathing is calmed by observing it; that is; by abandoning craving so the mind become clear & naturally observant. 

Most importantly, regardless of how the words 'birth' ('jati') & the myriad terms translated as 'rebirth' are interpreted, the most salient feature of Buddhist rebirth is it is always connected to the results of kamma (actions), i.e., productive of happiness ('heaven') & unhappiness ('hell'). To quote a stock phrase: 

The teaching attributed to the Buddha of 'there can only be one self-enlightened Buddha in a world-system (lokadhātuyā)' is found in the Bahudhātuka Sutta of the Majjhima Nikaya, which states: 

It will be your fault when you perform certain actions rather than because of how you are. The phrase "the way I am" has no relevance in Buddhism. What is relevant is the manner & quality of your actions towards others. 

Yes, Buddhism is another fairy tale but only for puthujjana (the blind masses). Refer again to Dhammapada 174. 

The ultimate Buddhist practise is letting go or non-attachment (refer to Culatanhasankhaya Sutta). Selfless or unselfish acts, such as washing the family dishes, contribute to a mind that can let go. When the Buddha spoke of mindfulness, concentration, etc, he referred to qualities of mind that have the quality of 'letting go' or 'vossagga': 

The Dhammapada states the heedless are as if dead already. The Buddha remained silent when asked would he save all sentient beings. The last chapter of the SN states all beings who do not realise the 4NTs will take rebirth in hell (dukkha). The Dhammapada compares the people of the world to a rubbish heap. If there was a next life, those who do not reach stream-entry in this life would not get closer to Nibbana in a future life because no amount of morality alone can result in stream-entry. I have not read any suttas where the Buddha taught puthujjana laypeople they might reach Nibbana in future lives. The Buddha did not teach about Nibbana to puthujjana laypeople. In his loving-kindness, the Buddha generally taught laypeople if they do good kamma they will have a 'heavenly' ('happy') 'rebirth'. He did not teach them after eons in heaven they will be reborn in hell. 

In my opinion, the inferred "conventional truth" referred to above is not really a complete "truth" because, as stated, it is not "characterizing dhammas as they really are." Instead, it is a worldly interpretation that maintains the worldly (moral & kammic) efficacy or truth of those teachings. Here, the 'neyyattha' appears to particularly refer to the 'rebirth' teachings. Ordinary people read words such as 'birth' ('jati'); 'death' ('marana'); 'worlds' ('loka') & 'kaya' ('body'; 'collection'; 'group') & immediately 'infer' a physical meaning (instead of examining how these words are actually defined & used in the supramundane suttas). However, as stated, when ordinary people use 'neyyattha', the karmic efficacy or reality (truth) is retained, namely, it is correctly understood kamma (intentional action) made in the present has a future consequence or result. That ordinary people believe there will be consequences after the termination of life does not change the efficacy of those teachings because those teachings were given, not for the purpose of enlightenment, but for the purpose of nurturing non-harming, morality or 'merit' (as stated in MN 117). 

That 'sambodhāya' is translated as 'enlightenment' or 'awakening' is irrelevant to the question because the question wrongly assumes 'Nibbana' is darkness, death & annihilation. 

I doubt sharing things is a transgression of the 2nd precept; otherwise how could we practise generosity? I would be more concerned about the kamma of selling the Dhamma for money since the Pali suttas state the Dhamma should be taught with "benevolence" & given (freely) as a "gift". 

Appamada cannot be practised without wisdom. 1st, one requires a data base of wisdom (right views). 2nd, one is vigilant, watchful or careful (appamada) to not transgress that wisdom data base. Here, mindfulness (sati) is required. Sati is required to 'bring to mind' whichever of those wisdoms is relevant to whatever situations. Therefore, without quoting the suttas, I would guess appamada refers to the preventative aspect of sati-sampajjana (mindfulness & situational wisdom) that particularly engages in the 1st (preventative) effort of the noble eightfold path. For example, there is the sutta about the dancing queen and the man walking with the pot of oil balanced on his head. Here, the man is instructed to practise heedfulness to avoid getting his head chopped-off by an executioner in the event he looks at the dancing queen. This sutta highlights 'appamada' as preventative (even though such prevention will naturally provide a foundation for the 'developmental'). 

Anapanasati, when performed correctly, develops both samatha (tranquility) & insight (vipassana) together. In the majority of discourses in the Pali suttas, Anapanasati is recommended as a complete system of meditation, where samatha (tranquility) & insight (vipassana) are developed in tandem. There cannot really be different kinds of meditation, when meditation is practised correctly & successfully. The reason for this is because when attention & concentration are properly developed, insight will naturally occur as an automatic result. But if concentration is practised incorrectly, such as by suppressing & forcing the mind, insight will not occur and the samatha that occurs will be unclear & drowsy. Similarly, if the Burmese 'insight' techniques can be practised successfully, true insight will lead to the mind's hindrances/defilements/thoughts stopping, which will result in the mind automatically developing concentration. This is why the Dhammapada states there can be no concentration without insight & no insight without concentration. 

In other words, the Buddha did not teach about "reincarnation" or "physical rebirth". However, if modern science discovers reincarnation is true, it will then contradict the teachings of the Buddha. 

The Pali here is asatiamanasikāro. Based on the translation of the monk Sujato, 'asati' (which often has a completely different meaning) means 'to forget' (i.e., non-mindful) and 'amanasikāro' naturally means 'non-attention' or 'to ignore'. Sujato translates: 

In my opinion, the sutra has no hidden or mysterious purpose. Instead, in my opinion, the sutra is a product of 'bright delusion' or 'white darkness'. The sun provides light to enable people to see. But if people look directly at the sun, their eyes become 'blinded by the light'. Similarly, certain states of samadhi or concentration give rise to 'bright delusion' or 'white darkness' The temporary liberation of the illusion of 'non-conceptuality' gives rise to the conception that non-conception is liberation; similar to how, before his enlightenment, teachers of the Buddha regarded the sphere of 'nothingness' as Nibbana. In my opinion, there is no such thing as non-perception or non-conception (unless in nirodha sampatti, which is a state of samadhi induced unconsciousness). If something can be experienced & described, it has been perceived & conceived. In MN 43, it is said: "wisdom & consciousness are co-joined". Yet the Heart Sutra declares there is 'no cognition'. If there was 'no cognition', such 'non-cognition' must be cognised for there to be the cognition that there is 'no cognition'. The Pali version of Buddha defines sunnata as 'empty of self'. Yet Nargujana appears to have defined shunyata as 'empty of inherent existence'. Nargujana regarded Nirvana & samsara as the same, thus appearing to negate both. Therefore, in my opinion, the sutra has no hidden purpose. Instead, the sutra is an idiosyncratic conception about (a 'non-existent') enlightenment since it appears to conform with the conceptualizations (philosophy) of Nargajuna.