As for the Abbasid Caliph, the siege of Baghdad is well-documented, so I'll just end with a short quote, from same source (above), page 131: 

Development of the Modern Gun First, the the modern gun was developed specifically around this period, late-15th century: 

Mid-15th century: Guns from Europe, not China Second, one key element of the question "... (why) did the the Tartar-Mongols lose access to firearms ...?" The short answer is, they never had it in the first place, because guns (the instrument itself, not gunpowder) were developed in China and Europe, and it was improved dramatically in the latter (Europe) during mid-15th century (a few decades just before the standoff at Ugra River): 

For an interesting recent book on pathways/roads of Celts, see Graham Robb, 'The Ancient Paths: Discovering the Lost Map of Celtic Europe' (Picador, 2013). Reviewed by The Guardian and NYT. 

In brief (but over-simplified) terms, as to why he is considered a founder of Western philosophy, he lived during the ancient era and Socrates' philosophical ideas have been research/followed by subsequent generation of philosophers. For instance, his descendants are known as the Socratics (the previous link part of Lectures on the History of Philosophy by Hegel) . In terms of contribution -- ethics, epistemology, politics (cf. Spinoza) -- all are extremely important subject-matters which form the foundation of modern civil society. If you are really interested, this book traces Socrates' work to modern times: From the Socratics to the Socratic Schools: Classical Ethics, Metaphysics and Epistemology (2015). 

The answer to this question lies in a combination of two things: a certain level of specificity (i.e. details) and, by simple happenstance, why the Rus' had guns whilst the (Tartar)-Mongols did not. On details: Specifically, the question is on guns (not fire-bombs, fire-lance, etc.) and Great Horde (not Golden Horde). On timing: The standoff at Ugra River in 1480. I will try to answer this: "Why then, many years later, did the Mongols lose access to firearms and gunpowder weapons, while their subject Russians gained them?" (last sentence by OP). 

Private Property Again, back to OP's intent in the question, I believe what OP meant to research on is not just how societies functioned without fiat money, but also how they were compensated (e.g. for their effort). This begs the next question, what if these societies did not understand (hence, did not practice) the concept of private property? In economic history, private property is considered crucial to the development of modern economic society (and the Industrial Revolution). Conveniently, we can point to John Locke (1634 - 1704), as the one who helped us (modern society) identify the value of private property. So, how did the Romans, Assyrians, Mongols - (name your tribal culture) - get paid before Locke? Now we get into legal theory, what is private property? 

Muhammad ibn Yusuf ibn Nasr (1195–1273) is also known as 'al-Ahmar' because of his clan name, Banu al-Ahmar. Hence, the Nasrid dynasty is also referred to as Banu Nasr or Banu al-Ahmar. You can see this here: 

SOURCE: Asian migration to Australia: food and health consequences., Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2002;11 Suppl 3:S562-8. Full-text available (pdf). 

Longer Explanation: This is one of those seemingly simple, yet elusive, questions. Allow me to start with two simple definitions: 

source: The Papacy and Christian Mercenaries of Thirteenth-Century North Africa, Speculum (Volume 89, Number 3 | July 2014), p. 601. It wasn't just captured soldiers as slaves but also voluntary service - same source, p. 607: 

What could have caused the increase in witchtrials during the Middle Ages? (not asked, but I'm presuming this is of interest). A few reasons, well-documented in Witchcraft in Europe, 400-1700: A Documentary History -- Alan Charles Kors, Edward Peters, University of Pennsylvania Press, 2001. I will go with Little Ice Age, as one of the major factor. Scientific analysis and correlation (not causation) with witchtrials is published here: Witchcraft, Weather and Economic Growth in Renaissance Europe, Journal of Economic Perspectives, Winter 2004. From the abstract: 

SOFT/HARD APPROACH or (INTERNAL VS EXTERNAL) An experienced martial artist will always prefer the soft/internal approach (i.e. without weapons). This is especially true when the opponent does not have a weapon as well. The logic of this is a bit difficult to explain and it is going to sound too exotic for practical minds but the idea of fighting/defending by using Chinese martial arts stems from Chinese Philosophy and Chinese Medicine. So, for instance, Taijiquan (also known as T'ai chi) - a well-known art form - is in fact part and parcel of Traditional Chinese Medicine, in particular Nurturing Life (yang-shen). Hence, the preference is always not to kill but to disarm (incapacitate), yet still win the fight. In the case of ranged weapons, it will more likely than not kill, so it might not be used even if one is available. There is an old Chinese weapon, the ge or dagger-axe, it is in fact an ideal weapon for aristocrats (martial artists) because it has range (like a pole) but it is not real ranged weapon (a spear). It was a traditional multi-purpose weapon that has both long and short-range. In modern times, it has fallen to disuse because it is generally not well-understood in modern fighting, p. 18: 

Source: Rome: An Empire's Story (Oxford, 2013), p.218 and p. 222, respectively. (On sources, as per your request in comments) The main sources of (classical) history of Roman Britain should include R. G. Collingwood from 1923, and less old but still excellent, both 1981, Roman Britain by Peter Salway (Oxford) and Roman Britain by Malcolm Tood (Fontana); both books excellently reviewed together by the LRB (worth a read). The latter was also editor of A Companion to Roman Britain (Blackwell, 2004). 

The only answer, at this point, is: we don't know. We don't know because they are competing models to explain how indigenous Malays (Proto-Malays) arrived at Island Southeast Asia (ISEA). The original hypothesis was Out of Taiwan by Peter Bellwood, in his book: "Prehistory of the Indo-Malaysian Archipelago" (University of Hawaii Press, 1997). His original hypothesis rested mainly on linguistics, namely, the Austronesian family language, and because of population pressure from agriculture (agrarian expansion). Since then he has released a revised 2007 edition, with updates to cover more ground, and freely available as ebook now. Since then, there's been other hypotheses, not based on agrarian but fisher-forage-trader culture and via southwest China (Yunnan?), into Vietnam, Thailand, and finally Peninsular Malaysia. Research from genetic, archaeological and linguistic analysis are inconsistent. This diagram might help, left (new hypothesis) vs right (Out-of-Taiwan). I have kept title of article and explanatory notes: 

(I know Lars Bosteen has provided an answer but in the interest of completing this answer, I've provided a slight update.) This is two questions rolled into one: 

For an average reader (meaning unfamiliar to the topic), with the additional issue of unvetted and speculative sources, the idea of learning history from popular books is not recommended, i.e. should not buy popular books to learn history. Having said this, there are many popular books that are written by respected historians, archaeologist, etc. But you would have to know this author is in fact a respected historian (or archaeologist). 

At page 2, under British free trade, foreign economic policy and imperialism, this would be closer to your question: 

Starting at p. 138, under The Dorian hypothesis, Middleton walks through 3 different theories of origin: 

Given that you require a historical backdrop (your comments) and the year is 1478, I believe you can get more historical info by focusing on the last years of King Matthias Corvinus (a decent map there, Wikipedia). Also, find below an actual map and some basic info of Ottoman expansion in Europe during this period, from The Cambridge History of Turkey. This is from Vol.2: Ottoman Empire as a World Power, 1453–1603 (Cambridge University Press, 2013), at p.21 - emphasis mine: 

The result of this was not just different language but something as basic as food - which still persist today (in terms of preference and staple diet): 

If it was stated this way, it should clearer, that Chinese historiography during the early years did not progress smoothly, with big and inconsistent gaps when the official history was finally adopted. Longer answer: The longer answer is Chinese historiography during the early years went through substantial changes in approach, philosophy, etc. A few points about the key texts in question: First, the 2 books on Han dynasty, Book of Han (by Ban Gu, referring to Western Han & Wang Mang) and Books of the Later Han (by Fan Ye, refering to Eastern Han) are actually mostly from Ban Gu. Fan Ye's Book of the Later Han is, in part, based on the work of Ban Gu, i.e. from Dongguan Hanji (東觀漢記). Second, Ban Gu, the historian for Han period, was imprisoned and died (92 CE) before he could complete his work, i.e., complete his unified Han Dynasty history. His sister, Ban Zhao, helped complete the Book of Han -- the Wikipedia entry shows this. Finally, to understand the context of Chen Shou's work, Record of the Three Kingdoms, it is better to see it as a very basic work (not really good enough as historiography) and needed Pei Songzhi to help complete it, see: Annotations to Records of the Three Kingdoms.