This strategy looks like an emulation of the effect of a slingshot, a device which mainly sees use with people benching heavier weights (300+). I have not used this device, but I've spoken with users and they recommended it, mainly for dealing with shoulder injuries. When a shoulder injury occurs, especially for people benching these sorts of weights, it becomes difficult to do heavy reps as part of a workout, and the shoulder injury can become the limiting factor rather than the person's strength. According to the about section of the linked website, the slingshot (and presumably the band) 

Cold cut meats (Turkey, ham, chicken) - These types of meats all will provide you with a lot of protein, while very low in fat and calories. Throwing them into a sandwich can be a great way to include some carbs as well; just make sure not to go too heavy on the mayo. Eggs - A couple eggs a day provides many nutrients and protein, if you're looking to eat more than that, you may want to consider egg whites to avoid consuming too much cholesterol. Red meats - While these have more fat than the cold cut meats, in your effort to gain weight you don't need to be as concerned with fat. Fish - Another great source of protein and very low in fat. Greek yogurt, skim milk - These types of dairy products provide protein without the fat of regular yogurt or whole milk. Beans - Certain types of beans (soy, kidney, white, lima) have lots of protein. Nuts - While generally higher in fat, these still provide great protein benefits. 

Well, first of all, I'm sorry to get to this so late, as with less than a month left it will likely be difficult to gain much from any sort of exercises. That being said, the best type of exercise for adjustment of this sort would be running, ideally with a sauna visit directly afterwards to simulate the dry environment. Running serves two purposes here. The first is to strengthen your leg muscles, in an effort to make motion easier for your body. Easing the effort of actions like walking will help with the transition, as if your body is stressed you will be more likely to experience the noted symptoms. The second purpose of running is to induce fatigue, so as to make the sauna trip more effective. If you can get adjusted to a very dry, hot sauna, while fatigued, then the new country should feel comfortable in comparison, which will also help with the symptoms. While exercising in this manner may help, you will still experience these symptoms to some degree after the move. My recommendation unrelated to exercise is to find a nasal spray and moisturizer you like, and then make use a habit. With such a short time until the move, these items will probably be your most effective tools. 

In regards to before the workout, you will want to eat something; the question is whether to eat a full breakfast or a smaller snack. The Mayo Clinic recommends to leave enough time in the morning to finish your breakfast an hour before you begin your workout, and if that time allotment fits into your schedule, eat a normal to small sized breakfast. If you're waking up closer to 7AM, and don't have that free hour, eating something small like a granola bar, english muffin, or fruit will help you to avoid the feelings of sluggishness and queasiness that a large breakfast brings close to a workout. If you go the snack route, you can follow that up with another snack or small breakfast after your workout to help give your body energy for the day. If you have something now that you eat between the end of your workout and dinner, you will be fine to move that to the time between the end of your workout and work. Now that you'll already have worked out by the time you get to work, you'll likely be more hungry throughout the day, and bringing in snacks can help with that. Whereas before you were timing your eating to be ready to workout at the end of the day, you'll now be ending work around dinner time, and so you'll have to figure out what works for you in terms of when to eat during the day. Another difference with a morning workout is you'll feel the aftereffects (soreness, tiredness, etc.) while you are at work, and so you may want to structure your day in a way that allows you some breaks throughout to move around and stretch. I've found that taking a quick 5 minute walk and stretching every couple hours is extremely beneficial when trying to remain focused for long periods of time at work. Lastly, adequate sleep will be of more importance now, both to ensure you have a successful workout and to make sure you don't sleep too late and miss it. You're used to working out at night, when you have the whole day to ward off those morning feelings of sleepiness. Especially at the beginning, its going to be more difficult to get yourself to the gym, and not sleeping enough only makes that harder. One thing I've found helpful is to prepare all your clothes and snacks for the next day the night before. Its far easier to wake up, eat, then workout, than to wake up, eat, make lunch, look for work clothes, look for workout clothes, make sure you didn't forget anything in your tired morning state, and then go to the gym. Best of luck with the new job, its great that you're finding a way to keep up your routine with the new hours! 

If sticking to body weight exercises, I see your strategy as the best way to work the muscles you are aiming for. If you're willing to branch out into relatively basic equipment, resistance bands will allow for a less risky workout and better isolation of the muscle. With the band, you could tie it around the bottom of a rack or something similarly sturdy, and then line up to the side of it, wrap the band around your foot, and work on twisting your foot away from the rack. This strategy would allow for you to be balanced while exercising, and also allow for a range of difficulty depending on how taut you make the band at the initial position. For a lower impact exercise like this one, you could really do it every day if you wanted, to get into the routine of it, and a few sets of 20-30 reps should be good for the strength you are looking for. If you decide to use a band and are using a weaker one, you could always increase the reps, as while skiing this is a motion you conduct a lot. 

Generally, you should identify which exercise is more in line with your goals, and do that one first. For instance, as rowers, my team will row first, and lift after. This allows us to perform the row at 100%, while the lift, performed while tired, lacks some intensity and focus. In your case, it would seem like lifting is more in line with your goals, as you don't state a desire to improve cardio capacity, only to lose weight and make muscle gains. By lifting first, you will maximize the amount of muscle you gain, and can adjust to any decreased cardio intensity with a diet change. In the reverse scenario, you wouldn't be able to adjust your diet to make up for a reduced lifting intensity. Another factor the order depends on is the general intensity of your cardio work. Above, I'm assuming it tires you out enough that it would impact your ability to lift; however, this may not be the case. If you feel that you can still perform the lift at full capacity after cardio, then the cardio could serve as a great warm-up for the lift, and you might be better off doing cardio first. 

It's not easy to change your running style, and you will have to focus on it for a while. In time, the change will begin to feel natural, and you can transition back to focusing more on your speed, but for the time being you will need to focus to induce a change. 

To help keep your eyes in top shape, there's a large number of exercises you can do while working on electronic screens. I grabbed these ideas from some quick research 

Based on the FitBit website, it appears that the device goes to great lengths to solely detect steps, rather than other motion: 

Yes, its theoretically possible. Are you going to be able to do it? No. It looks like you're deciding to, at the same time, start cutting calories, add in cardio, and begin weightlifting. Even with a will of steel, you aren't going to have the energy to add in these new activities once you're on a deficit. Instead, start by maintaining your current diet, and adding in the cardio and weightlifting. See how you handle this. You may feel weak; if you need to add 250-500 calories a day, you can do so, and still maintain a deficit. Over time, as you become accustomed to these activities, you can begin to drop your daily caloric intake. A strategy like this is especially important as you have long term goals, ones which could not be reached by busting your ass for a week on the plan you drafted. With these changes, you'll only see a loss of a pound or so a week to start, but as you become more accustomed to the lifestyle changes you can work to bring that number to 2+. The most important thing here is to set yourself on a maintainable track where you can continue to lose weight for a while, as this is how you will drop those 42 pounds. 

Your strategy depends on whether you're looking to put on muscle, or just general weight. If you're looking to simply become heavier, its pretty simple; you just need to eat more calories than you're burning. Since you're exercising with it, however, it looks like you're looking to gain muscle mass. The most important part to gaining muscle mass will be eating an adequate amount of protein throughout the day. You should shoot for something like 1.8g/kg, as this ratio will allow your body to make the most of your workouts in terms of muscle gains. You'll want to eat enough carbs to give you the energy to effectively do your workouts; if you're doing cardio work that amount will be higher. 60-70% of your daily calories (every carb is 4 calories) should come from carbohydrates if you're looking to gain weight. Cutting out deserts and fast foods will help to ensure that a significant portion of the weight you put on will be muscle, as these strategies will help keep your total Calorie intake from ballooning too high. There's a number of different types of food which will work well for your goals; I'll list some here, but really anything that fits into the mold of high protein and lower fat/calories will suit your goals. 

While I agree with Greg, I did some digging and came up with this information: An extra 400 milligrams of sodium in your body results in a 2-pound weight increase. Now, to me, this statistic is questionable, as the author does not site a source, and 2 pounds seems like a lot for that amount, but I cannot find any other discussion which offers a number, so take from it what you will. If you are really curious, conduct a test yourself, where you maintain a constant diet for a couple days taking frequent weight measurements, then add some sodium to the diet and take more measurements. While this might not be exact, it will be adjusted to your body type, and will give you the best idea of how your body responds to additional sodium. Make sure to hydrate well before starting the experiment, as all the sources I came across say fulfilling your hydration needs results in a loss of the excess water weight, and so this would allow you a clean slate from which to gather results. 

As noted in the comments, increasing your Theraband repetitions and doing more archery will both be beneficial in strengthening your upper lats. To supplement this training, however, I recommend incorporating weighted exercises as well. Using the adjustable tricep pulldown machine found at many gyms, you can set up an exercise which closely mimics that of archery. If you adjust the pulley so that it falls in line under your shoulder where the bow would go, you can line up facing the machine, and then do weighted pullbacks. You can also do a pullback and hold, just like you would with archery. The increased weight will help you to more quickly gain the strength you need to shoot off arrows for an entire day. 

You will gain weight by eating more calories than you take in. Right now, it appears that you are eating healthy, lower calories foods, and due to this even with your large intake you still come out even. While its very reasonable to put on weight with the amount of cardio you are doing, right now your diet is preventing any gains. Keeping a log can be a great way to identify the actual amount of calories you eat during the day. You can also use this log to track protein, although from the foods you eat it sounds as though you get plenty. Once you have a number that represents your average, try adding 500-1000 to it each day, preferably with high carb foods, as it looks like thats a weak point in your diet. One way you could do this is to cook up a large bowl of pasta after your workout each day. Once you start eating more, you may also find you have more energy during your lifting sessions, which will allow for more intense workouts, and thereby more gains in musculature. Generally healthy eaters have a good sense of how much they should eat in a day, and find it difficult to go beyond that amount. Eating enough to put on weight will require you to potentially eat more than you'll feel comfortable with, and types of foods which may not be ones generally recognized as 'healthy' for a diet. The log will help assure you that you are indeed eating the correct amount to gain muscle, and not overeating in a manner which will lead to fat gain. 

They website makes mention of a 3-axis accelerometer used for detection - this tool, in conjunction with the "finely tuned algorithm", make it unlikely that kayaking will register as steps, especially where the kayaking motion is "smaller" than most steps. It appears that this is the case, as vidstige documented in his answer. If you're looking to have the kayaking register, a normal pedometer, with a 1-axis accelerometer, would likely work better, as it will log most motion rather than calculating whether that motion was a step. 

You've acknowledged that it is a mental barrier you are facing. The most effective strategy here is going to be to break through it mentally. You say you "usually for some reason...just get off", well, in all honesty, my advice is simply to not get off. Recognize when you are approaching this point that there will be pressure from your body to stop, then respond to that and continue to push forward. With endurance exercises, mental fitness is a much larger component of ability than with weightlifting. Training your mind to recognize points of greater and greater fatigue as your breaking point can usually be just as effective, to a point, as increasing your physical fitness. Once you begin to push through this 15 minute point on a regular basis, you'll find it easier to push through, and will move on to a later breaking point for the run. For how you can help yourself decide to push through, my strongest recommendation is to find a person or group to run with. Competition makes it much easier to reach your physical limits, as its much harder to give up when you see others continuing onward. Another option, as Chris mentioned, is to incorporate other exercises right after 15 minutes, as a way to prove to yourself you have energy left. If one day you run for 15 minutes, then bike for another 10 right after, the next time you run you will be more aware of the remaining energy you have at the end of 15 minutes, and can use that knowledge to push on. 

They list the sluggishness caused by eating as the primary reason for this wait. If you have reasons to worry about heart disease, research studies show that exercising soon after a heavy dinner is best, as it helps to clear your arteries. Depending on the reason for your exercise, this may weigh more heavily on which time you choose. In summary, if you're exercising to improve in a particular area, you should wait until whatever time you are capable of performing your exercise at full capacity. If you are exercising for general fitness, then exercise whenever works best, with a preference for soon after the workout if you ate a large, fatty meal. As always, the most important thing is that you are exercising, and the time you choose to do so is a secondary issue. 

I did some quick research, and it appears your best bet is the Zephyr HxM monitor. Most of the apps which it lists as compatible should work with your version of android, as should the Bluetooth connection. To be sure about compatibility, I recommend calling or emailing Zephyr before you purchase, as I could not find specific requirements listed anywhere, although some statements implied it should work on android 2.x and later.