I agree that the 60 gram shake is a little excessive, but I would argue that a 40g shake is an appropriate serving size depending on your body composition and activity level. As for the timing of your meal, I'd say you could benefit more from this shake if you had it immediately after training instead of first thing in the morning. The only reason I do not suggest the shake first thing in the morning is that ideally you'd have a slower absorbing protein and carbohydrates in the morning. Many people drink protein shakes first thing in the morning, and do perfectly fine. It is a better choice than skipping breakfast. 

I am a big fan of www.fitday.com. It has lots of foods in it already where you can set the portion. You can also enter custom foods right from the nutrition label of whatever you want. My favorite part of fitday is the pie chart that shows the percentage of calories from fat, carbs, and protein. That's why I use fitday to write diets for competitors...love the pie chart. 

She's probably just not as developed neurologically as some of the other kids. Drills for quick foot work is what she'll need to work on the most. She'll need to practice with lots of repetition on a daily basis to show marked improvement if other girls her age seem to be preforming above her skill set right now. If you have a wall she can kick the soccer ball against over and over, she'll be able to get a lot of practice in that way. You can play with her sort of like racket ball, with a soccer ball. That's probably the easiest way to get her interested in working on it. Of course any old school foot ball drills would be the number one way to improve footwork. Ball and Chain, Karaoke, high knees, but kicks, skipping, and bounding. They're tough to explain in words, but they're pretty standard drills that you shouldn't have trouble finding video of on line. 

If your goal is only to gain weight on the scale, then I agree that you need to eat more calories. However, I imagine you would like to gain muscle rather than fat. In that case, it matters very much whether it comes from protein, carbs, or fat. It would help to know how much you weigh, and how much weight you want to gain. Also if you're exercising by doing cardio and/or lifting weights. In regards to your diet... Chicken, peanut butter, roast beef, cheese, and coconut are not interchangeable. Chicken and roast beef are proteins. Peanut butter, coconut, and cheese are fats. Brown bread is not the best carbohydrate source. I would suggest brown rice and/or sweet potatoes instead. I suggest getting a protein with every meal for lean mass gain. 

I agree that you are gaining too much too fast. You aren't putting on lean mass at that rate, so you should really cut your calories back some. Quick critique on your current meal plan... Breakfast needs more protein. Dump the mass gain and just use whey protein. Mid meals are fine with tuna, but ham is not an appropriate substitute because it has significantly less protein. Lunch, like your mid morning meal, needs to have consistent protein intake. Tuna is fine, but ham is not enough. I don't really understnd the purpose of the chicken or tomato soup. It's not normally part of a gaining diet. Dinner is better without the mass gainer. My suggestions... You should really stick to more "clean foods" which would exclude soups, breads, cheeses, and sugars. Even though people probably tell you that you can have all the sugar you want because you're so thin, I do not agree with this. You should limit your sugar as much as possible and try to stick to low glycemic foods that will process through your system slowly enough to give your body the opportunity to absorb the nutrients. Oatmeal is good for breakfast. You should have at least a cup measured before cooking. Add a banana, and some natural peanutbutter instead of 2 apples and so many nuts. Although I suggested switching to a whey protein, it would be better to have a solid protein like egg whites with breakfast if you can. Have a 40g whey protein shake with some nuts and rice cakes or natural peanutbutter on rice cakes for your mid meal snacks. For lunch, have tuna with brown rice and a large salad. Your dinner should be similar to lunch in that you will have a large protein serving, a low glycemic carbohydrate, and some vegetables. You may also want to use a caesin protein as your meal before bed as it is absorbed more slowly than other proteins and will be more available to your body while you recover throughout the night. Casein is made from cottage cheese, so you can also choose to use low fat or fat free cottage cheese before bed. Have it with some nuts. Lastly, make sure you only train each body part once a week because you need lots of recovery to grow. If you're doing fast paced full body lifting sesssions, you will not get the results you want. 

First of all, you are giving mixed messages within your question. You want to loose the remaining fat around your belly, and understand that it takes a long time to lose that last bit, but you also said you already met your goal, and want to be able to reward yourself with junk food and beer. In addition, you have already set yourself up for failure by stating that your diet will never be perfect. Here's the thing... That last bit is the absolute hardest to lose. You need to really commit to taking it off, or be okay with not losing it. Pretending like maybe it'll just slough off if you sort of eat okay still, is thoroughly unrealistic. What happens to lots of people, is that they reach an intermediate goal, reward themselves, and start to slide backward. It takes a lot more work to lose weight than it does to maintain a weight. If you can ramp up the intensity in the homestretch, you can get the rest of the weight off...if that is what you want to do. The best beginner weight training routine is a circuit made up of 3 movements done consecutively...a push, a pull, and a squat. You do each exercise one after the other resting minimally between sets of 20, and repeating for 2-5 circuits. A push movement can be a bench press, any cable exercise simulating the same pressing motion, or even an overhead shoulder pressing movement. A pull movement would be a low row, bent row, one arm row, or you could substitute a lat pull. A squat movement could be a free bar squat, dumbbell squat, leg press, or lunges. Good luck. Anthony, I didn't mean to be so hard on you, just trying to keep you based in reality. Considering that you have not incorporated weight training into your routine thus far, I imagine that when you do, you'll push past your current plateau. I can not say whether it would be a couple months or a year to get your weight down because everybody is different. Plus, I'm not sure what your weight was/is because it doesn't read clearly in your original post. That information could help me to lend more insight in that area. Let me suggest that you start the circuit routine I described, and if you have not been incorporating a cheat meal already in your diet, that you start doing that also. A cheat meal can stimulate your metabolism whereas strict dieting for an extended period can stall your metabolism. You have to be careful with a cheat meal and make sure you don't get out of control and that it doesn't become a cheat day (speaking from experience). Also, since it stimulates your metabolism, you may end up feeling more hungry which can require you to have even more resolve on your diet. Leave the alcohol out of the equation for now. I'd love to hear how you progress when you make these changes.