Now clearly that is not something our eyes have ever evolved to cope with, however equally it is not something that is impossible for them to cope with. You need to upgrade the ability of the photorecepter cells to recover from the after-effects. Not something that we could do with our current understanding of genetics but not something that is out of the question for future understanding. Similarly the ear already has some defense mechanisms against loud noises, those mechanisms can be upgraded and made to act quicker. 

I don't think you need to explain it. It could as easily be a cultural thing as anything else. Languages enforce all sorts of things (word order, sounds, letter combinations, phonetics) for no particular reason. If you do want to explain it then just make them more literal and regimented thinkers. The language is structured around that and has a very rigid and simple grammar. Complex and abstract thought is not well supported by the language and would not be accepted culturally if people experimented with it. One possible explanation might be if they are pack carnivores with a rigid pack hierarchy, the leader speaks and others obey. There is unlikely to be a tradition of story-telling for entertainment. Stories would be factual and straightforwards reports of events. Music and dancing could expand to take some of the entertainment properties of storytelling but songs would be unusual or strictly factual. For example you might chant a description of how you won the last battle as you marched, they might sing as they go into battle their intent to destroy the enemy, but even that would be limited without access to metaphor and hyperbole. 

The other answers are good, but just to add. ISS is the wrong basis to use for doing this, a lot of what has been learned there would be useful but not essential. What will happen is that basically every heavy industry on earth ramps up to start building rockets and habitation modules as fast as possible, just churn them out, sell tickets, fire them into space. The modules would no doubt have hundreds of different designs and some would fair better than others. Heading to Mars is definitely a good candidate, or if not then one of the larger asteroids since a source of raw material is important. Expect a lot of people to die as their modules fail but in four years if everyone really went for it we could get a lot of people up there and some of those would have a chance to survive. The main problem is that four years is a short timescale really to achieve all this. With the amount of resources dedicated to it some people would make it off but the number of people getting into space would increase every year so 5 to 10 years would be a better timescale. 

The presence of the dome would not have a huge impact on the smell of the city in of itself. There would be some incidental effects though, for example there would be no fires (whether for cooking, or entertainment), no combustion engines, etc. This will in of itself change the smell of some areas. If the air is being recycled it could well develop a metallic or other taste that locals do not notice but visitors do. Beyond that the smell is going to be influenced more by how tightly packed in together everyone is than anything else. If the city is spread out then the smell will be like any other city. The more you pack the inhabitants together though the more intense the smells will become. The closest analogy I can think of at the moment would be nuclear submarines. $URL$ $URL$ 

The problem you have is that this is an unstable equilibrium. In a conventional predator-prey dynamic you have a feedback loop that keeps things balanced. If the number of predators grows too high then the amount of prey reduces and the predator numbers crash, allowing the prey populations to recover. With zombies and humans though this would not happen. If the number of zombies increases then the humans will die, likewise if the number of humans increases the zombies will die. The options that give you what you want are quite limited. One would be humans living on small islands or fortified towns with the surroundings infested with zombies. That would be stable for a while at least, but eventually the humans would clear out the zombies. To get to the meat of your question though - human populations and tribes can range from as few as a few hundred people although you really want a few thousands to be sustainable. The other questions linked to by Caleb cover most of those points. If you wanted the people to be long-term sustainable then they would need substantial amount of farmland and people working that land. This would be hard to wall and protect although you could theoretically do so. Again they would probably be better off moving to an island assuming the zombies can't cross the water. 

The other answer is correct, but I'll try to give a little bit more explanation of the problem. The issue is that while there is a vast amount of energy up there, it is spread out into an even larger area. Think about what happens when you cut food with a knife, now try to do the same with the flat side of a spoon. Even if you apply the same amount of power it is not going to work. To provide another analogy a warm bath contains more heat energy than a boiling kettle, however you aren't going to make very good quality tea with bath water and you can climb into the bath without scalding yourself. 

Unfortunately I agree with the others, the outcome you want isn't what happens. What happens is that every ship you own is retro-fitted with auto pilots (or skeletal manned suicide crews) and charges for enemy homeworlds to kill them as fast as possible before they can come up with the same plan to use on you. The entire enemy empire turns into a fiery ball of gas. 25 parsecs radius is an area 150 light years across. That's a pretty damn big empire turned to dust. In the meantime you shut down all non-military traffic in your own systems to try and prevent similar chain reactions in your areas. 

As user16295 said zapping it would most likely not be effective. You could try hacking the wireless signals and transmitters in town and use them to interfere with GPS and/or control signals to the missile. Basically make it de-activate or hit the wrong target. You could try using remote drones and anything else similar you have to hand to go up and physically get in the missile's way. If you know the missile is coming with enough time to do any of the above you could just run to a different building and hide there. 

In a society that has relatively plentiful magic, enough that spell casters would be a standard part of any size-able army, would cannons and artillery still develop? For the purpose of this question lets say we are using a D&D/Pathfinder like system where spell casters get a few spells per day and can throw fireballs and apply battlefield control in a moderate range around themselves but are not cheap to hire and are vulnerable. Items can be enchanted with either persistent or one-shot magical effects, although that is also not cheap. 

Your question suggest that this is a binary "all or one" question. In fact though there is a big sliding scale between 1 and everyone. What would most likely happen is that a lot of reasonably sized ship would be created able to carry several thousand people, and those ships would then ferry back and forth carrying people each time. Getting everyone there at the same time is actually a bad idea, you want to start with a few thousand and have them start building the infrastructure for everyone. Then as you get the infrastructure ready more people start arriving and you grow at a steady and controlled rate, expanding to accommodate more people which then lets you expand faster to accommodate even more people. etc. Titan isn't very hospitable so it's not like you can just unload everyone on the surface and be done :) 

Your creature would need to do two things to maintain the star. The first is to clean out the heavier elements as they are appearing. It may be enough to just focus on Iron (the final end result of fusion) but probably safer to start cleaning things out considerably sooner. The second is to constantly supply more hydrogen throughout the star. Think of it as the difference between a wood fire and a gas one. In a wood fire you put the wood in, set light to it. The wood burns away and leaves ash behind. In a gas fire there is a constant supply of gas and oxygen coming in, this burns and the result drifts away. Your creature needs to convert the star from burning like the wooden fire to like the gas fire. 

One scenario that might cause this is if you had a large inland sea substantially above main sea level with a lot of rivers flowing into it. The inland sea would drain out through an underwater hole feeding into a large river (some interesting geology would be needed but a soft limestone layer with granite over and some convenient fault lines might do it). Above that drain into the underwater river would be the massive whirlpool you desire. 

He stops to cough, flecks of blood appearing on his handkerchief before he tucks it away in his pocket. 

Fundamentally you need a large enough body of water for evaporation to occur. There are two options, the simplest is just to have a "water world" with an ocean down below and have the islands floating above it. That could fuel a standard water cycle, with the islands getting rained on with water evaporated from below. Alternatively have the water float in the same way the islands do, with floating lakes and oceans hanging in mid air. Waterfalls would run from the lakes and oceans into each other. If your floating islands move then the water cycle could include drifting under a waterfall. If not then a conventional evaporate-precipitate cycle could hydrate them all fueled by the lakes and oceans. 

Pit traps, dig them around the camp. Skeletons and werewolves alike fall in and are helpless and the noise of them falling in acts as an alarm. Digging out of the pit will keep the werewolf busy for a decent amount of time, and if the land is covered in snow that both makes the pit easier to dig and easier to cover. You would probably want to melt the walls somehow to turn them into ice instead of snow though. 

In this situation I think we would have little choice. They are technologically superior and so far ahead of us that we would not be able to stand against them. What we would do is start using our internal divisions on earth as an excuse to do the minimum possible to help race A while at the same time trying to gain their technology and work out how to defend ourselves. In the meantime we would investigate race B and try to work out which side (if any) we actually want to be on in this war. Note that quiet a few of your premises seem...strange. Galaxies are a long way apart, that's a lot of distance to take a few soldiers. Additionally human soldiers are already becoming obsolete, what would an advanced alien race with far superior tech ever want them for? 

Weather conditions alone will not, the sheer distance involved might though. If ships set out and return saying they sailed for months and found nothing - then after time fewer and fewer ships will be sent out. After all Australia is a big place, but still much smaller than the ocean. So rather than the fact that ships cannot reach the continent you describe preventing it, the fact that no-one knows it is there will do. Equatorial conditions alone are unlikely to be enough to prevent people getting there. 

The zombie intelligence and reflexes answers already given are excellent, there are two additional reasons that might come into play as well though. The first option is that zombies may be weaker or less co-ordinated than a living body, magic sustains them but they are still weaker and slower than they were in life. This is a decision you can make as to whether you want them to be stronger or weaker than in life, faster or slower, and also how much damage is needed to stop them moving. The second option is that they may have specific weaknesses that human defenders know about (after all if zombies are common so are counter measures). Maybe a blow to a certain area kills them, or holy water burns them, or grave dirt prevents them passing, etc.