Let's go back to basics. There is a deep philosophy question here, as some answers comment, and also neuroscience issues of how deeply the body, brain, neurotransmitters and CNS are integrated and how far it makes sense to discuss them as separate. But let's try to get some kind of answer. A "sense" as we colloquially use the word, is nothing more than a way of cognitively perceiving internally, from the external environment. Note that nerve and neurotransmitter signals from your body and brain are also part of that "external environment" for practical purposes, as far as your awareness goes. Being able to receive signals via brain signalling is inconsistent with a total lack of senses. As soon as meaningful input can be perceived, in lay terms it means a sense exists. It may be one they can't use, because they have never developed awareness or the ability to notice it, but as a sense, it exists. Senses have significance because they carry meaning. Meaning generally requires correlation to be created or learned. So it will be hard for any communication to carry meaning, as there is nothing else to correlate with and learn meaning from. For example, if your subject got brain signal X when a wash or feed was due, they would have to be aware of the event "washing" or "feeding" as well, to attach that meaning to it. But they lack any other senses, so how can the signal gain any practical real-world meaning or usefully refer to any object, event, or the subject themself? And isn't that an essential quality and function of a (human natural speech) language? (This is where we verge into philosophy, as presumably a sequence like "zap! - zap!zap! - zap!zap!zap!" could have meaning innately without any other source.... but of what use other than to affirm communication exists, hence not sure its relevant to the question as asked?) 

Looking at this I would start by adapting a plot truck. It should fullfill many of the requirements. Just replace the windows by grates and cover the easy to climb parts with flat slippery walls. On the professional side riot control vehicles would be equipped perfectly (they are not considered military - though might be against your intentions). But have look what they build into them for ideas 1 2 3 All that said - given that Zs mass at one place means there are other places where they are sparse. It would be less effort finding a path around them than upgrading a vehicle. 

You will not move at full speed, probably not faster than walking. So Zs climbing on the vehicle will be a real issue. While weapons might take care of the first 100 on the long run it might be better if the vehicle wouldn't expose parts to climb on. The vehicle needs to push it's way through the horde. So its movement is less driving but more pushing through a gelatinous liquid. It will need serious horsepower. Near visibility will be bad. The odd splatter of blood and gore will cover windows. It would be good to have a way to clean the windows - or get rid of the glas and just have grates for protection. Farer visibility will also be problematic - the horde will cover the ground. Hiding all kinds of obstacles - till you hit them. It might help a lot if one could come up with a way to disperse the horde. Also it is a must that you have somebody elevated over the horde just to navigate. In a regular car you will lose orientation immediatly as view in all directions will be blocked by Zs. The ground will be covered by bodies, gore and stuff. Very easy to get stuck or hide the odd spike that might pierce a tire. Definetly large wheels for slippery ground would be advisable. It may be a risk that the vehicle might topple by a push of the horde - or just an unlucky hole in the ground. Ideally the vehicle would be rather wide and stable. 

One thought (late I know) - what if part of the damage was due to a magically caused mantle plume, such as that which gives rise to basalt flood plains, or volcanic features such as the Galapagos or Hawaiian chains (sorry if my geology is off). These have the advantage they are ongoing for a time, which would mean the effects could be much closer to the effects you are seeking (long term impact, uninhabitable centre while it lasts or for a few centuries, but rings not too far away which are habitable.) 

You don't have a problem of spatial proximity, you have a problem with logistics and management, which is trivial to solve. The key is logistics. Imagine all your ships parked or docked side to side, passengers and noses to the station and nuclear engines facing outwards. When docked, the ships switch to power from the station's own power system (solar/nuclear in its own separate module) and turn off their own power. Result - if only one ship at a time is under power, then all (or all but one at a time) of all those engines are off or quiesced. So for all those parked ships, there is only a lower level radiation in the fuel and engine interior and no (or no significant) emission of radiation into vacuum. So all that's left when parked is residual radiation from the engine's interior, much like a hot car engine still gives of a lower level of heat, and even that is mostly going into space. Also if needed, make all ships in a given dock be of similar length classes. As the ships are long, the forward facing 45 degree angle isn't a problem. Any radiation from the engine exit that doesn't exit rearwards, is minimal anyway, shadowed by your 45 degree shields from any crew compartment or the dock itself, primarily affects the rear of ships, and falls off rapidly anyhow with distance or curvature of the dock. (In space, ships can be long and more fragile to accentuate this effect). The ships can if needed, also be either empty of people, or emptied of people and fragile materials, when parked. You park your ship, you leave it (taking anything with you in a cargo pod if needed for security or safety), and only when the dock is safe and empty again does the next ship move. Your problem is now reduced to having a load of stationary parked ships present (which could be made empty) while one ship parks or departs only. The time taken to travel from say 3 miles away to docked is minimal and for any given ship doesn't happen all the time (perhaps not often), so any exposure on arrival/departure due to being exposed to the rear of these ships is probably reasonably small and doesn't need extra shielding. There are many ways to work with this. For example the docks themselves could also be in small "clusters" around a "parking module" a bit away from the main station and transfer to/from there to the main station (think cruise ships). The ships can leave the dock by a simple sprung pressure (air or other) - they get pushed off, and a few hours later are 20 - 100 miles away and can fire up safely. Think air traffic control. As long as only one ship at a time is moving, its easy to make safe. So your problem in space becomes a much easier problem in time/logistics. 

In my opinion the greatest risk for humanity would be the onset of such a catastrophe. Realistically it would not be over night but rather decades till earth freezes but one of the first reactions should be war for resources. And it would be an all out war as the loser would surely die so mutually assured destruction is on the table. It could easily turn out the end for humanity. Also it will use a lot of the remaining resources. Next would be the strife for technology to deal with the situation. In almost any scenarios it should be possible to find technologies to deal with new circumstances. May it be using geothermal energy, nuclear or even (less efficient) solar power. They might be even able to settle on another planet. The question is - will a group be able to develop and deploy such a technology before it's resources are used up and they starve or freeze. Once just one group manages these two steps humanity should be safe despite living in permanent winter. 

The main issue with evolution is that it's all about concurrency in reproduction. So it would go in directions that an individual would aim for maximum of offspring and also might care for his offspring to improve their chances. A simple solution would be to construct a society which postulates rules where this is not possible - say to reduce conflicts. In natural evolution i could imagine some species that only has a single male or female and the rest of the population is the opposite gender. Like the queen in an ants colony. Also naked mole-rats evolved something similar. The reason could be that the individuals barely produce enough sperm or eggs for the "queen" so every single one needs to contribute. As you want communists you could consider the "queen" without brain just like a reproductive tank. 

I'd go a different route. Go for modest cash but excessive influence first, money (in excess) later. Here's how and why: Money by itself gets attention. But powerful influential people are expected to gain money, which will shield him considerably. I would look not for stock rises/market shocks, but for people who make sudden blunders, and gradually build a reputation as someone insanely perceptive about what people will do, and the decisions they will make. Become a journalist, pollster, or renowned economic/political voice. Call some major decisions right. Notice illegal actions, raids, major successful speeches, resignations after a crisis, action that will be taken in major geopolitical situations, just a day or so before anyone else publishes, and get them right rather often. Nobody will litigate or arrest anyone for this, and it builds a reputation as a person to go-to for insight in the face of big gambles - will X win an election, will Y back down on some matter, will the head of oil company Z resign, will charges stick, or whatever. With that reputation you can then start to offer consulting services to businesses who want to get a huge decision right, and your own success will then have a context to it which is a lot harder to challenge than just making freakishly lucky investment decisions all the time. 

Theocracy makes sense if something is to be gained by it. Quite possibly nothing will be - in that case it won't have a compelling reason to be the form of government. Example - perhaps humans figure out that actually, (a) gods exist but (b) they don't seem to want or seek anything from humans, or offer anything to them. Urban foxes know cars exist, we know volcanoes exist - the presence of forces beyond our own, doesn't seem to automatically command a religious approach to them. (While we did worship volcanoes, its worth noting this was at best, only when we assumed it would achieve something, or when there wasn't a better object of praise around the diesphere...) Gods may also have agendas far different from humans', so that what they do and care about is completely lacking in human relevance in most cases. Perhaps all one needs to know of the gods is how to recognise when a divinely initiated event is likely to happen so as to not be in the vicinity (think tornado warnings - "yesterday Odin turned the sea blue near the city, residents advised to leave for the hills for a week in case of some untoward event')