If you think of the Orchard Kingdom as trees laid out in rows, you are thinking European/Asian. It's only in the 21st C that anthropologists & archaeologists began to recognize that large swaths of the Amazon Jungle are New World orchards, & then spotted this same practice in North America. Not being mad for geometric grids, American natives planted trees in clumps, often mixed clumps, looked after them, then harvested fruits & nuts as they ripened. It was a much less labor intensive way of orchardry. (Can't recall the name of the book, primarily on a lost explorer of the Amazon, early 20th C, looking for a lost city/civilization, who could not see the orchards that were part of its remains.) An orchard is purposely planted, not necessarily spaced out. The trees themselves can provide a bountiful crop with plenty of energy. The Arcadians of Greece were slow to take up agriculture because their oak forests produced sweet acorns as their dietary staple, & they could graze sheep and pigs between them. Give them some long-vine or aerophyte beans & fungi from cloud ears to truffles & I think you're good to go. Houses can be grown out of trees like banyans, trimming the aerial roots to produce walls & hollows rather than letting the hollows fill up with trunk. These provide forest giants whose massive buttressed branches can be used for above-ground lookouts and highways. Also notice that people not used to heavy forest can get lost very quickly. This is easily part of their defences. 

In Clifford D. Simak's Way Station, the new bodies are grown in tanks like we always picture clones, the conciousness transfered (digitally?) between stations. When the traveller "leaves", the remains are "flushed." Mind you, everyone using the system knows how it works. Your Evilcorp could use this as a stopgap explanation, between "We teleport you, body and soul," and "We record you, kill you, and build a clone mock-up elsewhere." For yours, any energy released by a body probably does not equal the amount used in scanning and transmitting data, but it's like adding some solar panels can reduce your electric bill, if not eliminate it. Good luck with this-sounds good! 

In the 1700s, revolutions were organized with "Committees of Correspondence." So it doesn't take cell phones, just paper and ink. Transoceanic cables are 1800's. They don't need to destroy everything, just sequester it to their own use. Cell phone service is erratic enough now that they could make plausible a collapse of the systems through overload. Turn in your cell phone for a reliable landline. Have medical studies show that those rooftop repeaters are responsible for the increase in childhood disorders like autism and ADHD. Save our children! Ban cell phones! Tear out those repeaters! They will have to restore landlines, preferably as pre-multi-freqing systems where operators control long distance. The return of telegraphs and codes? 

Rain on this side of the street and not that is perfectly normal in Hawaii. Kau Desert and Kau Rainforest are separated by an asphalt road along the border. Best rainbow-viewing is to stand down by Ala Moana Center on Keeamoku St., in the sun, and look up toward the Manoa Valley when the Manoa Mist is coming down in the afternoon. Microclimates rule when the land is chopped up in mountains, valleys, and plains. Especially on islands just barely into the tropics. 

"Medieval person" is very vague. "Medieval" is 1000 years from the Arctic Circle to the Mediterranean and the Atlantic to the Urals, male or female, young or old, urban or rural, high or low class, brilliant or dull ... The number one thing is that the season is wrong. Trees and other plants are in spring form, not autumn. The morning light has a difference to the sensitive -- but this person could be a blockhead. The food up in the rafters or wherever is less abundant. The soup left in the kettle for breakfast is made with spring foods, not autumn. There's piglets in the sty, not pigs nearly ready for slaughter. The sheep are newly sheared. A lord might not notice any difference, if he doesn't look out the castle at the fields, until he got down to morning chapel and saw the "wrong" altar cloths for autumn. Because odds are it's Lent. In Lent, no meat or poultry is sold in a city, only fresh and salt fish. Your silversmith is going to notice that as soon as he puts his feet on the street. Hope that helped! 

I think you need to consider that this island is not isolated on an uninhabited planet. It's in the Pacific. Seismic waves don't evaporate after passing your island. That means these mega-tsunamis are sweeping all the Pacific coasts, because their energies, while reducing over time, are so stupendous to begin with that they will not disappear before hitting New Zealand, Australia, all of Polynesia, the Philippines, Antarctica, Peru, &c. with destructive force. They are likely to still be capable of damage when they reach California, Hawaii, and Japan. Hell, the big ones will wipe out harbors in Alaska. Weekly. They are going to have to be investigated and explained, because they are too constantly too dangerous to major developed countries. They can't possibly have gone unnoticed this long. Tsunami aren't localized phenomena: when an earthquake happens in Peru or Japan, Honolulu goes on tsunami watch (the Hilo tsunami from the Alaska quake left local civil defence permanently tsunamiphobic). We get them from all angles. Regular tsunami are often discernible here. Mega tsunami? Our local marine research centers would have noticed them first. I used to work at one, and the constant job of the research vessels is placing, replacing, and re-battery-packing tsunami monster buoys. For all that, the floating city that backs away when it's time for the tsunami sounds good. When the tsunami warnings go up, people here run down to the harbors to take their boats out. But check how far out they have to go. Skyscrapers of any sort are a pretty crazy idea. They're energy intensive and everything has to be imported to this uninhabitable rock. It can't provide fresh water, even. Your river and lakes just aren't possible. An island, to have fresh water, needs mountains to intercept rain and enough aquifer above the reach of salt water to hold ground water. Everything else is rain runoff from the last storm, on rock that has been swept clear of life (and soil) on a weekly basis. If the three-month clear season is when the endangered sea-mammals come to the island to breed, Greenpeace is going to be in the way. ;-) 

Why We Don't Have Flying Cars. It's not about technology. It's that most people can barely drive in 2D. Forget 3D. That's why few people get airman's licenses. All kinds of buffering fail in a big enough accident, and pieces rain out of the sky. Skirts are gone, over. You never know what direction your feet are going to be pointing, so trousers, long or short, will be part of public decency. They might remain as fetish wear at home or in places of amusement. So new architecture won't worry about making stair treads opaque. In fact, I imagine stairs will be emergency wells only: you step into the lift and float up or down. I really like the suggestion that as soon as we have personal lift belts, the whole business with passenger vehicles will be over. Freight can be delivered by underground trains and trucks, and never appear on the streets. People in their bodies are much less dangerous than drivers in vehicles. A bubble of antigrav can keep off precipitation and most collisions, I imagine. I think this also does away with fear of heights and fear of falling, as one always wears one's belt. Security is a concern, yeah. It can no longer be just at ground level, but will have to be all the way up an exterior, including the roof. Still, I think flipping directions will mainly be a novelty. It's physically unsettling. It's like glass outside elevator shafts. How many buildings bother? The trick is to imagine in what industries this would be useful. Business rent will be charged by cubic feet, not square feet, because you can put more cubicles on the ceiling and walls, and float the lights between. Warehousing becomes much easier, as does work in shipyards. 

All major medieval cities are port cities on trade routes. The best, like London and Paris, are at the tops of estuaries, protected from storms and pirates, often originating as a fording place. Inland cities on caravan routes don't have as much growth potential. Food does not come just from the immediate countryside. Being on water trade routes means titanic amounts can be shipped of grain, dried beans, salt fish in barrels, corned meat, salt meat, &c. The limits of cities may include... Defensible walls. You build walls. People who can't get in cluster right outside in fauborgs. Eventually, you enclose them in the new city walls. At what point are the walls too stretched or the fauborgs an indefensible shape? Give up walls early like London did and you don't have to worry. Potable water. Barely potable. Even with a major river coming through and little feeder streams, they are often open sewers. I would say 90% of your problem will be solved by aggressive city water and sanitation measures such as no one could be annoyed with in actual history. Human and industrial waste. Because it affects water supply and spread of disease. Raw human & animal waste being stored until the "honey wagons" come for it is just as bad as the outhouses and latrines and skips and manure piles. Then it gets carried barely outside of town and spread on the fields, and the flies happily swarm it, then fly back to town, and land on your lunch. Black death was a major plague, but there was constant attrition of typhoid, typhus, cholera, and the other lesser plagues brought on by flies and dung. The wastewater from tanneries and abbatoirs fouls the river. Fire. Lack of piped water means most districts have little hope once a blaze starts. The lack of public firefighters was a major problem, too. This requires another increase in city services. There may be unknown factors, like only x% of the population can stand city life, so the city will increase only as overall population does. But pretty much everyone needs a chance at work, or they turn to begging and stealing to live. Some, of course, prefer a life of crime, and cities provide anonymity and plenty of victims! 

Nice selection! Closest is the Arabic borrowings in Swahili, maybe a little between x-over English & German. Mandarin provides a means of writing ideas that may be understood by literate Japanese and Korean. After that, everyone gives their words for sand, sea, coconut, &c, and starts communicating. It's what humans do, even if they play a lot of charades for the first month A lot will get done at first by someone gesturing "Come along" then showing what they think everyone needs to do. I doubt one language will dominate. They will develop a pidgin that all can use: positional structures, no tones, single vocabulary, no complex consonent groups. Look at all the traditional Pacific pidgins. Swahili began as a pidgin. Bonus vocabulary survival points to languages spoken by women: babies learn to speak from their mothers. Why no New World languages? Mayatec or Quechua, say. 

Napalm, like Molotov cocktails, will set things on fire but not blow them up more that regular fire would. Aerated substances explosions are difficult to manage, but some jugs with gasoline will go boom. A tank with a dust of flour is harder to set off. "The access way to their camp" is what? Made of what? How supported? How old? Taking out a wooden corduroy road into a swamp island is much different than the approach to the Hellgate Bridge they live on. How much time do they have to destroy it? They may not need explosives. I wonder how many aerosol cans would still be dangerous? 

You might enjoy a free pdf of Nuclear War Survival Skills by Cresson H. Kearny at www.nuclearwarsurvivalskills.com among a dozen other sites. He anticipates a rapid return, rather than waiting decades. 

At which he tells them to call someone there. Frankly, if destruction of communications is the first step he tells them about, there isn't any reason they would have heard about it. Hmm. The aliens also need to keep the sky above the town lit. Neighboring places might wonder at the sudden lack of light pollution, especially on a cloudy night. Hilly/mountainous terrain is the aliens' friend. At this, I suggest the aliens create a major rainstorm over the larger area a couple days before to keep humans inside on the weekend, busy pumping out their basements, swearing at localized flooding, not looking at the sky, not wanting to drive anywhere unnecessarily, and blaming any communications or other blackouts on the weather. Hope this helped! 

1) If it moves and isn't toxic, it's lunch. Dino eggs are excellent food and start damaging the number of local nuisances. Young dinos are also vulnerable unless they can outrun and out-think humans (as in not fall for dead-fall and pit traps). There's also shellfish, besides fish, and maybe large insects. It ain't pretty, but the best way to get digestible green stuff may be out of dino stomachs, where they have been so good as to pre-digest it for humans. It's how many carnivores get their vitamins. (Fermentation tanks -- brilliant suggestion.) They need to look at edible fungi, lichen, and sea plants. Considering Wikipedia info as a refresher ... "On land, the holdover plants included the lycophytes, the dominant cycads, ginkgophyta (represented in modern times by Ginkgo biloba) and glossopterids. The spermatophytes, or seed plants came to dominate the terrestrial flora: in the northern hemisphere, conifers flourished. Glossopteris (a seed fern) was the dominant southern hemisphere tree during the Early Triassic period." This means you have all the spermatophytes for possible food, conifers for a bitter tea with vitamin C in lean times (normally, you get all you need from eating fresh meat, fish, shellfish, eggs, &c), and you eat tender little fern sprouts (you can buy canned fiddlehead ferns if you want to taste some). Humans don't need grasses/grains to have a regular starch supply. In Southern California and Arcadia in Greece, acorns provided an annual harvest. Manioc was grown in South America for its tubers (you know it as tapioca). So the spermatophytes may supply some large harvests. 2) If you want them to land where there's no petroleum, so be it. You're God. But if this is the Triassic, then there must have already have been a Carboniferous, so there's petroleum. They would just have to find it. Unless of course you're a Velikovskyite on where petroleum comes from. Peat bogs. This is what becomes coal eventually. Look into peat as fuel. Kept the Irish warm for thousands of years. When they first land, the most immediate local fuel is dried herbivore dung. Look into the use of buffalo chips on the Great Plains. Coal. Don't see why there wouldn't be any. Why no firewood? You have conifers. Early pine trees! Junipers! Freakin' sequoias! Cycads have burnable masts, as ginkos have usable trunks. Which brings us to 3. Building teepees of long trunks, like lodgepole pines, and hides. Big enough dino, you don't have to do much sewing. If I were them, I would be looking for a butte that has to be climbed, with a spring, clear it of most native life, and settle up there. They're not primitives: they know farming. They can domesticate what they like. I can also see them living like Anasazi, but walling off their fields with stone across valley mouths. They might treat herbivorous quadrupeds like elephants: catch them, use them at least for baggage and draft, feeding and confining them, then when they get too large, release them (or eat them). Archive.org has a pile of late 19th C books on elephant use that may help you imagine their use. Cynodonts may actually be better choices as permanent domesticated animals. Stone, wood, and leaves are available for buildings and thatched roofs. Hell, dirt is. I don't just mean adobe: there's rammed earth housing or stuff like pisé. See Cottage building in cob, pisé, chalk & clay. These work in almost any climate, including wet cold Northern Europe. Then there's log cabins, especially double-walled ones in the French style used in Canada. I also have to note you have "pioneering humans get stranded on a planet" which means they were already set to build a society out of nothing. They will have training to get along without high tech (or they may come from an immoderately stupid culture that thinks nothing can ever go wrong, in which case I don't bet on this lasting twenty years). Where's their farming supplies, including seeds? They won't have much that requires petroleum, unless the first job on landing is to dig oil wells and build refineries. They will have to set up early to produce their own metals. I would recommend you look at the Foxfire books for how to smelt ores, build wooden turbine water wheels, dry fruits, make soap, and a whole lot else. If this is a result of a crash, they probably lost all the animals they were carrying as embryos, so you can eliminate that, but having human survivors and absolutely none of the seeds make it through seems implausible, unless the humans got out in the lifeboats while the main ship went confetti. But for pioneers likely to land on an uninhabited planet -- again, I would expect some supplies aboard lifeboats, not just food and water but tools and seeds. Your 4, "Also, how would the change in the environment bring about the change in the humans?" makes the rash assumption environment would bring about changes. Since modern humans haven't much evolved physically for 15,000 years, I don't see anything radical here. They're going to have to handle only 80% of the oxygen they're used to, and a lot more CO2, but I don't think there's going to be any more difference than with, say, Tibetans or Quechua adapting to the high mountains. The landing generation will miss their normal atmosphere, but the children won't know anything else. They'll probably favor developing more red blood cells for oxygen delivery. Of course, without a pharmaceuticals industry there's going to be a premium on a healthy immunosystem and strong teeth for a long time. Now, throughout this I've gone along with biological determinism as if this were the Triassic reformed. I would like to say that if biological determinism isn't what you're doing ... More realistically, the possibility of compatible proteins developing on two planets is close to zero, especially in complex life. Odds are, humans stranded on alien planets will have to sterilize their area and terraform it, at least as far as plants and food animals go, or die.