Today's big problem (over-emphasized) by media: ISIS (Islamic State of Iraq and Syria) or, in other words, the biggest and only terrorist organisation that managed to conquer land and keep it for a longer time nowadays. Now, as of September 2016, the area it holds is: 

(Planets and stars are not scaled right) This animation is a bit hard to get, so I made another one which shows the same, just without the stars rotating: 

It's George Lucas's marketing manager here. We are now working on a new Indiana Jones movie: Indiana Jones and the Blastproof Fridge, where Indiana Jones goes for a quest to find the sacred Superfridge, made by God himself. We're now developing a new blastproof fridge, which will not only be used in our movie, but also put into sale. Here's how it looks like inside: 

This method is used even today in shops, mainly in those where they sell expensive products, like jewelry, electronics, alcohol (this may not be used in the country you live). 

Your moon would be there for the effects only for a while. The stars orbit around each other, so the gravitational force on the planet and moon would change. That means that the planet's orbit isn't a ellipse; the planet will "wobble". The moon, in the planet's gravitational field, will "wobble" too - but because the planet wobbles around it. Soon (a few years to millions of years, but most likely years), our moon would get wobbled too far off it's orbit; One of the following scenarios would happen: 

So, altogether, we get $$9700 + 244000 + 889500 + 3000000 + 554550 = 4700000$ $$ Every day. That is $4700000 × 365 = 1715000000$ \$ a year. How much does the project cost? What is needed to buy: 

Imagine this situation: One warm night of 1890, you go home from a pub. You pass a creepy house. In the half-open door, you see the outline of a machine. You go in, and open the lights. You see a big machine, exactly like those time machines you imagined of when you were small. You sit in it, pull the lever, and... you fall out. The worlds goes black. Then, you wake up, and you see everything is different. It isn't nighttime anymore, the room you are in looks a bit different then you remembered, and... there are two city officers shouting on you what the hell are you doing here. You ask, "What year is it?". "1890" "What!? Are you kidding me?" Sounds like you just got drunk too much last night. But the problem: They think you came from the future! That this is some kind of modern 20th century time machine you are on. The guards insist you come with them to some place and say something about time travel. You exclaim: "But I'm not from the future!" "We're not going to let you run just like that! You just came from another time and we're gonna let you go? No way! Now come on!" So you screwed up. Again. How on Earth can you prove you're not from the future to a 19th/20th century person? How could you prove this to a 21st century person? 

Privacy is a modern invention, at least for the majority of society. I would recommend looking back at pre-Industrial-Revolution society for some ideas. Prior to that, there was no meaningful privacy really. (I discount 'meaningless' privacy which would be being able to have your actions/location/status be unknown but only to people who have no capacity to affect your life) Families slept in common rooms. Bathrooms had multiple seats and no dividers. Communication with anyone you were not face-to-face with was essentially impossible. Homes contained only the most bare minimum facilities, so most things a person would want/need to do had to be done in public, including bathing. Certainly there were isolated rural farmers, but their privacy would fall under the 'meaningless' header since everyone who could affect their life knew everything about them, and the only people who didn't know everything were powerless to affect them in almost any way. To get meaningful privacy, you've got to be able to be connected enough to other people that they can have a significant effect on your life, but disconnected enough that you can do meaningful things without actually directly involving that same group of people. I imagine the issue of 'meaningful privacy' will be important in your world because, barring some sort of extraordinary discovery or alien intervention which would have a far larger effect than anything to do with privacy, the resources simply do not exist to assign micro-drones to every person alive, collect and transport and store the data, etc. 

This is essentially a philosophical question. How one answers will be determined by their personal philosophy. If they believe that intellect destroys emotional capacity, they will say the world will become cold or dangerous. If they believe that the most intelligent thing for people to do is to be as selfish as possible, and that selfishness excludes empathy or often results in behavior which is harmful to others (both, the second is not a given), then they will expect the world to become a place of high competition. Avoiding simply reflecting ones own philosophy in answering this question is hard, but I am going to try it. What individuals and society will do, I cannot answer without simply saying what I believe intelligent people would do because they would be smart enough to figure it out. But, we're not left completely incapable of thinking about this problem without involving philosophy. Our assumption is that this occurs on planet Earth, correct? In contemporary times? OK, right off the bat we know that human beings did not evolve this capacity. (And I will assume that they also did not evolve the ability to create this capacity, as that boils down to the same thing.) The planet and our situation on it might become a serious issue. We can assume that we would be intelligent enough to value our planet correctly so that we would not do anything which causes our extinction, but there are other things which might not be solvable. Not everything in our lives is limited by intelligence. For instance, our inability to perfectly predict the behavior of nonlinear systems is not born of our lack of intelligence. That is a fundamental property of reality and mathematics. There may be general principles which unite the behavior of complex systems, we can't rule that out as impossible (the way we CAN rule out perfect prediction of most real systems), but there may not be such things. That may prevent us from accomplishing any sort of perfect utopia. Also, while we may be intelligent enough to preserve our existence within an environment we did not develop to 'fit into', we may be required to do things which affect us adversely. We might know, for instance, that we could cure all cancer by taking some action, but that sufficient action would also result in the destruction of most potable water, resulting in extinction. We would then be forced to make a choice. The result of that choice, continued existence of cancer in the face of knowledge of how to cure it, would be bound to have psychological and emotional consequences. We might be able to ameliorate them a bit, but we would most likely not be able to eliminate them entirely. Such situations would proliferate. Instead of our concerns being driven by what we can understand, they would, over time, be driven by fundamental physical limitations. Also, maintaining our identity may become a large issue. We are, fundamentally, feedback loops. How our environment affects us, and how we affect it, is the sum total of what we ARE. When we change our environment, we change ourselves. Cutting ourselves off so that our environment does not influence us would destroy us or, at the very least, change us so drastically that nothing which remained would resemble humanity. 

Use fake or old/useless products. Have everything hidden "under the desk" and display only objects that are worthless for the thiefs, like: 

Now, let's calculate, how much water to convert can we afford: Each day, can use $9 × 10^{14}$J to convert water to methane. For each kilogram, we need $294000 + (180 × 10^6 × 0.9) = 162294000$J. With $9 × 10^{14}$ J every day, we get $\frac{9 × 10^{14}}{162294000} = 55455000$kg of water converted every day. That is also a 194000kg load of salt. 

(Planets and stars are not scaled right) So, for me, this is not possible long-term, with a normal-sized planet, and this would be even more unstable, if one of he stars had a much bigger mass. Edit conducted by the flags: this answer adds perspective - shows through an animation how chaotic this concept is. But the animation isn't the main part - The text (answer) part is. The answer is no, this is not possible long-term. 

According to this planet simulator and many, many tries, scenario #5 is the most probable (67/80). But until that happens... Assuming each sun and the moon covers the same angle distance as here on Earth: You'll have eclipses a bit (almost 2x) more often; The main change is that partial eclipses, eg. when at least a part of one sun is visible almost 10x more often against full (both suns covered) eclipses; Eclipses covering one sun only would be 2x more often in this binary system then in a "normal" one. If the moon gets torn apart by the gravity of the planet, a spectacular view would occur: The planet would have it's own rings! Imagine half the derbis blocking the sun... and a few years later, crashing into your spaceship! Astonishing! Helpful links, some used to calculate values: 

So, let's do some maths. This is hard science, people! (Skip to the TL;DR at the end, or plunge waist-deep through maths): We get about 235GW of power. That is 1020TJ ($1020 × 10^{12}$) of energy generated every day (assuming the Sun shines at 100% exactly 12 hours a day) Let's round that down, what if: 1PJ ($10^{15}$) of energy. Every day. What the project does: 

(source) ISIS has an estimated total of 50000–250000 soldiers and slowly gains strength from 1999, when it was founded. Now, my question is: How can I possibly stop the ISIS? By stop, I mean to or a) totally annihilate the organization - destroy their infrastructure, bases and weapons, free the captured land and kill/jail all it's members, or b) to force the terrorists (or better, terrorISISts) to give up and surrender their forces. Let's assume that: