He answers this puzzle by emphasizing the fact that it was not the isolation of Berlin that they wanted, but the further integration of it into an economy that had great benefit for interaction with it [1:595] While all eyes are on the symbolism of the air-lift for relieving West Berlin, less attention is paid to the powerful impact of the counter-blockade on East Germany: 

I found contradictory information on this. A biography of Lavoisier which only suggests that Fourcroy failed to step up in his defense when he most needed it. See: Jean Pierre Poirier Lavoisier: Chemist, Biologist, Economist On Google Books On p367 in the chapter "The Arrest" 

As you point out, Franklin was no fan of German immigration, but also this issue of undesirables or British "emptying their Jails into our Settlements" (quoted in p41). Zolberg points out that he, and later Jefferson would both embrace anti-immigrationist arguments because they believed that "natural Generation" will eventually make up any temporary deficit in population in a place like the colonies (p45). But on the other hand, he opposed British restrictions, arguing that "law is unnecessary because population tends toward equilibrium" (quoted in p46) and that everyone has a natural right to leave their place of abode (again a view shared by Jefferson). In contrast, Alexander Hamilton argued in his “Report on Manufactures” of 1791 that support for industry would have the desirable effect of drawing more immigrants, some of whom would abandon this to fill the needs for agricultural labor (p69). In the meantime, the use of immigrants in factories would "Americans free to carry on more dignified activities" thus, 

Bronze being an alloy has a broad range a different formulations. Decrease or increase tin and you control a large part of hardness or brittleness, annealing capabilities and so forth. This requires considerable skill, but the bronze age lasted for quite a while so that the early metal workers could really master their trade. And this process of possible refinement continued alongside throughout the time after iron working was introduced. One important advantage that iron had over bronze was that the Romans quickly learned how to recycle used iron, often increasing its quality, whereas they mostly tried just the same with bronze and degraded its quality in the process. How effective is it? 

The Wikipedia entry is as condensed as it gets. If this project needs a tiny bit more of fleshing out some intricate interactions between German war aims, policies and the Ukrainian as well as Russian side you should at least consult: Fritz Fischer: "Germany's Aims in the First World War", WW Norton: New York, 1967. The most relevant chapters being "13. Germany and the new Russia: The promotion of revolution and attempts to make a separate peace" (especially the part on "The Genesis of the 'Autonomy' Policy" p 375), "17. The objectives of war aims policy, II: Between annexation and self-determination", "20. The elaboration of the Ostraum: The Ukraine, the Crimea, the Don Transcaucasia" This will get you a feel for the ambitious aims and also attitudes of many officers of the Imperial German Army (the "Reichswehr" was never officially in Ukraine, existing as an organisation with this name only from 1919–1935). Orest Subtelny: "Ukraine: A History", University of Toronto Press, Toronto, 42009. This will get you a first impression on the internal dynamics of rada/soviet, left wing and nationalist factions, as well as a first glimpse into who founded what and who funded whom. Money, coalitions and other support going in sometimes unexpected directions. Although I find the memoirs or diaries of characters like Ludendorff, Hoffmann etc. much more revealing for this type of quest, the war diary of Gottfried Rinker who was in Odessa is partly online. 

Maya Jasanoff, Liberty’s Exiles: American Loyalists in the Revolutionary World (New York: Vintage Books, 2012). On Google Books Library of Congress, The Impact of the American Revolution Abroad (The Minerva Group, Inc., 2002). On Google Books Boyd Hilton, A Mad, Bad, and Dangerous People?: England, 1783-1846 (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2008). On Google Books 

The refutation by Baron Cuvier mentioned on Wikipedia can be found in: Sarah Lee ed. Memoirs of Baron Cuvier On Google Books p197-198: 

It looks like he did spend those years in Iceland. There are a few pages discussing his time there from 1515 in volume 3 of Historisk arkiv (Gbooks), p403-406 De tre nordiske rigers historie under Hans by Carl Ferdinand Allen (Gbooks) pages 143-144 suggests that he did spend time there (without much detail about his stay). The phrasing of a sentence in Danmarks historie by Ole Feldbæk (Gbooks) p65 also implies that he was based in Iceland until 1517 but then called south to help in the war against Sweden, which is discussed in somewhat different terms in the above Historisk arkiv pages. 

He is on record for being quite a vocal French critique of SDI, from a political as well as a technological viewpoint: 

In 1962 during the North Sea Flooding the then police senator1 of Hamburg (Helmut Schmidt) did violate the constitution and did request emergency help from the military for "internal affairs". He was not punished, not reprimanded. He was lauded with respect for daring to technically violate the constitution. It caused some debates, but in 1968 the law was changed to explicitly exclude disaster relief from being prohibited. Communications were not that inefficient as now commonly portrayed. During the cold war West-Germany was well prepared for alerting its military and other emergency structures on short notice. This was improved with every catastrophe, the mentioned flood being one of those. This is evidenced by the fact that not only the local Munich police got its hands in the action. Both the cabinets of Israel and West-Germany deliberated about the crisis, a special crisis committee (Krisenstab) of the German government was created (headed by: Federal Minister of the Interior, Bavarian State Minister of the Interior, police president, presidents of the National Olympic Committee and International Olympic Committee, and a State-secretary). These were assembled by the use of telephones and radios. Quickly. The whole structure of the crisis committee was set up by 10:00. 

Two Problems There are really two issues you raise: 1) The contrast in the American voice (I limit myself to diplomatic and political, since the press was arguably equally anti-Japanese and anti-German) of condemnation of Japanese aggression, versus the lack of same against Germany 2) The apparent contrast in severity of provisions against Japan (in case of the oil embargo) and Germany. The Illusion of Neutrality: Spring-Summer 1941 Let us begin with the second: as you point out, with the US embargo on export of gasoline and oil in July 1941, there remains only an illusion of neutrality. Japanese nationalists today usually hang their entire narrative of the road to war around this singular act (or the broader story of "ABCD encirclement") to the exclusion of other important elements. It is true that earlier embargoes on aircraft and aviation fuel, scrap steel, and metal ore were interpreted by Japanese diplomats as "unfriendly" acts they are nothing in comparison to the importance of the openly hostile seizure of assets and the economic impact of the termination of all fuel supplies, which at one point made up 80% of Japanese imports. It was a huge blow to the Japanese, and surely played a role in the emperor finally signing off on plans for the attack on Pearl Harbor (begun months before the fuel embargo) finally in November, 1941. However, US neutrality was even more obviously an illusion in Europe months before the July Japanese embargo, in secret with the commencement of military coordination between the US and the British in early 1941, and in public through the Lend Lease program in March which, in terms of impact, is the closest equivalent to the Japan oil embargo. German U-boats were already targeting US merchant ships since the previous year and in April 1941 the USS Niblack attacks a german U-boat, marking the first hostility between the two military forces in the Atlantic. Consulates in US, Germany, and Italy are mutually closed in June. But why, you ask, not also a full embargo on fuels to Germany as they did with Japan? I don't have an empirical answer in the form of any contemporary source, but this would simply would not have had more than a symbolic effect. While the US embargo against Japan had immediate and a powerful effect on the Japanese economy, the US was a marginal player in the supply of ore and oil to Germany by 1941. The US dominated supplies of oil to Germany up to 1939 but this was mostly blocked by the UK after 1939 which made Germany depend on Romania and synthetic sources. The German invasion of Norway in 1940 helped secure Swedish ore supplies, while other key metals were coming in through the Balkans. Between 1940-1941, Germany's Soviet ally was a huge supplier of oil under the terms of the German–Soviet Commercial Agreement, and of course, after Germany's invasion of the Soviet Union in June, Soviet oil fields became a major target of the 1942 campaign year. Problem of Perception and Historiography At the heart of your question is an understandable perception, reproduced in much of what we read in general histories of: 1) intense American economic and diplomatic pressure on Japan dating back at least as far as 1931, but intensifying gradually, especially after the Panay Incident in December 1937 fortified the political resolve to oppose Japan (helped along with reports on the massacres in Nanjing after its fall earlier that month). 2) An almost exclusive focus in general histories on US policy in Europe as focused on the Congress vs. President debates over US neutrality and isolationism. So, the easy answer to your question of contrast of treatment is: a neutrality policy pressed by Congress, and an isolation policy which is founded upon an understanding of a particular European historical context - as distinct from a Pacific environment in which US-Japanese naval competition has unfolded without the burden of a WWI precedent to generate powerful cautionary rhetoric. Such an answer would emphasize the need for FDR to temper his personal hatred for the Nazis and secret pressure of friendly nations against the Germans with a public voice that was more in synch with the isolationist rhetoric of congress, and to an ever decreasing level, public opinion. It would focus on his efforts to revise the Neutrality Act or work around it to provide help where he could prior to the spring of 1941. However, that should not leave you satisfied. The problem is that the historiographical emphasis found in (2) means that we come away with the impression that the US "said nothing" against German aggression, but this is true only if we focus entirely on the word "German" 

The main reason for adopting rusting and brittle iron if you had good bronze was that you sometimes just didn't have the raw materials for bronze, at all. This availability encompasses the problem of price for imported goods (Cf. ch Why Change from Good Bronze to Bad Iron?) Early iron was of horrible quality and needed a significantly altered process structure and new knowledge and experience to work with. While later steel was in most military aspects superior to bronze, reaching that level took quite a while. Re-enacters today face a similar choice in which metal to use: 

It is further complicated by what is meant with "covered in mosaic icons". Some of the mosaics are lost, some of them are buried under newer layers or destroyed. Some of those were or could be recovered. Either in their physical form or at least as drawings. But not all of the decoration were icons. One example of a reconstructive drawing of such an icon: 

As evidenced from the above quote leisure activities, fresh air, and keeping fit and stretched was essential and often possible in the first half of the war in the Atlantic. 

It does not hurt to be skeptical of a claim like this and might be good to compare with similar claims in contemporary accounts of how far horses could travel in urgent situations. @Eugene's calculations suggests that this number is highly unlikely. Sources cited as [Source Number:Page Number] Sources 

Emphasis by me on the key line, which may have something to do with it. This is the only entry for 1928 (which as @Henry points out, is right in the midst of the Northern Expedition unification effort). Basically this says there is a 1928 shift in control from the former central astronomical institution (中央觀象台) to have its duties divided between the new Nanjing government's astronomical research institute (天文研究所) and its meteorology research institute (氣象研究所). While latter two based their almanac on the work of the previous one, they no longer use Beiping (now again called Beijing) standard time for time zone calculations but use Nanjing standard time It says at 120° but that is not Nanjing but more like halfway between Shanghai (around 121°) and Nanjing (118-119°). It is, however, further east than the old capital Beijing (around 116°ish) Not entirely clear to me exactly how this worked since I thought there would have to be some standardization with other non-Chinese timezones, but it is all I was able to find with a quick search on the Chinese side of this discussion. I looked through the December 31, 1927 and January 1, 1928 issue of the Shanghai based Shenbao (申報) newspaper but didn't find any articles warning its readers of the coming time change. 

However, recent studies put this apparent progressivism displayed also in the Wikipedia to shame (please excuse the length of his quote, it's just too perfect to be paraphrased): 

The unification treaty explicitly lists some GDR laws, regulations and treaties to either keep or abolish immediately in 1990 in Anlage II Besondere Bestimmungen für fortgeltendes Recht der Deutschen Demokratischen Republik. From this you can deduce that only international treaties of the GDR were really adopted wholesale by the West for the entire country. Although quite a number of GDR-laws were transformed into federal law during the unification process, but they had usually an expiration date attached to them, most ceasing to be valid in 1991. The Grüner Pfeil is not really a fitting example since it was introduced only in 1994 in the West and is only an example for a working regulation. That was newly introduced in the West, modelled after the Eastern example. Some new laws were clearly inspired by former GDR laws. On the positive side might be counted: some progress on family laws, women's and children' rights. On the negative side there numerous examples going into the direction of a militarised police state since the Großer Lauschangriff the are inspired by the the organisation and functions of the Ministry for State Security hence the campaign slogan Stasi 2.0 was created. Altogether, it is not a very uncommon view towards the whole territory of the GDR to whether it was just colonised by the West, leading to questions like: "Was East German Education a Victim of West German 'Colonisation' after Unification?" 

Other factors may include the relatively stable and early migration/control by the Chinese into Hainan (despite limited control over the Li in the mountainous areas) in 110BC [4:390], vs. first notice of Taiwan by Chinese imperial records in 230AD [3:35] with migration much much later. Early control and administration made Hainan less vulnerable to invasions. Hainan also fell under French "sphere of influence" in late 19th century which was recognized by treaties with the Qing and Japan, and perhaps saved it from the early 20th century turmoil (up to Japanese invasion) [5:93-95]. This situation all changes in the 20th century. The Japanese saw Hainan's naval importance for its southern advance [5:93] and kept it under full direct control instead of turning it over to Wang Jingwei's administration [5:99]. This is again true after WWII, as Hainan was among last territories to fall to the Communists with the massive naval attack in spring 1950, and later Hainan becomes a strategically vital area in tensions between China and Vietnam (west coast of Hainan has many naval basis) and as administratively connected to China's claims on the potentially petroleum rich reserves in the South China Seas [4:167] Notes above done as: [Source Number:Page Number] Sources 

This is a piece of Notgeld from Austria. A little catalogue can be found here or here. At that link you find pictures like this: 

Smoking anything was an official cure for Asthma and other conditions of the throat and lung. While the main ingredient was tobacco, several other herbs were added to increase the effect. Among them belladonna, datura, and our new wonder drug: cannabis. Examples are numerous. These were sold in pharmacies until the 1970s for West-Germany and a little longer in the East. But since the question seems to be about pure and ordinary tobacco cigarettes… 

All of these materials can be used as a solid lubricant as well. Making them of strategic importance for military purposes. England banned the export of pencils to Napoleonic France, since the containing graphite is ideal as a lining for casting cannonballs. (Source: Scientific American: Carbon Wonderland (2088)) Like galena graphite was also used to glaze or line pottery vessels, making them more fire proof. 

For gladiators and actors it is indeed tempting to take their officially low status and conclude from there that this excludes them from many activities. Gladiators loosing their former status or never having had this status is straightforward in this regard. But this is apparently much too simple. 

The "first meeting of industrial workers in Bombay's history" in 1884 passed a resolution asking for a full day of rest on Sunday [10:328] and an "Act of 1891" made Sunday a day of rest in factories [11:230] Overall, it would appear that in some areas or among some religious groups there are more regular festivals or religious days, with some cases of more frequent regular days of rest such as the observed weekly day of rest in Mysore, or the almost weekly Uposatha in some places like Sri Lanka, or the Gahambars of the Zoroastrians. Sources Sources are cited in format [Source Number:Page Number] 

In conclusion, Stivers argue, reproduced by others who cite him in later works, is that the blockade came with a cost to the Soviets that was both political and economic in the form of the counter-blockade by the Allies on East Germany, and during its course, helped bring out economic changes in the relationship between East Germany and West Germany that made restoration of the pre-crisis status quo difficult and thus not worth the continuation of the blockade. Sources refered with above as [Source Number:Page Number] Sources