Several other answers mention the biology of breeding, so there's you answer - flip the breeding behavior, flip the gender roles. Or at least alter them. It could be that males carry and support the child, or must care for them when young, like seahorses where males carry the unborn, or emperor penguins where males brood the eggs. Or it could be, as in David Weber's series March Upcountry, that for whatever reason, the one depositing genetic material gives a single large gamete (egg), and the one receiving said material (and incubating the child) has an environment with many competing gametes (sperm) - in which case the "male" vs "female" might be pretty academic. Or in a situation where parenting duties are, by some required necessity, more evenly split, and shuffling pairings very rare (like a monogamous species) there would be no particular pressure to gendered armies, since a child cannot survive without both parents. After all, it's better for a pair to fight and die, and loose their future possible offspring, rather than two of the same gender fight and die and loose the potential of two breeding pairs. In that case, I would expect to see armies evenly split between genders. But culture could fill in the gaps to nudge these equal-opportunity armies into more female ones - maybe something giving a higher fatality to males (so more widows able to fight), or something where specialization leaves the females with more tools suited for a fight (who is in nearby, who has tools, who has other duties) which can snowball through culture to expect fighting to be done by women, instead of men, and thus demand from one and prevent the other till that tendency is treated as fact. 

A two part language like this would likely evolve when it is for some reason important to interfere with communication. Which is kinda counterintuitive, since the point of language is to communicate. To make it work, in this scenario, there is a spoken language, the one they use to learn these stories/myths, and to speak plainly with each other, there is a sign language likely used for the same reason ours was made (to communicate when speech/sound is impossible or dangerous), there may well be other spoken languages, and/or other sign languages, there are multiple cultures with mythologies, religions, shared stories. They all have to exist as a background for how this two-part language is set up, how it evolves. This two-part or hybrid language is more difficult to track or understand than either a sign language or a spoken language - one must be looking and listening, one must pay attention to two flows of communication simultaneously, one must intuit how they interact with each other in support, in negation, and in supplement, all at the same time. Not easy, just think about trying to follow three or four conversations at once, and realize losing track of any is likely to mess with understanding the others, as well, since they interweave. And on top of that, the spoken part of the language is made even harder to understand by generously incorporating references to mythology and stories, culture, etc. This makes it very difficult to follow, only one knowing the right things, paying the right sort of attention, and with enough presence of mind to translate on the fly is going to get, even, most of what the one speaking is trying to say. In the end, this is set up to be as difficult to understand as possible... and so this kind of language will only evolve if there is a reason to be difficult to understand. A reason like trying to communicate with certain people at the same time/place as needing to not communicate with other certain people, who are there watching. There has to be a reason someone would rather risk misunderstanding or completely miss communicating with their target, just to be sure someone who isn't their target, will not understand. One reason might be oppression, war, slavery, other similar deadly troubles. A member of an oppressed people may well need to hide their communications, and not only will speaking in metaphor and reference hide depths of meaning, the use of a secondary communication route (the sign language) may let them negate or reverse certain parts of their speech, or emphasize them, or so on, so they can sound like they're saying one thing to those listening, while sneaking a second communication under others' noses. In this case, intercepted communications is a life-or-death matter, so the more layers of misdirection they can come up with, the better. Another reason, a bit more lightly, might be rivalry between groups, competition, politics, etc. In this case, the references would be different for each group, different mythologies or emphasizing different stories within their mythology, based on which individuals, which stories or lessons their group related to... and the sign language would be different as well, depending on what kinds of things they wanted to reference, and what stories they were weaving their communication into. Intercepted communications may effect status, might spill secrets, might skew interactions between the groups, so it can be quite serious without being deadly. So, to wrap things up a bit, this double pronged language evolves in a scenario where there are multiple groups, multiple languages, and they are in competition with each other - so this evolution is a way to communicate with members of their own group, and confuse or deny communication with those who are members of different groups. This double language would begin as a pidgin of these two languages, used as a code or encryption, with set call-and-response pairs, to communicate specific things without being overheard, so to speak. Over time, it may evolve into a separate language of its own, a creole or a lingua fraca, even though the base languages would likely also be known, by the same people, for a very long time... by the time this double-language would stand on its own, it would have simplified the mythological references down to the bone, to be easier to understand, so to maintain that extra layer of references the base language must be available for plain speech. 

Probably find new questions. Maybe even make them up entirely. Humans are pretty contrary - and really don't like being told something can't be done. So, they'll reach the end of any set of questions, and find new questions to ask. They'll look at their mapped out rules and laws for what makes things possible, and figure out how to break them - deliberately setting themselves out to find ways to do impossible things. They will continue asking impossible, un-provable questions because why not, and believe things because they believe them, not because they know or can prove anything. Other possibilities - people forget. It's quite possible that after your theoretical everything is known, people will look back at the historical record and find things that have been overlooked, forgotten, or not recorded for some reason, and set out to rediscover them (reenacting, kinda). If the problem of no questions is pervasive enough, there might be social experiments deliberately losing information and recreating former historical societies to keep people searching. The ultimate cyclical question - how did we ever get along before we knew "X"?... lets find out! And the last possibility... people are kinda crazy. I doubt, beyond all doubts, there will ever come a time where we understand people, and have run out of questions about us, because people don't run on logic (look at fanatics and extremists who don't even follow self-preservation). And even if we spend all of eternity trying to figure out the biological roots of human-people behavior (and I really doubt it will work, but whatever), we will still have plenty of questions about how other people will react - alien species, or species we uplift or create just because (how else will we answer those questions?), and how any of them interact with each other, with us, over time, in the future... Maybe a species that runs on logic would be able to ask and answer all of those logical questions, and end up in a crisis because they don't know what else to do, to be, to discover. But we are creatures of instinct and impulse, no matter how much we like logic, and we are not gonna stop until the crazy runs out. 

I think it works, but not at the scale you want. So, I'm pretty sure I've seen something similar in real life - using pressure, heat and movement to repel objects without touching them. It's just, the scale is so tiny it would never work for bullets. Soooo... have you ever noticed, when driving, when snowing, with the windshield heat on full blast, at a certain speed, the snowflakes very abruptly stop hitting the windshield, and just flow over and around the edges, no wipers needed? But all the qualifiers are necessary, because if you're not driving fast enough, the windshield isn't hot enough, and if it isn't snowflakes but rain, slush, sleet, or anything else, it hits the windshield, melts, and obstructs your vision. (possibly I think too much. or notice too much. ah, well) Anyway, we have a sharp difference in heat, and because of that a difference in pressure. We have a good clip of windspeed from the car moving against the air. The difference is just enough for the snowflakes to be repelled by the difference in pressure and temp, and slide around the "force-field" (helped by wind-speed) instead of smacking against the windshield. Theory is looking good, as per c.z.'s answer. On the other hand, the windspeed is a lot - you're going pretty fast, faster than you would want the wind to hit you at without a car in the way (why windows should stay shut at highway speeds). And the difference in heat from the full front heater to the glass (which holds the heat close and provides radiant surface) to the snowy air is a fair amount - workable, yes, but noticable. And that pressure is only just enough to lift snowflakes. Enough heat to create the same pressure difference without the added wind-speed from high speed motion, or even without the glass barrier concentrating the heat as a surface instead of gradient would be...more. Add in the amount you would need to increase the whole effect to deflect anything bigger than snowflakes, and I'm guessing it varies between "not possible" and "maybe possible, but not useful since those conditions would kill whatever is being shielded". So next time you're driving in a snowfall, turn your windshield heater on full and notice your force-field at work. Just don't expect it to stop anything bigger :)