A parsec (abbreviated pc) is a unit of distance used by astronomers, cosmologists, and astrophysicists. 1 parsec is equal to $3.08567758 \times10^{16}$ meters, or $3.26163344$ light years (ly). A few typical scales to keep in mind: 1) The disks of galaxies like the Milky Way are a few 10's of kpc (that's pronounced kiloparsecs, which are 1000's of parsecs) in size. The dark matter halos surrounding them extend out to almost an order of magnitude further. 

This is the source of the temperature quadrupole moments. Sides which are squeezed are hotter and sides which are stretched are cooler. Gravitational lensing can also produce small amounts of B-mode like features in the cmb polarization, but I believe they occur on much smaller scales and can therefore be ruled out as the cause of the BICEP2 findings. Lensing tends to stretch things out perpendicular to the radial vector (in the $\hat{\theta}$ direction): 

There is also another mediator particle which moves at the speed of light other than the photon. This is the gluon, which is the exchange particle for the strong force. The odd thing about the gluon is that it's never seen by itself (that is, outside of collections of other gluons). Also, though neutrinos do in fact have mass, they are neutral particles. Why I'm bringing this up is because in supernovae explosions neutrinos can arrive before the photons in some circumstances - they do not interact with charged particles. Also, because they are weakly interacting particles, they pass through considerable amounts of mass (namely dust and gas) before an interaction might occur. What this means is if you could detect the neutrinos coming from a supernova it could potentially give you early warning that the photons would soon follow. This would give you time to measure its light curve (see: SNEWS: The SuperNova Early Warning System). 

Lastly, higher order shape distortion effects, most notably Flexion, can produce the extended galaxy sources to not only shear, but to flex. This is currently a tough thing to measure. Microlensing Microlensing is a regime of lensing which is most common on the scale of the Milky Way galaxy. This can occur when background stars pass behind foreground stars. Microlensing is actually strong enough to produce multiple images of the background star, but since the image separations are so small (micro-arcsecond scale - hence the name), what we observe (since an angular resolution of a micro-arcsecond is tough to achieve) is a change in the flux as the object moves into and out of alignment with the intermediate massive object. Interestingly, microlensing has actually proven useful in detecting planets around stellar lensing systems. 

However, one such object has been discovered orbiting around a stable Lagrange point in 2010, called 2010 TK7. 

To break the degeneracy about which pole you're at (if you're an alien and crash-landed on the planet Earth (or any planet for that matter)), ask a local if they're friendly. They may not define the North and South poles the same as we do. If you're a human being on planet Earth, you could use constellations to figure this out. Constellations like Draco, Ursa Major/Minor and Cassiopeia are constellations which should not be visible from the South Pole. One could also use GPS to figure this out. 

Dark matter appears to dominate the matter component of the universe as compared to luminous, or baryonic, matter. Though it does not interact electromagnetically (it doesn't absorb, scatter, or emit photons), there is an ever-increasing mountain of evidence for its existence through it's gravitational interactions with stars, galaxies, and clusters, as well as it's influence on objects behind it through what's known as gravitational lensing. My question is, what are the most promising particle candidates of dark matter, and which experiments currently exist (or will exist) to attempt to answer this question? 

In this context, the $\kappa$ you are referring to is called the dimensionless matter density field. It is gravitational lensing jargon, and is usually just referred to as the 'convergence' field. What you have written there (that a field can be split up into divergence-less and curl-less components) is generally speaking true for any field which can be expressed as the curl of another field $A$. @chris is correct in that they refer not to the electromagnetism you are probably used to hearing these types of things discussed in, but refer to the polarization states of the cosmic microwave background due to quantum fluctuations in the early universe. They are called 'E' and 'B' only because they are reminiscent of electric and magnetic field lines. The big find was the measurement of B-modes. As a reminder, here is what these E- and B-mode patterns in the CMB would look like: 

There are a couple of relevant questions one would want to ask: 1) Do protons decay, and if so, what do they decay into? The answer appears to be no, or at least the theoretical lifetime of the proton must increase as a results of these experiments. If they do, eventually the universe could end up in a state of radiation (and dark energy, and dark matter, unless they also decay). 2) Is Hydrogen a bi-product of any natural decay process? Below is a table of all known nuclides. 

Additionally, Mars has a much more substantial atmosphere composed of ~95% CO2 (which is one of the major points Zubrin makes), whereas the atmosphere of the moon pales in comparison. Why is this important? Combined with the supply of Hydrogen which would be brought along, you could combine the CO2 with H2 to produce methane (CH4) which can be used as rocket fuel; water can also be produced. See the Sabatier reaction. Page 60 in "The case for mars" also talks about the merits and drawbacks of CH4/O2 and CO/O2 propellant systems, the former is really the better alternative if hydrogen were available. Also, when talking about settlements, exploration is a crucial function. Fuel for vehicles can also be supplied through the use of the Martian atmospheric CO2. 

Homogeneity on the scale of about 100 Mpc. This means that one would see very little change in density within a bubble of radiua 100 Mpc as you move said bubble around the universe. Isotropy means that there is no preferred directions to look. No matter where you look, you should see roughly the same picture of the universe. 

What sources of turbulence exist within the Interstellar medium (ISM)? Which ones are physically the most important for newly forming stellar systems? 

@AlexeyBobrick is correct. To add to his answer: The scale of galaxy clusters are on the order of ~1Mpc (~3.14 Million light years in size), and are therefore much smaller than the cosmological horizon. The cosmological principle is extraordinarily important for cosmologists, and makes the assumption about the universe's global properties (which turn out to be really good assumptions, so far): 

I don't know if this is what is commonly used for tasks such as yours, but it might be a place to start looking. 

Essentially, measuring large scale Gaussian B-modes from primordial gravitational waves will help constrain the energy scale of inflation. It may also be able to rule out most ekpyrotic and pure curvaton/inhomogeneous reheating models (same source). The other thing people are looking at is this idea of primordial non-Gaussianity, which are second order corrections to the Gaussian fluctuations present in the cmb (review article; early planck results). Measuring a parameter called $f_{nl}$ (deviation from Gaussianity) has been a fairly crucial part of current and future studies and will also help rule out various inflationary models. This $f_{nl}$ parameter is defined as follows: 

you are at either one of the poles. If the center of rotation of the stars is off by some angle (in degrees), you are that same amount of degrees south (or north) of the one of the poles. 2) The alternative is to take a long exposure picture due East or West. The angle between the direction of the star trails to that of your horizon gives you your latitude in degrees. The picture below is at some mid-latitude location on the Earth's surface. What you'd be looking for on the North or South pole are for the star trails to be parallel to your horizon. 

Though it's probably very unlikely in a solar system as old as ours (~5 billion years), I would not put it out of the realm of possibilities. Most of the collisions of this scale and magnitude have already happened - the early days of the formation of the solar system was violent and full of collisions between protoplanets. In fact, one hypothesis for the formation of the moon was that it formed from the debris of just such a collision. Additionally, the axial tilt of Uranus could also be explained by the collision of the planet with a protoplanet billions of years ago. Is the likelihood zero? No. But I would bet money that collisions between planets and asteroids/comets are much more probable. 

The simple answer is that light from the distant parts of the Milky Way Galaxy have already been traveling for that amount of time. Because light does not travel instantaneously through space, we are seeing the galaxy not as it is now, but as it was 100,000 (or so) years ago. Incidentally, this is also how we are able to see back to earlier moments of the universe's history. In terms of distance, the further we look, the longer light would have had to leave in order to reach us today. The universe did have a beginning (at least in the sense of having an earliest time). Because the universe is not infinitely old, there is actually a limit to how far we can see back into the universe's history (see: Cosmological horizon). We are able to make maps of the universe, like this one from SDSS: 

The big thing here is that E-modes are symmetric upon reflection, whereas B-modes are clearly not ($B>0$ maps into $B<0$). In order to produce B-mode polarization, you need two things: 1) Thompson scattering of photons by free electrons (present in the surface of last scattering as well as reionization). 2) A temperature quadrupole. The exciting thing about the second item is that there are only a few things which can produce just such a quadrupole moment, and one of them is gravity waves! Gravitational waves physically warp the coordinates of space-time as it travels through space, which of course have existing particles, causing these types of distortions: 

The answer to your question is yes. Many times discoveries in astronomy are serendipitous in nature - some of the most well-known discoveries fall into this category: the discovery of the cosmic microwave background, the discovery of some of the planets in our solar system, are but two examples of this. However, many times they are not serendipitous. Astronomers plan to discover things - look at the Kepler satellite which finds nearby exosolar planets by detecting planetary transits. The Sloan Digital Sky Survey was a planned galactic survey which gave us new insights about the properties of galaxies as well as structure formation. One also has to consider time scales. Many things astronomers care about have timescales which are millions or billions of years (merging clusters, the evolution of main sequence stars, etc..), however, some phenomena are on very short time scales, namely supernovae. Microlensing events can also be somewhat serendipitous in their discovery, though researchers still devise experiments to look for them (see OGLE). It is certainly a combination of luck and planning. This answer was intended to be a bit vague, since the question doesn't specifically ask about one phenomenon. Software does play a big role in identifying and classifying objects and events in the universe. I can talk a little bit more about this in the context of gravitational lensing if people care to know about it.