The focus of the article is about the role of alcohol in modern mothering, and its negative influences in particular. Much of the material revolves around one specific blogger/author who discovered that she had developed an alcohol problem due to her reliance upon it as a coping mechanism for the stress of being a parent, and her feeling that this was a growing trend. Indeed, a review of "mommy blogs" does turn up some notable examples of the prominence of alcohol, particularly wine: here, here and here. As an attempt to provide supporting evidence, the article also makes the claim: 

Prominently displayed on the front page of noted nutrition advocate Jamie Oliver's web page is the claim that "20% of Australian children think pasta comes from animals". A google search shows that this meme has spread quite a bit, almost certainly originating from that site. However, I cannot find a source for this claim. The infographic contained on this page seems to be the primary point of distribution for this factoid (along with the claim that 27% of Australian kids believe that yogurt comes from plants), but the sources at the bottom of the infographic list a bunch of rather generic web pages, without linking to the specific report. This version of the graphic includes a link to a PDF source, but the link isn't valid. I did find this PDF which is very similar to the broken link in that graphic, but there is no mention of any study, or even the claims cited" in that document. Is the claim that 20% of children in Australia think pasta comes from animals, and 27% think yogurt comes from plants, backed by legitimate research? 

Your question seems to focus on food allergies, which isn't the whole allergy picture. Chemical allergies are indeed on the rise, as fragrance materials (of which there are over 6000 different types) are loaded into everything from our soaps to our cleaning agents. Food allergies are tricky things; I myself am allergic to mushrooms. You've never quite enjoyed life until you've been intubated while conscious, let me tell you. But there does appear to be a increasing trend in both the UK and the US of peanut allergies. EDIT to add: Studies suggest an increase in anaphylaxis, and from a study Burks describes the increase as follows: 

Is formaldehyde the sole source of the 'new car smell'? No. It's more than likely the combined smell of the VOC's (of which formaldehyde is one) emitting from the interior, as there's over a dozen VOC's which are present. Brown, Stephen K and Min Cheng, 2007. Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) in New Car Interiors They found that the amount of VOCs present is dependent upon the 'delivery time' of the car from the manufacturer. Those cars which didn't have a 'shelf life' at a dealership had the highest amounts of VOCs present. Those which had been on display outside had the lowest. The chemicals they recorded were: 

Yes, a child's immune system develops and improves over time. However, the idea that the immune system can be "overwhelmed" by vaccinations is specious. An infant has both passively acquired and adaptive immune responses. 

The article does not contain any references, aside from mentioning and quoting "Dr. Andrei Poiarkov, of the Moscow Ecology and Evolution Institute". Yet googling for Dr. Poiarkov simply returns dozens of sites that all share the same article as The Sun (most seem to be word-for-word copies). Is this story true? Have the same specific dogs been observed getting onto a train, and then disembarking at the same stop day after day? For bonus points, is there any truth to these two other claims made by the article: 

A viral image is being passed around Facebook claiming that two FBI agents who fell from a helicopter to their deaths during a training accident were the same two who killed Tamerlan Tsarnaev (of the Boston Marathon bombing incident): 

Does this actually work, though? Perhaps not. According to several sources (the howstuffworks.com article, this gardensalive.com article, and snopes.com), in 2007 a researcher named Mike Stringham ran a 13 week study on the effectiveness of this method at one or two egg farms (the accounts differ on the details of the study, which causes me some concern as to how accurately the study's results are reported). Fly populations at each location were measured by placing cards that allowed the capture and measure of fly droppings. Some cards were placed in control rooms, others in rooms with bags of water. The results purportedly showed that there was an actual increase in fly population in the rooms with the water bags. However, snopes.com labeled this claim as "undetermined", due to the fact thtat Stringham's experiment was conducted in an environment that was "indoors with flourescent and incandescent lighting, a factor which may limit its applicability: it's possible the effects of direct sunlight on the bags may produce different results". The popular show MythBusters also tested this: 

Humans (like other primates) have long squatted during childbirth. The use of a birthing stool to aid the upright birthing position was also common for centuries, and is still used today. I couldn't find any sources linking the use of squatting toilets to childbirth. However, squatting to urinate/defecate isn't uncommon in undeveloped countries; these are also the countries most likely to utilize squatting for childbirth. As far as the mechanism for utilizing a squatting position it's said that the pelvic outlet is larger in the squatting position - thus more room for the child to deliver. There's also less compression upon arteries while squatting as opposed to being supine. It is also suggested that gravity is a factor: the weight of the baby dropping onto the cervix to speed dialation: most reports I linked show that squatting births were in general faster but some studies report more tearing and bloodloss with the squatting position. ($URL$ - for whatever reason that link won't link for me today. The basic conclusion from most reports: whatever position which makes Mom happy and comfortable while trying to squeeze a bowling ball out of a hole the size of a lemon is the best choice. 

It could be argued that many of the finds suffer from selection bias (if you can find a connection to the Bible, you are more likely to publish a find than not). But that does not make the evidence go away, it merely lowers our expectation that new evidence will crop up in the future. Whether these Biblical characters are consistent with outside history is hard to know since the independent evidence mostly records their names and positions. Most historical records from the time are uninterested in describing the character of historical figures. At most, we receive broad accounts of their actions and those do seem consistent with the Biblical sources, for what it's worth. There is also evidence of New Testament characters to be found in Roman and Jewish records. I didn't find a list as condensed as the one for the Hebrew Bible, but this site includes not just independent sources for Biblical people, but also the political, social, intellectual, and cultural climate in which early Christianity was formed. If the list were compiled it would be fairly long, but I'd like to point out the unusual case of Gamaliel, who is well-regarded in both Jewish and Christian traditions. We are quite dependent on Josephus for most of our history surrounding Judea leading up to and through the destruction of the Temple. He has gotten a bad name in recent years because his mention of Jesus (the Testimonium Flavianum) was "punched up" by some later scribe to be more favorable to Christianity. A 1971 discovery of an Arabic copy of Antiquities does not include as many Christian interpolations suggests the passage is not entirely spurious. Peter Kirby has written a pretty good survey of research surrounding the passage. On the other hand, references to other Biblical characters such as James, the brother of Jesus, and John the baptist are more commonly accepted. Of course, references to various officials who also appear in the Bible are not contested at all. Jesus himself is of course well-attested in Christian sources, but also receives mention in non-Biblical texts. Not surprisingly given the antipathy of almost everyone to the early Christians, the non-Christian sources sharply contradict the Biblical account of his character and the meaning of his life. A list of New Testament figures associated with archeological finds that match the above criteria include: 

You mention VOC being more of an office building problem, but that's actually not at all true. There are PLENTY of sources for VOCs in a home - again, you just don't think of them as a 'source' of VOCs. Bernstein, 2008 includes a nifty table of sources for VOC indoor air pollution: 

The act of shedding leaves is a response to an environmental pressure (dehydration). In the northern hemisphere trees 'recall' the nitrogen and carbon present in their leaves in the fall in preparation for winter, to prevent dehydration of the tree during the dry period(s). For your case in India, the 'dry season' is between March-May, and as a result the trees recall their C/N at that point. 

Yes, there are studies which show a correlation between methylmercury exposure and attention deficits. One of the 'cornerstone' mercury studies was performed in the Faroe Islands by Grandjean, et al 1999, (Methylmercury exposure biomarkers as indicators of neurotoxicity in children aged 7 years ) where they followed a cohort of 917 Faroese children from birth until the age of 7, which reported 

So yes, that lovely smell you smell in your new car is a bunch of chemicals you really don't want to be smelling. And, if you live where it's warm - you'll smell more of them. 

Other specific claims include "increasing the woman's energy", making it easier to reposition the body due to the buoyancy, improved blood circulation, more effective uterine contractions, lower incidents of high blood pressure due to anxiety, and a reduction in stress-related hormones, allowing the mother’s body to produce endorphins. Are there measurable benefits backed by scientific research for water therapy (anything ranging from showers or sponge baths to full immersion)? Are any of the above claims, particularly a reduction in perineum tearing or episiotomy rates, backed by research? 

Does the release of the McRib really trigger a surge in pork trimming prices, and does the removal of the McRib from the menu correspond to the prices rising past a certain point? 

The message accompanying it is calling for a boycott of Heineken for sponsoring the event. The message is as follows (warning: horrific grammar, spelling, and some profanity): 

Is there any scientific support to the claim of this plant providing relief from skin irritants, particularly those caused by poison ivy or stinging nettle (although research showing benefits against other irritants would be acceptable substitute data)? Is the 1958 study referenced above legitimate? 

For other produce which might be treated with an insoluble chemical compound, you can try using a vinegar wash. This study on potatoes indicates that washing removes most compounds, as does peeling and food cooking/preparation. Carbofuran is no longer permitted to be used on fruits in the US, nor be present on fruits imported to the US. It is also not permitted in the EU. Of course, there is a very simple manner in which you can guarantee no pesticide/fungicide/preservative contamination of your food: buy organic. Whenever I make cakes or pies which require lemon, lime or orange zest, I buy organic. Then I don't have to worry. So, given the short half-lives of these compounds on the fruits, it would be difficult (albeit not entirely impossible if someone ate 10 crates of orange zest) to be poisoned by the residue left on the zest. The same follows for any wax compound: it's a matter of the amount sprayed (which is regulated differently by country) and the amount of time it's left on the fruit. Some waxes (beeswax) are natural products. Edited to add: The following waxes are commonly used in citrus handling: 

I have heard this claim in the past, and have found a few references to it (Example 1, Example 2). Supposedly military avionic radar units are so powerful that they are capable of killing small animals, or even humans, simply by being powered up in their vicinity during low-altitude flights. Is this possible? How large of an animal is in danger of this? Could it kill humans? 

The sources that I found for this were in regards to this method being used to repel flies, and not specifically mosquitos, but at least one source mentioned that most claims of the theoretical effectiveness were based off of the interaction of the light refraction with insects with compound eyes. As mosquitos also have compound eyes, it seems feasible that the method would be just as effective (or ineffective) on mosquitos as the houseflies and biting flies that are more commonly referenced in conjunction with this method. Most proponents of this theory agree that light refraction is the key: 

However, a review of that cited source shows no mention of the word "carcinogen", and indeed states: 

(Emphasis mine). So, to summarize: No, the Jews did not take 73% of their land from the Palestinians. No, they did not legally own the land they occupied in the time period, but neither did the Palestinian Arabs or anyone else, as they were disputed territories not yet covered by international treaties or laws.