The allied programme of denazification, previously quite strict, came to an end and especially in the West most of those not already on special lists or already convicted were allowed to regain their positions. Among them teachers, judges, civil servants, police and politicians. Before the Cold War got into swing the terms Nazi and German were synonyms, and rightly so. For the Germans themselves this process started of course immediately, that is at the start of May 1945 or even before, whenever their town or village was "liberated from the Nazis". Examples for these changing attitudes on the side of the allies can be shown quite easily if you compare the Morgenthau plan and public opinion at the time the allies reached the concentration camps with the American protection for the careers of SS-Sturmbannführer Wernher von Braun and Reinhard Gehlen. Despite viewing 'Nazis' as a finished business threat whose position in most minds of the Western world was now taken over by communism, there were also some key points in separating Nazis and Germany, that is slowly growing sympathy for Germans/Germany now slowly seen as "also victims": 

This seems to indicate that at least the phrasing of "banned" is somehow problematic, since this doesn't mean that no actor ever attended the games. Such regulations, being more symbolic than anything else, describe foremost the self-image of the society – not the reality of it. Finding examples that counteract to these regulations seems easy. Roman society is seen as heavily stratified. But there is legitimate reason to see this much laxer than proscribed. People sneaking in, in the sense of sitting where they didn't belong, seems to have occurred often. They had to have a ticket, or a benefactor, then they were "in". The 'reasons' for 'banning' groups, by that I mean effectively limiting their numbers from entering and/or separating them into disregarded spaces, might lie in their official status, their limited ability to pay, or membership in clubs that did not receive free tickets. But official reasoning by writers, senators or laws is much less precisely mirrored by what went on in real life. In relation to the question one could also ask, why were the games banned in the 1st century? Were they? They were. In 59 in Pompeii some collegia of iuvenes had such a riot going that as a punishment both the games and the clubs were suspended. But this did not apply to the whole empire and not forever. If there was a ban in place, we would have to specify when and were that ban was. 

In Brazil there are perhaps a number of peoples fitting the search criteria. Although most of these are simply not really known to the Western mind. One tribe still living as hunter-gatherers with known contact, and rejecting it, are the Pirahã, description has that they even reject using stones: 

But whatever your status: having access to a real (Greek) doctor was a matter of prestige, whatever the status of the doctor. It seems to be quite well known that a human doctor was superior to incubation, and therefore preferred. In case a 'professional' wasn't available Roman family structure already provided an alternative in the pater familias being responsible for curing maladies. But going to such a sanctuary does not seem to have been restricted to any class. 

Most important is of course the actual application as a writing or drawing tool. Everyone now knows how graphite in pencils works, but a similar effect is achieved in using a stilus plumbeum. These drawing tools are said to originate in ancient Egypt and are allegdly also described by Pliny. This variation of metal point is today most often called a silver point, despite lead being the main component in most cases. This then closes the circle since modern pencils, containing graphite, are in English often called lead pencil and in German always called Bleistift. Young students often wise crack about licking the tip of a pencil, being unsure whether "it is or is not dangerous" because "lead is toxic", "actually it is not lead and does not contain any lead, so it's safe". At least modern German word usage (and Danish, Dutch, possibly more) and many citizens still confuse the minerals. 

It is only alluding to the Goldmark which was in circulation before the war to inspire confidence. This notgeld was issued on September 27th, 1923, very shortly before the reforms that switched away from the inflated Papiermark and made the Rentenmark legal tender everywhere. The Text on this specimen is somewhat hard to decipher. 

or damms like Hindenburgdamm or towers, especially in the East (Hindenburgturm), or just houses (Haus Hindenburg, Villa Hindenburg) you might start to see a certain pattern. The most notable predecessor for this pattern in Germany was of course Bismarck. Bismarck (Begriffsklärung), who had apples, fish, pastries, trains and trees etc named after him and most prominently some memorials like Bismarck towers built in his memory. Some more examples of places/towns renamed after persons in Germany, not before 1500 and not after 1918: Borsigwalde, Scharmützelhütte->Ferdinandshof, Buchhorn->Friedrichshafen (1811), Friedrichskoog, Georgsdorf, Malbergen->Georgsmarienhütte (1857), Leopoldshöhe (1841), Schröck->Leopoldshafen (1833), Ludwigshafen (1852), Holzhof->Maxdorf (1819), Quilicz/Quilitz-> Neuhardenberg (1814), Selbelang/Bardelebenschen Meierei-> Paulinenaue (1833), Heppens/Neuende-> Wilhelmshaven (1869). Wilhelmshaven was of course named after the future emperor Wilhelm I of Prussia. Back to Zabrze itself: According to the official newspaper – Zabrzer (Hindenburger) Kreisblatt – the town just wanted the new name, and got it "approved by the highest authorities" on March 1, 1915. No official reasoning given there. Some revisionist sources (Ostpreusissche Allgemeine (1980), p11.) the inhabitants grew tired of a way too Polish sounding name for the town, and just wanted something more germanic. This assertion is allegedly based on the book: Josef Pollok (Ed): "Die Geschichte der Stadt Hindenburg OS", 1979 (excerpts online). This contrasts 

If Louis XIV was correct in stating "l'etats – c'est moi" then it might be said that the Emperor was the Reich, but the Archchancellor was the government. 

Those partitions away from the former Reich's territory clearly prove that the 14 points of Wilson's address were moot when the armistice was signed. They served their purpose and were put to rest. While some of the concepts of national self-determination were publicly proclaimed, in practice they were way too often undermined or ignored. Gerrymandering of voting districts in Schleswig, Eupen, Malmedy, parts of Eastern provinces, Saar and Alsace cut off without a vote, Rhineland occupation, relatively open voting fraud in other areas are a contestable issue. Later actions on behalf of the allies in forbidding German-Austria to join the other Germans and the ethnic make-up or construction of Czechoslovakia expose the best-before date of the principles of the 14 points. Nationalism as well as "self-determination" are good for rousing peasants and middle class voters who didn't care before (as evidenced by peaceful co-settlement patterns). When it comes down to actual decisions: power and economic interests rule the day, any day. Splitting up a country that was only formed a few years before was easy. Napoleon did just that a hundred years before with German lands: 

These thoughts and observations apply to some explicit and implicit, conscious und unconscious types of usages. It does not represent a rule to be applied generally and in every case. It does however portray some general trends. Sometimes calling the war faring Germans of that time "the Nazis" might be a fitting description, sometimes it is used or has the effect to blur the lines of what really happened. Whether this is unintentional or deliberate is to be judged on a case by case basis. Regarding textbooks on the subject it seems fair to assume in most instances that quite often a certain well intentioned pedagogy will use "the Nazis" in order not stir up controversy that might flare up in young minds when they start to think about current Germans. Conclusion: When? Depending on political leaning and and your own position: in West-Germany it started in every village as soon as it was taken, solidified during the phase of Westintegration, and despite some left-wing outliers it became firmly established view after the liberal turn and the Historikerstreit. Other members of "the West" followed a similar pattern, starting soon after tensions with the Soviet Union became apparent and increasingly so as time went by, in parallel as present day Germany became a rehabilitated member of the United Nations or 'the international community'. Why? It started with practical power politics in that Germans wanted to distance themselves from the guilt and the former allies needed the economic might and manpower. Manpower is somewhat undermined in efficiency and willingness to cooperate if constantly reminded of indelible guilt. With every year passed since then it is somehow increasingly seen as unjust to apply collective guilt to a whole people since the individual perpetrators were dying out. Shoa survivors often disagree, but they are the among the last to still hold this more than justified grudge. Answer needed despite not being asked explicitly: Is it really always the case that Germans and Germany from 1933–1945 are now always called Nazis and Nazi-Germiny or the Nazis? –– No. "Nazi-Germany" is a relatively specific and accurate description of the state and nation from 1933–1945. But a trend is observable and some of the reasons – sometime utter banality some of them very complicated – for that trend were in need of being discussed here. Underlying motivations are politeness, precision on the positive side, transmogrification of reality and retrograde absolution on the other side. If you read "the Nazis attacked Russia" instead of "the Germans attacked the Soviet-Union" you might see a a peculiar difference made with that distinction and you are quite right to infer something about the nack for or lack of historical accuracy and the motivations of the author of those lines.