Let us assume that we are settlers on some alien land and we run into a terrestrial, territorial pack carnivore among the local fauna. This animal has many of the traits needed for domestication: 

Industry != nuisance, generally speaking The assumption that underlies North American Euclidean zoning as applied to industrial facilities is that the more "industrial" a use is, the more nuisance it will cause, and the more resources it will require to support it. While the latter is still rather true, the former no longer holds now that oil and coal burning has been replaced by natural gas or electric heat. A modern, well-run factory poses very little nuisance to the surrounding community -- I lived within walking distance of a major regional dairy, and the only things noticeable about it were the trucks on the main roads and the physical presence of the plant. Hardly a nuisance worthy of being zoned away from residences, if you ask me. Special cases need special handling However, a few things still need to be segregated by distance from residential, general commercial, or institutional properties. This is less for nuisance in most cases and more for safety -- oil refineries are not just noxious but quite hazardous if something were to go seriously wrong, and the same holds true for factories that produce or use bulk quantities of reactive, toxic-by-inhalation (TIH), or highly flammable chemicals, or storage facilities for said chemicals as well. Petroleum storage "tank farms", facilities handling ammonium nitrate fertilizers, and public works that use bulk chlorine need at least some segregation on this basis. These latter facilities are what your industrial centers will contain, akin to the industrial suburbs of the Houston metropolitan area. This also has several logistical advantages. Large industrial plants that deal with high-hazards will often have in-house fire brigades that can then coordinate and pool resources to cover the area with appropriately specialized expertise. Atop that, just about all of these facilities will need specialized transportation access such as large-scale rail terminals and barge docking, and clustering such facilities is advantageous for both industrial users (more convenient and reliable service) and transportation providers (go one place for your customers instead of laying rails all over town). How this'd look from a zoning standpoint A zoning scheme for this would have two categories of industrial uses. A "General Industrial" category would be used for low-nuisance, moderate-hazard industries such as a dairy, metal fabrication shop, or general warehouse that could be co-located with more intensive commercial, retail, and institutional uses that need similar infrastructure, while the high-nuisance and/or high-hazard uses would be placed in special "Segregated Industrial" districts that are built around rail or barge infrastructure and have high-capacity utilities serving them. In fire code terms, you'd put your high-hazard (Group H) uses into the Segregated Industrial district, and most of the ordinary and moderate hazard uses (Group F, Group S, and Group U) into the General Industrial category where they could go in among other commercial (Group B, Group M, and to some extent even Groups A, E, and I) and even high-density residential uses. 

The legends of lycanthropes go back eons; while they have changed over time, a common modern expression of them is of an infected or cursed human that is given the power to transform into a wolf and/or a hybrid canid-humanoid form either willingly or when triggered by certain events (anger, full moon), in exchange for a more...primal and predatory mindset. While we know that shapeshifting requires magic, one possible interpretation of lycanthropy is of a permanent change to the "hybrid" canid-humanoid form upon infection: 

This is much easier done over water -- heavy-lift ships can move objects on the order of tens of thousands of tons routinely, and the largest examples of this type are able to handle objects in excess of 100,000 tons combined with immense bulk, up to and including an oil-platform-sized monster. Of course, you can also attach buoyancy devices to the beast until its seaworthy, then tow it with whatever quantity of towing vessels the thing's mass necessitates. Over land, though -- such moves are far more difficult. Trains are the dominant industrial heavy-haulers of this day and age; no road-going vehicle can move the sheer amount of tonnage a modern locomotive consist-set can haul (well in excess of ten thousand tons, up to the thirty to fourty thousand ton range depending on how extreme your distributed power setup is). However, you're limited by the railroad loading gauge and by axle loading; this limit means that your monster has to fit within a 13-14' or so wide (up to perhaps 17' in the most generous of areas) by 23' high box, and to a practical maximum of a few hundred to a thousand tons with a well or Schnabel car and idlers; Schnabel car moves also limit the length to somewhat over 100' in order to avoid excessive in-train forces when negotiating curves. If non-road-going vehicles are allowed, a crawler-transporter type vehicle can be used. These can handle several thousand tons of load, but would be limited to a dedicated, prebuilt crawlerway, and also to sizes in the 125' square range. If that's not an option, but large roads are available, the closest thing to a crawler-transporter that's still somewhat roadable would be a self-propelled modular transporter system. On-road load-limits for these range well into the hundreds of tons, and vehicle lengths and widths are limited by the design of available roads, but generally are smaller than crawler-transporters, especially widthwise. SPMTs are also agonizingly slow-moving compared to just about any other mode of transport discussed here, and transport over road subjects you to stringent height limits (13-14' unless you get an overheight permit in addition to the overwidth/slow-moving-load permitting you'd need for roading a SPMT, and even with an overheight permit, I doubt you could achieve more than 15-18' of clearance save for short distances on the order of a typical house move.) 

Sci-fi scenario with flights to a colony planet. Tech level is otherwise close to today (e.g. no androids or desktop nanofactories). Planet is quite similar to Earth, so e.g. agriculture works, you can grow wheat and raise cattle. What would be the likely/optimal ratio of passengers to cargo transported to said planet? Let's say it costs as much to transport one passenger as five tons of cargo, and available transport resources could per year bring 10,000 colonists and 50,000 tons of cargo - that would be splitting the available resources equally. At one extreme, clearly there would be no point hauling 100,000 tons of cargo and nobody to make use of it. At the other extreme, you don't want to put 20,000 colonists on another planet with nothing more than carry-on luggage; even though it's a nice habitable planet, they will still need tools and supplies. Does the above even split of one colonist per five tons of cargo make sense, or can we reasonably say each person would need more cargo, or less? The closest analogy I can think of is the colonization of the Americas. (The main difference being that in the sci-fi scenario, there are no natives.) What was the overall ratio of people to cargo transported from Europe to America during that time period? 

For a science fiction story involving time travel, where the protagonists can go back exactly 33 years from 2013 to 1980, and are looking for a way to make a lot of money quickly: Is there any way today (well, in 2013, close enough) to find a list of winning lottery numbers (in any country) from 1980? I've been checking such lottery records as I can find on Google, and none of them seem to go back further than the 90s or thereabouts. (Granted, other forms of information are available back that far like lists of winners of the Grand National and the FA Cup, but I'm curious about the situation with lottery numbers.) 

On a timescale of 1e11 years, all uranium and thorium will have decayed, but planets will still exist, orbiting red dwarf stars. Would it be possible to use lead as a nuclear fuel? In principle, the curve of binding energy says lead fission is an exothermic reaction. Is there a way to do this while getting out more energy than you put in? (Getting out more money than you put in, is of course a bigger challenge, but we are talking about a scenario where there is no competition from uranium or thorium let alone fossil fuels. I'm assuming the minimum size for a viable fusion reactor remains large compared to a few gigawatts.) 

I'm trying to figure out whether spacecraft could see explosions occurring on the surface of a planet, or under what conditions they could. To be specific: Given a spacecraft equipped with a duplicate of the Keck telescope, using visible light only, watching a planet similar to Earth, at what distance could it see the explosion of one ton of TNT, occurring at sea level at night under a clear sky? 

A setting where we still have the rest of our technology, but for reasons - alien space bats, basically - there are no longer any stable orbits around Earth with an altitude higher than about 1000 km. Could we build a replacement GPS based on satellites in low orbit? I know the existing system is based on geosynchronous orbit, but is that an absolutely necessary quality of any such system, or would using LEO just make the engineering more expensive? 

In a futuristic setting where people are worried about enemy spacecraft doing things like dropping bombs from orbit, and are building ground-based lasers to shoot back, Given that such weapons have the disadvantage of having to shoot up through atmosphere (putting them on high ground ~2 km helps a bit, but only a bit), What is the optimum wavelength to minimize absorption and scattering by air (and preferably by clouds)? It's definitely going to be some way into the infrared, but what exact wavelength would be best? 

How large can this animal be before domesticating it for hunting and guard duties, as well as general companionship, becomes impractical for the settlers to pull off? You can assume that they have skilled animal trainers and breeders among their ranks. 

in order for it to survive the gravitational forces of a prograde passage through the ergosphere, along a course in plane with and secant to the equator that passes through a point halfway between the ergosphere's equatorial radius and the event horizon's equatorial radius? Assume the object is traveling at a constant 1km/s before entering the significant influence of the black hole, if that matters whatsoever. (If the 1km object is too large to fit into the ergosphere of the given black hole, please let me know.) 

So, I'm working on building a state (kingdom to be more precise) as part of my world, and as part of that exercise I want there to be some contact between characters in said world and the legal system, so I need to define to at least some degree what that state's legal/governmental system is like, how it functions, and such. Furthermore, they'll need to be able to to reference at least some sort of written legal code or statute (and it will also help me ensure consistency, which is important when you're trying to present a world where due process is upheld). However, there are many aspects of a legal code or statute that are not obvious to a layperson, but are actually at least somewhat necessary for a society at even a Dark Ages level to function, never mind a higher level: 

So, I'm looking to get one of my characters poisoned. However, if they notice that something's up, the jig's likely up as they'll seek treatment for what happened, so this needs to happen "under their radar" so to speak. Hence, the poison needs to have the following traits: 

This is practical for low current/power inaccessible applications -- think like a CR2032 before we had lithium coin cells, in a place where you can't just up and change the battery. The technique used is betavoltaics, using a beta emitter (such as a tritium capsule or sealed-in potassium-40 layer) impinging upon silicon solar arrays. The voltages and currents involved are rather low (few hundred microwatts to a few milliwatts of power depending on the size), but are predictable over the long term due to the decade+ half-life of tritium, or the far longer half life of say potassium-40. 

So, your engineer could have a Titanium Nitride coated hammerhead for rustproofing reasons. Makes sense to me! 

Assume you have two blades (of whatever design you wish) made from identical starting steel (in fact, we can assume that the two starting ingots are sisters from the same mill run). One is shaped by manual hot-forging, while the other is shaped by a single-blow, closed-die hot forging process. After shaping, they are identically heat-treated and machined to final dimensions. How would the two blades be different, and how would this difference manifest itself in practical usage as a tool or a weapon, both initially and over a long period of time? 

(How) would this one-time transformation be possible biologically (i.e. explainable in terms of what we know about how biology works, even if it'd be difficult/improbable/require bioengineering to create)? 

So, I have a character who has an interesting quirk: they cannot wear flat shoes or boots (i.e. where the heel is at the same level as the ball of the foot or approximately so, within 1.27cm or so) without risking pain/injury to their feet and legs. What sort of physiological trait or "defect" would cause this in an otherwise normal human being? Said trait can be heritable or idiosyncratic, but needs to be present from birth or young age, should not interfere with their ability to walk/run when suitably shod, and should not affect the appearance of their feet in any clearly noticeable way. 

The answer to this question sits on the shelf at the BBEG's local hardware store. It's called d-CON. No, seriously. The second-generation superwarfarins (such as brodifacoum) are exactly the poison you seek -- they have a long half-life in the body (in the weeks to months range) due to being highly fat soluble, are capable of being quite insidiously lethal due to their mode of action, and can easily be antagonized by a steady diet of green vegetables (as said vegetables are high in vitamin K, which counteracts the effects of coumadins). However, if Joe gets out and reverts back to his fast-food-eating ways...he'll be in the hospital or worse.