SHOUT should be on top of all the lists. It helps remove panic, attracts attention and allows the passage of useful instructions to the victim, such as treading water, floating on their back (so the mouth and nose are upper most!), encouraging them to swim / doggy paddle backwards (nostrils uppermost!). Then you can look for anything that could aid you/them - a piece of wood, a football, etc. for floatation and reach. Followed by all the other good advice 

If you clear too much, then the opened areas won't regrow that well, either because of trampling (continued easier access), or because of lack of nutients from the decay. The overall ecosystem can be damaged because of lack of micro habitats for insects and other lower elements of the food & pollination chain. I've heard it said, in the opposite, that some areas used to have native management that would clear some areas of dead wood (e.g. spring fires) to maintain particular level of usage (old cowboy films of riding through the trees are now overgrown areas, apparently). Other slow growing areas areas have become ravaged by accidental fires with limited/slow regrowth (just been to Patagonia where it was a significant issue - they have no natural fires/lightening). Overall, take it slow, careful and steady. It takes a very long time to get a natural forest back (maybe 3-4 generations of 2-300 year old trees ?) 

The hue of the tent colour can also affect whether insects and flies are attracted to the tent. In some cases certain flies like certain gaudy colours. However more commonly it will be flies that shelter in darker hollows and under grass and leaves that will like the dark tent, while a lighter shade may make those flies swarm above their normal dark foliage (this is with a 'green' tent). In Scotland this can be the case for midges which can ruin an otherwise wonderful campsite when the air is still and the sky is overcast. The (biting female who desire a blood meal for mating) midges will congregate in the lee of the tent, and if it's quite dark may even crawl over the tent outer. This can be bad when entering and exiting the tent as they brush onto you, the victim... 

Sounds obvious, but if you've got enough fuel and it's snowy, gather some to melt. Bear in mind though that you'll get vastly less water than you might expect, so be prepared to grab lots of it. Stay away from coloured snow as well, not just for the obvious reason but because very nasty bacteria can also cause coloured snow (pinkish as well as yellow.) If there's no snow, have a look out for some common signs of water nearby: 

I know a few people who say they're useful - and they are certainly very versatile. There's nothing very complex about them, it's just a section of stretchy material that you can wear however you like. They can be used wet for cooling, or dry underneath a hat for a bit of extra warmth, or as a scarf. If you're on a gentle hike or a fun backpacking trip then there's no harm in having one, they're cheap and if nothing else a bit of fun! I wouldn't say they're an essential piece of serious gear though - kit dedicated to the task it's meant to do will almost always do a better job (a proper scarf will likely be a lot warmer than a buff as a scarf for instance.) 

I've always liked the idea of canyoning, but it seems that there's few places where it can be done in England. Does anyone know of any such places? 

...So yes, I'd say each of those situations warrants the use of the PLB. Each is a potentially life threatening situation, each requires immediate action and, assuming you have no-one with you and no other means of contacting anyone else nearby, could be deadly unless you get help immediately. I would guess what annoys the authorities are cases where people activate them when there's really no case of an emergency at all, or people landing themselves in danger through being completely stupid (taking no / little water on a long hike in the heat, getting lost, wet and tired and so on.) In short, if you've prepared yourself as much as you can, taken all reasonable steps you can to prevent yourself landing in danger, and find yourself in a potentially deadly situation you have no other feasible way out of, I'd say activate it. 

Do not leave part of the rope hanging from above the stick across the bag as shown in the pic. This defeats the purpose of the stick. If you are in a low enough area that there aren't any trees, then the wildlife is less of a concern. In those areas, I have often left packs on the ground or on a table and had no issues. The main concern in these areas is squirrels and depending on the side of the mountains you are on, skunks. If you have a way you can suspend it off the ground using sticks and/or bushes, this would be best. If not, plan ahead and have a bear bag of some variety. Since the main concern, at this elevation, is rodent, a frame-less bag would work just fine. The Squirrels in the pine covered areas will barter. If you lose something and a pine cone is sitting where you are sure you set it down, a squirrel took it and left you a pine cone in trade. This is most common with food, but if you regularly use scented hand lotion it will rub off on other things, like digital cameras. Look up and around and you can usually find the culprit. Powered Gatorade is a great idea. We usually put 1 teaspoon of salt per 10oz of water in our containers. This doesn't gum up any bladders and is barely taste-able. It, along with some regular snacking, usually does more than enough for the group I go with, but we also live in that climate. Flipping over rocks with a hand is a bad idea, but kicking them if you have good boots usually isn't a bad idea. Also avoid bushes near large rocks or short rock cliffs, these are prime places for snakes. Spring time depending on how early or late with determine how many snakes are out. Right now, early April, there are very few if any out. In May they will start to show up in force. You asked about Pumas. We call them Mountain Lions. Same thing. They actually have more nicknames than any other animal on earth. Usually they leave you alone, unless it is an extremely dry year. In which case, prevention, avoidance, and defense is the same here as everywhere else. 

As well as the other answers, I notice you said they were new shoes you were hiking in - it isn't uncommon for these to be more likely to rub and potentially cause blisters until they're properly broken in. Follow the other advice (especially about socks) with blisters because that can hugely help - but in addition to this you may also want to try wearing them for shorter hikes / walks, little and often, until they're broken in a bit more. You might be surprised at how much this can help! 

Sometimes you can't help but set up camp in an area where the soil is very rocky / stony or firm, especially when wild camping. This can make it incredibly difficult to drive the tent pegs into the ground. Are there any good solutions to this? My approach thus far has either been to bring a mallet (generally very heavy, big and thus not suitable for long periods of hiking) or try to find a rock to bash them into the ground (a suitable rock can't always be found though and can damage the pegs over time.) 

Well, how far back are you talking? Technically speaking, thousands of years ago Dartmoor was all forest area, the trees were hacked down by man to make open space and it's stayed barren since, bar a few areas. More recently (in the last few hundred years) it was home to many tin mines. But it's pretty clear that if you go walking on it, these are all long gone and man's influence now is minor. There is some occasional army activity, but only in certain parts and the affect on the landscape is minimal. But if you take this to extremes, where do you stop? Unless we knew for sure that man had never settled in the particular area, then we could never describe any land as a real wilderness. I'd say it fit well into this category. 

So every winter working in the dry cold, my skin, on my hands and feet, cracks. Particularly between my fingers and toes. What can I do to prevent this? 

You might want to take a look at this site which is in Canada, but ships to the USA. Due note that since the DEA is restricting/banning the product, buying iodine crystals through the mail might get seized coming into the country. If you want to help Polar Pure come back, take a look here for info on how you can help. If you are looking for a more bulk level purchase you could check this supply store which sells iodine crystals in 30g increments. 

I think what you are looking for is Century Camping gear. It is mostly made in USA and they have all the accessories that you are looking for. If something they sell is made elsewhere, they note the country of origin in the product specs. Coleman still makes some stuff here but most of it is in China now. You have to check the individual box for them. You might also want to try REI.com. They are a great camping site and their online store has a button to show only made in USA items. I tested this and found it odd that they flagged all Century Camping gear as imported when only 1 of their stoves is actually imported. 

Yes. Class IV would be unsafe for the group as a whole, if it occurs in the first couple of days of the trip. If you have 1 or 2 experienced people in the paddle raft and you keep one at the back to set the pace and call commands you should be fine in class III, with a good riverside training the morning you leave. I frequently do 4 days on the upper salt river in Arizona. During high water 1 of the rapids on day 3 is a class IV. We have taken people who have never paddled before in paddle rafts and they usually do fine because they have a couple of days of paddling rough class 3 rapids. Anyone new we take gets an hour long or so training riverside the morning we leave, and in any calm patches of water we practice spinning the raft, high-side, and rescues, so when it needs to happen in a rapid they are prepared. Also, remember to take into account the swimming capability of the new paddlers. If they are not strong swimmers or not confident in their ability, even Class III might be too much. Honestly they would probably be fine, especially with experienced people to help them, but it would not be a risk I am willing to take. 

Some of it may well be historical - while there are a lot of generic hardware store type things that "do the job" out there now, I'm willing to bet that a few decades ago this wasn't the case. However, I'd still say that unless you're just doing light hiking / camping where it's never going to be stretched much, it's still worth getting: 

You could do a lot worse than strip them and get in a sleeping bag with them, and indeed this used to be instructed as standard first aid for hypothermia. However, as far as I'm aware this has now changed and the recommended approach is to construct a 1 person thermal burrito / hyper-wrap. It's done as follows (content taken from the alpine institute blog!) 

Compasses seem to come in all shapes, sizes and (especially) prices! What sets a good compass apart from a bad one and what are some good characteristics to look for when making a purchase? 

I'll give this a stab, but there aren't any authoritative sources that I've managed to find on the subject! The most I could really find are examples such as this one where people have drank it and felt no ill effects, and I haven't found a documented case of anyone drinking it and it being harmful to them. From a biological point of view the vine will at least partly purify the ground water, though if it's a known heavily contaminated area I wouldn't take it as a substitute for a proper water filter. In terms of the effect on the grape vine, most sources I've found seem to show that while it seems alarming it's actually not that bad for the vine, though obviously if you make cuts everywhere and drain all the sap there will come a point where it won't be able to sensibly recover. In short, if you're really desperate for water and it's the only source available in a survival situation, I'd see no great reason for not giving it a try. It isn't however a direct substitute for a good, purified water source.