The set of candidates is small. The word "tundra" is from Saami (Proto-Sami *tuonder), though I don't know if it went direct to Swedish, or via Russian. There are some Saami words used in Norwegian (at least northern Norwegian) which therefore might also be used in Swedish, namely "duotji" (handicrafts, not sure how it's spelled in Norwegian), and "joik", but one might decide that they aren't yet words 'in Scandinavian'. A rather old word is Swedish lunnefågel, Norwegian lunde "puffin", from Proto-Sami *londe and Finno-Urgic *lunta "bird". Another (possibly not in Swedish) is the northern Norwegian semi-dried cod boknefisk, from Saami boahk- "dry". I would be remiss if I didn't mention samisk "Saami", which is from Saami. Addendum: I have to somewhat retract the example duodji (N. Saami spelling), related to the verb duddjot "to do work by hand". Sammallahti indicates this comes from Germanic tōwja and Old Notse tø̄ja "to accomplish". I was unaware of sarv, vaja, härk in Scandinavian, but you'd expect there to be more influence of Saami in the realm of reindeer terminology. In contrast to the words duodji and joik which are Saami words pretty transparently used in Scandinavian, sarv would most likely be from N. Saami sarvva where it means "moose", suggesting that it is an older loan. The example härk also seems to have undergone a semantic shift pointing to it being an older word, since the closest N. Saami noun is heargi "draft reindeer", with a number of related derivatives. Interestingly, there is one verb heargut "to be castrated (of reindeer)" with the missing semantic element. So while härk surely derives from Saami, it's not just a Saami word that happens to be used in Scandinavian (as duodji is). Finally there is a Norwegian product name, Boazo, a brand of reindeer meat, transparently derived from N. Saami boazu – I don't know if that can called a loanword (analogous to Sriracha now being an English word). 

When I peruse this site and others, I find references to apparent operations that change either one surface structure to another (as with passivization) or a deep structure to a surface structure (as with raising). Is the notion of transformations still current among generative linguists? If not, how do generative grammarians generally explain the linguistic data formerly explained by transformations? If so, where can I find a list of transformations currently acknowledged by generative grammarians? Also if so, has the number of acknowledged transformations decreased over time? 

What is the difference between "or" and "either...or? Obviously, one comprises one phonological word and the other comprises two. I have yet to find an analysis of "either...or" in which "either" is considered to be an adverb. The Summer Institute of Linguistics glossary of linguistic terms indicates that "either...or" is a correlative conjunction, which the SIL defines as "either of a pair of coordinating conjunctions used in ordered fashion." (See $URL$ ) I'm not sure that this definition makes sense for English, because "either" is not a coordinator by itself AFAIK. This definition may apply to other languages. But I've been having a hard time finding examples on the Internet. Anyway, my chief interest is in the semantic difference between "or" and "either...or". Although I'm asking about two English coordinators, I believe that this question is appropriate for this list because other languages also have a similar contrast. Because I'm a monolingual English speaker, examples of sentences in which "or" would be acceptable but "either...or" would not be--and vice versa--would be helpful. 

I suspect you are not using the expression "phone level" in its technical sense. Also "detecting words at the phone level" isn't meaningful, but perhaps you intend "detecting words, given a waveform-to-phone conversion". To clarify, a "phone" is a reduction of the continuous acoustic waveform to percepually-based units (i.e. a narrow phonetic transcription). The words in question could be [jɛs] and [nɜʊ], but that really depends on dialect and details of a given token (e.g. [jɛs n̥ɜʊ] could occur). The premise of such a conversion is that there is a language-independent mapping from acoustic property to surface categorization: see this q&a for discussion). However, that premise turns out to be an ideal rather than a reality, at least currently. The process of getting from continuous waveforms to ordered discrete unit is not subjective (it is based on real world facts), but we don't understand those facts well. Segmentation is a poorly-understood objective reality. There are numerous "baseline rules" in the phonetic literature over the past 70 years. In order to "detect" a word based on a conversion to phones (not phonemes, which is where phonology comes in) you would need a list of all of the phone realizations of a given word, and that would be a pretty huge task, even using just one speaker. If you manage to solve the continous-to-discrete conversion problem, you could gather a large corpus of tokens of the words of interest, run that through your converter and (manually) tag instances of "no" and "yes"; that would give you a list of attested phone sequences representing the words in question, though not necessarily all of the possible realizations. 

I'm having a great deal of difficulty finding an adequate definition of "permansive aspect" on the web. I know what aspect is, more or less, but the meaning of the term "permansive" eludes me. 

The answer to your question is most likely "no." It may seem reasonable at first blush to imagine that the differences among languages' grammatical features reflect the differences among the cognitive styles of the populations that speak the languages. However, this is simply not the case. Take a look at John McWhorter's fine book, "The Language Hoax" for further information. 

According to this article, $URL$ "grounding" in discourse analysis refers to the difference between "core elements that advance a discourse [and] the peripheral elements that flesh it out," foregrounding pertaining to the former and backgrounding pertaining to the latter. For instance, in narrative, bits of discourse that denote events (e.g. George drove up the old driveway ...) that happen in temporal succession tend to be foregrounded, and bits of discourse that denote non-events (e.g. "... whose winding course reminded Milicent of a gargantuan dead snake") tend to be backgrounded. Which, if any, natural languages have morphemes or syntactic construction that mark grounding specifically? 

How does vowel harmony typically arise in a language? Here's a definition of vowel harmony from the WALS chapter on Vowel Quality Inventories: $URL$ "When a language is said to have vowel harmony this generally means that within a word, including any affixes, it is only possible to combine the members of certain subsets of the vowels together." Here's an example of vowel harmony from Wikipedia's/Free Net Encyclopedia's article on vowel harmony: $URL$ "The vowel that causes the vowel assimilation is frequently termed the trigger while the vowels that assimilate (or harmonize) are termed targets. In most languages, the vowel triggers lie within the root of a word while the affixes added to the roots contain the targets. This may be seen in the Hungarian dative suffix: 

As I understand it, you're asking about a specific extraction marker that occurs always and only when a nominal is extracted, and in clause chains it appears in each clause. As far as I know, this does not exist in Bantu. There are languages which show subject and object agreement reflecting the pattern of movement, for example in Kipsigis (Jake & Odden 1979 "Raising in Kipsigis") when a 1st or 2nd person is raised out of an object complement it controls object agreement and when raised out of an subject complement it controls subject agreement, and each intervening clause shows the appropriate agreement. Bantu languages do likewise with subject-to-subject raising. But in both cases, this involves marking that is not specific to extractions. What many Bantu languages do have is a special verb form employed in relative clauses, which can obviously be related to extraction. However, this is probably a subset of extractions. The same verb forms are widely used in subordinate clauses like "having build a house, the farmer took a nap", and also "when he took a nap, the dog barked". A distinction is often made for these languages between main clause affirmative forms, versus all else (subordinate, or negative). It's not obvious that those clauses all involve extraction, but perhaps that is a contemporary analysis. It is also generally the case in Bantu that an immediately pre-verbal wh-NP causes the verb to shift to the aforementioned relative clause form, thus *"Which child cried?", but okay "What child rel-cried?". Wh-extractions in Tharaka are reported by Muriungi ("WH-questions in Kitharaka") to exhibit a non-extraction-sensitive allomorphy in the present tense marker, which is -ku- ordinarily, but -ri- in case the clause contains an in situ WH object (so, if the WH object is extracted, -ku- is used). Selection of -ri- is not actually governed by extraction though it superficially correlates with it (in a strange way): it correlates with in-situ focus. You also use -ri- in the present on object-complement verbs (no extraction). 

If two syllables in Mandarin have the same vowels but different tones, can the syllables be said to rhyme according to native speakers? I was tempted to ask this question about all tone languages, but realized that the criteria for rhyming might vary from language to language for all I know. I will gladly read answers to this question as it relates to other tone languages. 

Since names exist in all languages, I'm assuming that you're asking whether proper nouns in Chinese are distinguished lexically, semantically, or morphosyntacically from common nouns. The only relevant link that I found was this one. $URL$ This link mentions a syntactic distinction between Chinese commmon and proper nouns. Common nouns may take modifiers, whereas proper nouns, like pronouns, generally don't. Presumably, semantics and syntax are sufficient to distinguish the pronouns from the proper nouns. As for whether certain Chinese nouns do double duty as common & proper nouns (e.g. witness the English name for the L.A. borough "Eagle Rock") or whether certain nouns are synchronically only proper (e.g. witness the surname "Smith"), the article doesn't say. 

What do the terms "exponent" and "formative" mean in linguistics? I've seen the term "exponent" used in linguistics texts, and found a definition at Wikipedia. "An exponent is a phonological manifestation of a morphosyntactic property. In non-technical language, it is the expression of one or more grammatical properties by sound." The article goes on to give examples of the different types of exponents: "Identity (e.g. deer + PLURAL = deer) Affixation (e.g. look + PAST = looked) Internal Modification (e.g. sing + past = sang) Reduplication (e.g. toó ‘man’ totóo ‘people’ (from Pangasinin, cited in WALS)" But the article cites no references or sources, I have been unable to find authoritative references and sources elsewhere, and I have been unable to find a definition of linguistic "formatives" and how they are related to linguistic exponents. 

The word is without doubt Indo-European, the question is whether it is strictly Germanic or did it come via Latin. Pokorny says *laku is the source of Gr. λάκκος, lat. lacus, OIr. loch, and lagu etc. in Germanic: see the Texas collection for more attestations, which includes English "lake". For *leg, the "leak" root, Pokorny gives Armenian, Celtic and Germanic only; the Texas elaboration relates that root to "lack; leak", and nothing like "lake". (leĝ would be a different root meaning "collect"). Texas lists lagu-lad, lago for OE and not lacu. I would be inclined to believe Texas and Pokorny (and AHD) over Wiki (also bearing in mind that the Texas list for Modern English gives all related words, no matter how they got there). But there's more. There is at least one other vote, the Oxford English Dictionary. It gives two entries for modern English "lake". One, which they list in its earliest form as lac, has the sense "A large body of water entirely surrounded by land", attested c1275 (▸?a1200) in Laȝamon Brut (Calig.) (1963) l. 642 "Ouer þen lac [c1300 Otho lake] of Siluius & ouer þen lac [c1300 Otho lake] of Philisteus", and a1225 St. Marher. 14 "Ich leade ham..iþe ladliche lake of the suti sunne". This is the ordinary use of "lake". They say of the contemporary word 

e.g. "The man whom we confined has escaped. But do any natural languages mark the noun as being modified by a clause subsequent to the one in which the noun occurs and having the form of an independent clause, like so... e.g. The man(suffix indicates that the next clause modifies this noun) has escaped; we had confined him. 

If you're trying to gather information on aphasia, you'll have much more luck consulting the literature of Speech/Language Science or Neuropsychology than you will in the Linguistics literature. Speech/Language Sci departments & Neuropsychologists educate not only the neuropsychologists & speech/language therapists who assess and treat aphasia but also most of the scientists who do aphasia research. a. Examples of relevant journals: Advances in Speech-language Pathology American Journal of Speech-Language Pathology Canadian Journal of Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology International Journal of Speech Language Pathology Journal of Medical Speech-Language Pathology Journal of Speech and Language Pathology, Applied Behavior Analysis Journal of Speech, Language, and Hearing Research Language and Speech Topics in Language Disorders b. If you have lots of money, the pricey online "Aphasiology" journal may be useful: $URL$ c. Here's a guide to Aphasia research: $URL$ d. Most hospitals have speech/language therapists on staff, and some are Ph.D.'s in this field. e. Here's a list of books and articles about aphasia at Questia: $URL$ f. Don't forget the Psychology Wiki. $URL$ g. Here's an introduction to the subject: $URL$ I'm sure there are more resources for you to find. Good luck!