Try installing a more complete font, like Google Noto or Adobe Source. That "tofu" appears when the program can't find an appropriate font which contains the appropriate character; Noto in particular is designed to contain as many characters as possible, to avoid that problem. 

This change was nicely universal and predictable. Similar things happened in other vulgar Latin dialects, which would become the other Romance languages. Then, the system simplified again. In unstressed syllables, or before syllable-final nasals, ɛ and ɔ turned into e and o. 

For instance, Latin metus → Spanish miedo, Latin focus → Spanish fuego. And this is the source of your mysteriously appearing diphthongs. When the first syllable is stressed, a historical /ɛ/ becomes /je/; when unstressed, it becomes /e/. Similarly, a historical /ɔ/ in a stressed syllable becomes /we/; in an unstressed syllable, /o/. But a historical /e/ or /o/ never changes its form, always remaining /e/ or /o/ regardless of stress. Unfortunately there's no good way to predict where these ɛs and ɔs are, except by knowing the vowel lengths in the Latin words. So the best option for analysis is to take them as separate underlying phonemes, even though only these few remnants are visible now. Source 1 Source 2 (See also guifa's comment on your question: what they call E² I call ɛ, and what they call O² I call ɔ. The "weirder things" they mention in the -ir conjugation come from a later process of vowel-raising, which I haven't gone into here; the first source link has some excellent information on that as well.) 

Adopting (2) means that according to (1), we derive the meaning of almost half crazy by first combining the meanings of half and crazy and then combining the meaning of almost with that of half crazy. Since half crazy has the same meaning as half sane, it’s not clear how almost gives one meaning when combined with the first and another meaning when combined with the second. One way to solve the problem is to deny that the expressions almost half crazy/sane have the structure in (1) and assign them instead the constituent structure in (3), which is also given by the tree in (4). 

PIE was spoken in Eastern Europe between 4000 and 3000 years BC (6000-5000 years before now). Apparently it is far from what time scale that u want. The language was similar to Ancient Greek and Latin. Therere is a lot of online sources on PIE language, including the Pokorny dictionary, Wikitionary and others. If u want I can provide some links, but I am afraid it is not exactly what u would want. 

In Russian anything ending -а is feminine, anything ending -о and -е are neuter and anything ending with a consonant is masculine. Abbreviations case is determined based on the main noun in the abbreviation (this is the rule), but sometimes the speakers also apply the usual rules to the abbreviation as well, that is determine the gender based on the pronunciation, for instance "НАТО" ("NATO") is often used as neuter because of the -O ending, ВУЗ already became masculine this way. This happens mostly with familiar, often-used abbreviations which gradually become accepted as nouns. The only remaining cases are the words ending with -и, -у whose gender is usually determined by the class to which the noun refers (city, river, organization). There are multiple exceptions though. 

Subject and object are names of grammatical function categories. The grammatical function of a constituent in a sentence is determined by its relation to other constituents in the sentence. The subject, for example, is what the meaning of the predicate is predicated of, and it also agrees with the head of the predicate - the main verb, if there is one - in person, number and gender. Note that verb is not a grammatical function category but a syntactic category. The verb in a sentence realizes the grammatical function of head of the predicate (sometimes called the predicator), as can be seen in the syntactic structure tree below, where the grammatical function categories appears in blue. You can read a little more about this distinction here. 

How it happened that the same roller coaster type is called "Russian mountains" in America and "American mountains" in Russia? 

In this light you should consider the fact that they reconstruct two very close roots for PIE: lupos "fox" and u̯lq̆os "wolf". If we consider the p a result of alternation, we come to luq̆os vs u̯lq̆os which could be result of elementary metathesis. 

I think, medium. Taking for instance, Indo-European family, there are a lot of color words that changed meaning and also a lot of invented words, but some words are surprisingly stable. For instance, 

English "dad" comes from Proto-Indo-European teutos "elder relative, grandfather". From this root comes Russian "ded" "grandfather", German name for Germany "Deutschland" and many other words. 

I might also add to the discussion the question of grammatical function. In theories that include the specification of grammatical function (subject, object, etc.) in the syntactic representations they posit, the question arises what grammatical functions can be realized by non-finite VPs (or clauses). There is a discussion of this question by Rodney Huddleston in Chapter 14 of The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language (pp. 1206-1220). He argues that non-finite clause complements in English usually do not realize the object function (which is mainly realized by NPs), but a different function, which he dubs catenative complement. A discussion of the grammatical functions of finite clause complements across several languages can be found in the paper “The grammatical functions of complement clauses” by Mary Dalrymple and Helge Lødrup (which can be found on the second author’s webpage). In case you might find it useful, here is a tree for your sentence that follows by and large the syntactic framework in The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. 

The trees for these two sentences are almost identical, except for the changed I. (The fact that "-ed" then goes off and affixes itself to "walk" is attributed to movement, or explained away by "that's morphology instead, not syntax, so it's someone else's problem".) Notably, this is the same place where "do"-support happens: the auxiliary "do" appears as an I. However, this is different from auxiliary "be" and "have", which are actually Vs. Hopefully that clears it up! 

Pokorny wrote before the Laryngeal Theory was really a thing, and the AHD for some unknown reason doesn't include laryngeals (like *h₁), listing forms after the laryngeal sounds had already disappeared from the language. So they conflate the two into a single root. 

Assume someone utters this sentence to a group of people who are familiar with Hob, Bob, Nob and Cob and their livestock, but who, up until the moment the utterance of (1) is made, have been unaware of Hob’s and Nob’s belief that a witch has been harming farm animals. Assume further that all the participants in the conversation rightly believe that witches don’t exist and that Hob and Nob are wrong. Such a context provides the two definite descriptions in (2) as possible substitutes for the pronoun she in (1): 

We can derive from (1) a true sentence if we replace the pronoun she by the definite description the witch reported on in the Gotham Star, but this definite description may not be available to any of the participants in the conversation (perhaps none of them reads the newspapers). The point is that the sentence in (1) may be true even if all the sentences derived from it by replacing she with a contextually available definite description are false. 

An interesting fact is that I find it is much more difficult to reformulate a meaning in different words and especially with slightly different tone (for instance, indicating the author's relation to the issue) in English compared to Russian. In some sense the Orwell's newspeak is the idea of English language taken to the extreme, but actual English language is not too far from it. A good side of it, it is very hard to make very emotional hate speech or good sarcasm in English compared to Russian or German. In English you have to explicitly write "I hate it", in Russian you can express hate directly using appropriate words and inflections, without needing any clarification. Some say, English is similar to Chinese in this respect. 

According to (3) and (4), in deriving the meanings of the expressions almost half crazy/sane, the meaning of almost half combines each time with another meaning, and therefore it is not surprising that the two final expressions differ in meaning. A second way to solve the problem is to accept the constituent structure in (1), but to deny that half crazy and half sane have the same meaning. Maybe the meanings of half crazy and half sane always combine with some approximation/precision value, and when such value is not expressed it is taken to be the absolute precision value (the value expressed by exactly). We can now assume that the meanings of half crazy and half sane are such that they give the same meaning when combining with the meaning of exactly but not when combining with the meanings of other approximation/precision expressions (like almost). A third way to solve the problem is to accept the constituent structure in (1), but to deny the principle expressed by (2). We can now assume that in deriving the meanings of almost half crazy/sane, the meaning of almost is combined with the meaning of half, even though it doesn’t form a constituent with this element. Reference: Invitation to Cognitive Science, 2nd edition. Daniel Osherson, general editor; in Part I: Language, Lila Gleitman and Mark Liberman, eds. MIT Press, Cambridge 1995, pp. 311-360. 

I think the most difficult thing in English is phonetics. While I can read and write in English well, I still cannot understand anything the news outlets say on the TV, not to say to understand any song. It is also a heavy effort for me to speak English, especially the vowels, actually I never know how each vowel should be pronounced so often people do not understand me. I totally do not recognize, and even understand any difference between "a" as in "pay" and "e" and between "ee" as in "sheep" and "ship". Also I have difficulty in pronouncing the "th" sound, both voiceless and voiced variety, but this is not difficult to learn, it is difficult to produce, even if I do know the difference. The syntax and morphology of English are quite easy, but some difficulty is in learning idiomatic sequences of verbs and prepositions, such as "put up", "give off", "put out", "turn down", "set in" etc. The writing system is totally irregular so one cannot guess the pronounciation from spelling and vice versa, but this is while annoying, is not the most difficult thing. English is also annoying with its difficult to pronounce numerals, especially when need to speak quickly.