It will be the first VirtualHost that matches which will be loaded, and since the files are loaded in alphabetical order, you can change the ordering by changing the filenames. What I do is put a number prefix for each filename so I can set the priority in order to do something like what you mention. e.g.: 

Your own redirects were most likely recursively redirecting to the index.php. You need to block the rule for that script, so it isn't run on that page request, e.g.: 

Actually, I probably wouldn't use my other answer in some situations, but I'll keep it there for reference. If your colleague has been given their own VirtualHost, I would set that virtualhost to output their logs to a different directory, so that they would only see errors for their system: 

proxy_redirect will only rewrite redirect headers, not the HTML content needed for this to work. There is no easy way to rewrite the HTML content in Nginx. There is the HttpSubModule, which you can manually add text substitutions, but is lengthly to set up each substitution: $URL$ It is easliest if possible to just update the content at $URL$ to have the redirected path in instead. 

This should be put above any conflicting RewriteCond/Rule's, so they wont interfere with the redirection. Any .htaccess files in subdirectories will by default remove this rule and not do the redirect. To fix them, you must add either the rule again to them, or set them to inherit from parent .htaccess files, e.g.: 

Disclosure: I am a developer on Webmin, Usermin, Virtualmin and Cloudmin, and work for Virtualmin, Inc. 

The video isn't working for me. Paste in the last few lines before the bit about "displaying the last 15 lines of the log file", as sometimes that's actually where the problem shows up. The log, unfortunately, can't capture everything on all systems (apt-get doesn't like being run from scripts, and it makes capturing everything, while still providing feedback to the user about what's happening, really difficult, if not impossible). Check the last 100 lines or so of virtualmin-install.log for clues. What Dovecot error, specifically, are you getting? (I wrote the install script. I can usually spot the problem, if I see the actual errors. And, I can also probably fix the problem in future releases, if I understand why it is happening. My last Debian install two days ago worked great, so this is not a known issue.) Edit: OK, so it looks like dovecot isn't installing correctly for some reason. Maybe conflicts with other packages already installed on the system. apt-get is pretty hateful about changing packages to satisfy dependencies. So, try running: apt-get install dovecot-common dovecot-imapd dovecot-pop3d And see what happens. If it works, then you could try the Virtualm install again. 

Whichever you do, it will reset to the original permissions if you upgrade httpd. It shouldn't change otherwise. Also, the reason why apache can write to the logs with the default permissions is because the log files are opened by apache whilst it runs as root. As soon as apache is fully loaded, it will change its user to apache, but will continue to have open log files. 

Have you set up yum priorities? RPMForge has subversion and mod_dav_svn 1.6.13, so they should be listed in installations and updates. Yum priorities will hide them if another higher priority repo has the same package names. If so, you will need to add exclude patterns to your /etc/yum.repos.d/CentOS-Base.repo file, by adding to the [base] section: 

You can resolve it by switching the mysql-libs package to mysql55w-libs. This needs to be done in one transaction to avoid it uninstalling the other dependencies: 

I'm taking a leap of faith assuming you are talking about a Debian/Ubuntu server here, as Redhat/Fedora/Centos have it installed and enabled as part of the default httpd installation. On Debian/Ubuntu, you can enable mod_headers (it should be already installed as part of the apache2 installation), by running: 

2 . You need to first see what existing installed packages need replacing, you can do this by using yum shell to combine removing php-common and installing php54w-common in one transaction (so shared dependencies aren't removed) 

We have two sites linked by a VPN handled by two dedicated Netgear VPN routers. Each side has a Win2003 domain controller. Each site can ping all the machines at the other. The domain controller can successfully do Get-WMIObject queries to the computers within its own subnet and even a Get-WMIObject query to the other DC in the other subnet. But neither site can do Get-WMIObject queries to any standard comptuers in the other site. I receive the error: The RPC server is unavailable (8x800706BA). I know RPC is working because it is fine within the subnet. The VPN routers are set as the gateway for all the machines. Can someone suggest why my two DCs can RPC each other and each DC can RPC within their own subnets but one cannot RPC the machines in the other subnet? What I am trying to do is run a set of PowerShell scripts on the main server and retrieve results from the entire domain (both sites). I could just run the scripts from both servers but that's a pain to maintain everytime we add or change a script. Thanks! 

Another possibility that we run into all the time is a software installation ran by a GP that is failing. Often this software will attempt to install each time the computer is booted. If you look in the Event viewer you will see any errors relating to this and usually a fix can be found. In our case often a previous installation is failing causing the GP policy installation to time-out. Once we correct the issue, or do a full uninstall of the previous version, allows the software to install correctly and the delay goes away. Hope that helps! 

You could configure Squid on the server to allow the proxying of Yum from the private subnet to the Redhat update servers. It can also cache packages, meaning it will only download a package once for all updates. $URL$ 

Perhaps this is because the Webtatic 5 package was built earlier than 6. I could add to the build process something that would update the timestamp, however there was never any plan to have Webtatic 5 support CentOS 6, so you may get other unexpected results if you try to use it on that version. A workaround for now would be to force Yum to spot the file has changed: 

Webtatic's php56w on CentOS 5 and 6 is only compiled to support the base httpd 2.2 packages. This is because mod_php is compiled against the base distribution's httpd. I'd suggest either: 

Since you've already upgraded PHP however, it may be easiest to either compile eAccelerator yourself (its not available via pecl): $URL$ or switch to a repository that supplies eAccelerator rpm for the PHP version installed. I provide eaccelerator for PHP 5.3, along with PHP 5.3 itself if you need it. I don't supply eaccelerator for PHP 5.2 though. $URL$ then 

The most secure way of doing it I would say is to have a group called git-readers add git and www-data to it, then have the following folder structure: 

You'll need to insure the '--with-suexec-userdir' compile time option is enabled in your Apache build. 

I'm one of the developers on both projects. It is pretty much always safe to use Webmin and the command line on the same configuration files. We're system administrators ourselves, and it would infuriate me to not be able to hit the command line. As long as the service itself (Apache, Postfix, whatever) can read and parse the file, Webmin should be able to, as well. And it will never overwrite your changes...next time you visit the service in Webmin, you'll see the new configuration. Webmin always works directly on the files and there is no intermediate step or database. Virtualmin has a small amount of its own meta-data, and it would be possible to break stuff in a Virtualmin system, while not actually breaking the configuration for the services it manages...but it's pretty rare. Virtualmin is also designed to allow configuration via the command line. You generally don't even have to think about the spots where it might cause trouble, because they're things you, as a reasonably knowledgeable sysadmin, wouldn't do. Like messing with GID/UID of users, which would break associations between domains and users. One other area to be aware of: If you change passwords outside of Virtualmin using passwd or something else, it will not be able to update all of the other related passwords to match (which may or may not be a big deal; just depends on your use case and your users). There is a command line tool for Virtualmin that allows command line changes to anything in Virtualmin, including password, as well...so you can still script things that wouldn't be safe to change outside of Virtualmin using that command line tool, or the HTTP API. So, in short, if being able to edit configuration files is important, I think Webmin and Virtualmin are probably the best options available. At least, I don't know of any other full-featured control panel that does this. It is pretty hard to do, so most projects and products punt and rewrite files from templates and such. 

We have Server 2008 R2 and Windows 7 Enterprise. I'm asking this because we have several hundred laptops and netbooks at our organization. We do'nt have a NAC or a RADIUS server so all the wireless configs are done on the local computer. Please don't suggest a NAC or RADIUS as we don't have the ability to implement that at this time. We have a GP machine start-up script that resets the wireless settings on the laptops/netbooks upon start up. This is because our users typically will take their devices home, travel, etc and when they join other networks our network info will often get lost or disabled. Our script leaves any connections the user added but resets our settings and makes it the primary item on the list. It works fairly well but occasionally fails for some unknown reason. I have yet to find any sort of documentation on exactly how Windows processes and applies Machine Start-Up GPs and what is required. For instance, because the network is not always present, yet the GP still runs when offline, I assume that the GP is cached somewhere on the local machine. Where does it cache this? For some reason when we put the script in the GP itself it does not run. But when we put the script into a file in the file store of the GP and call it from the GP it runs fine. Are Machine Start-Up scripts applied before or after the local wireless is enabled? All these questions could be answered if I could find some definitive documentation on exactly how this entire process works. Any help would be appreciated. Thanks! This seems to be a lot more stable but no one has yet to answer the actual question, which is where is a reference doc on exactly how GPOs are applied. What are the steps, what are the conditions and restrictions, etc. Thanks! 

This doesn't make sense. Edit: Actually, looking at this, this is not even a PHP thing. This is a Webmin page. PHP isn't even involved in the request you're looking at. Where are you getting this data? It's not from the request to index.php. It's for a request to the Webmin init module where you were changing the state of the lighty initscript. My original reply didn't take into account that your data is simply not what you think it is. PHP and lighty are not involved in the request you're looking at, at all. 

John underestimates Webmin. Browse to the BIND DNS module in Webmin Select the zones you want to update in the "Existing DNS Zones" (check the boxes beside them) Click "Update Records in Selected" On the resulting form, set the following: Record type to update: Address (this is the default) Current value to change: address you want to alter New value: new IP address Click "Change Records" You may also need to click the Apply changes link in the top right corner of the BIND module home page in order to reload the BIND zone files after making the change. Additional documentation for the BIND module in Webmin can be found here: $URL$