A bike I am taking back from a single speed (SS) to multi speed (like ss - bought another ss) Used 9 speed SRAM 7 that I got cheap I am just going to stay single in the front That is a Race Face 34 (ss designed ring) My problem is chain line In first it will jump off the front chain ring to the inside It does fine in second gear As you can see there is one spacer on font crank right There are two on the left It was two on the right and I flopped that - got me 2nd gear All three on the left did not seem like a good ideal - left would barely get some threads Tried putting a spacer on the inside of the cassette but there is absolutely no room I can barely get the cassette on with no spacer Short of a chain keeper are there any ideas? I am not opposed to a chain keeper but I want to also fix the chain line. Picture does show the problem very well In 3rd (from smallest) the chain line is straight where on a 9 speed that should be 5th 

I went to college in Seattle and love the town. Very bicycle friendly town. It does have ups and downs but the bike paths are pretty flat. If you you live on one of the hills then yes you may have a short steep section. As cassettes have gotten bigger (9+) you can get a pretty big range so triple is less common. Get a compact up front so you can use a 34T for the smaller. The 8 speed cassette bike you are looking at is 32T so you are pretty close to 1:1 which is a strong climber. With a 9 speed you can get a 34 with the same spacing for a 1:1. But a 9 speed will be a jump in price. As an inexperienced rider with stop and go type traffic of a big city a hybrid or city type bike might be a better choice over a pure road bike. 

As for comfort I don't think a cheap shock is not more comfortable on the road. On a smooth road they just absorb part of the pedal action and to me the bounce is annoying. I will take a size bigger tire at a lower pressure with carbon fiber over a shock. Even on pure trail I went from an old suspension fork to a carbon fiber and tubeless. Went a size up on tires and lower pressure. I like that set up better than the old suspension fork. I could have spent that same money on a nice fork but there are very very few times on the trail I would rather have suspension and never on the street. For sure I have learned more technique by riding rigid. 

A cross country with a lockout would be decent commuter. Probably the best mountain style for the road. I would put small block tires on it. They would have better grip, smoother roll, and longer life on pavement. On the trail they do fine on hard pack and rock. A knobby would be better on mud. Full lockout is nice for the street but don't eliminate the adjustable as the stiff setting would be OK on the street. The other style of bike to look at is a cyclocross. It is going to be a better road bike. It is designed for lighter trails. If you just just look at one you would think this is not going to handle trails but it does better than you would think. I know you are looking to narrow and not expand your search. If you are going to commute 5 days a week and only some trail it might be a better style. Something to consider before you lay out ~1000 - 1500 euro. Since you are newbie then I don't advise you go used but you get racers selling cyclocross every year or two so there are some great used values. I know you want to narrow your search but you also have bikes designed to fit in the middle. This is a bike to consider: CrossTrail 

Off the bike many forms of exercise will help. Yoga and martial arts in particular will help with balance. On the bike consider mountain biking to help your road technique. A mountain bike with no shocks even better. Once you learn to negotiate rocks, roots, and drop offs then a lot of the low speed stuff that happens on the street seems easy. Cyclocoss is a great way to improve your handling skills. You get to fall at lower speed on grass. They have clinics. If not a mountain bike but the style of road bike. A racing bike with narrow tires is not going to be as agile or forgiving as a more upright position with larger tires. As you are learning new street technique like hoping a curb it is easier to start on a mountain bike (I think). It is easier to bail on mountain bike (I think). Set up some cones to weave in and out of. See how tight of a circle you can ride. Empty parking garages are a good place to practice. Ride over (and hop) the those cement blocks to stop the tire. See if you can ride the length of the barrier. See if you can bounce the front wheel off a wall turn around. Track stands are easier to learn on a slight incline. You can practice your downhill with a lot of turns. 

Used. You can find some decent used bikes in that range. A hybrid might be a good choice. You find people that paid $800 - $900 for bike they never used and it will sell used as low as $300. Be patient and low ball. Learn how to inspect a bike. If you are on a budget you need to learn how to maintain a bike. 

But cost does matter. For the same cost the SS is going to be a higher quality bike. 10 lbs is big difference. Weight in the wheels more important. In this scenario I would favor the SS. I have a geared and a single speed that weigh almost the same and I commute on my single speed. My city is very flat. About the same speed. No long stretches nor drafting in a group to need bigger gears. SS drive train is like 1/2 the price to maintain, more reliable, and more efficient. You may end up with a different snow / winter gearing. A good commuter is a SS cyclocross with touring tires and you can typically find them used for some great prices. In cyclocross racing the SS will often get combined with men 35+ years just for count and the SS kids dominate. If you are kicking out 200 watts you are doing about 30 km/hr (no start / stop) No start or stop you use up about 1234 k joules Adding 10 lb the elevation adds about 11 k joules = 0.9% 20 starts with 10 more lb adds about 90 k joules = 7.3% In a big city 8 miles you could have 40 - 100 starts SS drive train efficiency is going to add about 1% (might be as high as 2%) Total gain SS with 10 less lbs = 9% I don't see how a gear is going to make up for 9% efficiency Going from 12T to 11T is only 8% - it is more than 1 free gear If you run a SS 32 x 12 you can do 30 km / hr with 90 rpm 

OK if the tire was blown off the rim then I highly suspect that is the whole story. When the tube leaks out the because tire bead has come out the tube will burst and you will see a slit. A tube outside a tire cannot take much pressure. Most likely when you went from 60 to 85 psi it was enough pressure to push the tire off the rim (bead). I have seen this with some older bikes. The rim is a little small. Look for tires that run small and run at lower pressures. You might also have a mismatch like a 27 on a 700c. A Schwalbe Marathon Plus is a pretty hefty tire and tend to fit a little tight so this is kind of strange. But it did happen after you went to 85 PSI. Maybe give it a try again at 60 PSI. Even if you get a new bike you would have this as a backup. 

1-2 millimeters the size of a dime is not going to change the fit of a helmet. Ventilated helmets have holes. Removing a dime from rigid foam is not going to cause a helmet to fail. Consider an accident where you first hit and crush a dime size piece of foam. If the entire helmet failed from isolated damage then not a safe helmet. Helmets are designed to take damage. 

A nitrogen molecule is larger than oxygen so it does not leak as easily/rapidly. Nitrogen is actually a little lighter than oxygen and an nitrogen atom is smaller. In air they both occur as molecules of two atoms. The they way the hold hands is different so N₂ is slightly bigger then O₂. $URL$ 

Kryptonite has an anti-theft protection. It is free the first year. If you buy one of their locks you might as well sign up. 

Technically rust is limited to iron. What is bad is the rust starts and continues. The water / oxidizing agent is not consumed. Aluminum will oxidize but it forms a protective coating. An aluminum frame will not "oxidize out". Some iron alloys such as stainless steel prevent rust. I don't know why you don't seem to see stainless in bicycles. 

I would rather have my bike out in dry heat than wet cold. Metal parts are not impacted by the heat (in the range you would get from outside in the sun). Sunlight will cause the paint the fade. Wax will protect the paint. A cleaner wax will also removes small scuffs. Rubber parts are impacted by the sun and heat. Sunlight even in the cold ages rubber. If out in the sun then cover rubber parts and/or treat them with a conditioner/protectant. ArmorAll advertises that it also protects rubber. A leather seat is aged by heat and sun. Shade and a leather conditioner. How to Protect Your Tires 

At a minimum lube the chain and see what is scraping. For the brakes just hold the bike up with one hand and spin the tire. Visually inspect if the rim is rubbing on the brake. Some times you can just adjust the brake and some times the wheel(s) need to be trued. Some times you have the tire rubbing on the brake. At this point need to decide if it is worth fixing. Can the wheels even be trued? A decent set of wheels is $200. A good complete overhaul at a bike shop is over $100 and more like $200 If you need new parts can easily get over $400 Get an idea of how much it will cost before you start spending money If you don't want to spend money then - take off the tires and chain - put the wheels (without tires) back on - leave the brake released - do the wheels spin freely - does the crank (pedals) spin freely - does the headset turn freely At this point if things look okay and you don't want to spend money then repack all (unsealed) bearings. If you don't own any tools then probably not worth it. If you need some new parts you will find out. Add em up and see if it is worth it. A cheap bike in need of a lot of maintenance is typically not a good value. You are typically better off spending more money on a bike that does not need much maintenance. 

But is is not as easy as counting links on an open chain. The links must connect. With inner and outer you must have an equal number of inner and outer. The total must be even. Let's say one link was removed from that chain. You would have to remove another to make it two links to connect and at two folded back on itself and I am not sure you could even call it a two link chain. And then there is the connector thing. Connector is typically outer so you want the raw chain to end on inner both ends and you need to add one for the connector. Some times on a new chain the connector is on the chain and some times it is packaged separately. You have pin type one time connectors and reusable connector links. You can use a 1/2 link connector to get an odd number of links. 1/2 link is used by the wider SS and fixie where you may need a more exact length. I don't think it is used in the narrow chains designed for derailleur. HL is also a style of chain but it is pretty much limited to SS, fixie, and BMX as far as I know. Below is a SRAM with a reusable PowerLock on the left. The picture is 14 links. This chain is packaged as 114 links. You will typically cut the chain down and save the spare links for repair. Rather than count I just lay the old chain down next to the new. There is going to be some stretch so you may need to adjust to match up links (or pins/rollers). 

It is as simple as the spokes are between the bike and the ground. The force has to go through the spokes 

If you drop a rock the terminal speed from gravity should be exactly the same as the wind speed from a fan it takes to hold it in air. If the third V in power V³ is ground velocity and not relative velocity I am not finding any reference that states that. Let's assume that is true: Vs1 is velocity still Vs2 is velocity in wind Vw is velocity of wind Vs1^3 = (Vs2 + Vw) * (Vs2 + Vw) * Vs2 Vs1^3 = (Vs2^2 + 2*Vs2*Vw + Vw^2) * Vs2 Vs1^3 = Vs2^3 + 2*Vs2^2*Vw + Vw^2*Vs2 if Vs1 = 30 and Vw = 25 then Vs2 = 16 Able to ride 16 mph into a head 25 mph wind does not seem right to me but I am just not so sure anymore The only possible difference is wind is slightly disturbed so it is going to have some turbulence. But at even a small speed you are into turbulent flow (Reynolds number). Because of the gusting and turbulent nature of wind it will feel faster than the sensation of riding in still air. Assume 30 net mph is 600 watts 

Aluminum fatigues. A 10 year of bike with a lot of miles could be getting towards the end of it life. It has a modern headset. Full suspension has come a long way in 10 years. But 26" wheels. I would rather have a hard tail 29". You would have to judge the parts based on inspection. With a leaky fork I would not do it period. How do you know it is not a big issues? Do you have a quote that it is a cheap repair? To me that is not the kind of bike you put a lot of money into. 

I pull the core and save it when I throw away flats. On a new tube tighten it down before you install and if it does come loose I use just a tiny drop of Loctite.