gnasher729 correctly points out that the second premise of this argument needs modification if the argument is going to be at all plausible. But even if we swap 'some' for 'all' in the second premise the argument is still invalid. The (modified) argument is invalid (i.e. is fallacious) iff the premises can be true and the conclusion false. Here's a scenario where the premises are true and conclusion false: Smith claims (and, presumably, believes) that the sky is blue. But Smith believes that the sky is blue because he consulted an 8-ball (I take it that this is not in general a rational way to go about determining one's beliefs) - moreover this is how Smith goes about deciding all of his beliefs. So Smith is irrational. But the sky is in fact blue. So both premises are true, and the conclusion false. So the argument is invalid, hence fallacious. Here's a deeper reason why the argument doesn't work. What it's rational to (dis)believe doesn't neatly line up with what is true (respectively, false). There are instances where it is rational to believe a falsehood (suppose you're a physicist in the late 1700s who accepts Newtonian physics). And there are instances where it's irrational to believe what's true (as in Smith's case). So what it is (ir)rational to believe isn't a universally reliable guide to what is (un)true. Which isn't to say that all of our rational beliefs are false; likely many of them are true. But it is to say that rationality isn't a reliable criterion for truth. (Very roughly - many philosophers would disagree with what I've said here. 1980's Putnam comes to mind). 

'This' refers to the proposition 'there exists an entity answering a certain description' in the previous sentence. Russell's point here is that the content of what we believe, which on his account is a proposition, is distinct from the entities which make that proposition true, or false, as the case may be. Here's an example: I can believe 'that God exists' irrespective of the existence of God - my belief of the proposition does not depend on the existence of the entity referred to in the proposition. Russell is drawing a distinction between two different kinds of knowledge here. We have, on the one hand knowledge 'by description', which relate to the kind of proposition I discussed in answer #1. On the other hand we have knowledge 'by acquaintance'. I'll give some examples. With knowledge by description what we know is distinct from the entity which is the object of that knowledge. So, for instance, I may know that the sun 1.4960×10^11m away from earth, even though I have never directly interacted with the sun, or measured the distance from it to earth. On the other hand I know that snow is white because I have directly interacted with snow - I have figured out firsthand that it is white. (This is very rough, and certainly not the whole story - see here for the details). Russell's point is that the content of a hallucination is not something we can be mistaken about in the same way that we can be mistaken about the content of a proposition like 'Adam and Eve once existed'. Not at all! Philosophy is difficult. Russell is especially difficult. You're stepping into a conversation that has been going on for the last ~2500 years or so; don't be discouraged if you can't pick up everything right away. There are plenty of good introductory textbooks out there that can help you find your bearing in philosophy - an amazon search should turn up tons. Even better, if you can afford it, take an intro philosophy course at your local college or online. And keep reading! 

Not in general. Sharon and I may both hold the opinion that the Earth is flat but that doesn't entail that the Earth is flat. Also your terminology here is a bit weird. Even if someone's opinion is correct it's not as if it 'turns into' a fact - nothing like a transformation of the opinion happens. Rather, opinions express or correspond to facts just when the proposition expressed by the opinion is true (very roughly). 

I'm not sure that that particular kind of sentence has a name. This could just be for historical reasons - it's not obvious that there is anything philosophically interesting to say about these kinds of self-referential statements, in the way that there are philosophically interesting things to say about sentences like 'this sentence is false'. That said, the go-to reference here is Alfred Tarski's "The Semantic Conception of Truth". You can find the whole article online here. The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy is also a very good resource. Here's a relevant link: $URL$ 

The proof is going to be a big v-elim on A v (B ^ C). You could just have easily done the v-elim on (~B v ~C) v D, however. I've tried to make the notation match what's in the textbook, though I admit that it is rather atrocious. Might be worthwhile to copy it out by hand just so you can see how the scoping works for the subproofs. 

I'm not sure that there's a name for the fallacies involved in your two examples. I'm also not sure it matters. Some fallacies get names because they are particularly common - for instance, denying the antecedent. But simply being able to recite a pat little name for some fallacy is not very useful in rational discourse. What's helpful is being able to identify instances of bad reasoning and being able to explain why they're bad. If you can do that, who cares if there's a name for that kind of bad reasoning? For instance, in example 1 the inference (if it's intended as a deductive inference) is bad for the reason you identified. Who cares if we have a name for that failure? What do we gain with a name? My answer: not much. 

I don't think that this is a view that's been explicitly explored in the contemporary literature. (User virmaior has pointed out that Descartes was responding to something like the view in question - see $URL$ However it does bear a resemblance to logical positivism. The positivists (at least some of them), were interested in constructing a language suitable for science. Specifically, they wanted to use a formal language, like that of Russell's Principia, to codify science. You might find something useful by looking them up! (I'm on mobile right now, but I'll see if I can dig up some references for you once I'm at a desktop). 

No, at least not the extreme modal realism of the sort Lewis endorses. Here's a rough-and-ready view that accepts a possible worlds semantics for modals but denies Lewisian modal realism: 

Material objects are perceived. What is perceived are ideas in the mind. So, material objects are ideas in the mind. 

begs the question against the anti-realist. The anti-realist denies that material objects exist outside of our minds. Your response assumes that to get the idea of the bird requires that the bird exist outside of your mind. But that's just what the anti-realist denies. Further reading: $URL$ 

Obviously, premise 1 looks pretty good. No one wants to deny that material objects are perceived. And 3 follows logically from 1 and 2, so 3 looks pretty good too. That leaves premise 2. The metaphysical realist should deny premise 2. One way to do so is to hold a version of direct realism. Direct realism holds that material objects are perceived directly, not mediately by ideas. It's also worth pointing out that your response 

What does this mean? Well, Russell is telling us is that he thinks you can infer from your sense-data (these are the 'events of which I am aware without inference') to objects in the external world (these are the 'events of which I have no such [inferential] awareness'). That is, he thinks that the inference from 'brownish, chair-shaped visual experience' to 'there's a chair in front of me' is valid. But the plausibility of this response hinges entirely on what Russell means by 'valid'. And I think understanding this is key to understanding the sentence that confuses you. One option is that by 'valid' he means 'logically valid' - that is, necessarily truth-preserving. An inference from P to Q is logically valid if Q is true whenever P is. So, on this reading, Russell thinks that the inference from 'brownish, chair-shaped visual experience' to 'there's a chair' is logically valid; as a matter of deductive logic alone, you couldn't have the experience without there being a chair too. But this can't be what Russell means. First, he tells us as much: 

Moral claims are truth-apt. Moral claims are objective. There are at least some true moral claims. We can know what these true moral claims are. 

You seem to think that we require a particular language to be rigorous and systematic in a particular domain of inquiry. But I'm not sure that is true. We can show that so-called 'qualitative' thinking (and I am very skeptical of the distinction you're drawing here) is systematic by doing what we always do - regardless of language - when we want to be systematic: set down our starting points, and seeing what follows. If we want to be rigorous, we make sure our starting points are good ones, and that our inferences follow. There's no special language required, just careful, honest thought. 

No. In general the fact (sorry) that a reputable source said P doesn't make it true that P (barring cases where P is a claim about being uttered by a certain person). Even reputable sources can be mistaken about the facts. But it could be that you're warranted in believing what reputable sources tell you, even though those sources can be mistaken. Still, this shouldn't be mistaken for fact-making. Here's a rough characterization of what makes something a fact. It's not going to satisfy everyone, but it is a decent place to start. First note that we can use sentences to say things about the world - for instance that certain objects stand in certain relations to each other, as when I say "the chair is to the left of the table." According to a popular theory of truth, the statement "the chair is to the left of the table" is true just when the chair is actually to the left of the table. So that statement is false when the chair is to the right of the table, or on top of the table, or whatever. Basically a statement is true when it correctly describes how the world is (again, very roughly). Facts are what we get when our statements are true. 

Firstly, what is punishable by law and what is moral are two very different things, and it would be a mistake to conflate the two. While someone may not go to jail for killing an animal, this does not thereby guarantee that it is morally permissible to kill an animal. Going in the other direction, it may be illegal to consume certain substances (for instance), but this does not mean that it is morally impermissible to consume them - the law could just be confused on this mark. Similarly, what is natural is not a good guide to what is moral. Arguably things like rape, murder, war, famine etc. are just as 'natural' as a non-human predator killing its prey for food, but we wouldn't want to say that those things are moral. Secondly, the answer to the question "is it morally permissible to kill animals?" will depend on the kind of normative ethical theory that one adopts (or, which normative ethical theory is correct). A normative ethical theory is a collection of principles that tell us which actions are permissible, which are impermissible, and which are obligatory. The most common kinds of normative ethical theory are consequentialism, deontology, and virtue-based. Consequentialism holds that we have an obligation to maximize utility, where we can fill out the notion of utility in a variety of non-equivalent ways (e.g. as pleasure, happiness, flourishing etc.). So, a consequentialist will say that it is permissible to kill the animal so long as you ensure that doing so will maximize utility. Similarly if killing the animal won't maximize utility, then it is impermissible to kill it. See here for more. Deontological theories hold that what is (im)permissible is a matter of the kinds of duties and obligations we have to each other. So if I have an obligation (say) not to harm living creatures, then it would be impermissible to kill an animal, because in doing so I wouldn't be observing my obligation not to do so. Similarly, where I have an obligation not to harm living things, living things have a right to not be harmed by me. By killing the animal I would be violating that right. Here's more on deontology. Finally, lots of ethicists have written on animal ethics - whether they are part of the moral community, and if so, what kinds of moral rights do they have? Peter Singer is probably the most well-known philosopher that works on these problems, and his writing is accessible. Here is some of his work.