I strongly recommend against doing this. First of all, since you didn't do this before and started doing this after your lunch was stolen (which was brought up with management), there is probable cause to believe you did this as response to the theft. That is illegal. You are not allowed to intentionally poison someone for stealing from you (in every jurisdiction I know of). Responding to a crime by committing your own crime (you even admit you would do it because of the thefts) is not a solution. You have a very decent chance of being liable for the health damage that person takes. It doesn't really matter what kind of medication this is, intentionally making someone take medication they don't want to is morally deplorable and actually illegal almost everywhere. So most likely, the result will be at least an instant dismissal for cause, if you hit the fan harder criminal charges and civil liability for damages incurred. If, for some reason, you still want to do this I strongly recommend consulting a lawyer and your doctor first to make absolutely sure that you won't get completly destroyed by the consequences. 

What does the SDLC process, whether this be WaterFall or a version of Agile, say about how code changes are processed? Is there a QA function that enforces proper development techniques? Pay attention to how related processes at your company are working.. Given how slipshod change management is at your company, I am willing to bet heavily that related processes are no better. Some questions worth thinking about, assuming your company is mature: 

Next, depending on the size of your organization, you should check on any policies your organization may have related to conduct. If procedures related to how file a grievance exists, you should follow it and document all communication in writing throughout the process until resolved. If written (highly doubtful), take a screen capture with system date stamp, your login ID, and sender name What you boss told you to do may not be sanctioned by the company, and if the manager's actions threaten the continuity of the business: I would expect most reasonable management to take action, as to ignore such actions is an irrational decision that will only hurt the business and in turn, themselves . In addition, you should be aware that past audit work papers can be referenced and be relied upon for subsequent audits. Hence, the misrepresented work papers can mislead future auditors and cause them to flag your company as a high risk firm to be targeted for future, more probing audits - the opposite of what your management most likely wants. Ultimately, what your boss told you to do is unethical. Assuming the auditor was reasonable and not vindictive, you may want to think about working at your employer in the long term. 

Then you should clarify as quickly and early as possible, best directly at the interview (remember, try to be nice, they have no way of knowing they misgender you). If you tell them only after signing the contract, you run serious risk of having just signed a contract working for someone who now hates you. I know, it's not supposed to be like that but in reality there are many people left who harbor resentment and disgust against transgender individuals. So if you spring it on them after signing a contract, there's a real chance you'll be stuck for a while being mistreated at a job where people now hate you. 

In a way, I am on the opposite side of this question. I work in information security profession as an IT auditor. I was doing peer review of a vulnerabilities report / application risk assessment done by a junior member of the team today and he had many questions of "why" such as 

One of my responsibilities at work is to perform periodic user access reviews. A frustrating problem has been inconsistent to poor documentation,such as it becomes difficult to map users to roles. This poor documentation and general slipshod record keeping is making it difficult for me to properly audit whether user accounts are legitimate, and increases risk of unauthorized access to company data. Some quarters ago, there was an account where no-one knew the purpose of the account and the owner of the account has long since been termed. Like many places,access management is centrally managed through MS Active Directory at my company. Loose IAM gives rise to related headaches such as IT in the shadows. I have talked to my manager, but our job function is not viewed favorably for obvious reasons in the company. Audit is necessarily a adversarial activity, and one will make enemies. IA and Security departments are our most reliable allies. What are some practical ideas to improve tracking of electronic employe identities within a smaller company? 

Different tone here. In a perfect world, personal politics matter nothing and as long as the employee can behave himself, all is ok and well. This is how it should be, private views should be unimportant to your work as long as you do your work well. We're not in a perfect world. Depending on the target audience and exact nature of your project, this could spell the end of it if discovered. We're living in a world where people boycott products and games over political opinions of employees, even if those had no bearing on the actual product. This is reality now and it happens every day. If you anticipate your target audience to be sensitive to that, this guy is a massive liability. You shouldn't fire him, you should still pay him since it's not his fault, but you may have to re-comission and re-implement the work this guy has done, to avoid what so many companies have felt first hand by now, a media firestorm. This is wholly independent from the subject matter itself and the political opinion of the employee. In today's hyper charged political and social climate, you need to be very aware that people will raise a giant stink if so much as your janitor expressed some unpopular opinions at some point. The culture of boycott and block is very much alive needs to be accounted for, disgusting and unfair as it is. 

I won't mince words with you: You tell her that her resume is poor and will most likely be rejected. Be firm and advise her what she needs to do to fix her resume such as choosing a more professional font, and ensuring her work experience fully captures her value as a prospective employee of your company. You do her no favors by being soft with her. It is to her best interest that she be a little hurt now than to be near unemployable with her current resume. Sometimes been friends with someone, means revealing plainly, and unemotionally, an unpleasant truth. 

Yes, they could have done all of this before they give notice, but the employer didn't know about their desire to leave by then. Employers like to cut liabilities when they arise, and that its been a liability before usually doesn't preclude them from considering it one still. It also may be possible that the resignation is a deal the employee struck with management, in order to avoid being terminated for cause. In these cases, all the usual reasons apply. Because of these reasons, unless you trust the employee not to do that, and unless you really need them to train their replacement, its usually better to let them go home immediately (the nicer companies still pay the 2 weeks leave. When I resigned from my first Job, I did so with 2 months notice, as per contract. They didn't have me come in again, but paid out the 2 months still) 

This is problematic. You said that your company is small and this may limit the available options, but before development begins, there should be clear functional requirements signoff. The fact that there was a row between the manager who requested you to implement this feature, and the owner of the company means that such process apparently is inadequate. 

Given that the relevant law in your jurisdiction allows and such a practice is the "Norm" of your workplace, an involuntarily terminated employee Should be escorted off company property as soon as possible, ideally immediately after notice, and conversation with HR To borrow a phrase from @ Mcknz, this person is a HUGE risk to your company. Ask yourself the following questions, 

Issues with hairy (sensitive) personal information and pertaining necessary documentation like this are better sorted out via a phone call, or better yet, in person. Since in person is out of the question, try a phone call. Be honest. If it has to be a email write something like this: 

As a non native english speaker, yes, please do. Its not rude, and he probably doesn't know he is making mistakes. If you are so inclined, please take the time to correct him. The vast majority of people will really appreciate that. 

Excuse the late answer. @ Gabrielle, as a fellow auditor, the situation you described is something I am very familiar with. I often encounter resistance / stonewalling from management, unwilling to acknowledge bad news. What I have found helps: 

Destroy data - Violation of Integrity Deny legitimate users access - Violation of Availability Disclose data to unauthorized parties - Violation of Confidentiality 

You have observed a fundamental problem at your workplace. Your coworker should not even have the ability to be able to modify logs in the first place. This practice violates the security principle of segregation of duties. The work structure should be robust enough to make this possibility highly improbable, save for deliberate collusion. This is a tangible problem you have and can proactively address with management. If they are rational people, and have the slightest understanding of risk management , they will (or SHOULD) care. 

Thats not acceptable, and neither is tearing into a Junior because she doesn't get all the details yet. If you feel comfortable doing it, have a stern talk with him, once. Make clear you find this behaviour unacceptable and tell him it has to stop. Failing that, it may get dirty. 

You should probably try to get that amended. Sadly, your only bargaining power in this situation is threatening to leave if they don't, which can be a career limiting move. 

I'll take a different tone to the other answers. You got a really raw deal here, and I think it'll end with you having to leave the company. Prepare for this. No, it's not fair. But you already saw, the CEO is sticking up for the guy, it's his friend, so complaining to the CEO or HR will probably get you nowhere. You can look into whether or not what you experienced is enough to file a lawsuit, you'll have to consult with a lawyer for that, but I'd advise against it. Suing your employer is a very easy way to get blackballed in your entire industry. Fairness aside, realisticly, it's probably best for you to move on to another job without causing a stir. It sucks that it has to be that way, but suing and/or filing a sexual harassment complaint against your employer or his friend may completly ruin your career even if your claim is just and gets ruled in your favor.