To some degree the value of your skills is based on your employer, and how much they need a particular skill. AngularJS development, for example, is an in-demand skill, but if a company already has many developers with that skill, yours may not be worth as much. There are resources and guides out there (e.g., The Robert Half Salary Guide) that take national averages for skill sets and convert them to percentage to add to your desired salary. Any given skill's value is going to depend on the company and region, but guides like the one listed above can give you a starting point. 

I would start looking for a new job immediately. If your supervisors are unethical (and potentially criminal?) actors regarding this regulation, they would have no problem acting unethically or illegally toward you. Do not comply with their request -- you may be held liable for such action. Keep a record of any email, notes, conversations regarding this in order to cover yourself. You might want to consult a lawyer, or perhaps contact the regulatory agency responsible for this, to inquire about whistleblower status. While you make your inquiries, you may want to try to stall or avoid their requests as much as practically possible. edit based on UPDATE 20/05/15 I am not a lawyer but I would not think it wise to collect evidence yourself. The knowledge of the conversation and the recording might be helpful to an investigator. 

I just went through this myself. Not everyone really wants advancement and the more responsibility and pressure that goes with it. It is great for such things to be available, but as long as they are still useful to the organization, and retained, some people are happy without it. In my case, when the new growth path was added, the first thing many team members asked was if it was a job requirement? Would they be punished or even replaced if they chose not to pursue it? That took some in management by surprise as this was presented as an opportunity, but many expressed that to them, the added responsibility was not worth it to them, while others jumped at the chance. If the individual will still be a viable employee without taking that route, then repeated pushing will start to feel to them like you are forcing it, and that without it they will not be welcome to stay. I would suggest that you talk, tell them you are not pressuring, only trying to make sure they know it is available, then somewhat back off, unless it really is true that they need to do it. 

I have not encountered this situation personally, but I would be careful about attempting to help without knowing any details. Could be this is a temporary situation. Or this is the most convenient way for now of dealing with 2 jobs. As you mention, notifying the company is problematic because you don't know what the policy is, and you could end up making the situation worse for your colleague. You say that this person is not a friend, but perhaps you can best help by trying to grow closer, and be a good listener for any requests or support that your colleague might really need right now. 

Unless there's a stated policy, 6 months seems an appropriate time to bring up the subject of salary. The burden of proof is on you, however, to demonstrate that you are worthy of a raise. I would recommend working on essentially a business case for an increase of salary, with concrete examples of why you deserve it. Your assertion that you are being taken advantage of or being paid below market won't be enough. Research what the current salary is for your position. Give them a number higher than you think they will accept. Remember that your current employer has no responsibility or connection to your old employer -- from your employer's perspective, maybe you were overpaid previously. Be professional and courteous, trying to see it from your employer's point of view, why you are a good investment for them. Do not threaten to quit or anything like that. If after that, they do not give you a raise or some kind of timetable, then if you are below market, you should start looking for an opportunity with another company that will pay your true value. 

Any interview code I have either asked for or given has been to show knowledge of the language and program structure and was reviewed for that, not function or relevance. People tend to want to see that you follow standards, reasonable naming conventions, document, use structure, know what a unit is, etc. If appropriate, include unit testing. If java, use java doc standards, etc. Usually, but not a certainty. If unsure that is what they want, it is usually better to ask than guess wrong. 

Intern positions are jobs, not company sponsored study time. Part of the purpose of an internship is to learn the ins-and-outs of the corporate world including time management and the separation of work and non-work time. That includes learning to blame ones self for time management fails, not look for excuses. Though interns are often given a break, such as a couple hours to slide so they can study for an exam, this is more a trade off as they are not full employees so get a break. Three weeks is way beyond that, and is more than bending over backwards. I would have to fully agree with your boss, and frankly he should make if clear to you that really, that can't happen again. An hour here or there in consideration, maybe, but that is all. It is his responsibility to make time, not yours to find time for him. If he cannot see this, he failed the exam, the dissertation, and his internship and the lessons it was supposed to teach him. 

The situation as you describe is not uncommon -- the beginning of a partnership that does not work out for personal or technical reasons. Unless your mentors provided direct negative feedback, I would not assume that the bridge has been burnt. The best way to resolve this is by contacting your mentor directly, if you are still able to. Say you are planning to apply to work at the company, and ask what your mentor's experiences have been, and what the culture is like. I would not ask for a recommendation or anything else at this point. If your mentor replies positively, you can ask about including as a contact. If there is no response, it probably makes sense to leave the contact section blank. 

Welcome to the working world, which is unfortunately full of relationships like this. If you decide to leave over this, you will probably find yourself in a similar situation down the road. I would opt for a combination of #3 and #4 you've listed above. If you attempt to do his work for him, that will work out badly for you most of all. Keep as good of a record as you can of your interactions. If there's something you need that he is supposed to provide, send an email to him as a reminder. When he asks for help, summarize the help you provided in an email and send it to him. Leave your boss out of it as much as possible -- only escalate to that level if there's no other option. If it comes to the point where you need to involve your boss, then you'll have a documented history of where your co-worker has not performed as expected, and where you've attempted to help. 

It is not especially uncommon for an offer after an internship to not be in the same position of the internship, and in fact I would consider the offer in another area to be even more of a complement. It mean they saw in you the ability to learn and pick up skills and translate them into an asset for the organization, and do so without pigeon holing you. They want you, and your skills, but do not have the need in the specific area you were interning, but believe you are fully able to pick up new skills and help the company, and are more confident in your ability to do that than trying to go out and find someone who already has direct experience. This does still leave you with evaluating if you want to do what they are asking, but this will be true with any job offer. You would have the added bonus of being known and presumably respected in the group you have been interning, so in the future there could be the option of moving back if the second department proves not to be a better fit. Though an opening does not exist now, there likely will be in the future, and you could assume they would want you back if they could get you. 

Have you met with this lead and shared your concerns directly? It's certainly possible that the situation is exactly as you describe, but it's also possible you're not be seeing the whole picture. Perhaps the lead is busy, is on multiple projects, or has a more managerial role that doesn't involve day-to-day coding. From that perspective it may seem like he's an absentee leader. Focus on what you are hoping to achieve. Do you want recognition for your work, or do you want reassurance that others have the same opinion of this lead? Sometimes people are not noticed for their good work because they do not promote their own successes, and expect people just to notice. Instead of putting forth a list of grievances, try to work with your manager to improve your own situation, rather than bring down someone else for its own sake. If that involves interaction with the lead, so be it, but don't let someone else's behavior affect your own well-being. If the lead is as bad as you say, eventually things will catch up with him. 

I would not consider the E-mail out of line or disrespectful, especially in a situation where schedule conflicts occur. You did nothing wrong there in my opinion, so be a ease. That said, before you leave, and generally at your next chance, I would recommend talking face to face. Not really an apology, but a professional "Thank you and sorry". It can be two minutes in passing, or a more formal exit interview type meeting as you, or you and she together think is appropriate. The two minute in passing is an attempt to professionally make sure you remain on good terms, not burnt bridges, not leaving in a huff, just business, career or life choice. The exit interview range is more formal, go over your job performance, how you felt about the job, maybe even if the company may be a part of your future plans, etc. That might not be appropriate, it depends on the situation, but at least the quick face to face before exit usually is. 

Do both. Explain to your manager that you are behind your timeline, AND work extremely hard to meet your original deadline. The mess will be infinitely greater at deadline time, and the obvious question would be "Why didn't you tell us sooner?" When you explain to your manager, emphasize the positive parts (your working program), and do not lay too much blame on yourself. You may have had unrealistic expectations, and the technical piece may be harder than you originally thought. Be ready to present options to your manager if your manager requests, such as an estimate of the amount of work remaining, and a new deadline. 

This is a great question, but I think the best answer is to get formal legal advice. Even if you know this behavior is illegal, part of an attorney's job is to advise clients on how to act within legal boundaries. You don't want to risk being held personally liable as part of a discrimination suit. Certain legislation may not apply to your company, but there may be other rules and regulations that do -- plus your company may grow in the future. In that event, you'll want to be informed as to what is required to comply. Since this is ultimately for the benefit of your employer, you should not have to pay for legal advice yourself. Work with your company first, to see if they have an attorney you can consult who specializes in these cases. Your company may not have one on retainer, but I imagine even a tiny company uses an attorney from time to time. Legal consulting is a normal business expense. 

It depends. If they recruiter is a direct recruiter for the company, then they are likely an regular employee and expect to work regular business hours and not have to give up their personal time to accommodate you. If their work day normally ends at 17:00, you are asking them to extend their day by up to 3 hours to talk to you and make notes after. Not reasonable at all. If they are an open recruiter, that is an agency that works to place people with multiple organizations, then they are your agent and working on commission. Then, it is their job to place you and they are working for you even though their commission is likely paid by the companies. In this case, the request would be relatively normal and if the recruiter is not willing to work with you on this, then they are not the correct recruiter for you. 

In the cases I have worked with a recruiter, both myself and the recruiter went over the rules beforehand. In my case, every time, the recruiter brought this up before I did, and I would normally think this would be standard practice by them to protect their own interests. Each recruiter I have talked with had their own rules. Some worked only with a group of companies they had agreed to rates with and relatively limited access to a list of positions with. If I wanted in to those companies, there were sets of positions that were only hired through recruiters, and they were one of a limited number of recruiters who could present for them, but they did not shotgun resume's to other organizations. That made it a no contests, I could not claim I found the position on my own, get the position, they were owed the commission. Others would search for me with their contacts. These were the ones that could result in fights. Terms I would agree to were that I had to tell them where I had already contacted, and for a period of time they would not contact those places and I was on my own with them. Before they would present me information anywhere, they needed to tell me where that was and I would approve or decline. If I approved, then for a period of time, typically 6 months, any position I accepted with that company would be considered their find, even if I felt it was not the position they put me up for. Thus, they would not try to steal commission for positions I found on my own, and I would not try to undercut them on their finds. It was not perfect, but resulted in no squabbles for me. But I would highly recommend making sure you and the recruiter understand each other and are not double working the same organizations. When I worked with recruiters I did actually have to sign a contract with them, and I would really recommend this being in writing. I have known people who ended up in lengthy battles because they did not fully understand the rules and were working with firms who expected to be paid, and if the company did not agree to pay, the client was on the hook for the fee. A good friend could not take a position he wanted because he had sent a resume/CV in, and then the recruiter contacted the company. The company said they directly offered, would not pay, so the recruited demanded half a years salary from the applicant. He ended up still hiring with the company, but not until 6 months later and with a different position. 

Yes. When you start a new job, it's expected that it will take you some time to be as proficient as others. Depending on the domain or complexity of the industry, that could be weeks, months, or even years. Most people will give you the benefit of the doubt because you are new, and because you are learning lessons that others have come to know over a longer time. So give yourself a break. If you still find that you are overwhelmed, ask others for help. Your work is your work, but only a part of your life. 

Although people are generally more educated and understanding today regarding mental health issues, I would not discuss specifics. Simply say you had health issues that prevented you from working for a certain period of time. I can't imagine anyone would jump to the conclusion that you were in rehab or something similar, and I would be surprised if an interviewer were to push the issue beyond your initial, simple explanation. The fact that you have a long history of exceptional performance is going to be more important to your potential employer, as is your reassurance and references to show you are now capable of doing the work, and doing it well. A confident interview will help reinforce your message that you are ready to get back to work, and contribute to your new employer.