It is difficult to answer. I think your best option is to try and contact Pa Auk Forest Monastery. Their contact information can be found here. 

The second link describes how to take the five precepts. They are normally taken after taking refuge in the triple gem. May you be well and happy and free from mental and physical suffering. Lanka 

Karma and its after-effects will occur until one becomes an Arahant and thereby breaks the last 5 fetters, i.e. "Craving for fine material existence, Craving for existence on the level of formlessness, Conceit, Restlessness and Ignorance". Until then, every moment is either a "kamma-making-moment" or a "kamma-recieving-moment". Following the path is not different in these conditions. The experiences are still the same, i.e. hearing, seeing, tasting, feeling, smelling and thinking. That is the same whether one is living a rich life, a poor life, if one is healthy, dying etc. The experiences don't change. Its still just the 6 sense-experiences occurring incessantly. 

The best way to overcome this is to work with the object and learn about it. In Buddhism we overcome "problems" by learning about them and thereby understanding them. Remorse is one of the 5 hindrances. They are objects that can slow one down on the path. They block progress in e.g. meditation. When a hindrance is present, make a mental note that a hindrance is present. Keep observing the hindrance with mindfulness, in the present moment and note it as "remorse, remorse", until it ceases. This way you can use the hindrance to cultivate insights, i.e. the 3 signs of existence. 

Theravada Buddhism Dhamma List that contains an overview of the most essential dhammas in theravada buddhism. They are ordered and downloadable in PDF-format. In here you will find the different theravada dhammas, pali-to-english translation of most used words and a quick-guide to the Tipitaka. 

You might want to look at The 5 Aggregates, namely the aggregate(s) of Perception, Mental Formations and Consciousness. Especially the forth aggregate of mental formations relates to what you are describing, since it contains volition (cetana). See also SN 12.38: Cetana Sutta. The Abhidhamma goes into further detail on the topic of Citta & Cetasikas. Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi has written an execellent summary called "The Abhidhammattha Sangaha - A Comprehensive Manual of Abhidhamma". 

Lastly, here is a website where you can listen to different Buddhist chantings e.g. Chinese Pureland and Pali Devotional Chanting. 

If you decide to answer the question there are several ways to approach this. You could give a short and precise answer or maybe a longer and more in-depth answer. It really depends on your own mood and also who the questioner is. If the questioner is a person that does not seem interested in the topic then you could give the short answer. If one the other hand the questioner seems very interested in meditation and why you meditate you could give a longer and more in-depth answer. What should the answer consist of then? Again this is up to you. You could give a general answer based on what meditation is and how it affects the mind and body. You could tell him about the different techniques e.g. Samatha and Vipasana and explain a bit about them. Or you could give a more personal answer. You could explain why meditation is important to you and why you have chosen to incorporate it into your life. There are many options. In a way one has to find out who the questioner is so that one can give an answer that the person can understand. If it's a person who is unfamiliar with religion or spiritual practice then one could explain it on a more basic level, e.g. that some meditation techniques calm the mind by removing distracting thoughts and emotions. In everyday life most people's perspective is directed outwardly. In meditation one directs the focus inwardly and practices intense introspection. By directing the focus inwardly one can learn about oneself and see how the mind works. In this way one can improve oneself and rid oneself from bad habits and defilements. You could also explain about the benefits of meditation and explain exactly which benefits you experience and how it makes you and your life better. 

This answer is pretty straight forward. Practice and perfect the Noble Eightfold Path as laid out by the Buddha. When perfected, the Path Consciousness takes Nibbana as an object. It performs four distinct functions, i.e.; "fully understanding Dukkha, abandoning the origin of Dukkha, realizing Nibbana and cultivating the Noble Eightfold Path". 

All he can do is to impinge on your sense-faculties. Anger can arise, sadness or other negative mind states can arise in you. That is really it. Noone can force you to react to these states of mind. If you instead just observe them with mindfulness in the present moment then you can use these phenomena to cultivate insight. You can use them as a stepping stone to progress in your path. 

The Buddha says in the sutta that if one learns how to use and apply these five remedies then one will no longer be the subject of the mind. One will become it's master. 

Vipassana meditation is not meant to feel enjoyable. It might sometimes but thats not really the point of the practice. The practice is undertaken in order to purify the mind from defilements. Its a purification process. 

First of all, don't feel sorry or frustrated because you cannot stay in a certain state. Instead understand, through insight meditation, that this is actually the impermanent nature of conditioned phenomena that you are experiencing. You cannot control anything as long as being in Samsara, i.e. the conditioned realm. Trying to control stuff is actually the source of your (and others) frustration. All condition phenomena, whether mental or physical, follows a specific recipe/process. See drawing. 

Here is a quote on "Idle chatter" from the book "The Noble Eightfold Path" by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi, p. 48-49. The highlights are made by me as an answer to your question regarding what idle chatter is and conversation with family. 

In the Pali Canon Study "Nibbana as Living Experience / The Buddha and The Arahant" by Lily de Silva a well described section on the Four Analytical Knowledges can be found. Here is a quote from the study: 

By realizing through insight meditation that phenomena are impermanent one will come to realize that they are also unsatisfactory. Something that arises, persists and then perishes cannot be relied on. One has no control over phenomena. They are thereby oppresive, uncontrollable and ungovernable. When one truly sees that in insight meditation one will come to realize anatta. One will come to see that what is both impermanent and unsatisfactory is not fit to be called a self. Something that is uncontrollable, oppresing and ever-changing cannot be a self. One will come to see that the notion of a self is merely a mental formation that also arises, persists and then perishes. Hope this might be of some help to you. If i forgot to mention something you can make a comment and i might be able to add to it. Lanka