Therefore, you should start doing the exercises the doctor gave you on regular basis, preferably several times a day, so you can spread the load. The exercises will help you improve the strength and coordination of the hip, which according to E-Orthopod.com will help reduce friction on the bursa. Some of the exercises you can perform according to Buzzle.com: 

I've used compression socks in the past and personally found them very pleasant. One of the claimed advantages is that it restricts the swaying of your calf muscle which should help reduce the strain on your shins. But as Plankalkül indicates there isn't any literature to support its effect on preventing injuries, but I found two blog posts (albeit rather old). The first post reviewed several studies but most were focused on subjects with circulatory diseases and may not translate to athletes. He also came across one study by Ali on athletes that experienced a reduction in delayed-onset muscle soreness 24 hours after wearing compression stockings. Which would certainly indicate a speedier recovery as claimed by some of the stocking users. The second blog post found two more articles which found no performance or physiological difference, but a reduction in DOMS 24 hours after exercise with compression socks. The second study tested athletes on a treadmill and found a small improvement in their performance. I've checked some other blog posts and they all came to the same conclusion that there's a lot of controversy about them and that there's no proof that they help prevent injuries. So you'll have to judge for yourself, I personally like them, but I haven't found any supporting evidence. 

Honestly, there's almost no way this can be true. This question was answered on Straight Dope.com (though there they tried using beer...): 

Reference: [14] is a decent About.com review However, a study by Sellwood et al "Ice-water immersion and delayed-onset muscle soreness: a randomised controlled trial" found no significant changes in pain parameters, tenderness, isometric strength, swelling, hop-for-distance or serum creatine kinase (CK) over time. But Vaile et al found in their study "Effect of hydrotherapy on recovery from fatigue" that: I would therefore hypothesize that the effect of a cold water bath may depend on the type of workout and the intensity thereof. Given that you're a sprinter, perhaps it can be beneficial when you've done a high intensity workout where you are more likely to have microscopic damage than during an endurance training. But then again, that's just my hypothesis. 

As you can see, being more active is most definitely going to increase your BMR. Even if you significantly loose weight, the difference is going to be quite significant. Not that this equation doesn't take into account all of the factors they listed themselves, but still you get the point. So no, being more active is most definitely going to increase your BMR. 

Kortuk and I were reading a blog post from Sweat Science that argues we should do harder warm-ups, because they increase our performance. 

But the problem is, when you're leg is stretched away from the center of your body, those 'small' forces have a large moment arm (towards the center of your body). So while it's not an issue for the forces to increase under your body, it because extra hard when they increase far away from your body. This causes it to be pretty hard to go faster and faster on your home trainer, even when your fitness increases. So that option is basically out, as there's almost no home trainer that doesn't make the same mistake. Your other option is to workout longer, which happens to be a very good choice when you want to burn fat. Because burning fat happens mostly at lower intensities, so actually when you start to work out harder, your body shifts gear and moves away from fat to other 'faster' fuels. Therefore it would be better to burn 500 kcal at 60% of your maximal heart rate than at 80%, because at least you got rid of some fat! 

I would advise against it, your body needs sufficient rest and trying to rush it only increases your chances of getting injured. Given that C25k is meant to let you workout for only 30 minutes, I don't expect you're in great shape. This means you have even more risk of getting overuse injuries or other discomforts. I think it would be better to stick to the plan and if you feel like it's going well, increase the loads (like moving to C210k halfway through) so you'll end up doing more each workout, but still getting enough rest. Normally 10 weeks should be sufficient to get finish the C210k program, which would allow you to workout for twice as long :-) If you think you can't do the C210k, just look @md5sum: you don't have to run fast in order to gain fitness! To prevent injuries you could supplement your workouts with some basic strength exercises, like 2 sets squats, lunges and some other body-weight exercises. However, don't overdo yourself, running already causes enough strain to an untrained body. Lastly, try to improve your live style. So take the stairs instead of an elevator, take your bike next time you need to do some quick shopping, take a stroll during lunch. Basically anything you can do to be less sedentary will aid you in gaining fitness. 

During my studies I participated in an experiment where we had to maintain squats off varying degrees on and off a vibrating platform. They compared our heart rate and oxygen uptake, to see if it had any effect. I believe the idea was that when you're in a deep squat, the blood flow in your legs gets occluded due to the pressure of the tensed muscles on your arteries. Here's a similar, published study. Because of the occlusion, you would start to fatigue, because your muscles don't get enough oxygen and thus have to work anaerobically. The results of the study showed no advantage when using the vibrating platform, which has been the result of other (independent) studies as well. As a disclaimer, my university got sued by Powerplate, because they published some studies claiming vibrating plates didn't work, so you can understand my skepticism. However, other groups published results that were more positive. Either way, as Berin commented: you can get great results using traditional strength training, so you simply shouldn't need vibrating platforms 

While there are several injuries related to the patellar tendon, the most likely one is that you have a Jumper's knee (basically it's just inflamed), which needs rest to recover like everybody sensible will tell you. However, there are several things you can or should do to prevent the injury from returning: 

There are several others, such as body composition (high BMI), postural stability, anatomical misalignment or a lack of joint flexibility and range of motion. However, the strongest contribution is attributed to an adverse biomechanical running pattern. The most important factors for ankle sprains were: landing too much on the lateral side of the heel, pushing off too medially and too late resupination during the roll off. Most of these will improve when you increase the strength of the muscles around your ankle and improve your rolling off (which requires some experience). For overuse injuries the most important factor was: increased inversion (of the foot/ankle) and increase loading under the medial side of the foot. This is normally called (over)pronation, which has several negative influences. Amongst them are rotational strain on the shank, increased strain on the soft tissue and stabilizing muscles. Another risk factor was a more forward position of the COP at first foot contact, which indicates a lack of the early pronation that's required to absorb the impact forces, so this takes place further ahead in the roll off in an exeggerated form. However, while too much or too late pronation is considered a problem, the exact opposite isn't good as well. All these movements can come from a lack of muscle strength, poor control of the muscles and technique or the wrong footwear. So what can you do? Try to manage your extrinsic factors: so get the right shoes, try to workout on software undergrounds, use a training program or join an athletics club, that helps you rate limit your workout frequency and intensity and also ensures sufficient rest. You'd need a checkup to see whether some of the intrinsic risk factors apply to you or not. However in all cases what you yourself can do is: make sure you get in a decent shape before you increase your pace; a decent aerobic capacity doesn't guarantee you're adapted to running. If you have a history of injuries, make sure you do additional exercises to strengthen this area. Doing yoga is a great exercise, because it mixes stabilizing joints with increasing the range of motion. 

One last word of advice, don't get overconfident of your swimming skills. Take the time to practice the basic skills first, before moving on to learning strokes. I can guarantee you that better basic skills will do more for your safety while swimming than learning any stroke at all. Feel free to come back with any followup questions if you have trouble with any of these steps and in the mean time, have a look at several other swimming resources. 

This depends on the quality of the material and even within shoes from the same factory, there can be quite some variation. In this study Heel-shoe interactions and the durability of EVA foam running-shoe midsoles by Verdejo and Mills from 2004 Furthermore, they did electron microscopy scans that showed structural damage in the foam after 750 km. Since fatigue of the foam reduces heelstrike cushioning, it might cause running injuries. You can recognize the damage somewhat by the wrinkles that arise on the side of the heel. If you wear the shoes for much longer, you sometimes can feel it getting 'softer' when you try to squeeze it. Another indication is that the outer layer of your sole is sanded away. If this is quite dramatic, you might start to get a misalignment of the loads. Small note: the material is sanded away because you load it like that, so it's not necessarily a bad thing. And off course if you start to see holes in the upper of the shoe, it probably means other parts (invisible) are worse off. My advise: bad running shoes are a major cause of injuries! You've been conditioned to let the shoes aid you in the shock absorption and rolling off. If the shoes stop doing this, you don't magically alter your running style! So don't keep running for too long or start to learn to run better.