American Experience (on PBS) aired a documentary called The Great Transatlantic Cable many years back. I don't remember any mention of the clepsydra, but the story of the first cable burning out after just a few weeks in most assuredly in there. Basically, the engineers had assumed that you needed to push a lot of current through the wire, when in fact, just a little current would work just as well... I also seem to remember the first attempt was harder because the cable would not fit on a single ship, and thus it had to be spliced together on board. For the second laying, the world's largest ship ever was repurposed to hold the cable. 

For a government acquiring property, neither situation applies, so there is no need to assign an actual value. So, again, it really boils down to "How much can we get for as little give as possible." 

They were trying to leave the United States, plain and simple. The nation of Deseret was specifically to be in a territory, so as to avoid the federal government and be a safe haven after the massacre in Navoo. 

So, in researching the link from sbi, I think he's got one piece of the puzzle, but there seem to be a few more. 

Just as an interesting contra-discussion, the Alien and Sedition Acts of 1798 were largely influenced by the French government's desire to fund Jefferson during the election of 1796. Foreign governments have been involved in elections for a long time. 

Each of these regions seems highly antagonistic to the others (witness Muslim killing of Christians in the North, or Goodluck Jonathan's uneasy rise to power). Furthermore, there doesn't seem to be much of a synergistic effect amongst these different regions. In contrast, even empires as vast as the United States or the Soviet Union seem to be able to cohere a "national purpose" or at least trading partnerships that enrich most of the country. What is that thing for Nigeria? What keeps it together as a single states rather than three separate nations under one rotating leader? 

One theory from Delbrueck: Hannibal wanted to win the battle with his infantry, which was superior to the Romans, and distract the Roman cavalry. Therefore, he wanted the cavalry clash to happen first, the idea being that his cavalry would be routed, the Roman cavalry would pursue them and be out of the battle, and he could start the infantry battle. Delbrueck here suggests that Hannibal used his elephants as a way of delaying the infantry battle. Honestly, I can't think of another reason for doing it: elephants were generally known not to be all that effective against infantry, and Hannibal already had the advantage there. Elephants were effective against cavalry, and so the normal use would be to disrupt the Roman cavalry to give the Carthaginian cavalry a chance. Anyway, the elephants were largely ineffective against the Roman infantry, the Roman cavalry pursued the routed Carthaginian cavalry, and Hannibal's infantry was winning the battle. Then the Roman cavalry, instead of pursuing the Carthaginians further, returned and fell on Hannibal's rear, deciding the battle. 

Consider the strategic situation. The South was losing. The Mississippi was Union-controlled except around Vicksburg (until Grant took it too), cutting off a good chunk of the Confederacy. The Union blockade was in effect, making it very difficult for the Confederacy to trade abroad. The Emancipation Proclamation had made it politically impossible for any European power to come out in favor of the Confederacy, since it established the war as for and against slavery. Southern industry and resources were unable to supply armies big enough to win. Lee's idea to prevent the fall of the CSA was essentially to make the Army of Virginia too dangerous to the North, threatening Washington and parts north, so that Lincoln would feel compelled to make peace despite the strategic situation. Essentially, the South's only hope was aggressive action east of the Appalachians. Any failure in that would allow the Union to exploit its strategic advantages. Gettysburg was the last attempt, and with its failure as a clear Union victory, it wasn't going to be repeated. In 1864, Grant went with Meade to pin down Lee's army in Virginia, while Sherman swept through the Confederate heartland, effectively destroying the Confederate ability to resist. 

Put them together, and you have an island. Given the resources at the time, and a surfeit of targets for exploration, it makes sense they would have said, 'This is an island, we'll get around to mapping it later.' That this was not an island was realized in 1744, when an overland expedition proved it be part of the mainland. 

As best as I understand it, the founding of the Islamic Republic of Iran in 1979 was when Persia became Iran. What was the motivation for changing the name? 

Juan de Fuca (the same guy from whom the straits around Vancouver Island / the Seattle area are named), had claimed to have found a Northwest Passage Sailors from the south had also found the Gulf of Baja California, and frankly its big - so big that it would have been real easy to say, 'Oh, that's Juan's strait' There was the romance novel Las sergas de Esplandián by Garci Rodríguez de Montalvo, mentioned above. 

Several maps done in the 16th & 17th Centuries show a huge island off the western coast of America. At its lower end, it looks a lot like baja california, but it is clearly an island, as opposed to a peninsula. $URL$ is an example link How did it get this way, and who figured out that the maps were wrong? 

A Muslim North scratching out a living in the Sahara desert A nominally Christian South making money on the Internet (and seemingly offering an unending supply of unattended million dollars!) A bunch of oil workers in the Niger Delta. 

Consider the supply condition of the Germans in Stalingrad. They'd been on a logistical shoestring for a long time, and that had been feeding basic supplies and munitions primarily, since the Germans were in what was essentially a siege. The Germans did try to interfere with the encirclement, but could only get relatively few vehicles a short distance from the city. I don't know what the horse situation was, but horses are high-maintenance transport, and less useful in a siege, so I'd expect the Germans to be low on healthy horses. If Paulus had been ordered to break out, his forces would have been forced to leave their heavier equipment behind, and retreat, not well organized, underarmed, in good tank country. No ready-to-fight formations would have broken out. This probably would mean the loss of the Axis forces in the Caucasus, since without the Stalingrad garrison to contain, the Red Army would have been freer to attacks south. The original Soviet plan turned out to be overambitious, but the sudden collapse of the German pocket might have made it work. So, I don't see that stopping the southern pincer would have been useful, if the northern one had continued. 

The only landing in Europe and Africa that got carrier support was the Torch landing in North Africa in late 1942. In that case, it was not possible to use land-based air support, since there weren't any bases there. All following landings were within land-based air range (deliberately) and relied on it soley. Aircraft carriers were very valuable, being necessary for fighting enemy fleets, supporting landings, raiding, and other missions. At the time of D-Day, the Japanese still had a powerful fleet, and it attacked US landings about two weeks after the Normandy invasion. Moreover, with the island-hopping strategy, Pacific invasions were often not within support range of any Allied airfield. Moreover, Normandy would have been a difficult landing to support with carriers. Carriers need to have a lot of wind blowing down the deck for aircraft to take off or land, which means that they generally need a large clear maneuvering area. The English Channel, near Normandy, was too small for effective operations and crowded with landing craft. The carriers would have had to stay either in the North Sea, which was still dangerous, or the Atlantic, and the ground air bases would have been closer than the carriers. After the Allied breakout, the air bases in England were still fairly close to the action, closer than carriers could have operated, and the Allies set up lots of air bases in France and other liberated areas. The Allied offensive didn't get anywhere near the open areas of the North Sea, where carriers could usefully operate, until about a month before the end of the war. 

Interestingly, when the time zones were established at the International Meridian Conference in 1884, the original idea was to have a single coordinated solar day. This meant that eventually, the hope was to have a single coordinated time throughout the world. The idea of dividing the world into time zones was merely supposed to be a step to getting to precisely that point. Unfortunately, the resolution adopted had within it the seeds of its failure to take that final step. The single coordinated meridian was to be selected without interference in the local observation of solar time and "without regard to politics but only to scientific progress." As you might expect, the "art of the possible" never was able to go that far. 

There is also a simple geographic explanation to this issue. Mountains divide people, rivers bring them together. If you look at the most stable boundaries in the world, they are those that are along mountains. The Caucasuses are, of course, highly mountainous. For protection, for food, and for simple energy conservation, once a culture is established on a mountain, it's hard to move it. And, as different groups establish themselves on different mountains, they tend to differentiate. Simple time encourages mistaken kingdoms to be small and varied - and the Caucasuses, like most mountainous areas (the himalaya, the Appalachian, The Alps) tend to encourage lots of small micro cultures. 

To help a mortgage lender know what a reasonable loan to extend on a property would be (most banks will not lend more than 95% of the value of a property) To help governments figure out how much property tax would be do. 

The US was already in a naval war with Germany (and not doing real well), was supplying all sorts of arms, supplies, and even warships to Britain, and was flagrantly violating the laws of war applicable to neutrals. Hitler was expecting war at some time in the near future, and chose to declare war first. Hitler was also counting on the Japanese Navy to at least neutralize the US Navy, and considered the US to be a racially mixed and hence weak nation. 

It wasn't much of a battle, but according to Morison's history of the US Navy in WWII, the last engagement was between a couple of Chinese junks, and was settled by boarding. The bazooka did make it seem less like a 19th Century battle. 

Grant did not command the Army of the Potomac; that would be Meade, the victor of Gettysburg. Grant was the overall commander, but he accompanied the Army of the Potomac (no, I don't know what Meade thought of that). Therefore, it's necessary to look at the overall US strategy at the time, which was to pin the Army of Virginia in place while Sherman attacked the Confederate heartland. That was Grant's purview, and he should be judged on that basis. 

In the 17th and 18th centuries, fortresses had changed from the medieval castle, and were designed for artillery and musket defense. A methodical siege technique evolved, primarily associated nowadays with Vauban. This involved digging saps and parallels, and setting up artillery positions in the parallels. Typically, the third parallel (trench roughly parallel to the fortress side), supported by saps (communicating trenches of a particular design), would try for a breach in the walls and an assault. There were other techniques available. There was the blockade, an attempt to starve the defenders out. There was the escalade, in which the attackers rush forward with ladders, presumably at night, and hope not to be blown away by grapeshot and musket balls before they could scale the walls. There were attempts to enter the fortress by other means, such as a heavily loaded wagon that would have its wheels knocked off while blocking the gates. 

Whether Cyrus was "the" Messiah or just "a" Messiah is debated amongst theolgians, both Christian and Jewish, but the plain sense of the text can explain why Cyrus is called the annointed of the Lord. 

Originally it was called "Virginia." :) In all seriousness, the Chesapeake Bay was the original focal point of the colony of Virginia, moreso than the land. As such, the name "Eastern Shore" (still the term I and other locals use) was the more common term. Even places like Assateague and Chincoteague - completely on the Atlantic and thus having water to their East, are still referred to colloquially as the Eastern Shore. When the Maryland colony took hold in the later 1600s, the "Eastern Shore" still applied to both colonies. Delaware as a colony is only on the Atlantic, and so usually if you were talking about Delaware, you identify it as such. Note the term "Western Shore" is not used. Instead, we speak of "Tidewater" Virginia or up north, just plain "Maryland." Maryland exists on both sides of the bay, but there is no term of which I am aware to distinguish "the mainland" from the Eastern Shore. Historically, Tidewater was always the economic powerhouse. The first settlements (Jamestown, Williamsburg, etc.. on "the Peninsula" or even "the Virginia Peninsula") were the things that mattered. The farms on the Eastern Shore were always much further removed and isolated economically. Indeed, until the Chesapeake Bay Bridge opened in the 1930s, there were only a few ferries that could even get you there. The British never bothered trying to occupy it during the Revolution, and as an entity, people just didn't refer to it much period. Like Tidewater, there just isn't a lot of Maryland on the Eastern Shore either - its got a fair amount of poultry, but to a lot of people its just "that stuff you drive through to get to Ocean City," on the Atlantic coast. 

Sea power is not directly about which ship type can beat up which other ship type; it's a matter of being able to run one's merchant ships in an area and preventing the other side from running merchant ships. In WWII, it was difficult for surface ships to protect a convoy from air attack, as we can see from the 1942 attempts to relieve the siege of Malta. Moreover, naval powers were hesitant to risk battleships in the face of enemy air power, particularly after the British lost a modern battleship and older battlecruiser to Japanese air attack off Malaya shortly after Pearl Harbor. The questions, then, were whether aircraft carriers could defend themselves against battleship attack and whether aircraft carriers could protect shipping against battleships. In WWII, carriers were generally able to not be sunk by battleships or other surface ships, unless badly handled like HMS Glorious off Norway. Their aircraft gave them warning of enemy forces, and their generally high speed enabled them to avoid combat. Therefore, they could stay in an area despite enemy battleship forces. (This was not always the case; in the 1930s, when carrier aircraft had much less range, US battleships "sank" US carriers a few times in the annual Fleet Problems.) Their ability to defend shipping against battleships was a bit less certain. Normally, heavy air attacks would deter battleships from proceeding. After all, there weren't many battleships around, and they were expensive. If the enemy was determined to force his way through, some surface ships would likely make it through. This was shown by RN cruisers and destroyers around Crete and the Japanese Center Force in the Battle of Leyte Gulf, both of which carried out their missions despite serious losses. No naval power could afford to lose battleships with each mission, unless the enemy missions were extremely critical (the Battle of Leyte Gulf was an attempt to stop the first US landings in the Philippines).