Companies that hand out assignments and require that an NDA be signed usually don't hand out the exact same list of questions in the exact same order to any two candidates. Your posting likely gave you away, even without your name on it. You should assume they do indeed know it was you. 

If you are in a leader role, then you must lead. As a leader, you should first take this person aside and talk to her privately. Something like "I've noticed that you seem extremely tired these past two weeks. I have to tell you that it is impacting your work negatively. And before I escalate this issue, I'd like to discuss what is going on." Then listen to whatever she says. Her response will give you clues as to your next step. If she acknowledges her sleepiness, and indicates that it is temporary and will stop soon, then you can tell her that you will be looking for that improvement soon, and that if it comes the issue doesn't need to go any farther. If she doesn't acknowledge an issue, then you will be forced to discuss the issue with the manager, and ask for guidance. She doesn't need to actually give you any reason why she is sleepy. She may have a home problem. She may have a pet problem. She may have a medical condition. She may have a lifestyle issue - whatever. These things can happen, and that's her concern. But the thing for you to focus on is not how or why she is sleepy, but the impact on the project(s) you are leading. 

Normal conversations should uncover the level of depth you need for effective communication. Checking in with the listener periodically will ensure you stay on track. If I'm not sure, I ask something like "Does that make sense?" to see if I am getting through. If not, I adjust my conversation accordingly. And watch for body language. You can usually tell if someone is not comprehending what you are saying if they look confused, or furrow their brow. And if you are doing too much unnecessary lecturing, the listener's attention may waver, they may become distracted, or get annoyed. 

I don't know of any realistic deterrent measures to prevent anyone from asking once. Maybe a sign or poster, but probably not. I suppose you could go to HR and they could warn everybody to avoid asking you out. Certainly that would be rather awkward, but might be the only way to accomplish what you are seeking. And if it doesn't, do you want to stay in this job anyway? I'm not sure how you have found companies in the past where it was against the rules to ask someone out, or where nobody ever did even if it was permitted. Maybe you can find such a company and repeat that in the future. Otherwise, polite rejections to anyone who asks you out seems to be your best bet. Eventually, word will get around that you aren't interested and the requests should stop or at least diminish. 

There's no real way to know for sure. If they will pay for your visit, then you should consider yourself at least a serious candidate. 

I don't see a real question here. You are unhappy with the review and the review process. Ok. Now are you unhappy enough to leave? Only you can answer that question. The answer to that will guide your actions. 

If they aren't able to find alternative daycare, and aren't willing to take vacation days/personal days/unpaid time off to deal with it, certainly it could jeopardize their job. 

In general (at least in the US), the work you do as an employee is owned by the company, not you. Your employer can use it in their own systems, sell it to others, put it on the shelf, or do with it as they desire - that's their decision as the owners of the code. You cannot be the licensee for the code, nor for the framework. In general, you cannot decide to use your own code within your employer's systems without permission, then go back later and try to license it to your employer. If that isn't what you desire for "your creations", you need to become an independent developer, develop code and frameworks, then try to sell or license it to someone who will want to pay for it. And you cannot do that retroactively. I've not heard of anywhere in the world where this wouldn't hold true, but if you want a legal answer specific to the laws in your locale, consult an attorney. 

I always advise people to talk to the person who can actually change things when they perceive a problem. Since you have already talked to your experienced co-worker, the next step is clear - if it bothers you enough, have a conversation with your boss. Explain why it bothers you, and what you would like to do about it. Be prepared if your boss tells you just to leave well enough alone. 

You would be telling a "story" that explains why you are such a hard worker and able to overcome obstacles. That could be a compelling story and a great inclusion in your cover letter. I've read cover letters that mentioned past challenges, military service, and other items that they felt helped shaped their careers. Some of them were very compelling. Just go lightly on the details of the illness and other challenges. You only want to convey enough to indicate that it was something that needed to be overcome and that you were able to do so. You don't need to include all the details or a long list of illnesses and challenges. If it takes more than 1 or 2 sentences, you probably have gone too far. And you don't want to include such items as evidence of why you "really need this job". That isn't usually something that an employer will take into account and it could come across as a negative. Remember, the subject of your cover letter is you. The intent of the cover letter is to convey why you would be a terrific match for this job and this employer. As long as your cover letter focuses on these, adding a small amount of "flavor" is a good thing. You might wish to have a friend review a draft of your cover letter to give you feedback and make sure you haven't gone over the top.