We don't do product recommendations, but there are a few examples where manufacturers are already producing drop bar MTB's designed for events like the Tour Divide. In at least one case, it features useful features like extra bottle mounts that make it ideal for adventuring. In addition with the rise of gravel bikes, and riders of these bikes looking for ever wider tyres, there are now a few frames available that will accept multiple wheel sizes. 27.5(650b) x 2.1 is a possibility here. You could of course use an existing frame, but it may lead to an overly long reach. You could combat this with a shorter stem (as long as its not a very modern frame already designed with a short stem in mind). 

Logistics You said you want to take just the basics, but do you know what yet? Can you fit it all in a camelback? And if so, do you want all that weight to be carried by your body each day? Would some bikepacking gear (apidura/revelate etc) make your trip more enjoyable? 

Rather than braze on a mount for a derailleur hanger if you don't have one, you could (almost certainly) use an adaptor claw like these: 

Philips Saferide came with a ball and socket mount. The light has been discontinued though. Possibly you can get replacement mounts and adapt them: Philips page for holder. 

Even where there is considerable evidence of dangerous driving, it can be ignored: $URL$ The Crown Prosecution Service guidance often appears to be flagrantly ignored. Some police forces have a policy of ignoring all reports where the driver was merely endangering a cyclist and didn't actually cause injury this time. For much more on the subject, see $URL$ 

There's a variety of guides, reviews, etc. at $URL$ (Much of it in German, so you might need to feed it though Google Translate.) 

While you probably could cold set it, the Sturmey-Archer XRF-8 is available in a version with 120mm OLN dimension. (And you almost certainly can fit a modern bottom bracket. Worst case, have the existing threads removed and fit a threadless bracket. Bottom bracket size guide.) 

For a 700c tyre you would be replacing it with a 29" MTB tyre. The best way for you to determine what size tyre you can get to fit is to simply measure the gap between chain and seat stays as these are the most likely areas to cause problems with clearance. Providing you don't want to ride anything too gnarly (i should hope not on a hybrid), a 700x35C cyclocross tyre could give you a much more grippy/knobby option without needing more clearance. Something like this maybe? 

Well to start with, you don't just leap from 1.5hr spin sessions to 5 hour rides - unless you have a long history of cycling this would most likely not end well. However, to answer the nutrition question: While you are riding, there is a limit to how many calories you can absorb. Most sources will quote 60-75g of carbohydrate per hour (240-300kcal per hour). You will want to choose an energy source that is mostly carbohydrate, although a small amount of protein can protect muscle mass and improve recovery. Over a 5 hour ride this will add up to in the region of 1200-1500 extra calories, which may seem a lot, but will still be less than you are burning. As you become more experienced with this type of ride, your body will adapt to use fat as its primary fuel source and you will find you are able to gradually reduce your energy intake should you wish to do so. 

It's not unusual for tandems to have three brakes, with a rim brake and disc or hub brake on the same wheel. Traditionally they had a drum drag brake on the rear wheel for long descents, operated by the stoker, to avoid overheating the rims. Some modern disc brakes are up to the same job, but many aren't, though this is a subject where opinions are varied. 

Answers so far seem to concentrate on floor pumps, but what I haven't seen recently is a full length frame pump that uses a hose connector. But 20+ years ago, that was fairly standard. I'd recommend getting a floor pump for regularly keeping tyres topped up, but you still need a pump to take on the bike in case of a flat. If you want an old style pump, Google finds me the Zefal Lapize, but a couple of reviews are unenthusiastic, and suggest that the retro style is the only real reason to consider it. In a more compact style, the Topeak RaceRocket has a hose connection that fits both main valve types. Topeak also make some "mini-floor" style compact pumps with hoses, the Morph range. For pumps without a hose : 

Once you reach 130km, then you should in theory be ready for 200km, as at this stage its all about keeping the body fuelled - if you keep eating correctly you can keep pedalling too. Don't forget to include sufficient rest in your training, as coming into your target ride already fatigued will increase your chances of failure. Generally in the last 5-10 days before you should be reducing both intensity and volume. Different coaches advocate different patterns of work/rest, and in large part it is down the feedback from the athlete on how well they are recovering. If you are in a hurry to increase your volume for your events i'd suggest starting with a 16 days on, 5 days off program and seeing how you go. By starting on a Saturday this allows you to sacrifice a weekend long ride. In addition to training, there are other factors you should consider when planning a ride of this length. The first being nutrition, which you need to practice at - see RoKa's answer for good detail here. The second is acclimatising to spending such a long time in your cycling position on your actual road bike. You can easily get sore from sitting in the saddle for so long, hands can get numb, lower back can ache, shoulders/neck can get tight and feet can swell or cramp. You simply wont find these things out unless you practice, and you don't want to find out about them for the first time 150km into a 300km ride 

You could try hammering your wrench, see photo 4b of $URL$ (or search for "Cheat 3:") Or, as it also says, a longer cheater bar if your tool allows (see the photo above the "Cheat"s, though that's the tool for internal cartridge brackets). Either way, try and make sure that the tool can't slip off the bracket (e.g. use a bolt though the bracket holding large washers overlapping the tool), and that even if it does, your knuckles won't hit anything. (When you say "wrench", you are using a tool designed for the bracket cup, not a pipe wrench or similar, yes?) But yes, there's a good chance LBS will have stronger tools if you can't shift it. 

There's also the Schlumpf drives, which fit inside a standard bottom bracket. $URL$ Only two speeds though, like the HammerSchmidt. 

From $URL$ "Other commonly used names for this product are beach banners, free-standing flags, wind flags, promotional flags, advertising flags, custom printed flags, or retail flags." 

Tapered headsets with a larger lower bearing are becoming more common on road bikes. Doesn't make any difference to what stems fit, but if you are replacing a headset (or fork), it matters. e.g. $URL$ (And 1" threadless headsets also exist. Most likely to be on an older bike that has had a new headset fitted, I suspect.) 

There doesn't appear to be any cracking, and its hard to tell from the photo/video, but it also doesn't seem that deep, so that rules out the need for epoxy for either bonding or to act as a filler. I'd start with nail polish - i've had fairly good results with it although not on such a large area. Tape as a last resort as its ugly. 

Is it very ambitious? Yes! Can it be done? Yes! To make it work, you are going to have to invest practically all your free time preparing, as you have a lot to do. Bike Maintenance You are going to want to learn the basics of bike maintenance. 

Whilst you will never eliminate vibration completely it should be possible to greatly improve your comfort with correct setup and component choices. The starting point will be a full suspension frame (I would choose a 29er for your application) with a good quality adjustable air fork and shock. Usually, for MTB applications one would set a sag of 15-20% to provide a balance between shock absorbsion, grip, brake dive and power transfer. However, riding on roads with the primary goal of comfort you could set this to 30-40% to give you a much more plush ride. Next would be the compression and rebound damping. Again, whilst we would never do this in mountain biking, you could set your compression damping to minimum and rebound damping to maximum to really smooth things out. Next up would be tyre choice. For your application I would be looking at 2.2" race tyres setup tubeless. Race tyres feature lightweight compliant casings that are designed to provide lower rolling resistance whilst sacrificing durability, but for your application, these properties also add comfort. A tubeless setup adds further comfort by allowing you to run lower tyre pressures. Depending on your bodyweight you could quite possibly run pressures between 20-30 psi. Finally, select use of carbon components (seatpost and handlebar) are widely considered to damp vibration, along with foam or silicon grips. 

Other effects: the front tyre can disturb something lying flat on the ground, flicking it up ready to cause a puncture on the rear; and taking a rear wheel off to fix a flat is more hassle because of the gears and so even if you have equal numbers of flats, the extra time spent on rear ones makes it feel like you have more rear ones :-) 

I assume you mean 700c (622mm), not the obsolete 27" (630mm) size. You could try the "WHEEL V BRAKE EXTENDER" from $URL$ or a similar idea from Lite_pro $URL$ Personally, I'm not very convinced by them, but I haven't tried them. The Paul Moto BMX are probably a safer idea. (These $URL$ also look as if they allow more adjustment than standard V brakes, but it might not be enough.) If you do use something like the Paul Moto, you might want levers designed for old-style cantilevers, because the mechanical advantage will be very different from a standard V-brake setup. (Edit: scratch that, Paul's instructions say use brakes designed for direct-pull (i.e. V-brakes).) Edit: A couple more adapters that look a bit better designed to me: $URL$ $URL$