My name is Kyoko Nakashima. I was a high school student in Osaka, Japan. I was involved in an accident which reincarnated me to this world. When I regained consciousness, I was told that I was in a country called Ameris (nothing to do with America) on the continent of Seureas. There are many countries, ranging from kingdoms, republics and democracies. However, they can all be grouped into three factions: the Metallurgists, the Alchemists and the Scholars. The Metallurgists are known as the most skillful with metal and their buildings and fortifications are both tall and strong, able to withstand a full day's worth of artillery bombardment with only a dent on the armor side. There are several nations on the Metallurgists faction, but the biggest and strongest nation is the Kingdom of Ameris. They are military-centric, meritocracy-based nation where they separate their people as citizens and commoners. I will not get into details on their differences but enough to say that citizens protect the kingdom and its people while commoners are those who drive the economy. Ameris's strength lies in its Automatons, which is an exoskeleton capable of inflicting massive damage by use of hydraulics to exponentially increase the wearer's strength and agility. Automatons are only available to certain units, however. The Alchemists have advanced knowledge in chemistry, biology and herbalism. Their cities are beautiful, incorporating both nature and modern life. They have been at odds with the Metallurgists for the Alchemists' unethical experiments on animals and humans in order to evolve humans to the next step of evolution. The most powerful of the Alchemists (though not the biggest) is the Arcology of Alreal, a semi-despotic nation where only the smartest are invited to lead and the rest are allowed to do whatever the hell they want. Their strength lies in their Chimeras, powerful, big and durable creatures made through some kind of genetic engineering. The biggest I've seen was as big as the Kremlin. Even the smallest one, about the size of a freight container needed 10 Automatons fighting together to bring it down. The Scholars are a peculiarity. You see, there is no dominant nation among them. There is one big nation, with autonomous states that can be called on to provide military might in times of war. They have no real advantage, except for the fact that they can see the future. Oh, they also have a fleet of airships that they can deploy to drop bombs on their enemies. In the past, Metallurgists and Alchemists could only flee when they see this fleet overhead. In this war, we already lost two cities from this aerial bombardment. As it stands, I'm on the Metallurgists' side. Well it's not like I have much of a choice, since I'm married to one. No, I don't want to talk about it. It pisses me off. Anyway, now I need to find out how to defeat or turn them back. A quick review of what we have: 1) Smokeless gunpowder 2) Ability to refine and forge titanium, but titanium is low in supply 3) Knowledge of how gun (WW1 type rifles) work and how to produce them, this includes cannons (pre WW1 types) 4) Knowledge of rifling for gun production 5) Soldiers skilled in the use of gunspears 6) Strong military tradition and very good army morale 7) Strong men and tough women, both genders have equal rights in the military Now, all three nations are in a state of three way war. Ameris and our allies, being the only faction without a seemingly-magical advantage is being pushed further into our own lands. I proposed to the military think tank to design an armor-piercing bullet to bring down the large Chimeras, but it has yet to produce results. Sure, the bullets did pierce their thick hide, but not deep enough to cause serious damage. I wanted to propose the invention of aeroplanes or rockets to bring down the airships, but how would I turn their backward steam engine into internal combustion engine or design a rocket that will fly straight instead of everywhere but the target? But the calculations! I'm just a high school student. Up until a year ago, I was eating ice cream with my friends after kendo practice. Now I'm supposed to be an aviation expert and weapons designer among people who haven't even invented the dynamite? So now, after much deliberation, I have decided to ask a random world how I would be able to push back the Alchemists and the Scholars. At this rate, the Metallurgists would be pushed to the western seas, how can we push them back? You don't have to be confined to the idea of aeroplanes or rockets. There must be many other ways to push them back. Oh, you're asking how I can send you this message? That's my husband's doing. That a****** was the one who summoned me here in the first place. He thought he was inventing teleportation, that idiot. 

The shortest documented adult ever became only 54.6cm (21.5"). Even though this is quite small, I'd say it is definitely way too large to be able to fly with (butter)fly wings. I could rather imagine bird or bat wings. I also assume you cannot simply gain a human in a form as tiny as one wants to imagine as many of our organs probably have a limited minimum size to function properly. You'd have to change the internal body massively and throw out anything not absolutely necessary. Also they'd probably not as slim but rather have a stocky body and a quite oversized head. Retaining human intelligence with a brain a fraction of the size of ours is hardly possible. They may have a slightly improved efficiency but barely anywhere close to human intelligence. Also a more efficient brain would raise the demand of energy so they'd have to eat and sleep very much. In addition to the high energy demand for their flying ability I'd say that's a very limiting factor. As for your last question, that's a matter of supply and demand. Since human teeth are like ivory to them they create jewelry from, less people believing in fairies mean less teeth and thus higher value per tooth. The much more important question is: why would such a creature develop? Did they develop out of a hominid or an insect, and why would it shrink and develop full wings but not change anything else (or vice versa, why would it change its body into the human form)? The human body has specialized to living on the ground and it's obviously totally ineffective and useless if it was able to fly. 

It only causes harm to the human body if the body is part of a closed circuit, otherwise electricity won't even move through the body. The effects on your body depend on whether it's AC or DC traversing through. The former causes the heart to try to adapt to the oscillation and a frequency of 50Hz may already cause ventricular fibrillation or even cardiac arrest with an increasing chance on higher frequencies. Also it can cause paralyzation on your muscles if the electricity is high enough. The latter may cause electrolysis in your body, which results in a sepsis that causes your death few days later. The mentioned effects both depend on the amount of electricity as well as the impact duration with both values rising the chance on increase. 50V AC and 120V DC are said to be perilous to the human body. Both types of electricity cause burns on your skin and your flesh. The shorter the distance the electricity covers through the body the smaller the resistance and thus the smaller the voltage. As your legs are usually the exit point to the ground hits on your legs are less violative than hits on your arms. It gets worse when your heart or brain are within the path. The resistance is composed of the resistance of your body and the transition resistances of the entry and exit point. Dry skin has a higher resistance so seemingly unintuitive being wet and sweaty reduces the voltage and thus the damage to the body. Defending a river might be a much more desirable point of defence. Just shoot in the water when the enemy tries to cross it. Bullets lose acceleration very quickly in water so they become quite harmless. Electricity does have a very high drop-off ratio in water (which is why a lightning hitting a lake doesn't kill all its fish) but on close distance it would be devastating. 

The spherical planet is projected on a plane by slightly distorting the proportions. Displaying coordinates makes the effect more visible: 

I think @Quentins answer of using a radio transmitter is a good approach. However, having a technical device stuck to your species might not work, depending on the details of your timetraveling process. Who knows, whether only the species travels and the device remains untouched? Further, the device probably has some issues due to its size just like he already pointed out. I would probably go for a more cemical/biological approach: The possible timetravelling subject could be injected with a small amount of radioactive material with a high rate of decay, for example that has a half-life rate of . So, 

I am a huge Minecraft fan and just realized, this hasn't been asked before, so I wanted to ask a live-long (31. August 2009) question, and pay my obulus to the Anatomically Correct series. I have done some research, and found this picture: 

Generally, you should use lesser detail on your map, the further you "zoom out". There is no point in marking every little village on a world map as it would get confusing. Again, look at google maps, they show and hide routes, villages etc. when you change the zoom. 

injecting a sample of the isotope getting a blood sample waiting a few days taking another blood sample and comparing the results with the expected value 

Bonus Points for anyone who can give some plausible evolutionary explanation on why spontaneous explosions are a desireable trait for a species, andhow it could evolve. 

might point to better results. I am by no means a biologist, and I have little knowledge as of how such Isotopes affect the Immunesystem of the creature, so another approach that might work by the same principle - and is surely more fun for the subject - is getting it drunk and measuring the degree of blood alcohol decreasing. However, this presumes that the scientists have knowledge over the alcohol breakdown process for the species without having it timejumping. Maybe a monitored measurement first? 

Image source: $URL$ A Napalm bombs area of effect is somewhere between 2500 sqft 2 and 20000 sqft 3. So to completely cover the entirety of Madagaskar (6,318415e+12 sqft) you'd need quite a few of these (or really big ones). But if you target highly flammable areas like forests, the area of effect of the bomb will highly increase due to the fire spreading widely, leading to massive forest fires scorching wide areas of the land. Note that the use of Napalm against civilian targets is prohibited, but I don't think the Rat Empire cares about such restrictions. They are Part of human law and not Rat law after all.