They probably got away with it because it was not illegal to drink alcohol. In fact, the Prohibition outlawed only the "manufacture, sale, or transportation" of alcoholic drinks. No mention of consumption, which remained substantial (~50-80% of "normal"), was made in the Prohibition amendment. 

Elephants had gone extinct in Egypt by about 2600 B.C. or so, plus or minus a few centuries. So for a very long time there was no native elephants for Egyptians to use. It is theoretically possible that the Pharaohs might have imported some for military purposes, but I'm not really seeing any sign of this. Regardless, by the time Ptolemy I established himself in Egypt, he had to start his own elephant force from scratch. He was motivated by his experiences under Alexander the Great, which taught him how potentially powerful elephants could be. And also because his rival Seleucus was building an army of war elephants. 

It is spurious to assume that the French Revolution somehow originated the term, or otherwise set the standard for what could be called a "revolution". The reality is that different revolutionaries in different periods of history perceived the term differently. The Glorious Revolution of 1688 would be a much more immediate example to 18th century Americans. Consequently, the American Revolution was called a Revolution from the onset, at least by some of its participants. 

Note the language used here, however: ought. A rudimentary understanding of English would elucidate that, clearly, this meant that such a power for judges to set aside laws did indeed exist. That Mercer's misgivings were not shared by the rest of the Convention, however, is obvious - no motion to deny judges the power of judicial review was even tabled, let alone passed. Moreover - confessing that he had no better alternative than judicial review, Dickinson would voice support for the doctrine elsewhere. Clearly, therefore, in vesting the Supreme Court with the "judicial power of the United States", the Constitution's framers understood said power to include judicial review. 

Moreover, population recovery can be greatly hastened by immigration. This did not really happen in Medieval Europe for a variety of reasons including political fragmentation and feudal interests. In China, however, a tradition of unified central authority allows labour redistribution to happen efficiently and over great distances. For example, in 1410, the county of Shaowu, Fukien reported that 12,000 families had been killed off by the plagues of the preceding years. Whereas English peasants would've moved into vacated houses or be paid to til abandoned farmlands, the Chinese imperial government simply responded by settling convicts on the vacant farms. Thirdly, for whatever reason, the plague in China was not, for lack of a better word, as concentrated as the Black Deaths was in Europe. The reason for the socioeconomic upheaval in Europe is because there was so many deaths happening in so short a time when the plague first struck in 1348. In England, for instance, 

Even without the conventional bombing, Japanese industrial capacity had virtually collapsed simply due to the lack of natural resources. Japan could neither feed itself nor equip its armies to fight, and with access to the outside world cut off by extensive mines and submarine warfare, there was no realistic way it could rebuild. 

In recent years, the regional water table has been lowered through rampant pumping of underground water. It is feared this would literally undermine the ancient city's structural stability. 

Therefore, it is possible that the first major outbreak of deaths occurred no later than December 1915. The literal first cases of deaths from when the virus emerged is impossible to determine with any precision, but might have occurred when the virus first made the jump to humans from birds or pigs, possibly from 1913 to 1915. 

Now, there is definitely some controversy over whether the Chinese were bluffing, and whether America should have, or could have, invaded North Vietnam to secure a quick victory. 

It is apparent then, that here Chiang Kai-Shek meant Franklin Delano Roosevelt, President of the United States. Note also that by 1943, Chiang had grown wary of the Western Allies. He was deeply dissatisfied with the Allies over their perceived European focus. Around February (a week before this entry), Chiang wrote of his suspicion that Roosevelt intended to use China to soak up the brunt of Japan's military might. Such trickery would have made the United States a in Chiang's eyes, at least at that particular juncture, in the sense of being a fraudulent scammer. Chiang later recycled this insult in a similar sense on Churchill exactly 13 months later. Outraged by what he perceived to be Churchill going back on the Atlantic Charter's promises, Chiang predicted in his 28 March 1944 diary that: 

Note also that multiple graduates receives the gift in each year. The Army War College for example awarded the top six graduates of each class. Similarly, at the Army Academy, 

The East India Company Act 1773 declared the Company's territorial expansions to be acquisitions for the Crown. This made India sovereign British territory that the Company administered on behalf of the British Government. It is therefore subject to oversight and regulation by the government. A council was appointed to govern India, consisting of a politician, a peer, an army officer, and one Company representative. The Crown's right to regulate India was implemented in the East India Company Act 1784, which vested ultimate authority of India in the Board of Control. Unlike the previous Council of Four, the Board of Control was explicitly a government organ: it is composed of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, a second cabinet minister, and four other Privy Councillors. This wrestled control away from the company's Court of Directors as well as its shareholders. The East India Company Act 1793 made appointments to important offices in India subject to Crown approval. The East India Company ceased to be a trading company when the Government of India Act 1833 revoked its trade license completely. This formally turned the East India Company into the British Government's administrative subsidiary for India, and put an end to its history as a commercial entity. The Government of India Act 1853 stripped the Directors of the Company the power of appointments to posts in the government of India. 

As @justCal pointed out, it was actually 5 °C lower than today, not negative 5 degrees. The ice-free parts of Beringia was thus certainly habitable. In fact, it formed an important glacial refugium, a relatively hospitable region in which many tundra flora and fauna survived glaciation. This included humans.2 

They were referring to the unwritten constitution of the British Empire. Magna Carta was only a part of that. Without commenting on its legality, validity or morality, the argument was that Parliament could not extract money from the colonies without their consent. The constitutional principle involved being, of course, that of taxation without representation. 

Whether Washington would still disapprove, had he thought the people would be receptive, is uncertain. It could well have been that Washington would've found Highness appropriate for the office of the president, but nonetheless rejected the much more grandiose Majesty that Adams later upgraded his proposal to. This may be the interpretation your history teacher chose. In any event, working through James Madison (who likewise felt titles were harmless but against the mood of the nation), Washington prevented the Senate from addressing him as "His Highness the President of the United States, and Protector of their Liberties", and the issue has rested since. 

From left to right: 1. British Jurist Charles Hay Cameron. 2. German composer Johannes Brahms. 3. American ornithologist, John James Audubon. 4. Italian violinist Niccolò Paganini. 5. American writer Edgar Allan Poe when young. 6. Anglo-Irish poet Oscar Wilde. 7. Confederate General A. P. Hill. 8. Hungarian composer Franz Liszt. 9. British novelist Charles Dickens in youth. 10. French scientist Henri Victor Regnault. 11. American officer George Armstrong Custer. 12. French composer Erik Satie before going bald. In fact, typical hair lengths has been very variable throughout history. What you call "obvious identity signs" are not constant and has never been universally true in history. Although WW1 and WW2 may be said to have kicked off the current fashion trend, it should not be considered either permanent or unprecedented. 

This is the most popular view in historical Chinese literature, including the authoritative Compendium of Materia Medica by Li Shih-Chen, (1518-1593) 

The context for this specific photo was that a number of Japanese-Americans had been looking for housing in Hollywood, where they worked in menial positions. In response, white residents formed something called the "Hollywood Protective Association" in 1923 and campaigned to "keep Hollywood white".1 This is a photo of a member of that organisation, pointing at a typical sign of the era. This was part of a broader trend of anti-Japanese racism and xenophobia in early 20th century West Coast, which is very well documented. For example, the Times warned that Japanese "control of California farm lands" was "endangering white supremacy in California".2 I'm not sure there's any need to look too deeply into motivations. Prejudice against the foreign and the dissimilar are not particularly uncommon attitudes in human society. Japanese immigrants, who began arriving in continental United States in the late 1800s, were just another Asian ethnicity facing discrimination in contemporary California. The Chinese were categorically banned in 1882 for instance, which actually created the demand for Japanese migrant labour in the first place. Something not really appreciated neither then nor since is the antipathy such treatment evoked back in Japan. References: 

Although such memo were not made public until 1998, many contemporaries knew what the government was doing. For one thing, the fact that it exempted white Commonwealth citizens from the limitations, via a neat little loophole based on having British ancestors, was a dead give away. Although the bill enjoyed bipartisan support, it still provoked resistance from both Labour and Conservatives in Parliament. 

In a general sense, this is not particularly remarkable. All humans evolved in Africa, and from there we spread throughout the whole of Eurasia - reaching even Australia. What you called the "new world" was no newer to the Amerindian ancestors in Siberia, as Arabia was to the early humans in East Africa. Or more to the point: Provideniya today is over 11,000 km from Djibouti. What was another 400 km across the strait to Nome in Alaska? Of course, it is exceedingly unlikely that one individual or group traversed any significant fraction of such a large distance. Instead, as @jamesqf commented, tribes or subtribes would've moved short distances, but over multiple generations. Humans were hunter-gatherers, dependent on ranging for food, so it was both a natural inclination to explore beyond the horizon, and to move around according to resource availability.4 When faced with pressures to migrate - whether out of conflict with their neighbours, in pursuit of food, or due to overcrowding - they already knew where they could go. In other words, they weren't searching - they could see where they were going. Naturally, you'd only expect them to move in habitable directions. Doing so eventually took some of them to North America, because back then, the area looked nothing like it does today. 

States Borders First off, most Canadian or American states' borders are not particularly straight. Even when they are supposed to be straight, there are often nooks and crannies. But indeed there's a tendency to use simple straight borders when creating a territorial entity from scratch, especially on the basis of longitude and latitudes. We see this in many colonial borders, in America or elsewhere in the various European empires. Due to the way map are usually drawn, this often ends up looking like straight lines. The advantages for doing so are obvious. Decision makers did not often have much details on local geographic features when portioning remote territorial claims into colonies. Even if they did, basing borders on geography was prone to create disputes. The inaccuracy of surveys aside, the natural twists and turns of geographic features, especially rivers (which to make matters worse may change course) are source of major headaches. For instance, the recently settled long standing dispute between Maine and New Hampshire over islands in the Piscataqua River that forms their borders; Alabama and Georgia's dispute over their Chattahoochee River border; or Georgia and South Carolina's dispute at the Savannah River and its islands. In contrast, there is only one 42nd parallel (incidentally part of the border between New York and Pennsylvania, which is fixed, simple, and objectively determinable. Canadian-US Border This border in particular seems straight because a huge 3,500 km section of the Canadian-US border was somewhat arbitrarily fixed at the 49th parallel. Most of the border west of the Lake of the Woods was first proposed in 1807, and decided in the Anglo-American Convention of 1818, with the Oregon section finalised in the Oregon Treaty. The 49th parallel had formerly been proposed by Britain as a formal border with French Louisiana as early as the 1713 Treaty of Utrecht. This was revived after Louisiana was purchased as a satisfactory border for both. At the time Louisiana claims include the entirety of the Mississippi's western watershed, while Britain claimed the all of Hudson's Bay drainage basin. Both extended north and south of the 49th parallel, respectively. Setting the border this was, in an appealingly simple (on paper) straight line, was thus an acceptable compromise for both nations. Most of Alaska's border with Canada was inherited from Russian times. It looks straight because most of it were fixed at the 141st meridian west under the Anglo-Russian Convention of 1825. Multiple wars might eventually readjust the border to more natural terrain features. However, the reality is that the United States had not fought any war against Canada (or British North America) since the borders were demarcated. Consequently, the border remained as it was drawn when the land was largely devoid of European settlements. Lastly, if you look closely at the border, there is nothing straight about the Canadian-US border east of the Lake of the Woods. 

Such commands could be issued and carried out because these armies were not masses of random strangers thrown together. In fact, Chinese armies possessed a full hierarchy of units during the Warring States period. Generally speaking, an army had a fighting strength of 12,500, evenly divided into five divisions of 2,500 each. Each division in turn consisted of five 500-strong brigades. Below the brigade level, there were smaller units of 100, 50, 25 and 5 men. In a battle, therefore, more specific orders or intel could passed down through the ranks via the chain of command, usually by dedicated messengers. This complements the use of flags, drums and gongs for broad coordination to realise effective command in a battle. 

In addition, some shoes were made with wooden soles, which allowed for footwear with hard soles (turnshoes could only be made with soft ones). This mainly took the form of pattens, and were effectively wooden slippers. 

In contrast, Douglas H. Ubelaker in 1976 estimated a pre-contact population of about half a million in the Gulf of Mexico. Note that he used the geographic classification of Mooney, so the figure is not for an area identical to Dobyn's Mississippi River Valley. Nevertheless this gives you an idea of the huge disparity between these two sources. Another estimate for the Southeast is that of Charles Hudson, who also criticised the steep decline population decline presented by Dobyns. Working backwords from Peter Wood's late 17th century figures, Hudson tentatively calculates a 1,294,000 pre-contact population. 

In contrast, revisionists dismiss the Chinese threat and lambast the American leadership for not taking the ground war to Hanoi. 

Little Boy detonated at ~580 metres above Hiroshima, and Fat Man at ~500 metres above Nagasaki. While all nuclear explosions generate electromagnetic pulses of some sort, at these low altitudes their strength rapidly diminishes with distance, giving them a rather limited area of effect. 

In the Chu Kingdom, their military system used 150 soldiers per chariot. This has been attributed to Chu having more men and less chariots than her Central Plains rivals. 

Construction on the Loreto Church began in 1507, though it was known to have been built over an earlier chapel. This implies that the Temple of Trajan was destroyed some time in the 15th century, probably by having a chapel built over its foundations and its marble recycled. In all likelihood, the temple was in a state of extreme disrepair before its final destruction. 

As is usually the case everywhere else, not every individual units would have been at full strength. They certainly would be diminished on campaign, by both natural attrition and casualties in fighting. Moreover, some would have had to stayed behind at home. Thus, 

Recognition of independence is different from de facto independence. While the Dutch Republic was officially recognised as independent only in 1648, it was actually founded 80 years earlier by the Union of Utrecht of 1579. The Dutch provinces were largely autonomous even before they entered into open revolt, but the treaty laid down a constitutional foundation for a political union. By the time the United Provinces formally proclaimed independence by deposing King Phillip II via the Act of Abjuration in 1581, Spanish control was only backed by the force of arms beyond loyalist regions. 

The church likewise disapproved of the practice. As early as the Fourth Council of Orléans, the church has threatened non-consensual marriages with excommunication, although it was the consent of parents that was deemed important - not the victim-bride herself. The mentality of treating women as property whose value could be harmed through sexual crimes persisted, such that by the High Middle Ages: