First things first you aren't going to be able to get longitude without an accurate clock and/or a tome of sight reduction tables. Without those aids which you'd be hard pressed to create while marooned on an island your navigational options are limited. The best you can really hope for is to follow a latitude line/plane. I think a cross staff would be an effective celestial navigational aid that could be improvised and allow you to follow a latitude line. 

I don't see why you couldn't. One key difference between ski poles and trekking poles is trekking poles often have a little shock absorber in them and ski poles never do. If you don't care about the shock absorber then you can use a whippet as is. If you want the shock absorbing properties of a trekking pole and the pick of a whippet then you might need to modify your trekking poles/whippet pole. The easiest solution is to unscrew the handles and swap them out if that is even possible. I have a very early model whippet, and the pick is actually a metal insert that can be removed and replaced with a spacer when I don't need/want to risk falling on the pick. It would be fairly easy to modify a trekking pole to accept the metal whippet insert. The whippet in the picture you provided looks much more polished than mine so it might not be removable without destroying the pole. If you're willing to destroy the pole then I'm sure you can affix the whippet to a trekking pole even if it is no longer designed to be removed. On TetonAT.com I found a 9 year old post that shows modifications being done to the old style whippet I have. I don't know how much of it is applicable to your needs with the current generation whippet so I won't pull any of the pictures in. In the comments though they mentioned that a future whippet will be affixed to the grip with rivets. If that is still true then you could drill out the rivets and use screws to attach it to your trekking pole like Steve did in his article. 

Unless there is a certain terminology for "backside" plugs, this is a plug (or as I know it: a wobbler. No idea which term is more commonly used around where you live). Wikipedia Link I had to bust out my detective hat and pipe to find information on these ones, but I stumbled upon this: an article about this bait They are(?)/were made by bomber, and nowadays you find them as Arbogast Mudbugs. (Note the two notches vs one notch in the bomber) Now on to plugs as I understand you question being for plugs in general, not your bait specificly. There are some different types, some with shovel, some without. The ones without shovel usually sink, and depend on you to perform, you twitch your rod and work the bait to make it "jump" through the water like an injured fish. With some skill you can walk it through the water impressively (you make make it do sharp 90 or even 180 degree turns). But I don't want to focus on these baits, lets focus on the baits with this "shovel". The shovel can determine how deep your lure runs at certain reeling speeds. These lures typically float (or suspend in the water), and only start to dive once you start reeling them in. You can make it more attractive by adding some twitches again, sometimes you even have to. But usually it "wobbles" from side to side, which attracts fish. To answer your questions specifically: 

So your egg will boil quite nicely on Everest. This is especially true if you use fresh eggs with a dash of salt and vinegar since you will avoid an inverted boiled egg, slightly boost the boiling point without entering the Goldilocks zone of egg boiling, and avoid cracking if your summit bid is delayed for a while due to a storm. 

Why bring only one llama? If one is fun two are twice as nice! In all seriousness llamas are herd animals so they would probably be better protected as a group since this is their standard defensive tactic in the wild. Alternatively/additionally you can bring a dog with you too. The dog will help prevent predators from attacking the llama(s) which is one of the reasons why shepherds had dogs. 

As an aside don't discount the psychological benefits of a warm drink. I almost always bring a small thermos full of hot tea with me while skiing. The tea is always nice, but it is a real lifesaver when you're wet, tired, and feeling miserable. 

What constitutes “best and easiest?” I suspect you don’t want to pay for a proper boat lift to drive down to the beach and pick up the boat. If feasible that would be the best safety wise and easiest in terms of physical effort. I once watched a crew of Peruvian fishermen pull a beached fishing trawler all the way onto the shore. Like you suggested in your question with enough bodies pushing or pulling you could move the boat anywhere you want. If you don’t have the manpower and have plenty of time you can trench around and under the pontoons. Once the trenches are deep enough you can flood them and float the boat out. Depending on what lake this is and the regulations you might get in trouble for enacting your engineering project. Another option that might work is to load up the back end to try to lift the nose. Depending on the slope of the beach you might be able to swamp the back of the boat enough to get the nose free. Of course you might screw up systems that weren’t designed to be submerged or grind the back end of the pontoons against the lake bed causing damage and/or increased resistance. One final option would be to put a couple of old tires between one or both pontoons and the front bumper of your pickup truck. The tires will hopefully protect the boat and the truck as you use the truck to push the boat back in the water. 

All these things are important, however there are some nice quality-of-life features, or gimmicks you could look into: My head torch allows me to lock it by holding the power button for some seconds. To unlock it, I have to press it for some seconds again. No more empty batteries after your torch lit up the inside of your backpack for 20 hours straight! It even has a battery life indicator - very useful! If the angle of the lamp is adjustable, you can more easily do stuff in front of your face, or the normal height, when you are tying knots, or do anything that requires your light to not shine at something at 90 degrees of your forehead. I never realized how much I love this feature, until I didn't have to temporarily move my crappy old head torch down to my neck to do something in arms reach below nose level. For a more "serious" use, you might want to have a strobe function to defend yourself, or signal SOS. 

Others experience this too (the internet is filled with similar stories). It does not look like you were really sick - this would have lasted longer than a day. However a weakened immune system is a concern after exhausting exercise. It is difficult to tell you what happened to you, but we can still guess. For example people with high blood pressure can experience fever after too much unprepared exercise. You might want to get checked (and while you are at it, check other stuff too, your doc will be able to tell you what to look for). The vomiting could be a side effect of feeling ill due to the fever, but it can't hurt to ask if you drank enough. Especially after long breaks of exercise. You tend to sweat more, and your body loses salts etc, electrolytes in general. This is no big deal for short workouts, but after long trips this may add up - and you will feel sick. There are several possible reasons, but to be save you might want to get checked up by an expert, and "listen to your body signals" (thanks, mom!) when exercising. 

Would you recommend that deaf people never venture into the outdoors without an escort who can hear? I hope not. Listening to music while hiking isn't inherently dangerous. Generally speaking listening to music while hiking is no more dangerous in my opinion than listening to music while walking down a city street. In both environments there are warning noises that the music might mask. Also in both environments if you maintain decent general awareness while listening to music you should be fine in all but extraordinary situations. Inattention is a bigger risk factor than reduced hearing whether you are in the wilderness or the city. 

I don't think you can find them anymore, but ~10 years ago Scarpa was selling a light and pretty soft plastic AT boot with toe bellows (like modern telemark boots). They were great for my Dad to transition to AT gear from 3-pin telemarking on leather boots. On wildsnow.com they have a pretty good write up about them. 

Map scales are decided by the cartographer based on what they think is the the best scale for the map they're producing. This is naturally a judgment call sort of like the projection of the map. If you feel like the cartographer's choice is unbearable then I'd suggest you find a different map that covers the same territory. I believe you can find complete topo maps for all or virtually all of the lower 48 United States offered by the Bureau of Land Management offices. These maps are more general purpose maps so their scales and projections are going to be fairly standard. Also this is a big source of maps so the scales and projections they support will be broadly supported by tooling. After a little bit of web searching I wasn't able to locate a 1:18,000 UTM corner rule. I did find a company that offers a broad variety of UTM corner rules including one at 1:35,000. This is a kilometer scale, but you should be able to easily convert that to miles if needed. 

The sole difference between a locking and non-locking knife is the blade folding in without any locking/unlocking mechanism. For this comparison i will assume, that you can close the blade with locking mechanism one-handed, otherwise you have an advantage right there. Short FYI: The (legal) reason is that non-locking knifes can not be used as a stabbing weapon as easily as locking knifes (could be considered a downside in the great outdoors?). Some laws (for example in germany) even disallow folding knifes that can be opened with one hand, as they can be used as a hidden weapon. Now back to your question. There are no obvious advantages for a blade to not have a lockable blade. But we can get creative! If an accident seriously disables you, closing a non-locking foldable knife with one (impaired?) hand might be easier. Also, when using your knife for batoning (for which you SHOULD use a FIXED blade knife!), the folding blade might put less stress on the pivot, so you don't break the non-existent locking mechanism. Finally, an anecdotal advantage of normal looking, non-locking, red, classical victorinox knifes: you can take them out of your pocket and use them without having everyone else around you think, that you were up to no good. - As opposed to those tactical folding knifes (which usually lock!). But this is off-topic. So, you might get creative and find advantages for non-locknig folding knifes, but apart from the fact that their non-existing locking mechanism can't break, there is no real advantage to them, especially in an outdoor situation. 

Others have discussed strength training/conditioning/physiology, and remediation techniques like cool water baths. There are two aggrevating factors that haven't been addressed: Bad Technique If you use good technique then you will support the maximum amount of your weight with your leg muscles. The obvious benefit of supporting more weight with your legs is your arm muscles don't have to work so hard. As we all know the less work you do the more you can do it. Another technique to give you more stamina is to favor positions where your bone structure is supporting your weight instead of your muscles. Finally avoid odd angles when gripping holds. An odd angle with your elbow pointing up at the sky will require more muscle tension in order to sustain, and require more energy/effort. Other technical mistakes also come into play here but these are the ones I've fallen victim to most often. Over-gripping When people are nervous they then to grip holds like their life depends on it. Consequently they'll apply 2x the force needed to maintain their grip on the hold. To put it another way when you're talking on your cellphone I can sneak up behind you and easily snatch it out of your hand because you're only using the amount of force required to prevent the phone from falling out of your hands. You aren't using the amount of force required to prevent me from snatching it out of your hands. Imaging how tiring it would be to maintain a death grip on your cellphone for a 20 minute conversation. Now apply that to climbing. I'm willing to bet that most climbers can afford to "loosen up a bit" when they're out on the rocks. 

This looks like a Pedostrangalia revestita (i totally ripped this from the site below. I have no idea if this is correct, I am still looking for the English and German terms (in German it is a kind of Bockkäfer)) $URL$ I am by no means an expert, but those look alike. The wing-covers have similar shapes, red legs, big eyes, the butt-brush. Some coleopterist might come to improve on this answer with proper terminology, please don't forget to laugh about the word butt-brush. Edit: on a German page i have found another similar one: Rhamnusium bicolor, the "Beulenkopfbock" (german) (but, similar to the other source, I found conflicting images on different sites) $URL$ 

This is a type of plug, you find some more information above You use them to catch predatory fish. Depending on the action you can just cast-and-reel these baits, adding some more action yourself. Depending on the baits action, you will use reel-speed to get it to your preferred depth, and then slow down and start working your bait. You reel slowly, you stop and let the lure rise to the top, then you start reeling again to make it dive. Or you just reel at a constant speed. Plugs have a diving depth at which they don't dive much deeper. You are constantly pulling it upwards, and the shovel pulls it downwards, at some point you will reach a balance. You will catch predatory fish with it. It it eats living fish, you catch it. I even had birds attack wobblers of mine. 

Normally the shorter cross piece would slide up and down the length of the staff to allow you to measure angles. That is going to be too hard to calibrate, unless you know the angles between enough stars to calibrate it yourself. If you can calibrate the cross staff then you can pick the latitude you want, sail to that plane and turn east or west to follow it. If you can't calibrate it you need to sit on your boat at night and adjust (whittle) the length of the shorter cross piece so it lines up with the North star or the Southern Cross and the horizon. Once this is accomplished then you can maintain your current latitude by repeating the sighting and correcting as needed. 

The short answer to your question is yes you can get a stove to light and cook your egg on the top of Everest if you really wanted to do it. 

Notice that they didn't mention, packs. I believe this is because most people who wear packs wear them responsibly. Also I think it is worthwhile to consider that in a 5 year period a busy skiing state like Colorado experienced on average ~15 falls annually. This is a very low number considering the thousands upon thousands of trips people take on ski lifts in Colorado annually. For more concrete numbers (emphasis mine): 

Edit: It is a McKinley. The difference is the padded hip belt vs the frame extending to the side of the hips. The backpack in OPs picture features the padded hip belt. $URL$ Previous post: It is the D2 or McKinley. I can not spot a difference in the picture and description below. I think they revamped the pack at some point, newer images of the D2 show a slightly different version of the backpack. 

This depends on the state, and the kind of course. In some states you don't need a license any more, or could even purchase a tourist-license valid for few weeks. The course can take just a few days, with a final test at the end, but sometimes it is difficult to find a course in a certain time frame. It can happen that you will have to wait a month, or even more, to be able to take a course at all. If your brother actually has a course with a fitting time frame, he should be able to tell you how long the course is, ask him. Otherwise you should check out which laws apply the the state, when courses are offered, and how long they take.