It's possible to half-assedly clamp the chuck onto a Schrader valve in such a way that the valve is somewhere between the fully open and closed situations. The chuck's pin is exerting some force on the valve stem, but not enough to keep it open; however, if enough effort is put into pumping air, then the valve opens due to the pump pressure, and air is forced into the tire. Effectively, the valve is then acting as an ad hoc pressure regulator! If you exceed the regulator's pressure (say 100 psi or whatever it happens to be, by dumb luck), then the valve opens slightly and lets air into the tire (where the pressure might be only, say, 40 psi at the moment). Then the valve closes unless you keep working hard to maintain that 100 psi). The result is that you're making a 100-psi-grade effort to get a tire from 40 to 50 psi. If your pump has a pressure gauge, you will see exactly how much pressure you're generating, from the swings of the needle. When the valve isn't opening, the gauge shows you the pump-side pressure, not the tire pressure. If you see the needle swinging well past 50 psi, you know that your pump is well capable of that; just the air is not getting through the chuck and valve, or not very easily. 

Here's an online source of p-clamps, maybe you can find something suitable from them: $URL$ I haven't bought yet but I saved that link for when I get racks for my MTB-turned-hybrid. 

What are the qualities of bicycle bearing grease that make it suitable for that use? (The reason I ask is that I need to get some and I'd rather get the non-bike equivalent grease at the auto parts store a mile down the road than at the bike store 15 miles away.) (I'm assuming the same grease can be used for bottom bracket and hub bearings -- true?) 

Are there chains where it matters which side is out and which is in? I don't mean which end of the chain leads as the chain travels forward during pedaling. I mean which side is out toward the seat and ground, versus inside toward the cogs and chainrings. 

That's a spoke wrench, for turning spoke nipples. The benefit of this design is that, as opposed to the kind with an arm coming out each side of a central body, the force from your fingers is spread over the faces of the disk, meaning you can apply more force and it hurts less. I'm not certain, because I haven't used it, but it also seems like it would be easier to keep your grip on the wrench; the other kind is prone to being fumbled and dropped as you turn it (at least when I'm the one turning it, it is). Here's an example: $URL$ 

If that shifter's internal spring were to break or dislocate, then the shifter would rely purely on cable tension, and will not indicate 1 reliably. The display will move only as far as it is pulled by the derailleur, until that derailleur encounters the "L" screw. At that point, the cable goes slack, and so the indicator is somewhere between the 1 and 2. No shifter spring, no illusion! Perhaps the Revoshift barrel shifter is also spring-loaded in a similar way: some internal spring that is supposed to rotate the dial to show 1 has stopped working. 

If the edges are lifting when you're removing the plastic, that is a strong indicator that the glue you used is not of a pedigree suitable for this type of repair. The adhesive is not melting into the rubber and not vulcanizing, but only providing a superficial tack, like the back of a scotch tape. The edges will stick quite well to the inner tube if the glue is good. However, even if the adhesive is good, to avoid "tempting fate", what I do is peel the plastic backing from the centre out. Before even gluing the patch on, I score a small X crosshatch cut in the center of the plastic backing with a sharp tool (but gently, without damaging the patch, obviously). When the patch has set (I give it 12-24 hours, clamping the tube between two wooden blocks with a wood clamp), I then peel the plastic backing from its center cut out toward the edges. That direction reduces the tendency to lift. Another important aspect is that there must be a decent amount of glue there all the way to the edges of the patch, and at least a millimeter beyond. When I'm applying the patch, I wiggle it around in a circular motion to get the glue spread to a slightly larger area than the patch, but still mostly within the limits of the plastic backing sheet (to avoid adhesion to the clamping blocks, and an overall tidy job). At "peel time", you notice a big difference between the behavior of cheap rubber cement and proper tube repair contact cement: with the good adhesive, the extra glue squeezed out of the patch, caught between the plastic backing and the tube, is almost completely tack-free and releases the plastic backing easily. The poor type of adhesive remains more of a sticky, gooey mess, indicating a product that is for temporary paste-up jobs that allow repositioning. If your glue is like that, of course the edges lift, because in fact the whole patch will lift easily. 

Are fat blobby welds inferior, other than aesthetically? Here's three examples, one's a BSO, one's a decent/good Trek and one's an expensive Felt downhill full-suspension bike. 

yours is a freewheel or freehub, I don't think you've said the problem is your chain coming off the gears or it's staying on but not turning the wheel 

@Michal, I can't be certain from your picture, but your fork looks a lot like mine. If it's the same kind of design, then the caps are simply plastic plugs, not threaded, simply friction-fit into the openings. Here's a picture of the cap area of my fork. 

If you were a little older I'd say work up to it over a month or so, doing progressively longer rides to give your body time to adjust and tell you how it's doing, but at 17 you can recover from almost anything. Have a great time. I can't tell how much you've ridden already, but maybe (if you're not tubeless) practice changing a flat in the field to make sure you have everything with you that you need. Ride a mile from the house then pretend you have a flat, then change or patch the tube right there by the side of the road. 

The 700c wheels you have correspond to an inch measure of 27" to 29", depending on tire thickness. The 23 on the tire refers to the tire width, in millimeters, indicating that these are skinny road tires. Never mind wheel size including tire, though, the critical measure is the rim diameter. 700c road bike wheels have a 622 mm diameter. Wheels under the 26" designation (common on mountain bikes) usually have a 559 mm rim diameter. A bicycle frame with rim brakes, designed for 622mm rims, will not accommodate a 559 mm wheel. The brakes will be incorrectly positioned, making them useless. The cheapest way to get those intended hub drives installed into something resembling a bicycle is to get a different twenty dollar bicycle: one which takes that size of wheel. 

Because of the tilt of the seat tube, this setup does not make for efficient pedaling. The seat is sitting over the center of the rear wheel, which moves your entire center of gravity too far to the back. You want the center of gravity to be a bit ahead of the bottom bracket, where the downward force is applied to the pedals. That's one of the two main reasons for the aggressive position: that forward center of gravity. The other reason is aerodynamics, of course. I suggest creating a zig-zagged seat tube: 

I've seen it said that when mounting things such as a light or camera on your helmet you want a breakaway mount so that in the event of a crash the helmet slides along the ground rather than snagging on it. What is it about these mounts that lets them break away? 

I have some of those reflective bands that snap around the ankle or arm to increase visibility while riding. How are they constructed such that they want to roll up? What's inside them? 

Like you, I've returned to riding after 20 years away. It's been a very rewarding journey. One thing I discovered was that I had an aversion to turning and leaning. Our neighborhood has relatively narrow streets, no markings, no shoulders, just country lanes really. I'd been practicing U-turns but they always felt wobbly and a little scary. One day, I didn't cut the turn soon enough and faced the choice of running into a mailbox or leaning hard and fast-pedaling out of it. It turned out I could safely lean pretty far, I just hadn't realized it, and it took this event to show me I could do more. Psychological barrier: eliminated. I practiced in the neighborhood for six months before I took it out on trafficked roads. This was a good thing, although I hadn't really planned to wait so long. It turned out I needed to work on myself just as much as my new-to-me used bike, mainly because I sidelined myself overdoing the hill-climbing and my knees told me to sit myself down for two months. After that, I only did what they would agree to, which was thirty minutes a day for three days a week and carrying the bike up any steep hills. This forced delay gave me time to work everything out in advance, from basic riding skills and equipment to aligning my head with the task and acquiring a high-rpm cadence habit. Only two weeks ago, at the end of November after starting in June, did I ride outside the neighborhood, on trafficked roads. Thanks to preparation, I can do longer rides now and feel comfortable. Having a great time, really. Regarding traffic, I've decided never to do left turns on busy roads. Instead, I do a right, then U-turn/turn around and cross. This feels much safer. I wonder if you haven't accepted the fact that road risks are manageable and can be reduced, but they can't be eliminated. You can get hurt, it's not up to you and once you've done all that can be done you have to not think about it. I wonder if your anxiety comes from your having not accepted it, and that part of you is trying hard to control something that can't be controlled. So perhaps part of the answer is to practice, practice, practice, then get out of your head and let your body do what it knows how to do, namely to balance. This answer has turned out just to be mostly an endorsement of what @andy256 said. 

It's not clear what is actually bent. From your picture, it is obvious what isn't bent: your fork is perfectly straight from the crown down to the drop outs. Also, the boot which covers the stanchion seems to be quite suggestively aligned with the fork; the bend seems to occur at the top of the boot, just before the head tube. If so, then it is in fact the shock's stanchion which is bent. That part may actually be a steel tube that inserts into the fork's crown. It would help to have a picture with the boot retracted or removed. Here is what I mean, visually: 

Another way is to use some kind of shim between one of the pads and the rim when squeezing the brake. Clamp the cable and remove the shim. *V-brakes are strong when you have correctly positioned pads in good condition, with about 1/8" clearance from the rim of a wheel that is clean and true, everything is tight, and the cable and brake lever hardware are in good condition. * If your wheel has significant runout, you can still have decent braking power, because the V-brake arms will move from side to side to track the runout. However, the brake pads may rub on the wheel when you are not using the brake, which robs you of energy and wears the pads. Learn how to true a wheel, or have it done. (If you have it done, you might as well have the shop tune up your brakes for a package deal tune up price.) 

Here's a picture taken when using Gorilla Clear Repair Tape (on seat tube above the FD) and packing tape (below the FD). For anyone horrified by the condition of the frame, keep in mind this is my beater bike, meant to look not worth stealing. If it hadn't come this way I'd have had to distress it on purpose. 

I'm shopping for spoke nipples and I see some described as specifically for front or for rear. Is this just a marketing tactic, or do some wheels need different ones like this? 

Also, that one hanger turned into three tools: the link opener, a tool to hold the ends of an open chain together, and one to hang the cleaned-and-drying chain from the tree over the driveway. 

(The reason I'm asking is that I want to punch some holes in the end of two bands so I can connect them, probably with zip ties, into one longer band. The first time I rode with them their urge to curl was so strong that the ends were rolled up and and it was halfway off my ankle when I got back. I think a longer band will stay on better. I want to know if I can punch holes without damaging the bands.) 

Suspension will not change your overall traction. That is determined by your weight and weight distribution, the tire material and the surface you're riding on, and the contact patch size (determined by tire pressure). What suspension improves is the compliance to an uneven surface for better handling, and of course it improves your comfort. These things only matters when you're going fast, hitting numerous bumps every second. Okay, sure, if your front fork is compressed by, say, four inches, then the front has to lift by four inches before the tire loses actual contact. But that is academic; you lose traction before you lose contact. As the fork decompresses due to shifting weight, the force exerted by the tire on the ground lessens. The same thing happens with a hard fork too, as you shift the weight toward the rear; the hard for just does not move up and down with varying weight to show you what is happening. The suspension fork essentially serves as a measurement gauge telling you how much you're shifting weight toward the front or rear. 

The approach I've seen is to use hose clamps to hold a bottle cage to the frame. Hose clamps are what (used to?) attach a car's radiator hose to the radiator, if you've seen that. If you have an old inner tube, you can slice that into strips to pad between the clamps and the frame so the paint doesn't get scratched. 

so it's hard to know if this video answers your question. Difference between freewheel and freehub - 

I'm looking at puncture-resistant tires and I see Schwalbe Marathons* listed for size 28 x 1 1/2. Are there 28 inch wheels? If not, what size is that meant to fit? ( * Schwalbe Marathon Plus HS 440 Wire Tire) 

Maybe double-check that there is zero debris in the threads. I ran into a similar-sounding situation and it made me very nervous given the stakes. It turned out to be small bits of finely-ground rock powder in the threads. I cleaned it with degreaser, wiped it well, blew it out with compressed air, then did all that again. After, I was able to tighten it most of the way by hand as expected. 

I'm guessing that you're having this problem with the front rings. Rear cogs these days often implement a system invented by Shimano called "Hyperglide". It's a set of ramp-like grooves carved into the cogs which allows the chain to derail easily and engage two cogs at the same time, greatly easing downshifting, even under load. (Video). There is also a different "Hyperdrive" system for chainrings, which is less ubiquitous. It involves some "in between teeth" that engage the chain. (Video) For minimum shifting fuss, get a bike which has hyperdrive in the front, hyperglide in the back. Now, Hyperglide cogs are very common on bicycles, seen on even low-end bikes. On the other hand, Hyperdrive is less commonly seen. If you're on a bike with only Hyperglide (very likely case), and you have to shift while climbing a hill, use the rear shifter first. Then, if necessary, downshift the front. If you down-shift the rear cogs as much as possible, you reduce the load on the chain, as well as spin the pedals faster, both of which facilitate the front shift. There will always be some rattling when you shift the front rings under load. This is because the movement is done by a crude metal guide which simply pushes on the chain sideways. A chain that is taut due to the intense tension of climbing a hill is hard to displace. You cannot have a chunk of metal pushing on a tight, moving bicycle chain without a clattering sound that endures for at least several seconds. As far as the chain coming off the front rings goes, that is a problem you cannot entirely eliminate in the mechanism. That is, not without some downside. If you set the range-limiting trim screws so strictly that the chain never comes off no matter what, it will be be more difficult to shift into some gear combinations. The fix is to get either a friction-based shifter for the front rings, or an indexed twist shifter. These types of shifters let you easily play with in-between positioning during a shift as well as control the speed of the shift and the amount of force applied. This is necessary because the amount of displacement needed to move from one ring to another depends on the angle of the chain, which depends on which gear is engaged in the rear. At least for the front rings, stay away from the trigger shifter type which is semi-automatic and takes shifting control away from you.