The policy. Ignore this problem. Someone, somewhere, screwed up. A new policy has been put in place. Yes, they are idiots. Yes, it could have been costly for you. It wasn't. It's annoying, but if you suffered no harm, it's not a battle worth fighting. Even if you "won" you wouldn't gain anything. Pay. I assume you pay tax via PAYE? This is definitely the company's responsibility. A bonus shouldn't have been taxed any differently to your normal pay - you would still pay Income Tax, NI, & Student Loan repayments on it. So I don't see how you would have lost out financially. What may be different is the amount paid into your pension (if you have one) and the salary they have on record for you if you want a raise next year. 

I'm from the UK - this isn't legal advice, you should speak to your union rep. What are the conditions of your probation? Usually probation means that either party can end the contract with no notice. Otherwise there's very little point in a probation period. The Government advice says 

Take it as a chance to improve the way you communicate your opinions on others' code. Instead of believing that this was intended to reprimand you of your behavior, think of it as a soft prodding that you should be mindful of not just what you say in a code review, but how you say it in a code review. I know from experience that reviews are meant to be egoless and that we don't single out any one person, but it's still people writing the code. Take the chance to ask your manager or lead how they'd have responded to code you found less favorable, and simply improve from there. Make it a focus point for you to build on as opposed to it being something (potentially) negative. 

I'd be surprised if HR were the ones evaluating a person's competence for the job based on their institution. Actually, I'd be surprised if HR were the ones evaluating a candidate's technical expertise period, but I've heard of stranger things. The long and short of it is, while attending a prestigious college can definitely help propel one's name and/or standing amongst other qualified candidates, that's about all it's going to do. The main factor of whether or not someone actually gets the interview nod is if they actually fit the requirements of the job. The prestigious college may get one a few extra looks during the interview process, and it may also set some predispositions about how they're meant to perform as well, but the main qualifier for whether or not they're competent and capable to perform isn't going to lie in the college alone. As an example, I worked with, then for, a person that didn't have a Bachelors in Computer Science, whereas I do. Irrespective of that, this person was brilliant at their job. They opened my mind to a lot of programming techniques and practices that I most certainly didn't know, and this developer has my absolute trust and respect. There's someone else that I'm familiar with that didn't fare so well in the IT industry, and they've got a few graduate degrees to show that they went through the paces. They're brilliant, but they lean very heavily on pre-baked solutions from frameworks and other places, and are not ones to go out and attempt to remedy a need that the framework simply can't provide for them. 

I appreciate that you don't have much free time. I wouldn't suggest that you go all out and start building new projects just to get a foot in the door. I would suggest that you open-source the code that you've built in university. Get a simple WordPress blog and write a few articles about what you've done, how you would re-design the Google Homepage, what you think about Swift etc. I hire new graduates. I don't look to see whether a woman is more passionate than a man - but I do want to see some evidence of work more than just a degree. Good luck with your job hunt :-) 

Essentially, you're saying (quite truthfully) that you want to do more technical work. You're not badmouthing your former employer. You're not doing yourself down. You're pointing out that you're interested in improving yourself. Good luck! 

You claim that this is a very low evaluation, but you don't explicitly state if you've been punished or otherwise demoted because of it. Without any tangible effect from these evaluations, there's no way for you to know how to improve, or what's keeping you from getting 90% or above. Talk directly with your evaluator and ask specific questions about your performance. Do not make this out like you want to know why you're getting marked lower than you expect; instead, steer the conversation towards tips and direct suggestions on how you can improve as a professional. Think "professional development" instead of "evaluation". I wouldn't recommend writing a letter or contacting anyone else on the matter, since it could result in more direct and unfavorable reviews in the future. 

I'm currently looking for a job, but due to extensive and exigent family matters, I've not really had the time or focus on requests by hiring managers, or really follow up on leads. Worse, I don't know when it will be resolved enough to allow me to focus again on the job hunt. I've talked to the recruiters that have been working with me in what I'd describe as cryptic terms - analogous to, "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and haven't managed to look at this yet," or "I'm going through an exigent family matter, and unfortunately have to withdraw from the interviewing process at this time," and for the most part it seems like they're amicable to the situation. However, I really don't want to make this seem like I'm slacking off; I'm genuinely dealing with family matters which require my near-constant attention. I don't want to burn bridges or miss out, as these recruiters have opportunities I have a genuine interest in. To that effect, I'd like to inform them of what's going on so that they have in their minds when I'd be reasonably available. However, I'm not sure how much sharing would be necessary or professional. What degree of specificity should I be stating when I say, "I have an exigent family matter"? Is simply mentioning it enough, or should I look to go deeper? 

Did you experience the world of work during your internship? Yes? Well, that's valid work experience then! It doesn't matter if it was paid or unpaid, part time or full, junior or high level - you did the work, you got the experience, you get to put it on your CV. 

Have to disagree with the other answers here. You should always know the rough salary before you interview. Can you imagine preparing for an interview, booking time off, doing it, only to be told that the pay is several thousand less than what you're currently on? Now - you won't get an exact salary out of most companies. That will depend on what they think you're worth. Most reputable companies will (depending on sector) say: 

And, to be on the safe side, start looking for another full time role. If they can't handle something as simple as an internal recruitment, they may not be the company for you. 

What you want to demonstrate is that you did billable work. What this means to me is several different things: 

Honestly, alarm bells are going off for me with these particular questions, not because you're not getting better answers, but because the questions themselves are...terible. There's no real context to ask what the "difference" may be between Windows and Mac, given that: 

From an engineer's perspective who may be interviewing you...how am I meant to evaluate your skill or see how you solve problems if you refuse to do so in my presence? Let's not mince words here. I suck at interviews. I was unemployed for about five months because my interviewing was so terrible (from my perspective; I know I'm a brilliant developer but interpersonal communication has always been a weakness of mine). But that didn't mean I didn't do any coding exercises; quite the opposite. I made sure that I met their coding exercise requests, and showcased what I had learned from past experience (including clear documentation of code, READMEs, unit tests, etc). I wanted them to know what they were getting from hiring me; a diligent worker who regarded themselves as a professional and expert, and one who understands what it means to architect the solution, test it, and deliver it in a way that makes sense to everyone. By you refusing or failing to do that, you miss the opportunity to really put yourself out there as a stand-out candidate. I've not heard of many professional institutions hiring someone without asking them some kind of coding exercise. Let's face it - as a developer, you're going to be paid a lot of money to solve problems, and if you don't showcase how you solve (or at least approach) problems, you're not showing me that you're worth what I'm willing to pay, or more. 

No - they would have gone straight to your university and asked them. Candidates can exaggerate, lie, or misremember - institutions don't. They didn't bother asking you, because they'll do a background check if they want to hire you. 

Personally, I'd say read it online & tell them. Explain that they need a better approach if they want to keep their manuals secret and discuss how you would go about solving the problem. 

Signing an NDA at a job interview is common. It may not be useful for either party - but they're basically reminding you that learning about their company and selling that information to their competitor wouldn't be very nice. Whether it's legally binding really depends on your jurisdiction. If you are worried, show it to a lawyer - your school should be able to recommend one (or possibly has one for students). Secondly, compensation. Again, this really depends on where you live. Here's what I'd suggest. 

You can't just think of John's working relationship, you also have to consider the rest of the team's morale when working with John. Here are some sure-fire red flags for me: 

Everyone's going to run into quirks or issues when working with another person. The fact that John decided to call these issues out in public is unprofessional and erodes morale outright. 

The same applies for the second question. If I were asked, "What would you do if the network is down?", I'd start by asking these questions: 

I'm sorry for your loss. In the real world, time off is time off, regardless of if it's for bereavement or for leisure. In either circumstance, only your supervisor is authorized to grant you the time off or to decline it. Since you've lost a family member, I also doubt that they're going to decline the request, but in the context of an office setting, the only people that need to know why you're taking the time off is you and your supervisor. Once it's been cleared, then and only then should you make any kind of announcement. The last time I had bereavement leave, I was coming off of a week-long vacation. I had informed my supervisor the instant I knew when I'd be out, and declined to make any public announcements to anyone else when I had came back to work the following day. I had felt like it was handled professionally and succinctly, and the person who needed to fill out the appropriate paperwork was acutely aware of what was going on. If anyone else were brought into that loop, it'd add unnecessary channels of communication since they don't have to do anything while I'm out except their individual jobs; they can't handle the time-off request or anything like that. A lot of people are thinking that the manager was in the wrong here, but I would say they'd only really be in the wrong if they gave you this feedback in the open instead of in a one-on-one setting. Even worse if they jumped down your throat about the matter. Since you're still learning, it's not unfair to expect to get feedback on something like this. It also wasn't unfair for them to say that it wasn't good to announce this to the entire floor. (Note that I didn't mention them saying it was "unprofessional" since you yourself didn't state that they explicitly used the word "unprofessional". I'm sure that they understand what you're going through - or at least can sympathize - and aren't going to chide you for your actions based on that alone.) 

It probably is acceptable. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't challenge it. In your position, I think a sensible approach would be... 

Ok, that was the generic answer to your question. Now, let me talk a little about the specifics. Again, this is from a UK perspective. I've been actively involved in Trade Unions my entire working life, so I have some experience in this. The Union movement is built on solidarity. Our voices are weak individually, but together they are strong. Sometimes that means going along with a decision that you don't agree with in order to win a larger battle. For example, you may vote for a politician you like even though you disagree with her stance on one particular aspect of policy. Union finances should be transparent. I remember a very long argument about whether our union should keep funding a particular political activity. After much screaming and shouting, we discovered that the total sum being spent was in the order of £200. Yup. A couple of hundred quid. What I'm saying is, check to see if this is as bad as you think it is. Are you prepared to split your union - and weaken your negotiation power - over a minor matter? If, however, it is as bad as you say - you should exercise your democratic power and make some changes. It is your union.