She doesn't do her work correctly which means more work for everyone else on the team. No it does not! That is unless your boss tells the rest of the team to pick up her slack and in that case, the boss knows she is a poor performer. Feel free to tell her you're not doing her work, but possibly you could make an effort to help her if she starts behaving professionally. Then she can be the one to run to the boss, but wouldn't she look a little foolish? I'd say talk to your boss about it, but either he isn't aware of the situation because the team covers for her and doesn't share here bad performance or the boss doesn't feel the need to do anything about it. There is a difference between helping someone and enabling them. 

You could have asked more questions to get to the root of the problem. I'm not sure you could do anything about it. It seems like this is a major part of the company culture. You could have presented data that showed how much this was costing the company, but you don't have anything to compare it to when you don't know if or why this behavior is encouraged. Some companies sacrifice profits to maintain charitable, moral or ethical goals. Your company may think if your managers like or cooperate with one another, they'll slack off more than the productivity they are wasting fighting with one another. I doubt you'll find this in the company mission statement. You could have tried to be the whistle-blower, but I doubt it would help and the people in charge are already condoning it. Good thing you have moved on. 

A Senior Manager didn't get there by not knowing how to cover his tail. What did you expect? Did you think he was just going to take it without a fight? You didn't give him much choice. I think you could have avoided this by putting him on notice right away and come up with some objective criteria on whether or not he is doing his job correctly and avoid being micro-managed. 

Do not lie. You will look unprofessional for a very long time if you try to fool everyone else. If you're not going to have an acceptable answer, start coming up with solutions to help find one. 

Everyone will know anyway. At a massive company, it could get in the way, but otherwise everyone knows you're new. 

You may be working with people who are not accustomed to a commission. They don't like the variability and the stress. Many places track call count. They encourage people to finish a call as soon as possible, but that may not be preferable to the customer. Zappos is an example of a company that is just the opposite: $URL$ You may want to come up with some over-all metric for the sales volume. Determine an over-all amount to be used for bonuses and either give everyone the same amount or build a scale based on seniority or hours worked during the week (I don't know if everyone is full-time or not.). That doesn't mean there aren't other types of evaluations to get rid of people who don't do a good job. It can be discouraging for others if there are team members that don't pull their weight and they think of this in broad terms and not I handled 12 calls but you only did 11 so I should get way more. The goal should be not to discourage people. This can be accomplished if they know they share in the company's wealth and they are part of a team that has standards for being a member. 

We're all being monitored whether we like it or not. You choose not to participate. That's your prerogative, but you should have anticipated some consequences. Usually, people nag like this because the noticed that it bothers you. You showed him that this gets to you, so he keeps doing it. Taking other action could make it worse. You decided to go this route, so I suggest you work very hard on ignoring this person and demonstrating to everyone else, in some other way, that you are a team player. Maybe you could suggest that a fine should be paid for any type of annoying behavior. Eventually, he'll look like a fool for his behavior especially in an open environment. 

Get explicit time expectations from your boss. Manage the expectations of coworkers and heads of other departments. The last thing you want is someone under the impression you're not working because they assumed you were avaialble 9-5 or worse 24/7. Focus on projects, tasks and getting things done. Amount of time spent should be irrelavant. Don't punish yourself for figuring out how to get things done faster. You'll get enought to do eventually. If you want to spend more time on your work, go back to the office and reclaim the inefficiencies. Schedule focused work times and make everyone in your house aware of them. If you Skype, beware of background noise and images. The days of kids running in the house and screaming are over when you're at work. Personally, I don't go straight through in one large chunk of time. I have about 3 peak times during the day (approx 1-4 hours each) and just deal with phone calls/email if needed. This comes natural for now, so I assume it's sustainable for me. If not, I have no intention of forcing this routine on myself. Yours may evolve as your children get older. Don't be afraid to use the phone more often to keep in touch. Use avoiding a lengthy email to call someone and talk something through. Don't make it a complete waste of their time. Budget time to work on the really hard stuff at home. Don't just piddle around with responding to a few emails. Clear that inbox before leaving work the day before if possible. Start on this project right away during a block of time you set asside. Take a break and see if there are any important messages to address. The nature of your job will dicate what tasks are more suited for this uninterupted time. 

Do not back-off. Unless someone is my boss and doesn't want my opinion, no one gets to use "this is my area of expertise and not yours" as the sole reason to discredit your input. Status or title doesn't make right or wrong (Again, talking about dealing with a coworker and not a superior.). Admit when you're wrong, but only after you've been presented with a persuasive arguement (not in the yelling and screaming type of arguement). He can Feel free to ignore you, but he can't get away with that in a meeting. This person is a bully and needs to be called-out on it. Continue to give your input during meetings as you see fit. Having a project manager with some technical expertise should open-up the lines of communication with a lead developer and/or the rest of the team. I can understand why he doesn't want you interupting his team or going around his back. If that's how the company stucture is set-up, you should respect that. But in no way does he get to categorically dismiss your input when you have an opinion or question on a technical matter. He doesn't have to like it; that's not part of his job. 

Don't disclose the other offer at this time. Use the information to determine what you're worth. If you end up turning down their offer and they ask you why, you can say you have a better offer. They may counter-offer. You have to decide if you want to work for a company that tried as hard as they could to low-ball your salary and only offer a competitive one after they find out you have another. That's up to you. 

Either wait until someone else makes a suggestion. Sometimes you'll end up being the first. I think key points here would be to recommend getting more suggestions before getting into any indepth discussion on your solution and definitely before you start defending your position. Many technologists are passionate about what they do and the suggesting they make. We take pride in our ability to come up with answers. If I'm going to give an answer, I usually think it is a good one or I'll say I'm not sure. I can come across too strong to some people. The goal is to make sure you allow others a chance to give input. During a meeting, if you feel like too much time may be placed on debating your solution, suggest a separate meeting be scheduled and those that want to discuss it further could attend. Give your suggestions. Allow for others to make their suggestions. Be aware of how much time you're taking up during meetings. 

Most people who have success with this were probably more comfortable with this tactic. YOu may be quite for 30 seconds, but if your body language looks like you are uncomfortable, you've given yourself away. Your opponent is going to enjoy watching you squirm. Is the idea that the interviewer will blurt out some sort of increased counter-offer? Instead of saying, "OK" there are a lot of other responses that I think are preferable: 

For all practical purposes, haven't you been "approaching" dept. B all along? Maybe I'm lazy, but if I can prevent someone from disrupting me by placing files in a shared location, I would start doing it. They may just be in the habit of keeping the files local or if they use laptops, the may need to take them with them when they are no longer connected to the network. There are plenty of technologies you could suggest to automatically synchronize the files. Ask management for it so your group can use it. Everyone will see how easy it is and want to use it as well. Also, they may just be using default save settings (My Documents) for many of their apps. There may be ways to set it to the network. Sometimes you have to solve the problem instead of hoping everyone will automatically follow the policies. 

It remains to be seen what this says about this particular company. These kinds of tests are more common these days along with temp-to-hire practices. Hiring developers is difficult. Having a portfolio of work from side projects could help more developers avoid this. It wouldn't be that difficult to look at your code and ask a few questions to determine if you actually wrote it. In defense of those hiring, you have to show you can do the job in some way. If the job requires building web sites, then you show you can build a web site. What you should be thinking about is how are you going to use this to your benefit when applying for others jobs. I think it is fair to ask for an opportunity for you to learn more about the company, position and your direct supervisor before committing several hours (more than 3) to a coding test. This way you get to decide if the effort is worth it. Use this experience as a reason for pushing back a little on your next potential employer. You have every right to be leery of these types of requests since you feel you may have been scammed by this particular employer. You're going to have to stand up for your rights and look for employers that play fair.