What's very important, we've got here a clear confirmation that serfs could buy their own, personal freedom. Completely another reason for better serf opportunities to improve their own situation were racial differences in origins of slave and serf systems: 

Thankfully, one of the copies of second edition (1566) is among the highlights of University of Rochester libraries, which provided a nice description to all changes, including the most famous ones, from 1620. I'll quote only the fragments connected with Inquisition changes. For more informations and photocopies of changed pages, check the link to official page of library for an article with full description of this particular copy 

Hong Kong became British colony as a result of First Opium War, which was lost by Qing Dynasty of China to United Kingdom. It was part of agreements of Treaty of Nanking that was signed in 1842, as well as huge war reparations. What's important, original agreement established that Hong Kong becomes British for eternity, not for the exact amount of years. The 99 years period applied to New Territories by which the area of colony was extended in 1898 during Second Convention of Peking. 

Quote from novel "Deluge" by Henryk Sienkiewicz, the action of which takes place during the Swedish invasion in 17th century. Pieglasiewicz is a reference to a poor, most simple noble without family traditions, while Psia Wolka references to a least important village of all. Yes, between 1573 and 1791 there was a system called free election in Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Just note that the system was abolished by Constitution of 3rd May, in 1791, four years before the fall of the country. The electoral system instead of hereditary monarchy was introduced after Jagiellonian dynasty at Polish throne ended with the death of Sigismund II Augustus, who passed away without any heir. The elections were taking place at the Election Sejm, which was open for all Polish and Lithuanian nobility called Szlachta (remember that the percentage of nobility in Eastern European countries was much bigger than in the West). There were two main rules for a candidate. He had to be noble and Catholic. The obvious consequence for which was that being Orthodox, no Russians could become king of Poland during that time. Every new king was obligated to sign two documents. First one was Pacta Conventa, which was an agreement between the particular king and the nation. You may treat it as a confirmation of the king's pre-election promises, usually containing new privileges for Szlachta. Second one were Henrician Articles - a kind of country's constitution and king's rulebook, agreed during an election of Henry of Valois in 1573, which every new king had to follow. They were giving a great power to nobility - (in particular to Sejm - Commonwealth's parliament convened at least every two years for six weeks) in comparison with other countries. You'll find the list of them in linked article. Of course such a system had both advantages and disadvantages. I'll count few of the latter. 

I'd really like to know, how did it happen that Ronald Reagan lost the Republican Party presidential primaries in 1976, against Gerald Ford. It's easier for me to understand that he could fail in the presidential primaries of 1968, with smaller experience, weaker surname and (imho) stronger opponent. But why did it happen in 1976? According to Wikipedia entry and it's cited sources, there were many arguments against Ford that were used during the campaign. First of all, Ford was in the administration of Richard Nixon, what already speaks for itself. He even grant a presidential pardon to Richard Nixon for his role in the Watergate affair. Also his negotiations about secession of Panama Canal were more in the Democrats' style, and were later continued by Carter, to which Ford finally lost the election. There were also other accusations, like the current situation in Vietnam or signing of Helsinki Accords, what at that time also sounds to me more like Democrats than Republicans. From my transatlantic perspective and lack of deeper knowledge about America in the 70s, it looks like it should finish with a quick K.O. I also wonder if the fact that Reagan got divorced in 1949 (and was later elected as the first divorced president of the USA), could be one of the reasons for that. I mean, he was a candidate of the conservative wing of Republicans, which I think could care about such fact. Did Ford try to play this card at all? Or was it the fact that Reagan was in the Democratic Party before the WW2? What were the main reasons of his fail? 

Here's another fragment, regarding connection between brown-bread and political matters, as asked by Mark: 

The details are provided in the work "Gynaecology" by Soranus of Ephesus, especially in the chapter entitled "How to recognise the Newborn that is worth rearing". Quoting the linked website further here's what Soranus wrote: 

At the same time the most popular kind of armor, that replaced the plate armor, looked like at the photo below. We simply can't expect an armor like that to have any wings at the back anymore. 

Those two fragments make it clear for me that serfs were peasants literary owned by landlords, together with their land. While "free peasants", in contrast to serfs, were peasants owned by the state. From all differences in the slave and serf system described by Kolchin, I've chosen for you few that are most important, when speaking of serfs' living conditions. The first one touches the matter of self-organization of the day-to-day life of serfs. That difference comes from two facts - different position of serf and slave owners, and the kinds of serviced provided to landlords by serfs. 

Here's what I've collected from various sources up to this time: Hungarian Holy Lance Historians agree that one of them belonged to Saint Stephen, first king of Hungary. Otto III took a crown for Stephen I to Gniezno and it was sent from there to Hungary, but no sources I could find clarify if the spear came to Hungary the same way. This "Polish route" is mentioned by French monk Adémar de Chabannes in his chronicles, but their text is unavailable for me. I've read also that there's possibility it could be inherited by Stephen after his father, Grand Duke Géza. Here's a page from Gospels of Otto III showing Boleslaw and Stephen standing around the emperor, with crowns and both spears. 

Still they were used on the back in 18th century. The rulebook for Lithuanian cavalry from 1746 speaks of the wings sticked to the back of the armor. Another big difference was in length of the wings - they became so tall as at the provided illustration in 18th century, when hussars were used mainly during parades, because of the rapid development of firearms, which finally started to take their modern role on the battlefields. Unfortunately I don't have time today to provide more facts and sources, but I'll go back to the question when I find it. 

It's difficult to give a proper answer, because during any century of Middle Ages there could be many reasons for closing trading routes for European merchants as outsiders in various parts of Islamic world (which is huge). And it didn't need to have anything in common with religion - it could be the level of civilization (early medieval Europe), an economic matter in the particular case, or just a result of war. But let's try to clarify few things. First of all, Islamic world, in fact, wasn't that closed to Europeans as we think. Jews and Christians could live at Muslim lands if they paid special tax. The same with merchants from Europe. What's more, some Christians could even serve to Muslim rulers at important positions, such as revenue collectors or administrators of various types. It's nicely described in the book "Daily Life In The Medieval Islamic World" by James E. Lindsay. You can find it's full text in the link, look for pages 120-121. Also there's a good source for that in "Europe and the Islamic World: A History" by John Tolan, Henry Laurens and Gilles Veinstein, at pages 80-81. Unfortunately in both cases I'm not able to copy-paste it. I believe that a bit about the overall history of the trade between Christians and Muslims during Middle Ages could help you solve the problem. I'll quote Jihoon Ko and his article "Economic Impact the Islamic World Had on Christian Europe (11th ~14th century)". 

At first I was thinking about mythology, but I'd definitely count Aesop's Fables becoming one of the first virals, with such epigons as Babrius or Phaedrus in ancient times, spreading later across nations and languages as their own fairy tales or poetry. 

What about three generations in a row? From the series of Polish-Teutonic Wars that took place between 14th and 16th century, I would refer to three periods of time. 1409-11 (with the Battle of Grunwald, which was one of the largest military engagements of medieval Europe) during the rules of Władysław II Jogaila, then a generation later, 1431-35, at the end of his reigns, and finally another generation later, Thirteen Years War (1454-66), in the times of Casimir IV Jagiellon. 

As a serf, Nikitenko was allowed to go to primary school, but not accepted to the secondary school because of his low class status. I'll quote few other fragments from his autobiography "Up From Serfdom: My Childhood and Youth in Russia". In particular from its foreword, written by Peter Kolchin. Here's the fragment that helps us to solve the matter of serfs being owned by the state, which was touched by jwenting: 

The answer is yes. While both the strength of fortifications and terrible mistakes from the Ottomans (I would also count the great determination and strategy of defenders as a third condition) played a highly important role, during the siege, Hospitallers used also a kind of defensive weapons that were unavailable to any other forces of their times. I recommend the lecture of memoirs written by Correggio, one of the arquebusiers who were fighting at Malta during the siege. But as I can't provide any English language quotes from that, I'll quote the book "Malta 1565: Last Battle Of The Crusades" by Tim Pickles. We can read there about the famous Greek fire, the secret of which (according to Correggio) was stolen by the Hospitallers from Byzantine Empire during the times of crusades. But what's important, Holy Knights improved it by the new invention of special hoops. It played a crucial role during at least few important days of the siege (but probably much more of them), starting from the first days of June. Tim Pickles writes about it: 

As it's been already stated, we lack good sources from medieval times that wouldn't come from people of the Church (who surely wouldn't write about such things) or traveling merchants (who didn't have enough local knowledge). This way I'll go with the source from 1543, which is a book by Mikołaj Rej, called "A Brief Discussion among Three Persons: a Lord, a Commune Chief and a Priest". Maybe this will help you somehow. Unfortunately I have no idea where to get English translation of it, and translation software won't help you, as it's written as Old-Polish language poetry. In this work, three representatives of different states speak about their rights and problems with other states. As it's really a long thing, I'll translate some parts that would be crucial for your topic - the beginning of Commune Chef speech, when he's asked by a Lord what he thinks of the Priest, who is accused by a Lord of being lazy and greedy: My lord, we're just a simple folk, What can we know about it, poor souls? We can only believe that it's in our best interest, Whatever he says during his lectures. (context: we don't know much about religion, we're just told what to do) After those words he speaks of how the Church takes more and more money from the poor, while the Priests don't teach them much about the God itself. But let's go further to his summary of the quarrel between a Lord and a Priest: A Priest blames a Lord and the Lord blames a Priest, While for us, simple people, the problems come from both of them. (context: so we really don't care about it) Just take it into account that the writer was not only a politician, but also Calvinist and his works reflect his understanding of the Catholic Church.