Can anyone one provide counterexamples to the following: The assumption that all human behavioral level activity (i.e. no sub-personal or subconscious processes) can be bifurcated into two kinds of routines (activities, tasks, processes)- those that are representational and those that are non-representational; and that all activity is a combination or ratio of the two. By “non-representational routines” I mean causally efficacious or mechanically productive environmental interactivity. Examples are: making a cup of coffee, cooking an egg, walking your dog, riding your bike, driving your car, throwing a ball, taking a bath, mowing the lawn, building a house, etc. By “representational routine” I mean activity that consists in (linguistically mediated) thought and its communication (production) and or interpretation (consumption). Examples are: armchair rumination, inner mumblings, judging, thinking, believing, realizing, remembering, prediction, expecting, deeming, suspecting, surmising, assuming, conjecturing, planning, goal setting, reasoning, calculating, inferring, imagining, fantasizing, understanding, comprehending, (philosophizing!) etc. Inscription/enunciation: writing, texting, scrawling, sketching, illustrating, blogging, speaking/talking, discussing, debating, lecturing, miming, acting, etc. Reading/interpreting: speech, text, icons, symbols, signs, maps, (technical) drawings, diagrams, graphs, tables, etc. 

If we apply Russell’s theory of (definite) descriptions (“On Denoting” 1905) to the sentence “God is subject to logic”, it can be analysed into a conjunction of the following three: 

there is an x such that x is the creator of the universe: ∃x[CU(x)] for any x and y, if x is the creator of the universe and y is the creator of the universe, then x=y (i.e. there is at most one thing which is the creator of the universe): ∀x∀y[[CU(x) & CU(y)] → y=x] for every x that is the creator of the universe, x is subject to logic: ∀x[CU(x) → SL(x)]. More briefly put, the claim is that "God is subject to logic" says that some x is such that x is the creator of the universe, and that any y is the creator of the universe only if y = x, and that x is subject to logic: ∃x[CU(x) & ∀y[CU(y) → y=x] & SL(x)] 

Deontic logic is concerned with what is optional, recommended, forbidden, etc. Doxastic logic, on the other hand, is about beliefs. I would argue that policies (as per the OP) can be expressed by using deontic logic and perhaps doxastic logic as well if you want to capture actual adherence to stated policies. As a practical example, ISO/IEC 24744, a standard language for the description of methodologies, uses deontic markers to express whether specific tasks are compulsory, recommended, optional, discouraged or forbidden. 

In the context of Latour's work, a hybrid is something that combines aspects that would traditionally be considered to belong to the natural and social realms. For Latour, the distinguishing trait of modern societies is that they differentiate between nature and society, whereas premodern ones do not make this difference. Latour doesn't like this duality, and he defends that our culture needs to reconnect the natural and social aspects. A hybrid, then, is anything (a thought, a public issue such as global warming, a research project, anything) that successfully accomplishes this. 

A few years ago I was invited to participate in a workshop hosted by the EC on fundamental research in software engineering. I remember Wolfgang Emmerich from University College London talking about their Impact project, which had found evidence that most innovations in industry are traceable to academic research, but only after some time has passed. The report from the workshop with the details can be found here. 

A property of a part is not necessarily a property of the whole. For example, a page in a book has a page number, but the book itself does not have a page number. In your example, the fact that we (the part) have a property (the intention of discovery) does not imply that the whole (the universe) has that property too. I should add to this the fact that intentions need agency. And I would dispute strongly that the universe, as such, has it. 

I think this goes back as far as Russell and his theory of definite descriptions (“On Denoting” 1905) which in part tried to deal with non-existent entities and to preserve the law of the excluded middle (vis. statements about non-existent entities seem to be neither true of false). If you have a concept to which nothing existent corresponds then that concepts extension is said to be the null set. So the extension of the concepts ghost and werewolves are equivalent- they are both “non-differentiable” members of the same null set. 

Looking for specific term to describe those ideas which are commonly held without proper justification or questioning? What about "putative"? 

If I told you the chair is rickety and unstable due to excessive weathering you would have something to work with regarding the ‘affordances’ (J.J.Gibson) of the chair; namely that you should be wary of sitting on it; using it as a shelf to place a weighty object; as an improvised ladder; a door stop, etc. Alternatively if I told you I’ve just finished applying a coat of clear exterior oil based varnish on it you would know not to touch or use it in the ways mentioned above. Again if I told you the chair is sturdy, clean and available for use, you could then appropriate it in the above mentioned ways. Now image if I told you the chair is physical. Precisely what difference does that make to any potential interactions you might have with the chair? None whatsoever. What difference would it make to assume consciousness is non-physical? - Basically the same; namely nothing. The physical/non-physical distinction is bogus. I’ve found P.W. Bridgman’s ‘operationalism’ (not a term he coined) to be helpful when thinking about such things: $URL$ 

Is agentive activity included in every representation (intension)? If so the extension of every representation includes some information about the interactivity between the representing agent and the thing being represented. For example: iconic, visual concepts (what a dog looks like) presupposes the activity of visual perception; namely looking at a dog, paying attention to certain salient features, committing this to long term memory and so on. Or to put it another way, you can’t have information about some x, without some amount of interactivity (A1,A2,…,An) relating agent y to x. vis., [A1->n(x,y)]. Does this not imply that there is no such thing as objective knowledge? 

I think there are two related but distinct issues involved in your question. First, there is the issue of compositionality, i.e. defining something in terms of its constituent parts. Then, there is the issue of semantic holism, by which you cannot define something unless you have defined something else, and thus you can never reach a proper definition of the original concept, since you would need to have a complete understanding of the whole language. This is a strong form of semantic holism, and as far as I know it has been strongly criticised, since sense can be constructed through mechanisms other than mere composition, such as contextual and pragmatic information. 

I think the answer to your question is yes. There is a significant amount of work around the study of time in ontology. The old endurantism vs. perdurantism debate is part of this. A good example is Sider's "Four-Dimensionalism: An Ontology of Persistence and Time". 

A desire is a state of the world that you would like to realise. This means that the world is not in that state, and that achieving that state would be good for you. I am not going to discuss what "good" means here; it could mean happier, wealthier, whatever. A motivation is a force that compels you to do something. In other words, it is the reason why you act. There are different kinds of motivations. Sometimes you act because you want to achieve a state of the world that you judge as better than the current one; for example, you may donate 100 € to a charity because you believe in helping others. In this case, your motivation is a desire. But there are other kinds of motivations. You may be motivated by fear or revenge, for example. If you keep digging a trench under the blazing sun despite feeling extremely tired, it's only because there is this guy pointing a gun at you. In this bizarre example, your motivation is your fear; desires are not involved. 

One can use the information contained in a map to assist in navigational activities within the territory the map is assumed to be a reliable representation of. One can use assembly instructions for the guidance required to piece together flat packed furniture. One makes a shopping list to alleviate the need to remember and to optimise expenditure. One uses signage to help find the location of the toilets in an unfamiliar shopping precinct. One uses the step-by-step procedure in the auto workshop manual to facilitate a coolant/oil/filter change on the car. One uses a recipe to cook an unfamiliar meal- the list is endless. Generally speaking, If a representation R contains genuine and useful information about some target system E, then R can be used to ‘leverage’ (inform/guide/coordinate/instruct/organise/regulate/navigate/anticipate/prepare/etc.) one’s interactions with E (R is used to guide or correct for minor ‘cognitive deficits’ pertaining to E-interactions). If R doesn’t provide this, then R is redundant or worst impedimental. Metaphysics has no utility in this sense and I challenge anyone on this site to provide an obvious counter example that doesn’t trot out some clap trap about ‘understanding’. Pace Logical Positivism, I think the significance of what you might call “the social utility of representation” is however, hopelessly over looked. Metaphysics seems to consist in little more than a pretence to ‘reality tracking’ when the only thing that’s really going on is ‘social coordination’ among only those privileged and versed enough to occupy the upper/inner echelons (much like the Catholic church for example). Think of the notion of ‘latent vs. manifest’ function from sociology. The manifest function here would be to get a grip on what reality is and does and to have that adequately communicated amongst ones interlocutors. The latent function is to reap the residual (perlocutionary, J.L. Austin) social benefits- to get along with this philosopher (camp), make each other feel good, solidarity, trust, inclusion, etc.; or the opposite -to antagonise, show defiance, annoy, exclusion, etc., tenure, grants, publishing notoriety and so on. This ‘social’ phenomenon is rather ubiquitous. We’re all guilty of using a pretence to (or assumption of) reality tracking as a way (mode) of subserving social interaction on a quotidian basis: conversations involving putative topics, news, anecdotes, fables, hot and cold gossip, rumour/hearsay, jokes/comedy, conspiracy, propaganda, errant or extreme values, myths, superstition, religion, mysticism, spirituality, misconception, bigotry, ignorance, white lies, sub cultural norms…, much of what counts as philosophy, etc. It’s a group based (pragmatic) strategy that gets you access to all the latent goodies that come with being socially hooked up with people who are supposedly ‘on the same page’ and separated from those that aren’t. “…, a merely random groping, and, what is worst of all, a groping among mere concepts.”- Immanuel Kant, (Critique of Pure reason). 

I work in the field of information systems and cultural heritage. A significant part of my work is related to the description of things that are of interest to cultural heritage specialists such as archaeologists or anthropologists. These things include objects such as paintings, tools or utensils; structures such as buildings or caves; places such as mountains or towns; etc. Most of the time, the things we need to describe are real, i.e. we can perceive them through our senses and thus give a conventional account of them. However, sometimes we need to deal with things (of the above mentioned kinds) that are imaginary, such as Atlantis (an imaginary place) or Excalibur (the sword which Merlin supposedly got from the Lady of the Lake). The consensus between researchers seem to be that a sword is a sword is a sword, and thus imaginary swords are described in terms of their purported physical properties, use, chronology and other attributes very much like any real sword. Of course, one would note down that this particular sword happens to be imaginary, and one should not expect to find it in a museum. However, places are trickier to deal with. The essence of a place seems to be its spatial location, and imaginary places often lack that, i.e. they don't have a well-defined or known location. For this reason, researchers rarely describe imaginary places in the same terms as they would describe real places. Rather, they use accessory attributes (such as what happened there or who lived there) instead of their physical location in the world. After thinking for a while about this, I am wondering about the nature of imaginary things. For objects (such as the sword in my example), imaginary and real don't seem to differ that much. For places, however, the difference is crucial. So my question is, are there any works on the ontology (and/or epistemology) of the imaginary that I can look at? Are there any mainstream or accepted takes on this problem? Thank you.