How does one tell if attempted murder is actually an attempt at murder or at something else unless it succeeds? Once you give up perfect knowledge of intent (and perhaps even admit that true intent is either ill-defined or not always known even to the agent), all four points shift more heavily against the murderer and a lot of the philosophical difficulties melt away. (Better for people to know even stopping themselves at the last minute will be better off for them, so it provides a last-second deterrent; the person may be too inept or squeamish to need incapacitation by incarceration; the person may already be trying to rehabilitate; the actual harm was less so in eye-for-an-eye style the retribution should be less.) Given ideal conditions (perfect knowledge, etc.) it is a thorny issue indeed, but sometimes being a pragmatist (as judges typically must be) saves you from thorns. 

You cannot just "suppose" that the dust theory is testable. You have to actually come up with a test as an existence proof of that claim, or show a contradiction if no such tests exist. Leaving aside the Occam's razor style objections (why have it "being computed"; why not just pick our universe and all its time history out of some gigantic set of possible universes?), you (or Greg, actually) have already nailed it: for every program that produces our physics, there are many that produce our physics locally but have junk or bugs that affect distant processes, yielding something radically different. The universe seems to operate under the same physical laws (e.g. we can predict what absorption bands we'll see in light from distant galaxies) everywhere. 

Well. That's better,but it's hardly a proof. If it had been a proof, we would have had . And the difference in these percentages gives us a quantitative measure of just how bad it was to use argument from authority instead of a proper proof. 

is not what a moral system should tell us. Even if we can't generate a perfect moral system, we still could generate some examples that have to go a certain way. Let's number them through ; then we can score our moral systems by 

Although theoretically it is possible to hallucinate everything when moved by sufficiently strong desire (up until one dies), in practice people almost always retain considerable sensitivity to their environment. Thus, no, you cannot accurately say that a scientist's desire is producing their reality. It's helpful to desire to be doing science when one is, because it can speed up noticing patterns (e.g. instead of following a faulty idea for years only to have results repeatedly contradict you, you can try to come up with a new idea that fits your early results well, or to try to come up with lots of ideas any of which fit these results but which will be discriminated by future experiments). But the point of the scientific method is to avoid being captive to desire, and to instead be captive to the relatively universal objective perceptions most people can manage most of the time. (In short, when trying to understand the scientific process, pay more attention to Popper, Kuhn, and Quine than Holland and Deleuze.) 

Dawkins shows every sign of being a (philosophical) realist and resisting attempts at philosophical complication of empirically robust results. (If pushed, I'm pretty sure he'll follow the data: "the best model is that reality is 'real'".) Therefore, he would, I imagine, say that we have oodles of evidence that our minds are all quite similar; whether or not it's easy to demonstrate, we have so much evidence that it is easy to draw the conclusion. If you come up with some weird philosophical construct that raises doubt that there are other minds, Dawkins would likely respond with: is that parsimonious? Is that predictive? Does it have explanatory power? (And probably a few choice words of a less polite nature making clear that he doesn't think much of the process that makes one take such a proposition seriously in the face of so much evidence.) 

For the overwhelming portion of the history of the universe as we understand it, there were no living organisms. However, now that we are around to perceive it, we can judge that physics carried on just fine before anyone was around to watch some tiny part of it. We should therefore assume that if we all die off, matter and physics and all will keep going just as it had. (Note that philosophical questions of this sort were raised long before we had an understanding of the history of the universe, so historical answers were at times more creative than this.) 

There is a big difference in how you view understanding the natural world. If God exists and intervenes according to His whims, then every result you get is suspect: maybe this is not the way things normally go, but is an exception necessary to fulfill His plan. The exceptions could be arbitrarily complicated since they are from a hyperintelligent being. If God sets things up and leaves it all alone, the epistemology is essentially the same as if there is no God. There are regularities that are well-modeled as arising from simple rules; our task is to uncover these rules and work out the complex consequences that can arise from complex interactions of matter, etc.. You can also imagine things that span the full continuum in between, where God sets up arbitrarily complex rules in advance. Despite this, there is a qualitatively different epistemology when you can presume that there's no supernatural meddling. This, I should point out, applies only to the epistemology of science. When it comes to fundamental epistemology--how is it possible that anyone can know anything at all?--then having a deity is very convenient since one can argue (indeed, one needs to argue) that the deity has ensured that perceptions are reliable etc. so that mechanisms for knowing things work, they are as they seem (or close enough), etc.. When you are missing a deity to ensure this, epistemology gets harder. (Admittedly, the "I know there is a deity who ensures that we can have knowledge" step is a pretty tough one to tackle.) So, in short: if you are a philosopher (not of science), then young-earth and non-interventionist deism look the same. If you're anyone else, young-earth looks profoundly different, while naturalism and non-interventionism look the same (with respect to epistemological concerns). 

If you work through this, you may end up defining a power set operator that is identical to the successor operator. And that seems to me to be what you are doing (I have not checked to see if Bell makes the same mistake; I hope not). Calling successor "power set" strikes me as unhelpful. But, anyway, yes, if you only have successor, you get stuck at ℵ0. Incidentally, this is also why the natural numbers are usually defined as --so you have a way to distinguish the elements. Alternatively, a countably infinite subset of a countably infinite set has the same cardinality as the original (by definition), but it is not the same set. For example, N = {0, 1, 2, ...} but Z = {..., -2, -1, 0, 1, 2, ...}, and they are not the same because -1∈Z but -1∉N. So if there is more to a set than its mere cardinality, then we're okay. 

I'm not sure what "intrinsic" means, but if the sole intrinsic property of sets is the number of elements, you can't have power sets in the normal sense.