Big changes are going to come to this area. With no pollen, it won't immediately become a desert, but it will head in that direction. Trees will stick around for a long time, but without new trees replenishing the old, as the old ones die out in the coming centuries more trees won't replace them. The same thing will happen on an accelerated timeline for smaller plants like bushes. Perennials won't last long. Annuals are gone next year. Plants with even shorter life cycles will be gone before people realize what's going on. As the plants die, the animals that rely on them will die as well. No annuals and grasses? Goodbye rodent population. Goodbye predator population that feeds on the rodent population. Goodbye most insects. Goodbye predator population that feeds on insects. 

A pack/herd animal that conforms to a social hierarchy. Eats whatever's around/isn't expensive to feed. Breeds in captivity. Are docile/don't blindly panic and flee when startled. Reach maturity quickly relative to the human lifespan. A society motivated and dedicated to domesticating this animal. 

This is an interesting situation, especially with magic having high costs on the user. To use an analogy, its situation were a single person could construct a building and wreck themselves in the process, or a large group of people could build the same building with less risk. The only difference from our world is that, in your setting, the building gets erected in the exact same amount of time either way. Historically speaking, humans have been more or less fine with endangering themselves if it meant getting more profit (see any dangerous but high paying profession) and the march of technology was slow until the printing press revolutionized education. Doing things the magic way and damn-the-human-cost might be a common practice in your world. Of course, then you have the problem that the same people who are being exploited for profit and the ones who have the means to resist exploition. "Phil, I'm going to need you to turn this water into Chianti, in the process lowering your lifespan or maybe permanently raising your blood pressure, while I take most of the profit." "Actually, boss, how about I take the entire profit and, in return, not transform 50% of you into a frog. Thanks for the magic classes, by the way." Then again, a profession that carries a high amount of risk, demands a large amount of training, has the potential to generate a lot of profit, and would be a stupid thing to teach lower-lass people to do already existed in our world. They were/are called warriors, people skilled in combat. Consequently, your magicians/wizards would likely be in charge or employed by people who are in charge. After all, if they are both finite and powerful, why waste them plowing fields when they can be used to secure land and resources or deter invaders with just their presence? Let the peasants invent plows, aqueducts, and roadways. We need the magic users in the kings army. Sorry I turned your mages into WMDs. I get excited whenever magic gets presented as finite commodities. 

Adoption. Okay, they aren't your genetic material in any direct sense, but any solution about castes is going to be about what's best for a community, not just your family. It could be advantageous to have some specialized in having many children, and then some of the children can be raised by the infertile caste. And, speaking of specialization... Community specialization. You've hit on this with your note about there being more men but they die more. In an environment extremely hazardous to your species as a whole, it could be advantageous to have a caste that sacrifices fertility in order to focus its energies elsewhere (defense, exploration, labor, etc.). 

The average temperature of Earth ocean's surface water is 17°C. The average temperature of Earth ground-level atmosphere is 14.6°C. These numbers are tightly correlated. This is why coastal areas usually have warmer winters and cooler summers than inland areas of the same latitude. The fact of the matter is, it's really difficult to change the ocean's temperature, and really easy to change the atmosphere's temperature. This means the ocean temperature constantly pulls at the air temperature until they're both roughly the same. There's no way to do this without magic or technology indistinguishable from magic. 

Putting armour directly on the wings probably won't be too plausible. They would weight them down, might limit their mobility, and would defiantly be exhausting. I'm imagining flying armour on your wings would be like climbing a rope with heavy weights on your wrists. While I think your character wouldn't want to engage in hand to hand at all (flying out of weapons range and dropping hazardous objects would be hard for an enemy to counter), there could be ways to protect their wings on the ground. What about a thick cape reinforced with chain mail netting? Sure, they couldn't fly with it on, but they could carry if in a sack and put it on when they land. If the wings can fold into a way convenient for fitting through doors, this might be enough to keep them safe in a melee. If the cape alone can't provide enough defense, what about a solid metal "shell" shield that's worn like a backpack? Just unbuckle the shell when you need to escape into the air! This post is inspired by whenever I put my coat over my backpack when walking in the rain. 

No 70 degrees is a really steep angle. If your tiny man was conscious, there's a chance he could grab onto some protrusions and slow himself down. Unconscious, though, there's simply not enough to keep him on the leaf. After 6 inches, he'll be moving at about 1.73 m/s. I second @JasonC's experimental suggestion just to make sure, but that's fast enough I would expect him to hit the leaf, begin sliding down as the leaf bends under his weight, then the leaf springs back and throws him off. 

It would basically be hyper puberty. You wake up feeling different and weird every day. Your body's changing in unexpected and confusing ways. Your hormones are going to go off the charts, shooting high into the air, then crashing down again. They'll be in constant pain as their body changes shape, down to their very bones. This person, no matter their start and end personalities, is going to be moody, overly-sensitive, and exhausted at all times during the transition period. They'll probably try and sleep at least 16 hours per day, and shovel food down the remaining eight hours. In all likelihood, this person is going to be extremely confused and embarrassed by what is happening, and try and hide it, shutting out friends and family. Violently, if necessary. If they don't live alone, they may flee into the wilderness while the change is happening. I mean, really, do you want to tell your husband that you grew a penis overnight? I didn't think so. 

Just to expound on my example a bit, if orcs couldn't obtain nutrition from plants that are easily farmed, it would limit there ability to form permanent communities. After all, some of the first permanent structures humans build were storehouse for grain and seeds. Orcs, on the other hand, might only settle down in areas with a high concentration of animals or spend all there time herding animals across grasslands so they can eat them. If a large amount of orcs try to occupy an unsuitable area, they would overhunt their surroundings and starve. This would also make orc-based armies a difficult organization to plan for. Instead of carts of hardtack and gruel, they have to bring live animals with them to periodically slaughter and cook. Pillaging would also be less effective, as they could only eat what little animals the average peasant owned. If their lucky, an average household might get some chickens, a dog, and maybe a cow, and that's being extremely generous. Course, they might be able to justify eating the peasants too. Not cannibalism if their not your species, technically. That would make bands of orcs a heap-and-a-handful more menacing to see outside the city gates. That being said, I think orcs would be a lot better off if they settling among humans. As laborers, they can outperform humans in terms of lifting power and endurance. Or, if you got the resources, a standing army of orcs would be a heck of a deterrent and military asset to a nation. Just make sure you have a lot of animals for them to eat or orcs will be forced to leave you high and dry. Even without the meat-paying jobs, orcs could probably benefit from human farming techniques. As they have more stability and more time on their hands, humans might develop tools and systems that orcs would love to copy as well. Orcs might master horseriding and animal husbandry, but humans could invent the stirrup and calculus. Not that this would matter in the long terms, sense both species would learn from each other, averaging out the differences. This system might be able to have orcs that are twice as physically capable as humans, but humans have a lot more friends that live within shouting distance. It also has orcs as terrifying marauders, but also supports orc ranchers, construction workers, and samurai (originally I was just going to say watchmen, but this seems both more accurate and cooler). The species have respect for each other, but also a turbulent history. After all, its hard to live with "your granddad ate my granddad" and its hard to convince your orc toddler not to throw their human playmate over the fence and take their toys. That being said, reading everyone else's answers has been inspiring and helped flesh out my current solution. I would highly recommend shopping around to see what appeals most to you, dear reader. 

Lakes are rivers are probably going to be mostly fine. Algae (despite being associated with the word "bloom") does not use pollen. Small creatures eat the algae, larger creatures eat those creatures. Ranching is pretty much done for. Without grasses, it's going to be far cheaper to ship in beef and wool/mutton from somewhere else. Chickens, on the other hand, will probably be the farm animal of choice. Continual food production (eggs) plus the occasional meat, and their diet is very adaptive. They can eat the scraps from the plants that humans won't eat (probably not potatoes; the plants are in the nightshade family), bugs, meat scraps, mice, etc.. Pigs might become a "status" animal. They take a lot of food before they're ready to eat, but the food they do eat can largely be scraps of what the humans are eating (or not even scraps). Ship in the seeds for most vegetables. Things like lettuce, cabbage, celery, carrots not only don't require going to seed, but are better if harvested before going to seed. This means you'll have to ship in 100% of your seeds (instead of letting some of your crop go to seed), but shipping in seed is a lot better than shipping in finished product (especially since finished product likes to rot). Ferns, moss, lichen, and fungus (mushrooms) are all plant/plant adjacent but do not flower or pollinate. Instead, they reproduce through spores. It might be nice to say, "And now we have a fern-based ecosystem," but remember that they all require substantial water and shade. Without a healthy forest system, they can't last long on their own, so take that into consideration. 

Well, for starters, generating heat wouldn't result in any force being generated. In this set up, its not so much the heat or fire propelling your character as much as him continually making explosions. Think achieving flight by the recoil of firearms. Right off the bat, he would have to be capable of withstanding that kind of explosive force being generated right next to his body. Using explosive power has other issues for his surroundings. Generating that much force might damage this characters surroundings, but probably not too much more than a helicopter (I'm guessing that last bit. Aerodynamics is not something I know anything about). The real problem would be the noise. Having a character achieve flight by combustion would be louder than an un-muffled motorcycle and would be sure to wake the neighbors. No way he could be able to sneak up on anyone while flying. A simpler but less ideal solution is for him to heat (and cool down if possible) air in order to manufacture updrafts. Then he can make hang-gliders that never have to touch the ground or reverse-parachutes. It's very gadget-y, but would be plausible and make your character look cleaver. 

Storing Nitroglycerin You don't store it as straight liquid nitroglycerin. You're an animal! You need to be able to run, jump, fall, etc. without exploding body parts. So, what do you store instead of nitroglycerin? First, let me introduce you to guncotton, aka nitrocellulose. It is chemically very similar to nitroglycerin, but a lot more stable. It was even, for a long time, the primary military explosive substance. If you mix nitroglycerin and guncotton, you can get a double-base explosive powder. Aka, modern smokeless gunpowder. The advantages of storing your nitroglycerin mixed with guncotton as an explosive powder should be obvious. Explosive, yes, but stable under ordinary conditions. Ignition temperature is hundreds of degrees. Can be shaken as much as you want. Unfortunately, figuring out how to create double-base explosive powder is beyond my chemistry knowledge. If I remember tonight, I will try to google around for it, but searching "how to make gunpowder" at work seems like it might not be the best idea. 

I have a planned species of aliens that have many commonalities with longhorn crazy ants (cooperation with colonies of the same species, can live in a large variety of environments, and have the ability to have genetic variation with a low number of breeding pairs). They are humanoid bipeds with exoskeletons as well as pseudo-endoskeletons, lungs and hearts to pump blood, and regulate heat by a series of capillaries in their mouths (basically just panting like a dog). Individual physical power, as a whole, isn't that much more than a human. Socially, their "family" units consist of a female queen, a male drone, and twenty to fifty sexless workers (depending on the sub-species). Its like if an entire tribe operates as a single organism, while all having independent minds. Finally, they have the ability to cooperate with other families to form cities, nations, and empires. After a few millennia of advancement, this species took to space. My question is: what kind of home-world would this species evolve on? Even with my additions to make them environmental generalists, I got no idea how human-sized insects could exist in the first place. I would love to be able to include details about native cuisine and interesting animals they might take with them to space, but at the moment I'm stumped. 

The bad news: nearly all vegetation in the area is going to die out. When talking about what would not be available, it's actually easier to say what would still be available; we're talking about a complete ecological collapse scenario. 

Seen here, the circle is the mage, and there are two nested six pointed stars. The best design would require some more design work and careful consideration of the angles (and, therefore, number of points), entry point size, and if projectiles that entered the first barrier could be redirected to exit again, instead of needing to be absolutely halted by the internal barrier. But this is a good place to start. 

Functionally, these last two are what eusocial insects do, and is basically the definition of eusocial. While this only occurs in insects (I believe), it wouldn't be unreasonable for a different species to develop a similar system, even if the balance of "breeders" and "workers" is different than, say, ants.