As has been pointed out, food will give out long before the oxygen does. However, there are a few microbes that get their energy from the chemicals released by the undersea vents. The ecosystems that revolve around them may survive. However, I am not postitive about that they can survive without the "snow" of organic particles that rain down from the higher layers of the ocean. There is also a type of bacteria that actually gets its energy from radiation. So far, these are only found underground and are not part of any ecosystems that I am aware of. So, almost all life on the planet would die but that has happened a number of times in the past. The survivors evolved, spread and multiplied to give us what we know. It is likely to happen again. However, if an intelligent species develops again, it is likely that they will be in a situation where the Sun would be near exhaustion. 

As @Will said, if it has short term stability, it might be worth colonizing. Even if it is very short term, the planets might be mining prospects (though if you can reach that system, you can probably find better long term mining sites). As for can such s system exist in the first place. Current theories say: yes. We currently believe that all star systems start out unstable and that planets are constantly having close encounters which cause collisions, the planet being slowed to the point it drops into the sun or sped up to the point it leaves the system. Eventually, only the objects in stable orbits will be left. At least that's how they believe our system to have been generated. They have also found gas giants in close orbits of their stars. Since they cannot form that close to the star, they must have drifted in from a farther orbit. They may still be drifting toward the star but we cannot tell that yet. Just because our system has been mostly cleaned up (by Jupiter) doesn't meant that all (or most) other systems have been cleaned up. The main issue is that unstable systems won't last. 

Hal Cement wrote a very good novel Mission of Gravity based on the idea of a very dense planet spinning so fast that it flattened into almost a disk shape. He created it as a thought puzzle, working out if it would hold together and, if so, what the effects would be. Gravity would be less at the poles and the weather would be vicious. It is a very good read. Clement is very good at writing from the alien's point of view. I would recommend any of his stories. 

A go to standard in DnD is a direwolf. They are intelligent (for a wolf) and sentient food is only a preference, not a dietary requirement. My personal favorite though would be a shape shifting animal. In non-combat form, it looks like a little yappy dog (or a kitten). In combat form, it grows into something slightly larger than a tiger. They should be given names like fifi or fluffy. Then you get to see the reaction on the faces of outsiders and the see the local riffraff clear the streets when a single watchman strolls down the street with a little yappy dog. 

Maybe in a water world where up and down don't matter too much. If there isn't a direction where light comes from and there isn't a "floor" to hide on, many of the pressures for specialized form would go away. The one pressure against radial symmetry is that elongated forms will move faster in one direction. That could be a very helpful evolutionary trait. Also, specialized eating equipment is easier to develop if it only needs to develop in one spot. The same goes for any natural weaponry the critter might develop. 

I think that you would likely have similar weather patterns to Earth except that flows would be in the opposite direction. Hot air would expand at the poles and head southward. The coriolis effect would tend to twist that downward stream counter to the rotation of the planet. Look at the wind bands of Earth and just do the opposite and then you would have general weather patterns. Unless someone knows better, I imagine that the jet stream would be the same so look at how things could swirl as the prevailing winds get near the jet stream. Water flows would be different. Water doesn't expand much but it does expand enough that heavier water sinks under warmer water. Sometimes ocean currents return by traveling around the ocean and sometimes they return by simply going back the way they came at a different depth. So, the direction of upper and lower flows would be the opposite but the circular direction should be the same. Also, if there isn't a landmass covering a pole, it probably has a permanent hurricane. If there is a landmass it probably has a central desert that gets almost no rain in a decade (the moist air would tend to circulate around the center). As it is, Antarctica has one of the driest deserts because of this effect. 

Fire the most powerful laser you can get through it. Use the biggest beam that can be focused with lenses to a focal point at the wormhole. Sorry for the crude character graphics: [Laser Beam] ()>.< {()} = lens {>} = beam converging {.} = wormhole {>} = beam spreading on the other side of the wormhole {brackets are to keep the editor from eating the < and >} It doesn't matter if it spreads after going though the wormhole since you probably need to spread the beam out to make it useful. If for some reason you don't want it to spread on the other side, you can use another set of lenses on that end. You can then spread the beam out to manageable levels and use any numb of methods to capture that energy from steam generation to photo voltaic receivers. 

Perhaps really bad weather. If there aren't any tall mountains (which would get in the way of ground transport) then the winds would whip around the planet faster. This would make for more chaotic weather. Yes, technology could compensate for that but people usually go for the lowest cost solution. Also, if the communities were all relatively close to each other, it might not be worth the time and fuel needed to lift an aircraft off the ground. The inhabitants are rich. Rushing is for the poor. Taking their time to get somewhere in style shows/improves their status.