Yes. Look at the Caesar Cipher (dating back to Julius Caesar) or the Vigenere Cipher (more modern and more secure) as examples. Neither are considered "strong" encryption being primarily based on replacing one letter with another (or combinations of letters, which is stronger), but if neither side has computers and the encryption does not have to last terribly long they can be very handy. Another option would be to use something like Navajo codetalkers, as occurred in WWII. By translating a message into a complete but very difficult to decipher language you have very little risk of it being translated by your enemy (unless they also have people who speak that language). That survived the advanced decryption efforts of the Germans, who also employed early computers. 

Well, given that places such as the Pacific Spaceport Complex exist in Alaska... I'd say rocket launches. If you want to use other options like sky hooks or space fountains etc. you are welcome to do so, but for the amount of space traffic we have today rockets are pretty much the only thing that has proved economical/feasible. 

No. Daron has it right and I don't want to distract from that fundamental legal basis for their answer, but I would like add a few tidbits of my own. In your world, it sounds like multiple religions are specifically considered. We have long established that as long as all religions are treated equally, the treatment is fair. Your world is then almost uniquely situated to avoid conflicts that would arise if, for example, only one belief systems' deities were manifesting (though that would imply that it was the "one true religion" and separation of church and state is no longer necessary). However, that discrimination inside of of the squads against a particular practitioner due to their faith would violate those rules (and others). [I imagine this would almost necessarily have to come up in some of the squads too, given that religious belief systems are mutually exclusive]. At another level though, if you have bad actors killing people and the federal government said you couldn't take action to stop them, I think you'd see a non-trivial number of states either acting against the directives of the federal court system or simply cutting ties with the union. It's speculation, but as someone living in the southern United States now I can't imagine having a vote to leave and the state I'm in not making the mandatory 70% threshold for it under such conditions. 

After some thinking about it, it is better to focus not on what a escapee (Let's call them E-ki) from another world has, but rather on what they lack. First thing that gives out E-ki is their paper trail. 1.In order to enroll in a school they need some form of ID and it is rather hard to obtain one when you are already a teenager and have no other documents. 2. Most people study somewhere before going to high school. E-ki must either claim to be homeschooled, or lie and lists of graduates for a specific school tend to be publically availible. 3. E-ki lacks any kind of family in our dimension. So they may either claim to be an orphan (which may contradict the info from pt. 2) or have an adoptive family, and Bob knows the approximate date of the escape. 4. Nowdays teens tend to have accouts in some kind of social network. One without any accouts or with a way too recent reg date goes to the suspect bench. 5. (Applies only to the case where E-ki needs to wear shades). If you wear shades at school without an optician's prescription, teaches will give you funny looks. So, when did E-ki get such a prescription? (Such a condition does not spring out of nowere). 

Yes you can in fact make water be solid at room temperature. The only problem is, you need to compress it to pressures above 1GPa. A handy phase chart for reference: 

Option A: The Water Clock Water clocks were practically designed for dwarven use. Until the invention of the pendulum clock, water clocks were the most precise way of keeping time for millennia. A primary challenge with water clock accuracy is that the viscosity of water can change with its temperature, but living underground where the temperature is consistent water clocks could be easily designed to keep very good time. There can be fluctuations in underground temperature, but it is generally given that dwarves are sensitive to those temperature changes and so they would be able to tune their clocks accordingly (eg. make bigger/smaller holes). A fun way to include this might be to hook it up straight to whatever water distribution system you have, such that each kitchen- or bathroom-like area could have its own clock. Option B: Heated Object (for Dwarves with Heat-Vision Only) Not every universe provides dwarves heat vision, but those that do posses that ability have a unique way of telling time. A trusted elder would be charged with keeping time and, at a specific time, would expose a large central column of a pure ore to a large heat source that would take all day to dissipate. Dwarves in the area could simply look at the column and understand whether the day was starting (very bright), ending (very dim), or somewhere in the middle. This could be very comparable to a human having the sun to look at. (Attribution to the Dark Elves in Forgotten Realms, who use a similar system) Option C: The Pendulum Clock As others have stated, a pendulum clock is a very good way to keep time. Depending on the universe it may or may not be too advanced for dwarves, which is why I left it until the end. 

In a world that i am building, there is an advanced civilization that is somewhat close to 21st century humans. Two of the differences are: they have discovered electricity much earlier than we did and they have never had the idea that explosives can be used as a propellant for projectiles. That's why most of land based combat revolves around infantry running around the battlefield with swords with enormous railgun artillery providing support. My two questions are: 1. How realistic is this scenario? 2. How realistic is the strategy i presented? Is there something that makes it really stupid, or will it work fine? EDIT: The problem with railguns is that they require a LOT of power. So you can have stationary artillery, but planes and cars cant pack a powerful enough power generators. So planes are capable of dropping bombs, fighter planes are not really a thing. And in case of car, infantry would need to exit the car in order to swing their swords around. EDIT2: So, yeah "running around with swords" is totally not the best idea when you have vehicles and can use them. EDIT3: Due to a lot of answers/comments touching this topic: Yes the kind of combustion engine you see in your car is not really a thing in this world. (Not because it is explody, but rather because they have way less liquid dinosaurs than we do.) However having similar engines is not a requirement for having electricity, because it is done by steam turbines (They were very lucky with geothermal energy). Also the battery tech is much better than we have, it is just the capacitors (things that can charge/discarge really fast) are lacking. 

It's a Financial Legacy Let's leave aside the utter impossibility of the proposed mission for a moment (thank you John Dallman!) and focus on the generic idea of an economically viable project that will take over 150 years (the longest possible lifespan of any living person in your world) to complete. As a general idea, I think it would still see funding. Companies would be unlikely to invest because their shareholders would never see a return, but it could receive endowments from the ultra-rich who want to ensure their grandchildren and great-grandchildren (etc.) are taken care of. Your children (or grandchildren) may do something to squander the wealth that you are leaving them, but this project leaves you a vehicle to ensure that their descendants are still taken care of. This is not that functionally different from people who lived in the early days of large-scale trade shipping that funded long-distance trade ships. If a journey took a couple of years to complete and you were already in your 40's there was a nonzero chance that you would die of natural causes (eg. influenza) before a return was realized. Investing in the company to build the ships was even worse, as it could take decades to see a profitable return and you were unlikely to live that long. But the very wealthy did it anyway, in part because they could live to see the return, but also in part because it was a way to (hopefully) create a business legacy for your family.