Is the question about non-stop cycling or just riding over several days or weeks? For non-stop cycling it’s less about starvation and more about the maximum power you can get from burning body fat. For the Race Across America the record (without any food restrictions) is 27km/h average over 4860km in 7d 16h. Since stopping and sleeping is allowed (though discouraged) on the RAAM I searched for longest time spent cycling non-stop. A record I could find was George Hood who spent about 178 hours over eight days riding a spinning bike. They state a distance of 2,016 miles (3,244.438km) though I don’t know what kind of conversion factor they use (since you obviously don’t move while riding a stationary bike the only meaningful number would be average power or total energy output). If we just trust that number we get an average speed of 18.2km/h which is really slow for road biking on flat terrain. I don’t know what the limiting factor for such extremly long distances is, but at such relatively low speeds it should be possible to depend on fat alone without slowing down much. There are endurance athletes who deliberately stay on a low-carbohydrate diet to force their bodies into Ketosis while still training many kilometers per week. Thus I doubt that food makes much difference for low-intensity, very long distance bicycling. For bicycling until starvation the limiting factor is available body fat. With 400km per day you’d need about 8000kcal (assuming 16h of bicycling at 25km/h with 400kcal per hour (-> 6400kcal) and 1600kcal basic requirement) per day. Which is 888.9g of fat per day. Thus with 20kg of fat you could go for 22.5 days yielding 9000km. 

You'll definitely need to remove all components. For threaded bits you have two choices - leave junk bolts in there that will get powdercoated over and then carefully remove them (leaving a bit of an edge around the bolt hole) or let them get masked but almost certainly somewhat powdercoated into and use a tap and die set to chase them before reassembly. Be prepared to face/ream/chase the headtube and bottom bracket in any case. Do make sure you've cleaned it as much as possible, removing any residual grease and road dirt. I wouldn't worry about the stickers and decals, the media blasting to prepare the frame should take care of that. With the relatively low cost of media blasting I wouldn't bother trying to strip the paint myself. Make sure you find a powdercoater that is familiar with bicycle frames; particularly when it comes to media blasting they need to understand how thin the tubing is. 

Just to point out: If shifting works bad it’s usually a problem with friction in the cables, bad adjustment, bent hanger or worn chain/cassette. Even a relatively cheap Tiagra group works flawlessly when properly installed and adjusted. I don’t see many options for a partial upgrade because the cassette-spacing has gotten narrower from 9-speed to 10-speed to 11-speed. So you can’t use 11 or 10-speed shifters with 9-speed cassettes or vice-versa. Anyways, you’d probably have to install new cables and re-adjust for every step so it doesn’t make much sense. 

Usually there is just one length available with a bit over 100 links. Of course you have to shorten it so that it’s not slack on the smallest gear combination and not too tight (i.e. breaking the rear derailleur) on the biggest gear combination. 

Depends on the tubes. Schwalbe makes some (i.e. SV20) which go from 18-622 to 25-622, so you could probably risk the 28-622 (if the tire is even really that wide, they are often quite a bit narrower than specified). 

Unless you're out derbying or have a complicating balance issue I wouldn't worry about it. Falling off a bicycle when commuting or recreational riding should become an extremely rare experience with practice. Tank tops and shorts are perfectly acceptable bike wear in the summer. Ice is of course a different beast; the best advice I have for ice is that you should be prepared to fall and do not have anything in your pockets that you don't want embedded in your leg. 

It sounds like you've sorted out the first issue, headset size. You'll need something with a 1 1/8" (also seen as 1.125" or 9/8") steerer. Your bicycle's handling is based on the geometry. Changing the axle-to-crown distance will change the angle of your head tube, altering your bicycle's handling significantly. The other major characteristic of a fork is "rake", or the distance that the axle is in front of an imaginary line down the center of the steerer. Within 5-10mm of rake change you should notice a fairly minimal effect on the bike's handling, which is good because suspension fork rake is rarely published and measuring it directly is difficult. The axle-to-crown distance is one factor, to get that right - assuming your bike has an equivalent fork - you should be looking for a "100mm suspension-corrected" rigid fork. In practice this means a fork with an axle-crown distance of about 455mm. If you want a 100mm suspension corrected, 26" wheeled fork with disc brakes that also has rack (I'm assuming you mean midfork low-rider rack mounts) and fender mounts, your options list is relatively limited. The new Surly Troll Fork is likely to be one of your few options. 

$URL$ Uses OpenStreetMap which is usually much better than Google Maps for Cycling. There are also 2 distinct bicycle profiles (fastbike and trekking) available and you can customize them. 

I think a good idea would be to borrow a bike for a day or two. Either from a friend or from a store/bike rental. They should also have some knowledge about bike sizing and fitting and point you in the right direction. This way you can get an idea about what size you need and what kind of cycling you want to do. Bicycle sizes can be hard. Usually how high the bicycle is (seat tube length, that’s what the “size” usually is if it’s a length) is far less important than the length (reach) of the bike. Height can be adjusted in a very wide range with the seat post (10 cm up or down should be easily possible). Length can only be adjusted by replacing the stem with a shorter or longer one and there you are limited to a few centimeters (like, 3cm or so backwards and forwards). Fortunately it’s becoming more and more common to talk about stack and reach, which should be comparable independent of frame manufacturer and bike type. If you feel comfortable on a bike, be sure to find out its stack and reach measurements, not just the frame height. If you are not planning to use the mountain bike for its intended purpose (off-road trail riding where no other bike can go) I’d really recommend you to get something lighter, faster. The fat, knobby tires, suspension and so on will only add weight and rolling resistance. At the very least get a hard tail and consider fitting road tires (i.e. without the knobs). If you are riding on tarmac only you could even get a road bike and I’d really recommend you to at least try one. A road bike accelerates and rolls so much better, you can easily go 5km/h faster just by switching to one. 

Apparently George Behring used to be a framebuilder in the St. Louis area, and was a racer and a member of the Saint Louis Cycling Club. Unfortunately, like many small builders of the 1980s, there's very little information about him or his bikes on the web. 

It's not clear if you've already bypassed the shift mechanism and attempted to shift directly using the shift pin - at least eliminate any possibility that the shifter is the culprit. If you're already considering purchasing a new hub, there's little harm in pulling the old one apart to see if it can be repaired. For some reason the Shimano TechDocs for that hub is missing, but I was able to find a mirror on the Vancruisers.ca site. Looking at that it's not obvious what might be broken and failing to engage inside. Note that there are some fiddly bits inside these hubs, you'll want to lay out a nice big sheet of butcher paper or a towel to work on, and take pictures as you pull pieces out so you can remember how they go back together. Keep an eye out for any bits of metal shavings or chips of metal, that's usually indicative that you'll find a broken or missing piece inside somewhere. If you'd particularly like to avoid rebuilding the wheel, I've had success also just swapping the internals on some internal hubs. 

An upper limit for the adjustability of mountain-bike cleats is the size of the cutout in the outsole. Road-bike cleats could theoretically offer more adjustability but I think in practice at least Look Keo, Speedplay Zero and Shimano SPD-SL cleats are all limited to a few millimeters (~±2mm) left/right and a bit more (~±3mm) fore/aft. The holes and cut-outs for the screws+washers are intentionally oversized to allow this movement/adjustability. With road bike shoes you are basically walking on the cleats. This gets harder when the cleat is moved to the left or right very far. I’ve tried some relatively extreme settings and in my opinion it really doesn’t make much sense to offer more range since you tend to twist your ankles. If you need more left/right adjustment, at least Speedplay offers replacement pedal axles with different lengths (shorter and longer). Look allows you to use 2mm washers on the pedal thread which move the pedal outside by 2mm. 

Depending on your bike's geometry, the main disadvantage to a front load is that the bike's steering can become sluggish. 

The real issue is in the top tube length. Basically, for shorter riders you need to move the handlebars closer to the seat. But then you have to deal with the wheel possibly colliding with the pedals ("toe strike"), changing the head angle or the fork's rake, which compromises the handling, and/or having a proportionally longer top tube than would otherwise be indicated by the seat tube length. Rodriguez Cycles did an excellent multipart essay on choosing between 650c and 700c wheels for road bikes, and the illustrated Cliff notes they provide should prove illuminating. 

Haulin' Colin has built about 30 trailers using a fairly simple MIG-welded steel box-frame design using square tubes. I can attest to hauling several hundred pounds in one easily, with uphills being slow and downhills pushing the limits of my bicycle's braking system to the limits. Recently Duncan Cycles has been documenting his construction of a TIG-welded steel-tube version of the same design. If you have the know-how and the equipment, welded or brazed designs are going to have significantly higher strength for the same or lower weight as a bolt-together design. I also helped with this monstrosity of a trailer built around a shopping cart specifically to win the Idiotarod. I wouldn't recommend it unless you absolutely need to incorporate a shopping cart into your design. 

The most important measurement is top tube length or how „stretched“ your position is. One can try to compensate with stem length. 

I guess it partly depends on the wheel/bicycle. Smaller, sturdier wheels (e.g. 26"/559mm MTBs) should be more resistant. With road bikes I’ve observed that they often lean on the spokes. This is especially bad if you have a low spoke count and therefore a high spoke tension which makes the spokes even less suited for lateral loads. I think it can definitely damage your wheels if it’s especially gusty wind or someone stumbles and runs into your bike really hard. Usually it’s also hard to properly lock your bicycle (since you often can’t put your back wheel into the stand if you have a rear derailleur), leading to the sad event displayed in your second picture. I don’t have disk brakes but I could imagine that you could damage them on some stands as well. I try to avoid such stands whenever possible. As a personal anecdote, my dad and I used to transport bicycles on a car trailer using a stand like the one in your first picture. On one occasion we apparently hadn’t tied the bicycles down hard enough and the constant vibration and rubbing completely destroyed the sidewalls of my road tires. 

Vibram is simply a brand name for rubber soles made by Vibram S.p.A. of Italy. The actual composition of the rubber and the lug design used differs across their product line, with specialized compounds for hiking, industrial use, and for their "Five Fingers" barefoot running shoes. They began as a manufacturer for hiking shoes and were one of the first to make them with rubber soles, which helped them become a well-known brand in that market. The manufacturers of MTB tires are continually experimenting with new rubber compounds and balancing durability, weight, and traction. I'd expect that Vibram S.p.A. doesn't see much opportunity in becoming a bicycle tire manufacturer. 

This makes more sense than the weight ratio, when you consider the weight distribution is perhaps 20% higher on the rear while the ratio of wear is significantly larger. 

You shouldn't even need to heat up the arms. Just bend them whichever way you'd like; it's easiest if you have access to a vice. You might even look at having them make an 'X', if that pulls the mounting arm away from the brake. By design, the horizontal stays should have a minimum amount of force on them - they handle keeping the rack from rotating forward and aft while the bulk of the weight is transmitted down the vertical stays. You could also get p-clamps and attach the rack stays lower or higher as needed to clear the brake.