Many many good reasons in many answers here, but here's another one: your projectile weaponry is too dangerous to yourself to use at close range. Why would depend on the weapons. Missiles are not something you want exploding into your face - if they can damage an enemy mech they can presumably damage yours as well. If you're using energy weapons, maybe it's not the weapon itself but the splashback as it burns its way into the enemy's armour, sending a jet of incredibly hot plasma right back at you. So when you get close enough for this to be a risk, you switch to something that doesn't set you on fire. 

If it's a small ship, like a one-man fighter or "space motorbike", it would save space to put the cockpit at or near the front. Assuming your propulsion technology involves throwing reaction mass out of the back of the ship to make it go forwards, you need nozzles for that on the back. These need to be connected to the actual engines, the components which accelerate the reaction mass using whatever technology is being used (rockets, ion engines, whatever). It's far easier to put these right next to the nozzles, so you've got engines at the back now taking up a good amount of space. Then you need to power those engines, so you've got fuel tanks and they should probably be close to the engines too in order to reduce the amount of plumbing you need. Maybe you need a fusion reactor or something as well. So put that all nicely together at the back, what's left? Stick the pilot at the front! Maybe the pilot has some more stuff in front of them - small thrusters for steering/docking perhaps, or the mounting for the ship's radar/lidar/other system allowing you to spot things before you crash into them. But the bulk of a little ship like that's going to be at the back. If you tried to put the pilot between, say, the engines and the fuel tanks, you'd just have to sit them amidst a load of fuel pipes. Doesn't seem very practical does it! Obviously this does rely on having suitable protection from impact by little bits of rock/debris you might find in the space environment against the cockpit canopy. I also suspect pilots might prefer it this way, as there's a psychological need to be able to see out, even if in space things are likely to not be very visible using the naked eye. You'd have detection screens everywhere, but you'd still want to be able to see where you're going, and it would be very useful for trying to dock with something after an equipment failure. Big ships, on the other hand, have more room for a spacious room to command the ship from, big screens to display what's going on, redundant detector systems for docking... big spaceships are likely to be more like big submarines. So actually, you could argue that a typically-depicted one man spacecraft is a cross between a modern fastjet fighter and a submersible. Hmm. 

Assuming it existed in an audible range we could hear (and presumably technology could help to bridge that gap by downshifting/upshifting frequencies as desired for us to hear their music and them to hear ours, which would also be useful for speech of course), then there's a distinct possibility we would find it to be musical, but it would likely be very strange. However, given how much of our harmonic idea is based on actual physical effects and relationships, one does wonder how strange it might be. Some of the most important intervals we use in modern music are based on (not exactly the same as, but based on) the harmonic series, which is determined by physics. Think about a bugle or a natural trumpet - they're just long tubes with a mouthpiece on one end (okay, they're cones, but hey). The notes produced by these instruments are the harmonic series on top of the fundamental, under the influence of the player's lips and breath. Assuming an alien race can blow into things in a similar way, I'd guess it's quite likely that they would explore the harmonic series and it would come to feature in some way in their music. Now, they might decide entirely different intervals are pleasing or displeasing compared to us, but we see variation in those ideas across musical cultures around the world anyway. They may end up using a similar sort of scale to, say, the twelve-tone scale of Western classical music, but that they like their music to go to completely different places. Most of our music returns "home" at the end - arriving back in the same tonality it started in, or some small variation on it. Perhaps some aliens might prefer their music to go somewhere else and stay there. So you have to think about psychology as well. Humans like going back to where we started, going back home. Perhaps a race of aliens who don't have homes would reflect that transience in their music. Perhaps they'd have some less accepted composers exploring the idea of music that returns to where it started from. Music does have basis in physics, as evidenced by the use of the harmonic series as a basis for many of our intervals, but the rest of it is cultural, and a product of both human psychology and human technology. Alien psychology could be very different, and their technology also, so they would have the means of producing different sounds with different ease compared to our own. Maybe they would never have anything that sounds like our reed instruments due to never having anything physically akin to the cane we make reeds out of. And of course, their anatomy would determine the kind of instruments they would be capable of playing. Wind instruments for bipeds with two hands with five digits on each and one mouth are likely to be quite different to wind instruments for a being which can inhale and exhale simultaneously (through different orifices) but only has four tentacles. 

This is a classic philosophical question. You can probably find all sorts of interesting discussion of it around the internet, so I'll just talk about my view. I'll largely ignore travel into the future, because travelling into the future is something we already know how to do - just build a spaceship, get on board and accelerate as close to the speed of light as you can manage and let time dilation do the work. Building such a spaceship is left as an exercise for the reader. Certainly, the lack of time travellers from the future has been seen as an indication that time travel will never be invented. Douglas Adams wrote in one of the Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy books or radio episodes (or both), something to the effect of "time travel, by its very nature, is invented in all eras simultaneously". So either there is time travel, or there isn't, but you can't have a point where time travel is invented because once it's been invented people can travel back in time and someone in the past is going to figure it out and it just carries on from there. That only works, though, if you look at one particular model of how time travel works. In Adams' work, time travel technology allows the user to move freely backwards and forwards in time, from the beginning of the universe (where they built a restaurant called the Big Bang Burger Chef), to the end of the universe (where you can dine at Milliway's, the Restaurant at the End of the Universe). But it doesn't necessarily have to work like that. In the television series Quantum Leap, a time travel device is invented which only allows the user to travel into the past within their own lifetime. Mutation of history is entirely possible in the show's model, and indeed that's primarily what the main character engages in for largely altruistic reasons. In addition, the "leaper" actually swaps places with a targeted person in the past, taking on their appearance during the leap and basically impersonating them. So in this model, not only is time travel limited to a human lifespan before its invention, time travellers are effectively undetectable (provided they impersonate people sufficiently well). Obviously this is a storytelling device to give the show interesting scenarios each week (they had a lot of fun sending Sam into people with no legs, pregnant women etc) but it does provide an answer to your question. There are other such limitations. Rather than the lifetime of the traveller, the machine may only be able to enable time travel within a time period where the machine itself exists - so you can never travel back to before the machine was invented (or forward to after it was destroyed, if it allows you to travel forward). This is shown in several things, but the film Primer stands out as an example of this for me. In that film, the time machine has to be built, turned on and left. Later on, you can get inside it and wait the same amount of time before getting out, and you'll emerge just after it was built (it only travels backwards at the same speed you usually go forward, so travelling back two months takes two months of sitting in an airtight box). So in that world, again, once the machine is invented you might see time travellers everywhere, but never beforehand, and because you travel back at 1 second per second you're severely limited by both your lifespan, your ability to cope with the experience of the journey, and the availability of a machine which someone else isn't already using and which retains power and integrity for the necessary time. There are also the numerous possibilities of multiple timelines, such as the idea that travelling backwards in time immediately makes a new timeline which isn't the same as the one you originally came from, and that this limits the appearance of time travellers somewhat because they don't all go back to the same one and neither do they all come from the same future timeline. Of course, there is also the possibility that there is a fair bit of time travel activity but that various people try to cover it up, regulate it, police it and possibly utilise more time travel to prevent the first time travel incident from ever occurring. This model is much in evidence in the Star Trek: Department of Temporal Investigations books, where a variety of "uptime" agencies are seen intervening to mitigate, cover up or outright erase from history various time travel incidents. However, in that setting many people are aware that time travel is possible and that it happens sometimes. They're just usually sworn to secrecy if it happens, or their memories are altered, or they end up dead.