That said, if you notice your Oxygen Saturation Levels dropping during a workout, you should seriously consider sitting down a moment to let your body recover or step outside to get some fresh air. There could be people with medical conditions that need to monitor their blood's Oxygen levels, but for the most part this is not anything you are going to control on your own. 

Go very light with your weight. Don't jump in there and try to push yourself to doing the weights you used to do, even with a spotter. If you do, you're going to be sore as hell for a very long time. Do each body part in the same routine like you would before (chest on Monday, back on Wednesday, legs on Friday - or whatever), but go very light. The second time you work that body part (next week, for example), go moderate with that weight. Don't try to pop blood vessels in your forehead until you are sure your body isn't going to backfire on you. The older you are, the longer it takes to get back into the swing of things. 

I have found a great conversation starter (and way to make friends at the gym) is asking someone for a spot or offering to give someone else a spot. 

O2 Saturation can, for the most part, be ignored. If your O2 Saturation levels are low, then your lungs are not getting enough oxygen to your blood. 

I personally always try to have a good, easily absorbed protein shake within an hour of ending my workout (contrary to comments on Christopher Bruce's answer). My personal favorite is this low calorie, low cost, whey protein isolate: $URL$ It is cheaper than drinking the same amount of protein in a glass of milk. 

If you have been stuck at a given Max Squat weight for several months and you are trying to increase that Max Squat weight, anything different is good to break that stagnant environment. 

Can you define PWO? Is that PRE-Workout or POST-Workout? I can still provide some information, I just do not know the context of your definition. You are definitely taking too much protein at one time. Your body is likely convert that extra protein into fat so it can store it. The benefits of a pre-workout shake vary with what state your body is going to be in before you get to the gym. 

It sounds like those chicken wraps and Chipotle are what are hurting you. I am a software developer. I hit the gym in the mornings hard enough to soak my shirt, then I clean up and sit at a desk all day. I've monitored my calorie intake for many months, and I have found that my desk job burns about 1,500 calories a day. On days I go to the gym, I can add 200 to 300 calories to that. A Chipotle burrito is a wonderful thing, but nothing says you can't take a knife and cut it in half - saving the other half for later. What you need to do is get control of the calories you are taking in. Carrying around a little notebook, writing down your foods, and looking up everything you eat is a pain and time consuming. I bet you have a smart phone, though. Right? Get an app. Here's a free Android app that I like: $URL$ You can use the barcode to scan a food item if it has it, but it also has a lot of common foods (like Chipotle and Duncan Donuts). You can put in your goals, and see how it goes. If you are not losing weight, adjust your goals. The app will display log reminders for Breakfast, Lunch and Dinner, and it subtracts from your day's calories with every meal you put in. I'm sure there are other apps that are great, too. That's just the one I've found that I like the most. 

If someone is about to put a muscle group through a very strenuous exercise, stretching or warming up that muscle group beforehand can help prevent injuries. If someone has already put a muscle group through a strenuous exercise, stretching that muscle group afterwards will help dissipate any lactic acid buildup from the exercises. Running, from what I have experienced, does not put your arms through any sort of strenuous workout. ...unless you are doing something different from most people. So: No, there is no need to stretch your arms after jogging. That said, it doesn't hurt either. 

If you work abs with heavy weight, that muscle will get bigger. If you want a 6-pack, the trick is light weight with high reps. Check out The Rock just standing there. No abs. 

There is a product called ReFirm by Complete Nutrition. I cannot find it on their website, but the commercials on the radio claim that this stuff works by "shrinking your fat cells." I know in nutrition, Fat grams have about 8 calories whereas Protein and Carbohydrates each run roughly 4 calories per gram. So, if a Fat Cell stored in the body were to shrink, does that Fat Cell still have the same properties as a Fat Cell that has not been shrunk? What has changed? Was water removed? The commercial continues on to say that you can lose inches and fit into those clothes you no longer fit in. I'm thinking all of the fat is still there and the person weighs about the same - their Fat Cells are just smaller. Now they are, what, more dense? When the ReFirm program has ended, do these smaller Fat Cells regain their regular size the next time you have a glass of water? 

Until I find someone to hold the other side for me (as Markus suggested), I have been using a small 14-inch pipe wrench on the grip area of the dumbells. The only negative aspect to this is that the teeth on the pipe wrench tends to cut into the dumbell grip, leaving minor sharp edges. If I could find a way to soften the bite on the pipe wrench without sacrificing its effective grip, I would be done! 

1 gram of protein per 1 pound of muscle mass is a good rule of thumb if you want your muscles to grow. If you weight 150-lbs and you are at 15% body fat, then you have around 120 pounds of muscle mass (throwing the last digits out as bone mass). If you can distribute about 120 grams of protein throughout your day, then your body should have a good protein supply for building new muscle tissue. Half of a skinless chicken breast is about 6-ounces. The fitness app on my phone shows that comes to 50 grams of protein. Similarly, 6-ounces of Pacific Whiting fish comes to 31 grams of protein. There is 81 grams of protein. You still need carbohydrates and fat in your diet. You are not alone in finding it difficult to get your protein requirements, though. That is why the supplement industry provides so many protein drinks. 

If you are young, you can get away with it. If you did that for years while you were young (like I did), your joints will be wore out when you reach my age (44). I always warm up, now. I wish I had warmed up more when I was younger, but I didn't really see any point to it. For chest day, some good chest stretches help (grab a pole, twist your body, and stretch your pecs) and a couple sets of 20 using lightweight weight should go a long way. 

Personally, I have found that BEEF PROTEIN works better for me. My body just seems to respond better to it than it does to MILK PROTEIN. I buy cheap jerky to nibble on at my desk: 

I wonder about some of those "old school" ways, too. There is a spread on Arnold, showing his exercise routine and all those calories he takes in a day. Do you hit the gym HARD a couple of times a day, get lots of good daily cardio, and have a job working on the assembly line? Then 3150 calories might be what you would need to increase muscle mass. If you go to the gym 4 or 5 times a week, spending 30-60 minutes there, then go sit at a desk to provide sales support at your job, 3150 calories a day is likely going to make you gain fat faster over time. It can be hard for a trainer or website to tell one person how many calories that individual needs per day, because there are simply too many unknowns in different people's lives. The 40/40/20 rule is good, you just need to find out how many calories YOUR body needs at those ratios. It may sound a little gross, but a good way to judge your caloric intake is to look at your daily poop content: If there is a single, tiny hard log in there per day, you should increase your calories if you want to grow. If you are making 2+ trips per day with big monsters looking back, you might consider cutting back on your total calorie count to keep from adding to your total body fat percentage. Some people on here really don't like the personal poop inspection technique, but it is a great way for a person to learn a lot about what is going on inside their body. ASIDE: If anyone ever sees an article in Muscle Mag featuring the Personal Poop Inspection Technique, please let me know. 

A low dollar scale on Amazon is the Omron HBF-306C. I don't work for Amazon, so if you can find it somewhere else I will not be hurt. ;) 

If your body becomes adjusted to something, it's time to change. Never let your body figure out what your mind has planned for it. :) 

As general rule of thumb, every day you should try to take in 1 gram of protein for every pound of muscle (if you are on steroids, you can bump that to 2 grams of protein per pound of muscle). When you work your muscles, you tear fibers. When your body repairs those fibers, the muscle tissue grows back bigger. If you work legs in cycling and arms/shoulders in the gym, just be sure to get enough protein to rebuild those muscles. If you are losing weight and do not want to, then you need to increase your total calorie count. If you are gaining weight and want to go down, reduce your daily calorie intake. The average body can only process around 30 grams of protein in an hour. If you slurp down a 60 gram protein shake, whatever your body does not process during that hour window typically gets stored (as fat) or flushed out (restroom break). To grow faster, you will want to break up your protein intake into smaller meals, spread across your day, so that your total protein grams is equal to your muscle mass in pounds and you are not taking in too many grams of protein at any one time. Protein shakes are convenient, but there are other sources. Beef jerky, low-fat cottage cheese, and grilled chicken breasts are my favorites. Also, some carb and fat rich foods come with good sources of protein, like avocado, nuts (peanuts and almonds), eggs, and oatmeal. I have 4 boiled eggs, Jack's beef jerky, and a 2-lb container of Quaker Quick Oats on the other side. In the breakroom, I have a quart of cottage cheese. I keep these for snacks during the day, keeping my protein intake high. 

So, high reps with low weight. Also, it looks like you have a relatively high percentage of body fat to muscle mass, so you might want to consider eating healthier. Less fats and sugars. More protein and complex carbs. 

Having a protein before your workout will allow you to have more energy, resulting in your workouts feeling stronger, but you will not burn as much fat when you workout. After your workouts, it is commonly accepted that your body acts like a sponge for about an hour while your muscles attempt to collect nutrients to repair what was torn down during the workout. That is why it is important to have a quality source of protein immediately after your workouts. I would tend to say having your protein after your workouts is more important. If you are fat and/or you had a decent meal within the last 3 or 4 hours, that protein drink before a workout is not really needed because your body has energy stored up and ready to burn. If you are very lean and/or cutting calories to drop some weight, then you are likely to show up at the gym with no energy. To prevent this, take 10 to 25 grams of protein 30 to 60 minutes before going to the gym. This does not need to be 100% protein, and it would even be good to have some carbs in there to help make you feel pumped in the gym. That being said, I should probably start taking a little protein before I go to the gym in the morning because my body has fasted for 6 to 8 hours during my sleep. (Note to self...) 

$URL$ 1-oz has 11 grams of protein, so I usually have 2-oz (still small enough quantity to fit into your hand). You can even carry jerky around in your pocket if you are in a pinch. It's not the most sanitary, but it won't really hurt anything. After workouts, instead of having the traditional whey protein shake, I have been using this BEEF PROTEIN for the last 6-months: 

I read a study once where balding men were found to have higher testosterone levels than men with a full head of hair. People who take supplements to boost testosterone levels (like Sust 250) report an itchy scalp (it'll freakin drive you crazy, but don't ask me how I know). This has been attributed to the higher testosterone levels that are associated with those steroids. It effects everyone different, and it depends on the dosage and frequency of these "supplements". So, I would say hair loss is not related to body building per say, but rather to the levels of testosterone in the body. At a bodybuilding gym, there are going to be a higher percentage of people taking testosterone boosting supplements, hence there will be a higher percentage of balding men (or women) in there. 

Old Devil Dogs are OK in my book. First, if you have a torn rotator cuff or torn muscles, I'd say stop exercising this part of your body until you can get it repaired. If not, I am going to guess that you have not been stretching before you drop and give me 20 push-ups, are you? You need to warm up before you slam your shoulder with weights or you are going to make that injury worse. Stretching is best. Jumping jacks afterwards would give your shoulders mild activity to help get the area warmed up. Instead of going straight to the conventional push-ups, you could try leaning forward onto a wall and doing some weenie push-ups that way. If that does not aggravate your shoulder, your next exercise can be Girl Push-ups (knees on the floor). We won't laugh as long as you don't post pictures. EDIT: Doh! I should have added: Forward Raises, Lateral Raises, and Shrugs would be a great shoulder exercise while stuck in a hotel room. If you don't have dumbells, use phone books and bibles. They are almost always placed in every hotel. 

Your body has to convert calories to something it can use, whether that be glucose or fat. If calories are converted to glucose, your body is going to burn it off (or it goes to the toilet). When calories are stored as fat, it takes longer for your body to access that energy because it now has to convert stored fat to glucose. This makes a person feel tired. Eating before bed is going to result in more calories being stored as fat because the body does not need that energy while in shutdown mode. If your body burns 2000 calories a day and you eat 2000 calories a day, eating shortly before bed will result in you feeling more sluggish during the day. If you take in 2000 calories a day now and you made it a point to take in that fuel early enough for your body to process more of it into glucose, you are likely to burn more than 2000 calories. If I eat at 6 PM and go to bed at 9 PM, that should be equivalent to you eating at 10 PM and going to bed at 1 AM. 

Treadmills are easier, but it won't be a big difference (unless it is raining, freezing, or very hot outside), which is probably what friz meant. Someone on a treadmill could easily cheat by cranking the speed way up and hanging onto the rails, letting the motor pull their legs. But then that is cheating. You can't really cheat when you are walking on the ground. You are not physically moving the mass of your body, but the motion of moving your legs and arms are still going to cause your heart rate to increase and calories to burn. Walking "in the wild" (i.e. on the ground) can burn more calories because of the extra work required to move the mass ...but it should be negligible in the grand scheme of things given that treadmills are so versatile.