You need to know that BMI is a poor indicator if you are not middle aged with a sedentary lifestyle. BMI was developed as a tool to look at averages across a large population not as an individual assessment tool. Although, due its popularity has become a defacto tool used by many to do this, when it wasn't designed that way. You have two options, you can either look at yourself in the mirror and think about how you feel about your body / fitness / strength and then set yourself some goals or get a proper fitness assessment done where you will be assessed on your fitness and strength as well as having your weight and body fat measured. This information will then be used to provide you with some goals and a sensible plan to reach those goals. In regards to becoming skinnier, this largely depends on what you put in your mouth if you are exercising heavily. In the past three months I have gone from 72kg to 76kg and lost 6% body fat. I am not taking protein supplements. I am doing a huge amount of cardio and also two weight sessions per week. So this is offset by a large uptake in the amount of food I eat. If you exercise and start losing body fat, you will build up some muscle, but if you are doing large amounts of cardio and no strength training or weights and you are not changing the way you are eating you may find you look skinnier. If you decide to get someone to do your assessment mention to them that you want to put on weight and discuss with them the best way to do it. It takes a while to do, but with the right program and nutrition you can be heading in the right direction. 

The problem I am trying to resolve is either dropping off my training too early in the week and feeling a bit stiff on the day we play or I over train and can't maintain speed/power/endurance because my legs are still sore or tired. I play on the same day every week so I'm interested in finding out what sort of a weekly routine do football teams have as they are also on a weekly cycle and I assume there has been plenty of research done into: 

Whenever jogging for long distances after some time I feel my breathing is quite laboured. The only solution is to slow down my pace for a while before proceeding. I have checked with my GP and I don't have asthma. Are there any exercises or techniques I can use to improve my breathing or lung capacity that will be a benefit while I'm jogging? 

I would like to learn how to strap my ankle before playing soccer. I have had some problems with my ankle and I've heard many professional players strap regardless of being injured or not. I also need to know which is the best tape I should be using. I've never bought this before and don't know what I'm looking for. 

Drink lots and lots of water, this will keep the system running smoothly. You can put this in the fluids category if you need one. 

Are two or three finger push-ups a matter of finger/hand or arm strength? What techniques should I use to learn two or three finger push-ups (if it is finger strength how do I build this up etc.) 

What difference, if any, will it make if my hands are over the bar rather away from me or behind the bar towards me when doing a chin-up? Does this work different sets of muscles? Is one more difficult than the other? Should my workout contain different sets of both ways or is it just a preference thing? 

Matt, you can do the same exercise (squats) while holding onto something in front of you e.g. a bar or chair for support until you build up the strength in your legs. This will allow you greater control while doing the squat. Also don't go so far down that you risk injury. If you can't make it all the way you are better of only going part of the way down until you build up the necessary strength. 

I've tried both approaches but never seem to get anywhere more than around 15 and then collapse in a heap. What can I do to increase the number and be able to do more without it being a major struggle as neither of the above methods seems to work? 

On my iPhone I have RunKeeper and MyFitnessPal. Run Keeper is great because it tracks via GPS where you have run, elevation, time and also provides an estimate on the calories burned. It also helps track a variety of different activities e.g. cycling, running, walking etc. Preamble: I do not work for or benefit from MyFitnessPal, it's a free app on the iTunes store and so far has a 5 star rating and hundreds of positive reviews. I just like it a lot. MyFitnessPal is awesome, I can't say enough good things about it. It revolves around a daily diary which reflects your calorie target for the day at the top. You enter what you eat and the number of calories is adjusted accordingly. It also allows you to enter exercise records which you can bring across from RunKeeper (manually). Calories from exercise are also reflected in the daily total. The other great thing about MyFitnessPal is you can scan barcodes of products that you are eating, it has thousands of products in the database and it is all free. So if I am eating yoghurt I just scan the barcode, enter the serving size and the calories are automically included as the item is added to the daily diary. The diary is also split into different meal times, snacks etc. It won't tell you exactly what to eat, however, you can easily search the database of meals, pick out something that is tasty and meets your calorie target and cook that. I eat a lot of traditional Chinese meals and the database has so far had everything. You can also save a particular group of foods e.g. your breakfast and re-use it later without having to enter the items over again or copy from one date to another. This is particularly useful for myself who eats almost the same meal every day for breakfast. I have only just discovered MyFitnessPal, but it's so easy to use and works well. 

Your aim with weight training for running is for strength and not for "bulking up". There are a whole bunch of exercises that you can find just by Googling "weight training for running". With dumbbells you will be looking at doing things like lunges, steps and squats to target the legs. Again, just Google "dumbell squats" etc. and have a look on youtube to see videos. I also suggest doing crunches and sit-ups for long distance running. You will find that strong abdominals helps improve balance and if your legs are quite strong you will notice the burn in your abs once you start running long distances. 

With the dance exercises involved in Zumba this definitely fits in the aerobic exercise category. For best results you should combine this with some resistance training. 

Regardless of my situation I think this info would be useful for others, so: How do I know if I have a sprain or a strain? What are the differences between a sprain or a strain? What is the difference in how each of these should be treated? What should I do later to prevent the injury from returning? 

It's hard to find nutritional info on fruits and veg. because they are not written on the side of the packet in the supermarket so it's something you will need to research for yourself. About.com has the breakdown on many foods including fruit and veg. here are the links: Nutrition information for individual fruits Nutrition information for vegetables For more detailed information including meats and recipes, check out this link: $URL$ 

You should also be careful of slips and falls if it is or has recently snowed or rained. Make sure you have decent shoes. Also you are much warmer when you are running so when you stop if you are not wearing too much make sure you go somewhere warmer once you start to cool down. Also be careful not to take too long breaks in between running if you are clothed lightly. Depending on how cold it is, your body will cool down rapidly if you stand there without moving. I've seen people jogging on the spot at traffic lights to keep their legs warm and the blood flowing. 

Start easy and try something like a raised bar or railing and work your way down or start on your knees until you strengthen your arms. Keep persisting, even you can initially only do a few, you will eventually be able to do more. 

It's fine to skip arm specific exercises if you are already happy with how they are progressing without direct exercises. I personally focus more on my legs because I need them more for the sport I play. You can also focus more on strengthening exercises using something like Ausband than building large arm muscles. Which is what I do. 

In my own experience I have regularly attended a gym with a friend when I was just out of high school. He was a few steps ahead of me in terms of fitness and strength and he was quite committed. This was really helpful as it meant I would try harder to reach my goals. I have also joined gyms and made friends by attending regularly. You tend to find a few of the same people showing up at the same time if you attend the same time regularly. Meeting people this way is less 1 on 1 and means you can do your own thing if you want, but also makes the overall experience more enjoyable and encouraging to keep returning. 

Weight loss is not a linear process and it is quite common for people to plateau while loosing weight. This is something that has to be accepted and should be a positive for your girlfriend so that she can understand that what is happening is normal. It's a matter of persisting with the diet and with the exercise although there won't be any immediate visual indicators that she is progressing. The plateau happens as part of your body's normal adaption to weight loss. It has to adapt to the new situation and this takes time. So even if you persist through this plateau there will likely be others as your girlfriend heads towards her goal. Let her know that it is normal and it will take time. Also she can take pride in knowing that by eating right and exercising she is still doing the best thing for her body even though there is no weight loss. Good luck and keep up the hard work! 

It is fine to reach a certain weight and stick at that weight. However, different muscles react differently to increased weight. Just because you don't want large bulging muscles doesn't mean that you shouldn't increase your weight for every exercise. You can stick to one weight when doing something like bicep curls and a different weight when doing squats etc. When you stick to a certain weight eventually you will level off as your body adapts to that weight, which is fine. You just need to decide where that level is. My suggestion is don't stick to the same weight for every exercise because you can use different weight for each exercise. Maybe you want stronger thighs, but don't want a lot of upper body muscle. Then you can keep increasing the weight when doing something like squats, but use lighter weights when working your arms. If you want to do some work at home you can buy from most sports stores a set of weights that has a variety of weights allowing you change the weight as needed. So don't just by two dumbbells with 4x 2.5kg weights. Buy a set that includes 4 x 1.25, 4 x 2.5 and 4 x 5 or something similar. This will be your basic start and then if you want to go higher at a later time you can buy larger individual weights. For which exercises you should use heavier weights on, I suggest speaking to the gym staff or trainer and speak to them about your goals. Do you want to run faster, do you want greater core strength, do you want general fitness etc. your goals will determine where you should focus.