In any computational environment(digital,neural,analog or quantum mechanical) is it possible to write or construct a program which can be construed as free will? 

The elctro-magnetism works fine. Gravity works fine. The two theories can live separately. At atomic scale the electromagnetism theory can be employed and at large scale gravity can be employed. My question is why are we trying to unite the theory of electromagnetism and theory of gravity into one Unified theory ? What is the philosophical reason behind it? 

We are free people. Why are we free ? Because we have not committed any crime. And what do you call a person who has not committed any crime ? Innocent. Therefore by default we are all innocent unless proven otherwise. 

Recently I decided to give up my religion. However I am confused which philosophy or philosopher should I follow to guide me in my life. I assume philosophy is mature and capable of replacing religion as there are many mature Atheists like Richard Dawkins etc. My question is : As an Atheist which philosopher or philosophy should I follow to help me grow in the world ? 

Almost all religions observed that life is a suffering and provided means to end the human suffering by doing some prayer or penance. Most philosophers also ,I guess, recognize that life is a suffering. However from philosophical point of view , have we come up with a theory to end human suffering other than by taking drugs or medicines? 

According to philosophy ,what is a phenomenon ? And does that definition include mental phenomenons as well? Lastly , is there anything which is not a phenomenon? 

I have seen people converting to Atheism by simply pledging to the belief that there is no God. No other requirements but only a dogmatic belief in the non-existence of God. But as a mature person one would want a philosophy in addition to atheism to deal with the problems of the world. Atheism does not offer any such philosophy by default. I personally tried to adopt scientific atheism. It turned out to be dogmatic when I saw it refusing the cases of rebirths of people as genuine. It turned out to be dogmatic when I saw it refusing to recognize free-will as a formless property of Universe.I personally found it dogmatic when scientific atheism insisted on consciousness as an emergent property of matter (matter+chemical juggling= consciousness). In short as much as I have grown as a scientific atheist I have found that there are dogmas within the scientific community. Why is that case ? Because Science creators started with a belief system which challenged God and then tried to become God by converting men into Atheism. Atheism relies heavily on the dogmas of science to prove or make belief that there is no God. 

Based on the nature of existence we find that it is only possible to define absolute Truths on a plane of perpetual existence. To illustrate my point of view ,suppose that I observe a cemetery,and I say I found a Truth that there is a cemetery. However due to nature of existence that true statement may only have a finite lifespan because observation of cemetery might turn out to be just a dream or dream like. That true statement might just turn out to be a lie. So my question are : 1.According to philosophy , what is the definition of Truth? 2.Is there an Absolute Truth? (a true statement which will always remain true independent of the nature of existence) I have taken no formal education in philosophy so please edit the question if it needs to rephrased. 

OK, after wading through some of Karen Barad's work I'll give this a shot. I'll put a disclaimer right here that this is largely educated guesswork. As the OP says, Karen's writing style is very opaque, especially when she leaves off a direct discussion of her field of expertise (quantum physics) and starts trying to apply physics to sociology. Barad proposes a theory she calls Agential Realism in which the world is made up of Phenomena which are (I think) the Entanglements you are asking about. They are the inseperability of agencies (subjects and objects) in an interaction. In Barads view, the universe can be thought of, not as a continuous flow of causality, but as an infinite series of 'snapshots' or 'slices of time' each of which is preceeded by the various factors led to that exact state of affairs and is followed by an infinity of possible universes that resolves into one determined future when a descision is made. Example: I pick up a coffee cup. Under Agential Realism Theory the moment at which I pick up the coffee cup is not just preceeded by my descision to take a drink. It is also preceeded by my descision to make coffee instead of tea, my choice of cup, the fact that I came to work this morning instead of staying in bed etc. It is proceeded by a variety of possibilities inculing my spilling the coffee on myself, taking a drink or dropping the coffee on my computer and dying in an electrical fire. In this model the entanglements are the connections between past, future and the agents involved in the interaction (in the example, me and the coffee cup). To utilise this in a programming language the entanglements would be the commands you write to the object model with the agencies involved being the Object Model and the Compiler. I would imaging that such a programming language would look somehting like the self-learning code that the google-brain and other neutral nets use to teach themselves based on external input. They aren't based on a traditional Object Model but instead rewrite their own command sets on the fly as new information is presented. 

Newtons work is hugely important but it has been improved upon and largely superceded by that of Einstein and Hawking once you leave the field of classical mechanics. In Einsteins model, the three Euclydian dimensions of Space and the fourth dimension, Time, combine into a single four dimensional continuum known as Minkowski Space. This makes it possible to desribe supergalactic and subatomic processes in a more complete and uniform way. The mutable nature of space-time is observable in the way that it is distorted by the gravity of massive objects such as stars and planets. This effect is known as gravitational lensing and is well proven with observational evidence. 

In his Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica, Isaac Newton laid out the fundamentals of what we now call Calculus and used them to derive the Laws of Motion. Those laws were so precise and accurate that they are still in use, with slight modifications by Einstein, today. Newton also developed the Laws of Optics and the Binomial Theorum. He may have made the greatest contribution to science of any single human who has ever lived. During his examination of the movement of the planets of our solar system, Newton quantified the, now famous, n-body problem as being the interaction between the gravitational forces of all the bodies involved in the orbit of a given body. Newton declared that the problem conformed to his Law of Universal Gravitation but was fundamentally unsolvable. The problem was solved by the Finnish mathematician Karl F Sunderman in 1906 using methods derived from newtons own laws. Newton could have done this himself. There is no doubt that he had the mind to do it. He simply decided that the question was unanswerable and stopped looking. That is the danger of calling anything undiscoverable. It is only undiscoverable until someone discovers it. The entire universe lies within the scope of science to comprehend and we have only seen a tiny fraction of what is out there. Remember that our brains are evolved to chase antelope on the Senrengeti and yet we've used them to put humans on the moon. 

we can continue our logical pursuits in one of two ways: (1) we can equip this language with a proof system (a set of axioms and rules of inference) and start deriving truths of propositional logic, and/or (2) we can equip this language with a semantics (an interpretation of its formulas in some recognized structure) and start reasoning semantically. The question under consideration is about the semantics for (Definition 1), so we will ignore proof systems of classical propositional logic and consider its semantics: 

In the sections leading up to that claim Carnap discusses a first class of what he calls 'pseudo-statements', which are all sentences characterized by having in them some 'meaningless' word. The sentence "kjdfho is great" is a pseudo-statement of that first class, because it includes the presumably meaningless expression 'kjdfho'. Then, in §4 Carnap turns his attention to a second class of 'pseudo-statements', which includes sentences that while grammatically meaningful, are still not acceptable. As examples he considers the following ungrammatical sentence (1) and the grammatical sentence (2): 

Example. PA says that [insert Peano Axioms here]. Therefore: addition on N is commutative. As you can see, the step where you express your "trust" in the axioms is missing, because it's not needed. Whatever anyone may think of the axioms, this argument is valid. Well, I left out the details and qualifications. PA doesn't say that addition is commutative in the sense that it's not among its axioms; but the commutativity of addition follows from the axioms of PA in a sense which can be made very precise. You may have all sorts of reasons to like or dislike PA, but the argument from PA to P when P is a logical consequence of PA doesn't depend on your preferences. I think the same applies to all arguments from axioms: they don't depend on anyone's belief about the truth of the axioms. In fact, some of the greats like Hilbert, Carnap, and Curry, have (at least once in their writings) entertained the thought that axioms should simply be treated as meaningless sequences of symbols, which can be manipulated to yield other meaningless sequences of symbols by basic combinatorial processes. (If interested in these things, check out Alan Weir's SEP Formalism article). 

The first one (often called semantic brackets) is mostly found in formal semantics, and it's the name of the evaluation function, which maps expressions in a formal language to objects in the model of evaluation. Suppose A is the sentence "snow is white." Here's how semantic brackets are used: 

Understood as: the semantic value of "nothing" is still something, this is true if and only if "nothing" has a semantic value. We know that it does; it's a function from open sentences to truth-values. So yes: the semantic value of "nothing" is something. 

Those points mean that since your problem is underspecified, we can only proceed informally and by making assumptions. The assumption will be that we're working with a propositional language, so logical truth will mean tautology for the rest of our discussion. Let's continue by recalling the basic definition of what makes an argument valid, making use of the notion of logical truth as tautology. 

Is (3) well-typed? Since π is not a natural number, (3) is not a well-typed expression. It may be a well-formed numerical expression according to a rule that says that a unary numerical function (e.g. prime) applied to a numerical expression (e.g. π) yields another numerical expression (e.g. 3). But it's nevertheless not well-typed because the domain of definition of prime doesn't include non-natural numbers in it (see T above). After the realization that (3) is not well-typed, the non-well-typedness of (2) shouldn't be surprizing. 'Caesar' is not a numerical expression, so it's certainly not an expression that has a value in natural numbers. Now, that's a reason to regard (2) as not well-typed. The general question that arises here is whether we should consider not well-typed sentences as 'pseudo-sentences', as Carnap there does. Type-restrictions can be a helpful device for checking the correctness all sorts of mathematical constructions, so well-typedness is certainly an incredibly useful notion, but whether it should be grounds for partitioning the set of well-formed sentences of a given language into acceptable and unacceptable ones might be an interesting topic for another discussion.                                                                      References Ayer, A.J. (1959) Logical Positivism. Carnap, R. (1953) "The Elimination of Metaphysics Through Logical Analysis of Language", Ayer 1959. Cumming, S. (2014) λ–Calculus and Type Theory, Lecture Course (Winter), UCLA.