Welcome to the world of the politician! You need to divorce yourself from the process, and speak as though you are a mediator between the person and the process. You aren't a representative of the process, you are the person's friend, and are trying valiantly to help them deal with the process. Emphasize the following 

There are a lot of people who aren't passionate about their work, or choose not to express their passion for their work outside their work. So don't set up false expectations for yourself. It's nice for an employer to find someone who so enjoys their field that they pursue it for personal projects. However this is something that is natural for those so designated as "passionate" for their craft. They aren't doing it because they want to be seen as more valuable to some employers - they are doing it because they enjoy their field so much that work alone doesn't satisfy their need to explore it. Forcing yourself to pursue your field outside your work will likely have the opposite effect for you - you'll want to do it less - if it doesn't come naturally. But here's the key: Some employers don't want passionate employees. I joined a company years ago that was owned and run by an engineer, and the company culture was very friendly to those who got easily caught up in their work. They gave away product to employees for personal use (hardware) and we didn't work on company projects at home, we used it for fun, interesting projects that only occasionally came to benefit the company directly. This company was sold to another company, and at the introduction meeting I asked, "Is there a discount on company products for personal use?" and the response from the VP of engineering was, "We prefer that you devote your design energies to work projects rather than personal projects." That company was no longer a good fit for me, but that doesn't mean it's a bad company - they just had a different culture, and the employees who work there are happy to work at work, and leave it behind when they leave work. So if you don't have a natural need to explore your field 24/7, you will find work environments that fit your needs and level of passion without having to fake or force it. Focus on being able to demonstrate your expertise. If you have side projects relevant to your interview, bring them up. If not, don't sweat it - you're looking for a company that fits you as much as you fit them. 

Every manager should expect to get some advice and direction from their experienced employees, that's a mild form "managing up" but there are some situations that I've seen that go beyond that: 

The chain of command has been bypassed, which is something a manager can do a lot easier than an employee, what I'm suggesting is that you act (to the best of your ability) like it hasn't and loop your boss in before (and probably after) the meeting with your boss's boss. 

Be sure to request some sort of official project so that it doesn't look like you are goofing off or are making slow progress on your other project(s). Meeting with your Boss's Boss - again tact and honesty. Part of an employee's unofficial job description is to make your boss look good. You should do your best to do this if you honestly can, but your boss's boss needs the truth to make the best decisions. Make sure anything negative you might say about the code or the project has been brought up with your boss first and report based on what your boss's decision was. Again some things that be useful: 

He has a different pattern of communication than you, and this difference is getting under your skin. 

Leave it at that. Don't offer further explanation. If they press you for more information, a simple, "I have other plans, but maybe next time," is perfectly sufficient, even if those plans are merely avoiding driving more than necessary. Don't feel guilty about saying no, but do recognize that as you turn them down in the second case, they will naturally stop inviting you, and you will miss out on events you might have said yes to. This is simply a consequence of saying no frequently, and isn't a bad thing. 

Most bad managers I've seen were a mix of 2 and 3 and that seems to be what you are facing, everyone is different so I can only offer a few suggestions and leave it to you to judge and adapt: 

Those may or may not dissuade future borrowing, but at least it will make it so you'll WANT people to steal your chair. I'd check for tacks before you sit down in case someone retaliates. 

If nothing else this will make your chair easier to find again, but I think people will be less likely to grab your chair once it's obviously yours. 

Again, this is an issue of communication. Your company may have rules against eating at your desk. You should ask your manager to clarify the rules since you were unaware of them. Ask for the rule in writing, so you don't misunderstand them. If they don't exist in writing, keep that information for future use. Your company may have rules regarding personal use of fragrances or aerosols. Ask for clarification about what rules the coworker was operating under when she sprayed your work area with an offensive perfume that ruined your lunch. Now ask what rules the company has about gift giving and gift returns. Make sure they understand that you are asking these questions in order to make sure you are in compliance. Then you need to find out the companies bullying response policy. Now review all the relevant rules, and determine which ones you broke. Then spend some time writing a letter apologizing for those rules you broke, explaining you were unaware of them at the time, and that you will endeavor to fulfill them in the future. If you want to pursue the lunch spraying incident ask how the rules permit employees to spray other work areas, and if you are also allowed to spray her work area if you find her perfume, coffee, or body odor aggravating. Make sure they understand that by allowing this woman to spray you without discussing the problem first, she is in direct violation of the bullying policy as described. Then continue the letter explaining how the whole process unfolded, and how much you were hurt at specific points of the process. Emphasize that it's not about the lost lunch and disrespectful coworker, but what concerns you now is that your concerns were not treated appropriately by management and HR. Point out specifically where their response is in direct violation of the bullying policy as explained. It is by likely that once you present them with written letter or email, they will backtrack significantly. Written words that leave a trail of vide cue get more action than verbal discussions. But it's clear that these issues are aggravated by your lack of communication, or style of communication, with your coworkers. I believe you can resolve these issues much more quickly and painlessly if you work on your interpersonal skills. There are many, many books on the topic. 

The more prone to being a leader you are, the easier this will be to change from the inside, but this is really your manager's responsibility and that should be your first move (unless the manager is straight out of a Dilbert cartoon). 

It sounds like he thinks you are approachable and knowledgable, this is generally a good thing. If you want to handle this gently then you're going to have to drill a little deeper and figure out the root of the reason he comes to you. Here are a few things that I've seen (or done) and some suggestions that might help: 

Number 1 is probably easy enough for a rough guess. "Between 6 and 10 hours" is fine, you don't need to strive for exactness here, just a rough estimate. Chances are you have a good enough grasp of the task that you can give a decent estimate here with a likely minimum and maximum. Number 2 is going to require a little more work each week. If you track tasks and time already it shouldn't be hard, but even if you don't just keep a notepad, and every time you finish a task write down the priority level and how many hours you spent on it. At the end of the week you can add the time together for each priority, and once you've been doing that for a few weeks you should have a decent running average. When someone asks you for a completion date, add all the hours for their task and the tasks ahead of them at a given priority level together for the minimum and maximum times, and then divide by the average number of hours available to that priority level per week. Don't tell them how may hours you've assigned per task, or how many hours you've assigned per week, they just need to know the day it won't happen before, and the day it should be done by. "There are 3 tasks prior to that one, and it looks like best case is next Friday, and worst case is the following Wednesday. Check with me in a few days and I'll have a better estimate." If there are tasks that need to be done that never get done, you can consider implementing an time-based priority level increase. Low priority tasks, if not done within weeks, move up to the next priority level. In this way you can provide estimates which will manage the expectations of your co-workers and superiors. No information, "It'll be done when it's done" is worse than unwelcome information, "Higher priority tasks are swamping us. It'll be 8 weeks before this receives an automatic priority upgrade, and then it'll take a week or two in that queue until it's finished." 

It's probably a combination of several of the above and you'll have to adjust your strategy accordingly. 

I think you have a valid concern, but that the benefits of putting relevant coding experience on your resume out-weigh the chance you'll have someone reading your resume that will count game playing against you. Violating a game's ToS is probably not something that is going to count against you unless you directly profited by that action. A tech guy that plays video games is not going to be a shock to anyone familiar with tech guys. I would describe your bot in user interface terms instead of gaming terms. Ex. Gamer = User, Game = Program, Navigate the Game = Navigate the Program's User Interface. This will eliminate anyone that is filtering resumes from removing you from consideration due to your gaming. If you get to the interview stage just make sure to keep the focus on the code and don't talk about the game more than you have to, avoid any in-game jargon. Evaluate how they respond and direct the conversation accordingly. If you can talk about it professionaly and not come off as a game-crazed geek you should be OK in most cases - good luck! 

The company is if they issued it to you. If you own it and are responsible for its upkeep then you are responsible, otherwise its the company's responsibility to provide you with adequate tools. 

Without specific details it's hard to assess and recommend a specific course of action. Sit down with your boss and have a discussion about all these issues. Phrase it with "I, me" and ask for advice as to how you can change to better communicate with this individual rather than using "Them, they" and expecting the boss to magically change them. They may not have any advice, but at minimum they will understand better what's going on without having to guess, and it should short circuit most attempts that others might use to undermine you. If they have advice, take it. Show a good faith effort towards making this working relationship succeed, and keep in touch with the boss frequently so they know how things are going. Chances are the new person has a lot more contact with the boss than you, so increase your contact and if something comes up it can be dealt with in a timely manner rather than waiting for things to fester.