This is simply unacceptable. In most companies this should be reported to HR, or suitable authorities. I'd like to use a certain set of 3 4 letter words to describe this, but I'll settle for "This is unacceptable". If there isn't such a system, don't let them get to you. Be firm, let them know this is unacceptable politely, and don't loose your cool. 

Typically, no, unless they specifically ask for it. As for previous experience in a different field, I'd consider it for two reasons. Firstly if there's a gap in your employment history. Secondly, if you can talk about it in an interview. The average tech resume is a page. At the end of the day, your qualifications matter more than the breakdown of your grades. Did you pass with honours? Add that. Did you get a D in one module and a gold star in spelling? Less interesting. Consider as well that you're writing a resume for someone who's going to be skimming over it, and might not be technical. Keep it simple, focus on qualifications and skills, and you ought to have an easier time. As for grades? I tend to bring a copy of them to an interview on a first interview in case anyone asks. I found that its more for "does he have the degree" than "what's his grades" in many cases. 

Lots of good answers here but I think there's another aspect to this that you aren't considering. You got a job that was supposed to be a programming job but wasn't and then you turned it into one. That, my friend, is called 'success'. You found an escape route out of the trap of a dead-end job. But now, instead of parlaying your achievement into a real satisfying career, you are considering squandering it? This won't last forever. At some point this company and/or this legacy system will no longer be around. And then what? You put on your resume that you were a spreadsheet jockey for X years or do you tell them that you actually are a programmer but haven't been doing anything because you never told your employer what you were doing? I'm a father too so I get that spending time with your son is important but you also have a life. I think you are wasting your talents and this will ultimately make you less happy. You work remote now. There are tons of jobs on SO that allow remote work. I think not telling your employer is the worst choice you can make here. At the very least they should employ you long enough to integrate this solution into the actual application. For your own good, you probably shouldn't admit to doing nothing for any significant length of time. 

You're kind of expected to have a certain amount of responsibility in the working world. Actually in the real world, I've rarely, if ever had workplaces with AUPs, and one of them was basically "Don't do anything that would get you in trouble". That said, if you can't access something you shouldn't be. 

I'm a forward caste dude. And outside what I eat, and who I'd eventually potentially marry, it has no affect on the real world. I'm a semi practicing bramin. I'm pretty sure there's folks who're probably closer to their own dharma, or a better bramin than me by faith, not birth, and there's a few folks who give us a bad name, and don't even do the basics. Its nothing more than a label in most aspects of life, and a faded one to boot. And well your issues have nothing to do with the caste system. Its plain old corruption and nepotism. Your workplace is toxic and these people use this as an excuse. 

Is this the only reason? Is seniority in play? Are there other factors? Any workplace where promotion is not by merit is a little toxic, and politics in most places tends to be more interpercial. To close - the caste system is a relic of a long time ago, and used and abused by politicians and others for their own ends. Its the cause of many social ills and well, not always how you think it is. How bad it is really depends on the state, and unless you want to go into politics, its going to be a hard slog. There's nothing stopping you from creatively using these elements for good. At the end of the day though, if its one man swimming against a tide of filth, it might be a better idea to consider getting a transfer to a more enlightened state. This sounds like one of the worse places to be. 

Depending on how the organization is structured, this can be a difficult situation because the manager is in a position of power. In some companies (e.g. Google, from what I read) it's normal for people at lower levels in the organization to push back hard on management. If you are in a company with a more traditional stratified power structure, it's probably not the best option to directly challenge the manager. If this is a concern and it seems like it is, you will probably need to get help for your manager. Explain the situation and convince them that it is leading to issues with their team's performance i.e. your ability to deliver. If your manager is a peer or senior to the manager in question, they can address this. If not, they will need to look up the chain of leadership for assistance. Your manager may know what to do immediately. If not, suggest they attend the meeting and make sure the agenda is followed. This should prevent the other manager from monopolizing the meeting. 

Good news is? They haven't told you to pack up your stuff and leave, especially as a new employee. You've been given a chance to explain yourself - which is a ... well, less than negative sign. That said, this is ... going to be hard to explain. The best strategy here really is to prepare your resume, and go face the music. Be earnest, apologetic and well realise you've messed up. Listen to what they have to say, apologise anyway. If you have a legitimate work related reason - like testing geographically, well, then, the truth works. Its also worth considering most contracts have a notice period, and they could go "ok, we'll pay off your notice period. Please pack your stuff and leave" 

Its undo pressure that keeps you from doing your job. Treat it exactly as someone who would do it for a brother, cousin or child. If you can do it, do it anyway. If you have a superior who actually values the work you do, let him know this is happening 

I take it that this is your first job out of school. It's a rough time and since you don't have any experience to draw on, it can be a little unnerving when someone takes advantage of your newness. If I were you, my first step would be to get some intel on this guy. Do you have any friends in the company yet? Do you feel good about your manager? I imagine this must be a fairly small company since the CEO is personally handling the hiring of someone at your level. This guy must have some sort of reputation by now. You should start asking people you trust "what's with [insert freak's name here]?" And tell them (in confidence) what he's been saying to you. If you don't have any friends at work, make some. In the meantime, you might want to ask him what he wants from you. From what I can tell in your post, there doesn't seem to be any point to these conversations other than you intimidate you. I would try to come across as casually bored by these conversations but start asking questions like "is there a point to this?" I had a coworker at my first 'real' job that would take it upon himself to put me down, one-up me, or minimize my achievements regularly. Years on, I think he was just threatened by me. I worked with him for maybe a year but it felt like a long time. My guess is that this is what you are dealing with. The best thing to do is be the adult and act confidently. 

Make sure that all the paperwork you'd need to get your next job is in order, check to see if your manager would give you a positive reference for your next job, update your resume, and start looking for your next job. The moment you're asked to leave, there's no real reason to have any sort of loyalty or attachment to your last company. They've chosen to cut you loose (and the end of the year's not the best time for that). At this point there's nothing left for you at your old company. You can always prove yourself at your next job. 

The CV's meant to get your foot in the door. Personally I put the month of award once its completed (and leave out the dates when it was in progress) , but you could always put May 2010 - June 2014 (Awarded Aug 2014). When the exact details matter, you probably will already be interviewing, and can clear minor stuff like that easily. No one's going to bother if you're a little off, especially where such delays are standard 

The term "man-hours" is a somewhat antiquated and it does carry some baggage but you shouldn't take too much offense. The continued use of it is really not any more sexist than the term "manhole". Can a woman go into a manhole and does she feel less welcome in the sewer because of the name of the entrance? That said, this is being replaced over time. You could advocate something more specific based on the kind of work. If you are in software, you can use terms 'developer-hours' or 'dev-hours' vs 'arch-hours' to distinguish the kind of work. Another option is to change to 'days' and while you are at it call them 'person-days'. 'Man-days' sounds strange. It's really hard to measure how many hours of work a given person has put in. One man's hour might not accomplish as much as given woman's hour, for example. On the other hand, there is no ambiguity around when a day has passed and how many days are left until a deadline arrives. 

Its probably worth looking at both sides of the issue "We follow some ISO standard for security, specifically 27001, from what I can gather" These are generally a pain in the ass requiring much box ticking. Your IT department is probably doing what they are supposed to be doing, and getting in their face about it isn't going to help any. In fact, even looking at the wikipedia makes it clear that its pedantic by design, and I thankfully am not reading through the whole thing for an answer. Spare a thought for the IT guys who actually have to read, understand and implement this! If you're going to have to ask for changes, consider that the decision is probably made higher up, and possibly by less technical folk. You're probably going to have to work out the right person and way to ask, and its as much a political as much as a technical decision. One possibility would be to see if you can get an isolated development/test environment, airgapped from the main network (but once again, this depends on your corporate standards.) Some of these requests may be more feasable than others.