(not a speaker, but my limited knowledge of the language and use of a dictionary tells me that this is reasonable – if a Somali speaker can weigh in, that would be enlightening). Google translates the Somali text to English as 

Sentences can be conjoined (“I bought a car and Sally sold a goat”), and so can VPs, thus you can say 

I suggest comparing (monolingual) Spanish in the region, Basque in the same region, Basque in France, and (monolingual) French in that region. If there is an influence on pronunciation (either way), it may be most evident in phonetic details rather than phonemic shifts. I don't speak Spanish (or Basque), and I found, listening to the news in Vitoria-Gasteiz that I had to struggle to tell when they were speaking Spanish vs. Basque, so at the phonetic level they are fairly similar. 

A. Vovin 1994 "Is Japanese Related to Austronesian" addresses the relation between Austronesian and Japonic, including morphological correspondences, and finds the hypothesis wanting. A. Kumar 1996 in "Does Japanese have an Austronesian substratum?" investigates the matter further, with more emphasis on the hypothesis of an Austronesian substratum (as opposed to genetic relationship), though looks at Javanese and Japanese (for example) rather than the respective proto-languages, and does not propose any striking morphological relationships. The idea does not seem to have gained significant tractions, compared to Dené-Yeniseian. 

Assuming you are using the CMU dictionary then each phoneme of type "vowel" indicates that there is a syllable. It won't tell you where the break is in a sequence of consonants, but it will (quickly) give you the count. 

The motivation underlying autosegmental phonology is that phonological processes frequently are not well-described by the 1-to-1 feature-to-segment relations assumed in SPE phonology, especially in the domain of tone. OT was motivated by a desire to reduce phonological mappings to just the notion of constraint, without any (language specific) component of "do this" (only "don't do that"). Neither theory has anything to do with the notion of deriving phones from phonemes, and neither theory assumes that "phone" or "phoneme" is a valid concept. Both theories are logically consistent with the concept of "phonetic implementation" which may provide pronunciation details such as nasalization in English, devoicing of sonorants after aspirated stops and fricatives, and so on. However, both OT and ASP are grammatical theories which deal in categorial processes, and it is generally recognized that most allophonic variation has to be dealt with phonetically and quantitatively. (ASP and OT phonetic models do, of course, exist, just as there is such a thing as OT syntax though not autosegmental syntax) There are no rules in OT, so OT rules aren't based in autosegmental phonology. OT practicioners have largely (but not entirely) abandoned autosegmental phonology or any other theory of representation, partly because questions of representation are orthogonal, and partly because it was held that the motivation for ASP was how it allows a better account of phonological rules (correct, I would say), and therefore if the theory presupposes rules, it must be wrong. At this point, I don't think many OT practicioners care about autosegmental phonology, one way or the other. 

The first thing to do is stop thinking about spelling, and start thinking about pronunciation. Proto-Indo-European had no spelling, and for a long time, neither did Latin. In this case, you need to understand the sound changes from PIE to Latin (for a word like "hundred", you would need to know the sound changes from PIE to proto-Germanic). Two useful books are Buck's Comparative Grammar of Greek and Latin and Brugmann's Elements of the Comparative Grammar of the Indo-Germanic Languages. The latter is more complete and will include Germanic, not to mention Celtic, Indic and so on (leaving out the later-discovered languages), but Buck might be easier to use / understand. I found it most useful to pay attention to English word pairs that come via Latin vs. Germanic, like "abide" (Germanic) and "faith" (Latin), which made it easier to remember concrete examples and thus the various sound laws of Latin and Germanic. Though the list is short enough that you can just memorize the main rules. Consulting the online Walde-Pokorny is also helpful. (Amazing! you don't even have to go to the library anymore). 

It refers to either a tone or an intoneme, where F0 starts high, decreases, then increases (sometimes known as a convex tone). We would have to wait for the invention of the intonogram to see what it looks like there, but you can see one on the pitch trace of any waveform display device or program that displays F0. It can in principle be used for all sorts of tings, ranging from intonation (as in English) to lexical tone specification as in languages of Africa and Asia. It is used in English an an intonational feature to signal disappointed disapproval, e.g. "LA-a-a-r-r-y-Y-Y!"; it is the normal word-pitch profile of words in North Saami; it arises in Lomongo from the syllabic merger of falling and high tones; that is one interpretation of the Mandarin 3rd tone (hence it is a lexical property); it exists in Yoloxóchitl Mixtec as a surface-contrastive unit not derived from vowel merger (one would have to undertake a study of the deep tonology of the language to know if it always arises from combining floating grammatical tones). 

If you distinguish Finno-Ugric from Uralic, Samoyedic isn't Finno-Ugric, and is often considered a sister of Finno-Ugric. In referring to the Nenets as being Asian people, it's not clear if you're making a geographic statement or a racial one. The geographical interpretation is easy to dispose of. The Nenets live on both sides of the Ural mountains, the traditional defining line of Europe versus Asia, so your assumption is simply untrue. As a genetic claim, based on facial features, it's not a particular revealing diagnostic of historical events, since you find similar facial characteristics among the Saami, Mansi and Mari, among others. A more productive but non-linguistic approach would be to look at objective genetic facts such as haplogroup distribution. 

If language-name plays a central role in determining what "language" one speaks (I speak English, as do hundreds of millions of others), then the number of languages is decreasing. Many languages are completely disappearing very rapidly, so that the bottom 80% of languages with only a couple hundred thousand speakers or fewer are likely to be mostly gone in another 100 or so years. At the same time, if you look at "distinctive speech forms", the number of languages may be increasing. For example, the number of distinct speech forms known as English has increased over the past 100 years (and it's not just English where this happens). We tend to talk about those differences as being "dialects". There are no meaningful estimates of rate of decrease (in the first sense of "language"), because there no predicting what facts cause language attrition. 40 years ago, people would not have predicted the current decline in linguistic diversity, because they were not aware of the impact that cell phones, the internet, and general urbanization would have. Social isolation encourages language diversity (you generally only interact with people near you who speak the same language, and have no idea that you "ought to" speak English or one of the other major languages, to get ahead).