(source) Perhaps the first photosynthetic bacteria to evolve on Earth were good at absorbing green light, and blanketed the surface of the oceans. Other bacteria evolved chlorophyll a to take advantage of the red and blue light the surface microbes left behind; and then the purple surface bacteria all died out... for some reason. Maybe. Or maybe chlorophyll a just popped out of a random mutation, worked well enough, and evolution ran with it. There's no way to know. If you want polychromatic flora, just go for it. There's no reason why plants that evolve on another planet need to look just like the ones here. 

Sure. If their jungle-dwelling ancestors have cat-like noses, there's no particular reason for that to change. 

#3 and #4 can be addressed by having your creature exist mostly underground (or mostly in the air, but underground is easier), and #5 by having it take the form of a vast network. Like the aforementioned fungi and aspens. These organisms can survive large chunks of themselves being destroyed by virtue of having many more redundant parts all around. And in your case, if #1 is fulfilled, there is an infinite area of land infested with this organism. Any finite amount of destruction would barely be noticeable to the organism as a whole. #6 is probably the hardest criterion to fulfill. Any of the functions typically attributed to animal heads would be better served by a collection of nodes spread throughout the network, rather than a central node in one location. A singular mouth could never take in the infinitude of nutrients the organism would need to sustain itself. A singular brain could never respond to stimuli infinitely far away. If cutting off the head could kill the entire organism, it would never live to be infinitely old and fulfill #2. And if the world is flat and uniform, why should any one location have the head and not another? Perhaps the organism has a fractal network of nodes, each with its own brain. The smallest nodes directly control the organism's behaviors in a certain area. Larger nodes govern larger areas, delegating micromanaging those areas to the smaller nodes therein. Each node communicates with its neighbors and reports to the nearest node of the next size up. At each higher tier in the hierarchy, the number of nodes decreases, while the distance between them increases. In the limit, the infinity-th tier will contain one single node, infinitely far away from everything, which could be considered the "head". But for all practical purposes, it may as well not exist. Also, I should point out that an infinite space can contain multiple infinite, non-intersecting volumes. In fact, your first paragraph contains two: the sky, and the ground. Each is infinite in extent, but only takes up half of the space in your world. In fact, an infinitely long pipe running in a straight line across the ground has infinite volume, but only covers an infinitesimal fraction of the surface of an infinite world. Just because your creature has an infinite volume doesn't mean it has to take up the entire volume of the world. There can be plenty of space around it. Update: If you want something a bit more mobile than a plant or a fungus, you could have it grow various sensory organs (e.g. eyes) and prehensile limbs (e.g. tentacles) that respectively inform and are controlled by the nearest node. Which... could give it a seriously Cthulu-like appearance. If that's not quite the aesthetic you're going for, and you want it to be able to communicate with humans more easily, you could have it grow humanoid "avatar bodies" that are tethered to the main network for nutrition and communication with nearby nodes, but have their own brains and are able to act at least somewhat independently. 

The main problem you'll run into is that the human brain takes a lot of oxygen to run, and there isn't nearly as much oxygen in water as there is in air. So if these merfolk are to be able to breathe underwater without surfacing, they'll either need much more surface area on their gills than humans have in their lungs, or they'll need to pump a whole lot of water through their gills. According to the "gillung" answer you linked, freshwater has about 8 cm3/L of dissolved oxygen, while air has 210 cm3/L. That's a factor of 26.25 difference. So if you want merfolk with internal gills replacing their human lungs, they're going to need to pump over 26 times as much water through their lungs as humans pump air. That's going to be all kinds of impractical, even when they're not exercising. Adding slits between the ribs to expel water to keep it flowing one way through the gills will help, but they're still going to need to pump a huge amount of water in order to stay conscious. And pumping water like that will take a lot of energy, increasing demand for oxygen. Solution: External gills, and lots of them. According to that Wikipedia page, external gills on the creatures that have them (salamander, lungfish, and bichir larvae) typically take the form of 3-4 fernlike branching stalks coming out from either side of the creature's body, behind the head. I'm not exactly certain where that would correspond to on a human- maybe on the neck? You could probably get away with putting them on your merfolks' backs just as easily, which has the advantage of being closer to the pulmonary arteries/veins that they'll need to hook into. A system of external gills capable of keeping up with a pair of human lungs is going to have to be pretty huge, so these guys aren't going to be hydrodynamic. They'll also need to move around regularly in order to keep from using up all the oxygen in their immediate vicinity, and since they're genetically engineered from humans, may not have the instincts to do that subconsciously. So it might be better to have them live in rivers, so they won't have to worry about it. Alternatively, they could be engineered to be able to smell oxygen with their fluffy tentacle-like gills, which would be pretty cool in its own right. That's up to how far you want to take your genetic handwavery. Another alternative could be to do away with the forest of external gills and give them either fluid-flexible crablike gillungs or smaller external gills, and make them able to survive on the small amounts of oxygen that their gills would be able to provide. When they're resting or need to dive deep for whatever reason, they could go into a low-power mode, conserving oxygen and relying on their gills; but when they need to hunt, fight, or do math problems, they could surface for a breath of oxygen. 

Interstellar showed something like what you would see if you piloted a spaceship along this surface and through the hole in the middle, from one side to the other. However, in reality, the wormhole would be three-dimensional. You'd never actually see anything even remotely resembling the above surface- because we're inside it. Imagine taking a 2-dimensional spaceship and sliding it around on that surface. Try to visualize what the ship's pilot would see, looking at the wormhole. Near the hole, his lines of sight would be bent toward it, so objects behind the hole would appear distorted and stretched out at the edges of the hole. Closer to the hole, rays of light could wrap around the hole multiple times before coming back out without going through, so the pilot would see all 360째 of his surroundings (including the front of his own ship) reflected back and forth, squeezed into tighter and tighter rings. Just inside that, an infinitesimally thin black ring coinciding with the black ring in the image, where light (and anything else) can zip around and around forever. And inside that, he'd see into the world on the other side of the wormhole. In the center of the wormhole, his line of sight would fold back around, like the black line on the right-hand side of the image. Off-center, the space would bend the pilot's line of sight at a much larger angle, so he'd get a (very distorted) 360째 view of the other universe. The effect would closely resemble an image taken with a strong fish-eye lens, like the ones used in those 360째 cameras. As before, all of those 360째 would be repeated over and over, compressed into tighter and tighter rings approaching the black ring representing the halfway point. Now compare all that to A. Forty's image. Now, imagine that the pilot takes his ship through the wormhole. What does he see? Well, first thing, as he approached, the fish-eye view of the other side would start occupying more and more of his field of view, as would the distorted space around the hole. Upon reaching the halfway point, light emitted from the left side of the ship would circle around the hole to the ship's right side. So by looking out either window, he's just see the outside of the ship from the opposite side. The black ring is now whatever color his ship is. Watching out the back window while exiting the hole would look much the same as going in did, except that the pilot's original universe now fills the fish-eye view in the center. In three dimensions, the wormhole experience would be fairly similar, except the halfway point would be a spherical surface (which would appear as an infinitesimally thin black ring) around which light can orbit. If these wormholes somehow exist in a gravitational field (because they're on Earth's surface, say), that should still work without any completely broken physics or anything. I'm not completely sure how it would work, but I have a guess. Say the people on one side of one of these wormholes decide to build a bridge through it, so they can just walk through, from one side to the other, without having to jump through it or anything, because that sounds hard. This should be doable; there might even be normal gravity all the way through. If you were to fall off the bridge inside the wormhole, you'd just drop out of the hole on one side or the other. If you fell off the exact center of the bridge, you might wind up in a sort of gravitational saddle point. You'd feel as if you were being stretched in one direction (along the X axis, call it, toward the mouths of the wormhole), but gently compressed in the other two (Y and Z). You could float there as long as you were perfectly balanced in the X direction, but just a little bit off and you'd fall straight out the bottom of one side of the wormhole. And finally, as to what being in one of these wormholes might feel like. Note how, in the image above, all of the space in and around the hole is curved kind of like a saddle or a Pringles chip, so if you drew two intersecting "straight" lines on the surface, they could curve in opposite directions. For instance, the two black lines shown. The center ring curves toward the hole in the center, while the line on the right curves away. This means the space has negative Gaussian curvature. A funny thing about negative-curvature surfaces is that there is less space inside any shape drawn on the surface than you'd expect, based on its perimeter. This will do... weird things... to anything put into the wormhole. Imagine you're sliding a small square of paper around on the surface shown above. If you try to slide it to the hole, you'll find that it won't stay flat on the surface. Either the center of the paper will pop up above the surface, or it'll just kind of crinkle. If you wanted it to lay flat, you could cut a notch from the edge of the square to the center, so it could spread out a bit and sit flatter on the surface. Now... what would you happen if you put your hand into one of these wormholes? Quite suddenly, there would no longer be enough space inside your hand for all the bone and muscle and such that is there. Your skin would suddenly feel very tight, and some of the blood in your hand would be squeezed back into your arm. The bones in your fingers and hand probably wouldn't take kindly to being distorted in this manner, either. Like the piece of paper, they might just crack. Best make these wormholes quite large, so these effects aren't strong enough to cause harm to something the size of a human.