I've dropped out of three stable relationships back to back in 4 years, even though the women involved were very much in love with me, and were in quite a lot of misery when I left. Rather than get the motivation to put my back into making things work by relocating or changing my life or whatever was required, each time, I took it to the point where firm commitment was needed and then backed out because I didn't see why it is worth it. A voice inevitably rings in my head that such effort is better expended in meditation and a life of service and purity rather than on silly selfish samsaric satisfaction. Anyway, I'd also see exactly how the relationship would fail a few years down the line, or where the cracks would appear and lose my energy. I have had at least one very stable shift in my consciousness since at least 3 years now, which has reduced my mental/emotional chatter to nearly 0-5% of what it was, and I don't get attached to anything including partners the same way anymore. I've been almost coldly unemotional about victory or loss in love and death, and most other things that would make people ride emotional highs and lows. I don't really care to define this change as an awakening or as a kensho/satori or whatever - I think these are useless definitions that don't matter -- still, it is a change whose vast effects on my life I can't deny. I can feel an all encompassing love and compassion for everyone yet a detachment from everyone. Which kind of complicates romantic life - do I really love my current partner any more than the rest of the world including exes etc. Confiding these feelings with the partner has never helped of course. Worse, they would very soon sense that I am not really bound down by anything, and resulting insecurity would lead to conflict. Sure, I can still get angry but it is a powerless anger, and if I reflect on the anger or whatever mental feeling I have even for a moment, it will vanish instantly. If I choose to, I can always see the pure heart in anyone and fall in love. There was a period of intense thoughtless equanimity in my life, about 6-8 months after the awakening that lasted for several weeks. My mind had a vastness that left me in awe. At this point a bomb could have exploded next to me, and I would have observed it without a flutter, as if it was very normal. There were several other brilliant characteristics to this period, but the most important was a profound sense of balance I had between the ultimate truth and conventional truth. I could perfectly balance my inner life and my outer life without conflict no matter how heavy the samsaric context. There was an ever present wisdom that enabled this. I didn't really care what I did with my life, there was no "I" - I did whatever was appropriate, I reacted to life perfectly yet effortlessly, as if I wasn't there, life just flowed and I with it exercising only the gentlest of effort to produce the wisest action possible. This seemed like a stable reality until it ended, and since then I've really yoyo-ed between ultimate truth and conventional truth. One moment wanting a relationship and the next day or week wanting to be a monk. My ability to lapse into universal love means I have even strayed to infidelity, due to deeply loving several people, and continuing to love to this moment everyone who has entered my life. Without the perfect wisdom that I had for those few weeks relationships feel like an accident waiting to happen, so I've now sworn off all relationships until I figure out what exactly to do. Any ideas? 

I have seen many effects of meditation on sleep. Similarly to you, before and after sleep. I have had times when my need for sleep is vastly reduced, and I've had times when I don't want to do anything but sleep. It seems meditation can release stuff. Sometimes it seems to release a kind of 'repressed tiredness' that just needs time to get out. Sometime it releases energy that means sleep need is reduced. As I've said on another post, what would it be like if, when you wake from sleep with troubled thoughts, you take the time to turn towards those thoughts, and importantly the feelings that go with them, with kindness, gentleness and care? The troubledness, in my experience, is just something in me asking for attention. Wonders can happen when you pay less attention to the rational content of the thoughts, and more attention to the emotional content. 

I've also heard it said that the term Hinayana was mostly referring to traditions that are long since dead. To identify the term "Hinayana" with the Theravadin tradition would be mixing up history. Sorry that I can't provide references other than an ages old recollection :-( 

I know I have acted in ways that were bourne of nothing but good intent, yet caused great suffering in those close to me. I do not feel guilty about that, but I do feel sad. Intent is crucial, but ignorance can live underneath, leading us to act in ways that seem reasonable, but actually cause harm. In the end, what is it you want? Do you want to look after your own karmic legacy, or do you want to reduce the suffering of those around you? If the latter, then intent is very important, but the actual consequences matter too. There was a case where the Buddha taught an insight practice to some monks. He came back a few days later and they had committed suicide. He undoubtedly learned from this! So, in terms of consequences, none of us are immune from 'unexpected' ones. Yet we can continue to learn, and find ways to increase the effectiveness of our actions in bringing about increased wellbeing in those around us. 

Great answer from Namrata. Can you turn towards the experience with curiosity and kindness? If you can't give your attention to other experience because this is too overwhelming, perhaps it is just something that is asking for attention. Sometimes, the issue with something like this is merely that it feels ignored. Once we really become interested, in a kindly way, it feels seen and met, and quietens down. Or, it has a story to tell, perhaps of past trauma, etc. Curiosity and kindness are crucial. Along with gentleness. Just look, see what you can actually know about these. Perhaps as Andrei suggests, it is connected with smoking. Perhaps turning towards the sensation with kindness might help you see more what is there? 

Let's separate this out. If you watch a recording of a crime on a website, does it impact the victim of the crime? Not in itself. It DOES give a "view" to the video, and thus you are, in a sense, giving your tacit support to the recording, and publishing, of the event. THAT is, for me, the reason not to watch such events, as far as the world impact is concerned. I guess one needs to attempt to assess the motive of the publisher - was it to shock? Or to educate? As far as impact upon oneself is concerned, this is another question. Are we adding to our own karma? It depends entirely upon the intent with which we are watching. Sooooo much consumption of internet material is quietly mindless - which means we are blindly watching with no concern for what impact it might have on us: because someone has published it, it must be okay. This attitude allows others to have control over our minds! As a meditator, I'd rather that weren't the case! Thinking about karma is tough - does it affect my Karma? Can I ever experience my karma as a tangible sensation? I'm not sure I ever have. Can I see impacts on my experience that demonstrate that certain kinds of actions have noticeable impacts on my experience? For sure, and some have impacts on my experience in meditation. Some I can learn to work with. For others, I just practice "guarding the gates of the senses" and avoid that stimulus. 

No doubt life is painful. That is why Buddha instigated us to go beyond birth, and old age and disease and death by the realization of the final end of that succession of rebirths. However suicide is not the answer to the problems. Buddha had said that "A brother is not , O Bhikkhus , to commit suicide.Whosoever does so shall be dealt according to law." 

Today I suffered severe disappointment because I thought I was cheated some amount of money. I couldn't complain to anyone because I had no proof. And I suspect those who cheated me will also cheat other people. I want to avoid such disappointments in future and also I want to do the right thing. What should be my response on getting cheated ? Should I forgive the thugs who stole my money ? Should I wish bad for them and report it to the police or the managers? 

My questions are : What is the meaning of the fact that Buddha is the root of Dhamma? Similarly what is the meaning of the fact that Buddha is the eye of Dhamma? And what is the meaning of the fact that Buddha is the foundation of Dhamma ? 

In SN 22.82 Buddha says Name and Form is the cause and condition for the manifestation of Consciousness aggregate. 

I am planning to start meditation. As a beginner , what things I should meditate upon from the Buddha's perspective? 

Namo Buddhaya.I assume you mean Sangha by community. One should live in a Sangha for the welfare and good will of the humans and devas. Sangha i.e. community ,exists out of compassion for the people. I am quoting a sutta which tells why there should be unity in Sangha? This can be very well answer your question why to live in the Sangha? 

I dont exactly know about the Buddhist way but from I have read, the right way to find in which ways you are blessed and find a way to bless the tormentor. 

We use this word very commonly in India. Swabhava means nature of the self. For example if I ask what is your swabhav ? then I am asking whether you are loving , kind ,joyful ,compassionate, rude or stubborn kind of person? What kind of person you are ? It is personality trait.There are wholesome swabhavs which make you say that a person is very nice.There are unwholsome swabhavs which are not good. Swabhav can change. For example, I was a very careless person in the past but now I am not that careless. You can use the word with any living being whether it is dog or cat or human. Every being develops a swabhav or inherits a swabhav from the previous birth. If we break the word swabhav then "swa" means self and "bhav" means nature,i.e. nature of the self. Swabhav is not permanent and unchangeable therefore no swabhav is worth identifying as self. 

Namo Buddhaya. During various discourses , monks after hearing Buddha delighted or did not delight. This is one discourse in which Monks did not delight at the end. In almost all other discourses , monks delight at the end. There are various places in which Buddha has given directions to the monk on when to delight and when not to delight. For example: One should not delight in sensual pleasures,One should not delight in any form. etc. Modern day Gurus like Sri Sri Ravi Shankar say one should always delight or be always happy. Honestly I take delight in posting to this forum.But should I take delight? My question is : Is there any direction given to Monks by Buddha on when to delight and when not to delight ?