Ven. Yuttadhammo also writes about them in his book "Lessons In Practical Buddhism" in the chapter: Dangers, p. 12-24. Here is quote from the chapter: 

Here is a book called "The Five Mental Hindrances and Their Conquest" by Ven. Nyanaponika Thera and here is a great audio dhamma talk on the five hindrances by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi - Part 1 and Part 2. The dhamma talk really goes into depth of the hindrances and how to overcome them. When one gets to know the 5 hindrances as the inside of ones own pocket then one is well equipped to meet those obstacles. May this be of some help to you. Lanka 

In MN 41 - Saleyyaka Sutta: The Brahmans of Sala, the Buddha is wandering in the Kosalan country with a large group of monks when he arrives at a village named Sala. Here a brahmin householder from the village hears about the Buddha being in Sala and want to ask him about why beings fare as they do after death. The brahmin householder asks the Buddha: 

Here is a video dhamma talk on The Dhammapada by Ven. Yuttadhammo. The video is about how one should practice in order for the King of Death not to be able to find one. The video is called Dhammapada Verse 46: Where the King of Death Cannot See. 

From an insight meditational perspective the benefit would be to cultivate impartiality and objectivity towards both pleasant and unpleasant sense objects. If one is cultivating impartiality towards unpleasant phenomena but partiality towards pleasant phenomena, then one cannot really be free from attachment and ultimately suffering. Ven. Yuttadhammo likens pleasant phenomena to sweet poison, i.e. the stuff people give to ants in order to exterminate them. The poison is sweet smelling so the ants bring it down to their nest, thereby poisoning all the other members too. Pleasant sense objects is like this since they are conditioned meaning they are subject to constant change and flux. One cannot be free from addiction if endulging in either pleasant or unpleasant phenomena. 

The Buddha was still a human being in the sense that he had a physical body as a results of the 5 aggregates. He was once asked if he was in pain regarding his pains in the back. His answer was that there was pain but he was not bothered by it. As an enlightened being he had destroyed all defilements and fetters and would therefore not identify or take ownership of the pain. There would be noone to do that. There would just be pain - an impersonal phenomena. 

In the Samyutta Nikaya, The Buddha also mentions the Middle Way. Here in the "The Book of the Six Sense Bases": 

As a lay person: Probably not.. As a monastic: Definitely not! Reflecting on Alms food belongs to the The Four Requisites, namely: 

I would recommend the book "Practicing The Jhanas" by Tina Rasmussen and Stephen Snyder. They were both students of Pa Auk Sayadaw and undertook a Samatha Meditation Course under his guidance. Here they achieved the 4 material jhanas and the 4 immaterial jhanas. The book is streamlined and direct. Not much beating around the bush. They often refer to their own practice and how they trained under Pa Auk Sayadaw. This functions well. They give lots of useful information and guidance regarding the practice of the Jhanas. I have taken a screenshot of the table of contents so you can see what the book contains. 

It's difficult to say why they avoid paying taxes. We cannot know the exact reason so this is based purely on theory. The most obvious reason for why they are avoiding taxes would be because they want to maximize profit. If that is the case one could argue that their actions are based on the unwholesome root of Greed. In this case they are creating unwholesome kamma for themselves. It could also be that they want to earn as much money as possible so that they can give as much money as possible to charity. 

So to sum up on your question, the Buddha teaches that it is our actions done by body, speech or mind that play a part in the rebirth destination. The Buddha teaches what to do in order to be reborn both in the lower realms and in the heavenly realms. This is of course only one sutta there are other suttas as well. I chose this sutta as I think the Buddha here gives a very clear and detailed exposition on conduct in relation to the Dhamma and rebirth destination. Hope this helps. If you have any questions to what I wrote feel free to ask. 

In such situation there are different objects to note, e.g. "hearing, seeing, feeling or thinking". Ultimately, all conditioned physical and mental phenomena are empty and ownerless. An insult can be a gift of Dhamma since it can show us our attachment to self and where we need to work. One can use the above objects to cultivate insights into the 3 characteristics. Following the Noble Eightfold Path and keeping Right View and Right Intention would be enough to start the day of a place of happiness. 

All formations are impermanent so its not possible for something to "never let" anyone do something. That's an extreme view. It might be more challenging to do meditation while the hindrances are present. But it is necessary. One can only purify the mind by dealing with the hindrances. It just means that there is work to be done. Loving-kindness meditation is a great way of over coming thoughts of hatred, vengeance and the like. See my answer here for a detailed description on how to practice Metta meditation. 

Nothing to worry about. Some people experience such phenomena when concentration increases. Its just a sign (nimitta) that concentration is being strengthened. If you practice Samatha meditation, then just return attention to the breath at the abdomen or the entrance of the nostrils. If you practice Vipassana meditation, then just note the sensation a couple of times and return attention to the abdomen. Do the same if fear arises. Try not to get caught up in sensations or the interpretation of them. That removes focus from the practice. I would also recommend finding a good teacher that can help you on the Path. 

It can be quite challenging to deal with people sometimes. Especially when one is practicing the Dhamma and trying to do what's best for oneself and for other beings. This is often a delicate balance that one has to find. It takes practice and often by trial and error, until one becomes familiar with both the Dhamma and the different situations in life. Like any other training, one will improve with time, if one works diligently. A rule of thumb is to never allow yourself to step on yourself, in order to help another being. You are just as important. Actually in Buddhism, it's greatly emphasized that one gets to know oneself and develop oneself, in order to be able to help other beings. Or else it is like the blind leading the blind. Helping other beings is an important part of Buddhism but there are many ways to help other people. Sometimes it's just lending an ear or a shoulder, while other times it might be more practical or complex in nature. What is important here is the ethical foundation one is building ones help on. When performing an action it's important that our intention / volition is wholesome, meaning that it is based in the wholesome roots of "renunciation, good-will and harmlessness". If our actions are based in wholesomeness then the resultants will also become wholesome. That is a feature of kamma, that it produces results corresponding to the ethical quality of the action. If ones actions are based in the unwholesome roots, i.e. "greed, hatred and delusion", then unwholesome resultants will be produced. An example could be, if another being is asking for ones help but one does not really want to do it or one does not have the time to help, so there arises guilt. Guilt is an unwholesome mental factor so if one acts upon it, one will experience its results which will be unwholesome. In other words, suffering will be produced. So how to deal with these things? How to stop creating unwholesome kamma for oneself and other beings? Buddhism offers a solution called the Noble Eightfold Path which is the path that leads to Nibbana. By following it, one undertakes the training and development of ones mind, meaning that one will gradually reduce the unwholesome roots until they can be eradicated permanently, while cultivating the wholesome roots. 

I couldn't find anything about any current bodyguards for the Dalai Lama, presumably due to security reasons. There are, though, information about former bodyguards; 

If you would like to read a bit more about what the Abhidhamma and ultimate reality is there is a well written chapter called "What is Abhidhamma" in the book "What Buddhists Believe" by Ven. K. Sri Dhammananda, p. 105-111. Here is a quote from the chapter: 

Attention is a mental factor (cetasika) that arises based on several other factors, one of those being intention (cetana). It performs one of several cognitive functions that allows for consciousness of an object to arise. This can be experienced through the practice of insight meditation. As this is purely a mental function it is included in Nama-rupa, i.e. the Nama-aspect. In walking meditation the meditator can experience the four great elements as actual processes (ultimate realities), e.g. the feeling of lightness that occurs in the lifting-phase of the foot. That right there is the experience of the fire element. The awareness of that feeling of lightness belongs to Nama and that feeling can only be experienced if attention is present and performing its mental function. Again, we see why attention can be included in the Nama-aspect. So to answer the question: Attention is a mental factor. Mental factors belong to Mentality. Mentality is the Nama-aspect of Nama-rupa. 

The voice is a "wind-instrument" and it relies on resonance. We have different cavities in the body, e.g. the nasal cavity and the chest cavity. These cavities are where the sound vibrations resonate and thereby gain frequency, e.g. low or high frequency. When there is tension in the body, i.e. in muscles and ligaments there is restriction and contraction creating less space for the sound vibrations to resonate in. Sound vibrations love more space and tension kills them. Relaxation is important in order to create rich sound vibrations. A lowering of the voice can take place if there is a "bigger" cavity to resonate in, due to less tension in the body, thereby giving the vibrations a larger range of frequency to resonate in. Its difficult to answer whether or not vegetarianism plays a role in your voice changing. There are many factors involved. You could try asking the question on the other SE's, e.g. "Health and Biology" to gain more answers or ask your doctor for a strictly medical answer if thats what your looking for. I would say get a lot of different opinions on it instead of limiting yourself to one perspective. Then you can evaluate the different answers you got and find out which one fits the best. 

If you want some longer and more in-depth teachings here are some books by Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw. The following books discuss both the meditation practice and the obstacles one can meet on the path. There are also given antidotes and methods for how to deal with such obstacles. A Discourse on Vipassana An extensive guideline through the practice of Vipassana meditation and explanation of the Satipatthana medthod, including how Nibbana is realized through this method of practice. Fundamentals of Vipassana Meditation This book includes an explanation of the difference of Samatha and Vipassana meditation, how Vipassana is practiced, the theory behind the practice, and how the practice achieves the goal of Nibbana and fulfills the Eightfold Noble Path. Practical Vipassana Meditational Exercises This is a brief look to the Vipassana meditation along with a few exercises to begin with. Purpose of Practicing Kammatthana (Buddhist) Meditation Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw explains the two kinds of meditations taught by the Buddha as well as a brief teaching on how to practice the two methods. Satipatthana Vipassana Meditation This book explains the Satipatthana Vipassana meditation method that's taught by the Buddha in the Satipatthana Sutta. It explains extensively the instructions given by the Buddha in the Satipatthana sutta, the practice, and the theory behind it. Summary of Discourses on Purity and Insight (Visuddhi-Nana-Kattha) This is a collection of discourses given by the Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw on the subjects of purity and insight. The Satipatthana Meditation This is yet another discourse to extensively discuss the Satipatthana meditation method prescribed by the Buddha in the Satipatthana Sutta. Lanka 

Where do you live or where is the temple you want to go to? A good idea is to either visit, write or call (if possible) the Temple and ask about their options. Some remote temples might not be accessible via wheelchair due to infrastructure or lack there of. A list with a couple of places to visit temples: 

You might find these books useful: 1. A Discourse on Vipassana An extensive guideline through the practice of Vipassana meditation and explanation of the Satipatthana medthod, including how Nibbana is realized through this method of practice. 21. Fundamentals of Vipassana Meditation This book includes an explanation of the difference of Samatha and Vipassana meditation, how Vipassana is practiced, the theory behind the practice, and how the practice achieves the goal of Nibbana and fulfills the Eightfold Noble Path. 26. Practical Vipassana Meditational Exercises This is a brief look to the Vipassana meditation along with a few exercises to begin with. 28. Purpose of Practicing Kammatthana (Buddhist) Meditation Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw explains the two kinds of meditations taught by the Buddha as well as a brief teaching on how to practice the two methods. 29. Satipatthana Vipassana Meditation This book explains the Satipatthana Vipassana meditation method that's taught by the Buddha in the Satipatthana Sutta. It explains extensively the instructions given by the Buddha in the Satipatthana sutta, the practice, and the theory behind it. 30. Summary of Discourses on Purity and Insight (Visuddhi-Nana-Kattha) This is a collection of discourses given by the Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw on the subjects of purity and insight. 31. The Satipatthana Meditation This is yet another discourse to extensively discuss the Satipatthana meditation method prescribed by the Buddha in the Satipatthana Sutta. Lanka 

Here is a quote on Buddhist Chanting. In here it's told why Buddhists chant and the benefits of it. The quote is from an article named "The Practice of Chanting in Buddhism" by Ven. Bhikkhu Dhammasami: 

Question is in the title. Im aware of descriptions of the Buddha in which he is described as "god-like" or "supernatural". Im looking for any canonical descriptions of the physical characteristics of the Buddha that are bit more down to earth. Thank you for your time. 

Here it's mentioned that a monk is allowed to take leave from the Rain Retreat only under special circumstances, e.g. to visit or nurse ill parents. One should return in seven days. 

Edit: Here is a audio dhamma talk on the 10 pāramīs by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi. The first perfection of giving might provide further information to your question. 

Here it's stated that if possible one should teach the Dhamma to ones parents, meaning that one will be able to see them again. There is another quote from the same book, Chapter: Rains Retreat: 

The fundamental structure and workings of Kamma is the same for all beings, i.e. "only mangos can grow from a mango tree", meaning that only wholesome intentions can cause wholesome future resultants to arise and vice versa. The exact workings of a beings Kamma cannot be known, unless one is a fully enlightened Buddha. Its volition, intention (cetana), that is kammically potent. 

I was wondering if the Buddha did give any advice on how to manage personal economics? I assume that the advice would be the middle way as applied to everything else in Buddhism. To stay away from the extremes meaning e.g. spending all of ones money on one thing and instead divide ones amount of money in an equal way. I remember once reading something about dividing one portion of ones money to food, bills, medicin etc., then one portion to enjoyment, then one portion to charity, then one portion to savings. Unfortunately i have no idea where i read it or if its actually really advice that came from the Buddha. Thank you for your time. Lanka 

You are not necessarily doing anything wrong. It depends on what kind of meditation you are practicing and what your purpose with the meditation is. It sounds like you are practicing Samatha Meditation (tranquility meditation) but instead you would like to practice Vipassana Meditation (insight meditation). In samatha meditation one keeps attention on a single object, e.g. the breath trying to make that object stable. This type of meditation is creating a unification of mind. The goal here is to build deep and powerful states of concentration. When the mind is concentrated, i.e. by only paying attention to one object, other objects disappear. They slowly stop arising. This is only temporarily. This only happens as long as the power of concentration is present. When concentration weakens or when one stops the session and goes up and do other things then slowly the unification wears off and other objects e.g. thoughts and ideas come back into the mind. When doing samatha meditation one temporarily suspends mental activity. When finishing the session this suspension of mental activity can last for a while afterwards but will eventually stop. In vipassana meditation one does not keep attention on a single object instead one is giving attention to whatever arises whenever it arises. One has the abdomen as an anchor (mahasi sayadaw tradition) which one comes back to after having observed or noted objects as they arise and fall in the present moment. The anchor is a tool that one uses so that the mind will not get lost and follow after objects. One is keeping attention on the rising and falling movements of the abdomen. When a thought arises then one shifts attention and watches the thought. One notes it a couple of times saying "thinking, thinking" and then returns to the abdomen. If a feeling or a sound arises then one shifts attention towards these objects and notes "feeling, feeling" or "hearing, hearing". One can also note the feeling more specifically, e.g. if anger arises one notes "angry, angry" or "sad, sad" if sadness arises. When doing the noting it's important to sent the mind out to the object and not to keep attention on the "mental label". So when noting e.g. pain in the leg one is noting "pain, pain" but ones attention is on the pain in the knee and not on the mental label. In vipassana meditation one tries to be with the objects as they arise when they arise. The goal is to learn about their true nature, i.e. the 3 signs of existence (impermanence, unsatisfactoriness and the uncontrollable nature). One does not follow after objects. One also does not try to find out where e.g. a thought came from. This is not important. What is important is to see that thought as an object that arise and cease. One does not give special attention to any object at all. For more information on how to practice this method see Ven. Yuttadhammo's video series called "How To Meditate" or his book "How To Meditate: A Beginner's Guide to Peace". Hope this helps. If you have any questions to anything i wrote let me know.