Roland Barthes built his early social criticism by demonstrating how ideology presents cultural constructs as natural ones. The suspicion towards things labelled 'natural' is frequently recognized in the essays published as Mythologies (1957). The question being vaguely phrased, this is mostly a conjecture. On the second page of the preface Roland Barthes states: 

There is no sure knowledge about the exact order in which Aristotle wrote his works; in Meteorology (338a20) however he proposed that they should be read in the following order Physics, On the heavens, On generation and corruption, Meteorology. Changes are in quality, quantity and place the latter being movements from the center, toward the center and around the center, (that is according to DeCaelo). In contemporary language we could say that he uses spherical symmetry and asserts that movements are either radial or circular. The radial movements are due to weight and lightness and cease to be when bodies arrive at their proper place in the finite world. There is a first substance, the one which latter came to be known as "fifth", which is eternally rotating. He recalls a fancy etymology of "aether" as "always running" which is also given in Plato's Cratylus. At this stage Aristotle did not appeal to any unmoved mover. It was the sky substance that kept always moving. Interestingly Aristotle adds that something that does not move (radially or circularly) is just 'mathematical' and does not exist. While writing On the Heavens Aristotle objects to Plato and Democritus; the latter is known to have asserted that atoms 'fall' through the void to which Aristotle objects because such a movement would be infinite. 

Brisson L., How Philosophers Saved Myths p.11ff (Chicago UP 2004) and note 22 for the following refs. and some other comments: Of course since Walter Burkert published his work(s) on Pythagoreanism the reality of anything connected with its founder is rather flimsy. (see also . Walter Burkert, “Platon oder Pythagoras: Zum Ursprung des Wortes ‘Philosophie,’” Hermes 88 (1960): 159-77; Anne-Marie Malingrey, Philosophia: Etude d’un groupe de mots dans la littérature grecque, des Présocratiques au IVe siècle après J.-C. (Paris: Klincksieck, 1961)). The earlier appearance for 'philosophos" is eventually in Heraclitus (DK 22 B 35 = Clement of Alexandria, Stromate V 140) but some commentators have thought that the term was added by Clement of Alexandria. According to the Suda (s.v. Zeno, vol. II, p. 506.26 Adler = DK 29A2), Zeno is supposed to have written a work titled "Pros tous philosophous". As a verb philosophein was probably used first by Herodotus. 

The usual concept of ïnformation conflates physics and semantics, or, in classical terms, it blurs the distinction form vs content. While physical form can be given in a precise manner content is infinitely varied and unshapely. Physical laws suggest limitations but semantics, as understood by Peirce, is about potentialities. As long as meaning stays imprecise it is outside the scope of physics. Actually there is no ultimate theory in linguistics but two broad views which do not fit well. Engineers, and Wittgenstein was one, tend to see language mostly as names-of-things that are just signals and the rest is physics. This simplistic view is to be contrasted with Saussure's which insists that words relate to concepts which further relate to the world, that is, a three tiered construction, not just pairs. The famous Semantic triangle makes obvious what remains outside the scope of physics and informatics. There are currently theories of Information (see SEP) which appear to be sweeping the problem under the carpet: information itself does not have to be defined, having a way to measure it is enough (just as we don't have to know what is space if we can measure length). Perhaps one should also remember the sarcastic view of Feynman about energy (The Character of physical laws, chapt.8): just a number without a definite reality. 

Levi-Strauss is an obvious reference even if it is not exactly clear what we speaking about. La pensee sauvage proposed "bricolage" as a practical form of mythology in contemporary societies. Within the general framework of economy, re-using things, that have already been used and thus carry signification, is according, to him, a form of mythology. So a related case would be 'Artificial Intelligence' where all kinds of theoretical and technical gadgets are put together in a practical attempt to solve an intellectual problem. Lyotard in The Postmodern Condition wrote about 'grand narratives' which include most of contemporary ideological discourse. Economics is probably a good place to look for contemporary mythology and Neoliberalism is probably among the best examples of what it looks like. The myth of meritocracy (2009 McNamee & Miller) is a case study of the mythology presented by the 'American dream'. 

During the 19th c. Neokantians proposed that there are two types of science: one that understands and the other that explains or clarifies. This division of 'social' and 'natural' sciences was rejected by positivists who claimed that there is just one standard and a discipline is either up to it and is a science or it is not. This is a still (more or less) dominant view and apparently it creates more problems than it solves. Renaissance and earlier thinkers relied on analogies which today are seen as superficial: science has become mostly a way of looking for deeper analogies with mathematics providing the necessary tools. Approaching the social world in this way fails to reproduce much of human experience which we still know through empathy or, as it was called earlier, sympathy. When Bruno Latour wrote We have never been modern (1991) he emphasized that a strict division social/natural has never been achieved. And he further stressed that naturalizing everything is equally pernicious and impossible: it is an attempt to restrict science to facts and reproductible results, disqualifying history, Darwinism and much else besides. Newton saw Geometry as a mechanics in disguise but the plurality of noneuclidean geometries suggested that there is no natural language for physics. So we see contemporary theoretical physics telling fascinating mathematical stories which are actually fictions. Nevertheless their authors like to present them as "true" as they have not been falsified yet i.e proved wrong. This post-positivist stance came to be adopted as it became clear that science could not deal otherwise with universal statements (e.g." all electrons are identical"). but it undermined the whole undertaking - see eg. Baggott J., Farewell to Reality: How Fairytale Physics Betrays the Search for scientific truth, (2013) or Roger Penrose's Fashion, Faith, and Fantasy in the New Physics of the Universe (2016). Obviously today there are no such abstract things as a scientific method and a further notion of truth which correlates with it, but instead there are lots of high-tech gadgets. 

Not necessarily. Nous, intellectus and coeur are terms standing for a faculty while episteme and scientia are seen more like objects. Raison, which is the latin ratio, can be either a faculty 'reason' or a 'ground' (cause) ; the second sense appears to match the series here but the first one is used in the quote above. Pascal's most famous quote ("the heart has its reasons that Reason does not know") actually exploits the ambiguity to promote coeur as a kind of double to Reason. The more usual way to introduce a dichotomy however remains a distinction betweeen reason and entendement (understanding); it is seen in Leibniz and further in German idealism where Kant famously exploited the pair Vernunft/Verstand. Pascal sided with the Jansenistes who had taken Augustine as an intellectual authority. There is aparallel of Augustine arguing for religion against pagan philosophers and Pascal - against the Jesuits and the Cartesians. But in modern times it was no more possible to return to a double truth theory so a 'double reason' was reinvented. The idea can be traced back to Plato who in his Divided line distinguished nous from dianoia ( and, next, pistis, eikasia). 

The consequences of Godel's theorems have been somewhat exaggerated. In philosophical terms one could explain them informally by saying that with restricted means only modest goals are attainable. Gentzen's consistency proof from 1936 shows Peano's arithmentic to be indeed consistent. But it uses something unusual, transfinite induction, which looks less certain that what it purposes to ascertain. When Godel announced his first result nobody was surprised: people knew that something like this could turn up, but expected that it would be patched somehow. Hilbert and Bernays published a second edition of their Grundlagen just by noting a difficulty which they expected to be soon overcome. Only later historians began to describe it as a major blow, even if in fact it is mostly a nagging problem. 

"Who came first, the chicken or the egg' is a question without a good answer in terms of chickens and eggs and wondering who comes first, free will or consciousness, is not much different. The obvious step here would consider first a human agent who somehow implements AI. This is perhaps just a regress but it might be instructive as there is vast literature on this classical topic in philosophy. Actually it would be better to ignore (1) religiously tainted considerations (2) analytic hairsplitting about nuances of (in)compatibilism. An epitome of the philosophical history notes that the Greeks did not have a concept of will and while modern thinkers (XVII-XIXc) were deeply interested in it. The standart opposition is however between will and reason, with the naturalistic idea that will became reasonable overcoming the view that pure reason somehow found a way to became activity. Looking backward it appears that a will without any consciousness is just a physical force but consciousness is less than reason, so actually there is a series force-will-consciousness-reason which has to be coordinated with the idea of a free will. Refs. A highly recommandable paper is Sorabji R, The concept of the will from Plato to Maximus the Confessor, and actually the whole collection where it appeared The Will and Human Action: From Antiquity to Present Day, ed. T. Pink and FWM Stone (2004). At the turn of the XXc Henri Bergson devlopped an impressive theory that is still worth studying. At the turn of the XXIc the Free Will Theorem (by Conway and Kochen) generated some interestinig responses e.g. Sabine Hossenfelder's "Free will function" (arxiv1202.0720): according to the abstract "it is posible to give an operational meaning to free will... without employing metaphysics".