To your fingers and clothing, yes; bigger items (like your foot) dont really pose a threat because the chain and cog cant really get the necessary leverage to crunch through them. That doesn't mean it wouldn't hurt so I don't advise trying it. Just watch where your fingers are when the bike is in the stand and the cranks are spinning (biggest danger) and dont wear your bellbottoms while riding (less of a danger). 

Yes it will work. Should you want a different sized chainring you'll just need to find one with the same BCD (bolt circle diameter) and you'll need shorter chainring bolts and/or chainring bolt spacers. In terms of chainline, you have a multitude of options. The easiest one is to buy a cassette style wheel and a single speed conversion kit which consists of a cog and a bunch of spacers. By adjusting how many spacers you use to the inside vs the outside of the cog, you should be able to dial in your chain line with no further adjustments. The cheapest but trickiest and most time consuming option is to re-space your existing rear wheel's axle and re-dish the wheel accordingly, and then slap a single speed freewheel on in place of the multi speed one that's on there now. Finally, if you want a nice clean look and the extra security of a bolt on axle, you can buy a rear wheel with a single speed or flip flop hub and adjust your chain line with a different length bottom bracket- assuming the chain ling isn't good enough as is when you change the wheel. 

Focus on your points of contact and your positioning on the bike. The butterfly handlebars are a potentially good option due to the extra hand positions. Are you totally happy with your saddle? If you're considering days-on-end touring you'd better be. Pedals aren't as big of a deal if you're already riding clipless- brand is just a matter of preference there, but are your shoes in good shape? any discomfort or hotspots after long days on the bike? Finally, if you have any discomfort or pain when riding the bike, it might be worth moving some things around, especially stem length/rise. I'm assuming you have your saddle height + fore/aft where you want it. If not, play with it a bit or better yet go see a fitter with a good reputation. Most importantly, don't change any of these things immediately before you go on a tour! You need a few long days in the saddle to test them out first. Also, if you're happy with all of the things I mentioned, don't second guess them just because I pointed them out. Be happy with what you've got and how you've got it and have an awesome ride. 

When bearings wear down, they tend to wear unevenly. They pit and chip and generally come out of round. The races tend to look equally rough if they're the same age as the bearings. If all is looking to be in fairly good shape, I think it's far more likely that someone has previously serviced the hub and used slightly smaller bearings. 

I can only speak based on what I have read, but my understanding is that A) yes it has a softer ride quality due to the lack of a seat tube, and B) it was banned for the lack of a seat tube. UCI is pretty strict on what they consider legal and what they don't. In regard to your final question as it applies to road bikes, I would venture to say that the lack of a seat tube as it was designed for the frame in question does not provide any substantial advantages. Otherwise we would have seen more frames of this shape from other manufacturers and more of a push from the industry to legalize the design for UCI racing. There have been similar designs through the years such as the Softride. They also failed, because that frame shape just isn't an awesome design. 

The first one you posted is good because it's cheap. However, it lacks the ability to measure a chain until it's worn out, or really worn out. The second one is still cheap and gives you the ability to measure your chain at an earlier stage of wear. Downside is you lose some compactness. I have not used that type before so i cant speak to its accuracy. The third is really for shop use and may be overkill even in that situation. Digital calipers are really nice to have, but you don't really need that same degree of accuracy in a chain checker, so in my opinion this is a little wasteful of your disposable income. A couple other options that you didn't post are the Park Tool CC-1 (which is no longer made) and the Park Tool CC-2. As you might expect, the CC-2 replaced the CC-1. The CC-2 is a little more expensive than the first two checkers you posted, but definitely far less than the third. It has a compact design so it's easy to throw in an already cramped toolbox (like mine), it's very easy to use, it gives an accurate reading, and it should last a lifetime for personal use. It's the one you're most likely to see shop mechanics using, yet it's still very affordable. 

If you want something purpose made I know that there are lots of rear lights that come with reflector mounts as included options. For example, here's one from Blackburn.. Look around and read the specs, or ask your LBS for suggestions (there are lot's of crappy lights out there and every shop has their favorite that's proven itself to be durable). There are also plenty ways to rig a light onto the reflector mount of your rack, just use your imagination. 

Some frames are more prone to this than others. It seems to happen the worst with certain hardtail frames. It's possible that you swapped from organic to metallic pads which may have caused the issue to surface. Assuming this is the issue, sometimes the problem will go away as the pads bed in, other times not. If you can determine that you moved from organic to metallic pads and you are through the bed in period, you may want to swap back to organic pads. 

If the rim states that it's "disc specific" or "disc only", go with that, and don't use rim brakes on it. 

Like Daniel said, a good rule of thumb is to keep oils off rubber and plastics. Some will damage them, some will preserve them, but you don't want either type on your tires. You should be more worried about the fact that the oily spot on your rear tire can cause it to break traction much more easily, especially while braking or cornering. If you're going to be storing the bike for any period of time, just stuff a rag between the spokes up next to the hub to catch and absorb the oil. 

Unless you're standing on it, probably not, especially if its an external/exposed cam style quick release I'm assuming what you're seeing is just the legs coming in a little bit as the spacing is slightly wider than 100mm. As long as it's just a couple of mm, I woudn't worry about it. 

Yes, you can. You just need to get the right size of loose ceramic ball bearings as that's what shimano wheels use. They are available from various vendors, like here for instance. You didn't ask this, but I'll answer it for you anyway: would I recommend replacing the bearings on a pair of WH-R550's with ceramic bearings? No, and neither would many others. Ceramic bearings are expensive and can end up costing nearly as much as your particular wheelset. There are better places on your bike to spend that money and get more bang for your buck. A lighter, more aerodynamic wheelset would be a great place to start. 

To answer your question in a word: No. You can run any tire on the rims you want. The "UST only" sticker is referring to when you're running tubeless. Even then I wouldn't pay it much mind. There are plenty of good non UST tubeless tires out there. Squirt some sealant in there, air them up and off you go. The UST standard is a dying (dead?) standard. Our friend Stan played a big part in making that happen. Before there were many tubeless tires available his tubeless kits converted most, but not all, non tubeless mtb tires to tubeless with no more issue than you would have with a UST certified setup. Some would argue that the NoTubes kits were more dependable than UST. 

No! Still the same experience as a few years ago. Don't bother wasting your money on them (again). My experience has been that sometimes they don't even get you home before needint to be reapplied. Carry a spare tube and if you get a flat, take it home with you and patch it with a glue patch, or carry one of the small glue patch kits with you if you are flat prone. 

I don't know what kind of tires you're running, but 65PSI is a really low maximum pressure for a 700x32 tire. I wouldn't exceed it if I were you. I'd probably throw them out and get a pair of tires that are a little more confidence inspiring. Tire pressure is more of an art than a science (even moreso with mountain bike tires), and much of it is going to come down to preference. The skinnier the tire, the higher the pressure. The bigger the rider, the higher the pressure. To a lesser extent, the higher the TPI (threads per inch), the higher the pressure. There is a sweet spot between the min and max pressures, and it depends on the mentioned factors and more, and each rider just has to feel it out for themselves. That said, Michelin has a chart that can provide a decent starting point for road tires and you can go up or down from there as you please. Keep in mind they've designed this around their own tires, and ultimately other reputable sources probably have other opinions on the matter. In Michelin's words: 

Those counterlocked axle nuts are binding together more tightly than the threads are on each individual nut, and thus staying counterlocked against one another. Usually this isn't the case and when you put a wrench on the outside nut on either side of the hub, one of the outer nuts will break free. As you're seeing now, not always the case. You need a box wrench and a cone wrench (or two cone wrenches) to break the inside and outside axle nuts on one side free from each other. Then get the bearings properly preloaded and counterlock them again. This process can be tricky as the preload on the bearings will change as you counterlock the two nuts back together. It usually takes a few tries to get the preload set right and the nuts counterlocked firmly. Too tight? back them both off 1/8 to 1/4 of a turn and try again. Too loose? Do just the opposite. 

If you set the downtube shifter to friction mode then you can run any rear derailleur you want. If you're looking for indexed downtube shifting with a SRAM rear derailleur, the answer as of the date of this posting is no. Cable pull for SRAM is different than it is for Shimano and others, which is why mixing different brands of shifters and derailleurs is not advisable. 

For a typical rebuild the increase in efficiency is negligible. Think about the leverage you have over the bearings on a rotating wheel- it's pretty substantial compared to the friction of the bearings, even if they're not in perfect shape. The bearings would have to be destroyed for it to make a significant difference, and if the bearings are destroyed it's likely that the hub would be too, at which point a rebuild is moot. 

This isn't a situation you're going to run into, but let's run with it. All else being equal with a given set of bikes, visually you could probably just barely tell that one bike had a higher or lower BB than the next. You'd probably need a tape measure. In general, your bike with lower bb is going to transition from turn to turn ever so slightly faster, probably an amount unperceivable to most. It's also going to have pedal strikes more often. The bike with the taller bb height is going to be just the opposite in both respects. Keep in mind that without rider weight, bb height is deceptive on any bike with suspension. Its worse with full suspension vs hardtails. Proper suspension sag is typically taken into account in geometry specs, but on the showroom floor suspension bikes will have exaggerated bb heights. Now let's talk real world. We're really only talking about a few cm of difference in bb height even in extreme case comparisons. For instance, looking at Trek's xc race hardtails and comparing them to their downhill bikes, you've got less than 6cm of bb height difference. That's not insignificant, but we're basically comparing apples to oranges at that point and looking at 2.5 inches of difference. Amongst a given category of bikes you're going to have very little variance- probably less than a centimeter. It's important to keep in mind that bb height is just a small piece of the puzzle in terms of handling dynamics for a bike. There are other factors of frame geometry that I would take into consideration first, such as effective top tube length (the bike needs to fit) headtube angle (how quick will the bike initiate a turn) and wheelbase (how quick will the back of the bike follow the front of the bike). When those are equal I would start considering chainstay length, headtube length, and bottom bracket height. Those are all pretty much in order.