LL Orionis bow shock in Orion nebula. The star's atmosphere collides with the nebula flow. Hubble, 1995 

Yes I know these coordinates aren't orthogonal, but they relate well to measurements one could make and simple coordinate transformations could make them orthogonal. The first one is pretty easy. We can currently measure the distance to Sag A*, the black hole at the center of the galaxy. It's not particularly easy and measurements have fluctuated over the years with respect to our position on Earth (see e.g., Eisenhauer et al. 2003 or Boehle et al. 2016), but it is a measurement which could allow you to define #1. The second coordinate could be achieved by simply mapping the local star field. A survey akin to SDSS could accomplish this. This is precisely what was done in this Humphreys & Larson 1995. It would take time and a lot of work, but you could make this measurement pretty easily. So far so good. Now we come to coordinate #3 and suddenly we hit a problem. We need to know our azimuthal position with respect to some reference point. That is, if you look down on the galaxy and consider our angle from some line, what would that line be and what would that angle be? Since the clear intent is to relate our new position to where the Earth is, the most logical reference line is the line connecting the Earth to the center of the galaxy. But how do we know where that line is with respect to our new position? I'm afraid I don't have a good answer here. Others suggested using pulsars but that isn't foolproof. First, you don't know when you're being deposited so it could be billions of years in the past or future when all current knowledge of pulsars is no longer relevant. Second, you might be on the other side of the milky way where we can't actually see anything currently and thus have no knowledge of pulsars over there. Your best bet might be to map out the star distribution of as wide a swath of the galaxy as you can see to try and understand what the spiral arms look like near you. We've already done this for our current position in the galaxy. Galactic arms move and change slowly, taking hundreds of millions if not billions of years to change significantly. If you can recognize the general structure of the arms, that would give you a decent reference to your azimuthal position. How do we know the time? I'm going to break this down into two possible answers. The first assumes you've been placed in a time not too distant from our current time (think less than a million years) and you're still pretty near to our current position. In the case above, pulsars are the way to go. Pulsars pulse with extreme regularity, so that they're great time keepers. But if your goal is to know how much time has passed, you need to look at the time rate of change of the pulses. As it turns out, the pulsars don't pulse with perfect regularity. The time between pulses decays very slowly over time due to the pulsars losing angular momentum very slowly. The general step to calculating a reasonably precise time is as follows. 

Besides all the obvious properties (size, distance, central body, etc.), there are a few other differences between the two. Firstly, planetary rings usually have a clearly defined boundary. This is because rings usually have shepherd moons — small moons that orbit near the inner or outer edges of rings or within gaps in the rings. The gravity of shepherd moons maintains a sharply defined edge to the ring; material that drifts closer to the shepherd moon's orbit is either deflected back into the body of the ring, ejected from the system, or accreted onto the moon itself. Circumstellar disc boundaries can be more complicated. Usually, planets play a similar role to shepherd moons in ring systems, so we can define an inner and outer edge for the asteroid belt. However, discs that lie beyond the planets are trickier. The Kuiper belt's outer edge is approximately 47.8 AU from the Sun, at the 1:2 resonance. However, some objects have been detected up to 55 AU from the Sun. Meanwhile, scattered disc objects have extreme orbits and the disc's outer edge is not clearly defined. Distant SDOs have been proposed as Hills cloud objects, causing a vague ambiguity between the two. In addition, rings are much denser than circumstellar discs. As a result, collisions are relatively common between ring debris, while they are very rare in circumstellar discs. 

The observable universe has its own center, usually the Earth. It is a spherical region of everything that we can see, essentially anything whose light has reached us. We usually refer to this when we say things like "there are $10^{86}$ atoms in the universe." In reality, everyone has their own observable universe, and it can change depending on where you are. An exoplanet far away has its own observable universe, and can receive light from different places. Essentially, you are the center of your own observable universe. As more light reaches us, our observable universe will grow (or expand, if you will). If you are referring to the latter, then there is a totally different answer and "expansion" refers to something completely different. The Universe (notice the capital "U") is all of space and time and its contents. Anything that has existed, will exist, and currently exists is part of it. When we say the Universe is expanding, we don't mean it's like a ball that is constantly growing in size. We simply mean that the space between objects is increasing. The Universe can be infinite in size, but more and more space is being created between matter. Another way of thinking about this is saying that space is dilating. Imagine that everything in space is on a coordinate system. The coordinate system itself is actually dilating, and thus the objects on it are drifting apart. Here's a GIF I made to help you understand it: 

If we're going to get technical, Asteroids are not really an official name anymore. In 2006, when the IAU redefined what a planet was (and thus demoted Pluto), they also decided to more formally define other terms to identify objects in our solar system. You can see a diagram of all the official terms and how they relate below. Notice the important factor that asteroids no longer made the cut. There is the collection of "Small Solar System Bodies" (SSSB) and within that falls comets and centaurs, but asteroids are not exclusively called out. So if you want to get technical, asteroids are really SSSBs now and comets are SSSBs as well, but also happen to fit into the sub-category of comets. What defines an SSSB as a comet is its ability to form a coma based on the sublimation of icy surface volatiles. So you might distinguish an "asteroid" as an object which cannot form a coma (and orbits inside Neptune), but that still leads to an ambiguity because what happens when a comet runs out of surface volatiles? Does it now become an asteroid? Is it still considered a comet? There are no clear answers. 

1Technically there are some small forces acting on the Earth to slow it down but those are nearly negligible and mostly from the Moon. These forces would take billions of years or longer to make the Earth come to a complete stop (if they ever even could). 

The image you're seeing was taken by JunoCam and is a visible image. In fact, this image is combined by images taken over multiple days and from multiple orbits to get different vantage points and show all areas lit up. It isn't however a mosaic $-$ the 58 degree field of view allows JunoCam to image the entirety of Jupiter in one image. Instead, this image is simply the carefully crafted combination of many different images of the south pole. FWIW, UVS is an imager in the ultraviolet and JIRAM is an imager in the infrared. How deep are you seeing into Jupiter? Not very deep at all. Because the image is in the visible spectrum, the depth into Jupiter before it becomes too opaque is going to be very, very short. You may not even be seeing down to Jupiter's "surface" where the atmospheric pressure equals 1 bar. Incidentally, JIRCAM can see down to about 5-7 bars if its lucky, enough to penetrate the very upper layers of the atmosphere. Infrared images of the poles Obviously I can't be certain what you saw before concerning infrared images of Jupiter's poles, but my guess is they may have been something like the image below. This image was taken by JIRAM 

I've found the answer to this is actually very interesting and (to me, at least) surprising — it is not just the light cone that shrinks, but the cosmic event horizon as well! To explain this, let us first look at a de Sitter universe. The scale factor $a$ of a de Sitter universe can be expressed as a function of time with: $$a(t) = e^{kt}$$ where $k$ is some constant, depending on the specifics of our universe (in a de Sitter universe, $k = H$, the Hubble parameter). A universe dominated by phantom energy is actually pretty similar to a de Sitter universe, but the expansion rate gets exponentially faster. Thus, in a Big Rip universe $k$ is time dependent ($\dot{k} > 0$), so the scale factor can be written as: $$a(t) = e^{k(t)t}$$ Why is this relevant? Well, the comoving distance to the event horizon is actually inversely proportional to $a$ and $k$: $$d_{eh}(t)\propto\frac{1}{a(t)k(t)}$$ In a de Sitter universe (and our own universe, assuming $w = -1$), $k$ is equal to the Hubble constant, so the event horizon’s distance will remain constant (in a de Sitter universe, the $\dot{H} = 0$ because the deceleration parameter $q=-1$). In a Rip universe, $k$ is time dependent; as $k$ increases, the distance to the horizon decreases. From this formula, we can see that the event horizon’s distance is inversely proportional to the scale factor; thus, if $a(t)$ reaches infinity, the event horizon’s distance will reach zero. This means that the Big Rip can be defined as either the scale factor reaching infinity, or the observable universe’s diameter reaching zero — these two events happen at the same time. 

Neutron stars can have small atmospheres. However, they also have extremely strong gravitationally pulls. Shouldn't the all the gas molecules be drawn to the star's surface, and become solids under the immense pressure? Maybe I'm thinking about this the wrong way, but I don't see how it could be possible. 

All the physical constants of nature are tied together. You can't just change one and hope that the others don't notice. If the speed of light is constantly decreasing that has drastic implications throughout all of physics. For example, if the speed of light changes, suddenly the electromagnetic force strength changes, atoms aren't stable, and the universe explodes! What is your proposal for stopping that occurrence? Just how exactly are things shrinking? Are the atoms getting closing together? Are the atoms themselves shrinking? At some point you're going to hit a limit and your object becomes a black hole. Are you really predicting that eventually the universe will be nothing but black holes? My guess is that if you did such a calculation, you'd find the time it took to reach that point is about a second, but the Universe has been around for a few billion years. What caused this initial shrinkage? Motion requires energy input. Where did this energy come from? How did it apply itself so uniquely as to cause every individual thing to shrink into itself and only itself? How did the universe get to be so distributed? Your proposal basically implies the Big Bang didn't happen since you attempt to explain things the Big Bang theory already explains. If your explanation differs and you believe yours is the correct one, then the Big Bang Theory cannot be correct. If that is the case, then how did the universe get into its current state if not the Big Bang? 

It looks like the original (Greek) identification of the constellation by Ptolemy didn't attribute anything to it, let alone a dog. But over time, the constellation became known based on its proximity to Canis Major. Originally known as Procyon meaning "coming before the dog", i.e., it rises before Canis Major. This relation to Canis Major seems to have led it to being considered as a representation of a dog as well. The Minor attribute appears to be due to the fact that it is fainter overall than Canis Major. Really though, you can't pick apart constellation patterns too much. Much of them don't look that much like their attributions and only evolved over thousands of years of stories and imagination. It's not like one guy sat down one day and said, what does this pattern of stars remind me of, and that was that. 

You can see how objects are drifting apart from each other, due to the expansion of space. Thus, your question doesn't make much sense; the Universe is all of space and it's contents, so how could it move through more space? 

For example, the Sun is a giant sphere of positively charged plasma. About 72% of the elements in it are protium. This means that these protium atoms would have had to lose their electrons, right? If so, the majority of the Sun would be protons. So just as there are neutron stars, would stars like our Sun be considered "proton stars"? This may be a stupid question, but what I'm really getting at is: are stars mostly protons? Is what I described how it all works? 

General relativity predicted that our universe was dynamic a decade before the first observations of redshift confirmed it. A static universe is a physical impossibility; anything, from the tiniest thermal fluctuations, would send it perpetually collapsing or expanding. 

When the cloud finally collapses, it forms a star and shortly after planets. However, angular momentum is always conserved. That's why all the Solar System planets follow the same orbit, and why almost all of them rotate in the same direction. There's nothing to turn them the other direction, so they will continue spinning in the same direction as the original gas cloud. There are a few exceptions, though. Whenever objects formed in such a way that sent them orbiting the opposite direction, they usually collided with objects going in the same direction as the original cloud. This destroyed any outlying objects or sent them in the same direction as the original cloud. Still, two huge exceptions are planets Venus and Uranus. Uranus spins on an axis of almost 90-degrees (on its side). Venus meanwhile spins the opposite direction as Earth and the other planets. In both cases there is strong evidence that these planets were struck by large objects at some point in the distant past. The impacts were large enough to overcome the angular momentum of the bodies, and give them a different spin. There are also a range of other theories; for example, some astronomers think that Venus may have been flipped upside-down. Point is, there were irregular events that happened to both of these planets. Overall, what I described applies for all planetary systems. To answer your question, it depends on how their cloud rotated. The cloud that formed some planetary systems may have turned counterclockwise, just like for the Solar System (at least, it appears counterclockwise from above Earth's north pole). The cloud for others may have turned clockwise. That's why not all exoplanets systems will have the same orbital direction as Earth; however, typically all planets in a planetary system will share the same orbital direction. 

Your son is more or less correct. The moon's size doesn't change appreciably. At best you only see the size vary by about 13% (in angular diameter). The variation in the apparent size of the moon comes from the fact that the moon's orbit around us is not perfectly spherical and sometimes it is closer and sometimes farther. The moon will appear largest when a full moon coincides with the moon being at its closest point in its orbit. This is colloquially referred to as a "Super Moon". The opposite, being at its farthest point in its orbit during a full moon, is known as a "Micro Moon" or "Mini Moon". These are really the two extremes, but most often the moon is a more average size that doesn't appear to change much. Shown below is an image of both a Super Moon and a Micro Moon. You can see the size difference, which is noticeable, but not hugely so. If you want to see a large moon, find the time when the next Super Moon occurs (a good upcoming Super Moon is on November 14, 2016). 

That is precisely the wrong statement. The fact that the Earth is still spinning matches our physical laws exactly. The physical law I'm specifically referring to is known as Newton's First Law of Motion, which is loosely paraphrased as: 

I assume that when considering where to view the Solar Eclipse from, you're looking for the place with the best observance of totality. This elicits two factors, the degree of totality and the time elapsed during totality. The best observed eclipse will be a total eclipse, i.e., 100% totality, and for the longest time possible. A map of the path of 100% totality is shown below. In it, you can see that grey band that passes across the US. Anywhere within that band, you'll be able to see a 100% total solar eclipse.