From your question it seems to me you don't yet realize what it means to work in a huge organization, and how ineffective it feels from the inside, so let me use an analogy. Huge organization is like a complicated mechanism made of turning cogwheels, unnecessarily complicated and unnecessarily meshed in many-to-many fashion. This also works on many levels (people are cogwheels, teams are cogwheels, departments are cogwheels, etc. on their own level). The point is, each cogwheel (and on each level) needs to learn how to cooperate with its peers. If the cogwheel turns too slow, it breaks some teeth; their own and others'. If the cogwheel wants to turn faster (for any reason, like satisfying the end customers), it breaks some teeth; their own and others'. Your small organization looks like a new cogwheel, spinning out-of-sync, basically thrown into an existing huge mechanism. Those of you who stay, would experience how mindbogglingly slow the spinning becomes at the time when you start to actually move together with the huge organization. For now, your wish to "to change their behavior" in a controllable way is naive and, excuse me, laughable. There is no "them" conspiring against you. Every one of other cogwheels is surrounded by their own perceived troublemakers and they have grown more frustrated than you over their long way. But rest assured none of them cares for your end customers! Is it possible to make this setup more lean in a non-disruptive way? I don't see it. The immediate managerial response to every problem is to create a new cogwheel. From the point of view of any manager, the worst thing you could propose is to decrease the number of their cogwheels. Thus, the cooperative efforts of all manager causes mesh to grow more complicated, not less, on every level. For example, if there are too many critical events from IT monitoring system, the instinctive response is to create another team of people to "handle" these events. The positive thing about large organization is the stability of the work environment. But it's really not for the people who want to change things. 

So you are on your first job. You are a programmer. And you have been asked to organize a party for 35/40 people. I hope it's a joke on part of your new colleagues. If it's serious, then something is wrong with the company. In my culture it's kind of normal to tell a new guy or gal, especially if they seem naive, that "every new employee so far bought tons of donuts for the entire office" or "at the evening of your first salary all the drinks are on you". The correct response is always "haha, a good one!". Even if you initially fell for that, when they nag you again you can always politely say "Aww come on already. I'll buy you a pack of chips tomorrow but I need you to behave.". What seems off is that they got managers and budget to play along; can they be in such hilarious mood of epic proportions? If a company has more than 35 employees, then obviously there is a person responsible for arranging such a party. And I mean professional responsibility, it is their job, as policemen giving tickets or as yours is programming. And that person is not a programmer, believe me! (hint hint) They are not taking your programming tasks, you don't do their team-spirit tasks. Anyway go to your manager and tell them you recognize the wonderful opportunity, but you've decided to pass on that. At this point stop talking and look at them in silence. If reason is required, do tell that your dog fell seriously ill. You have my official permission to act tongue-in-cheek as needed. This will work perfectly whether it was a joke or not. The very important lesson about professional opportunities is to know which ones to pass. You are not a slave but a skilled worker, so you will let pass most of opportunities in your career. Here, truly the worst case scenario is that you will ruin some of your career options, for example, you will have no chance to become an office attendant, or a PR specialist, or a CEO for this company. But your rating as a programmer, and respect for you, can only go up. I've just noticed that you're a girl! I came back to re-examine every sentence of my answer and everything still applies. Some of it applies even more seriously. I hope I'm mistaken, but in some cultures - I repeat, in some - if a fresh girl does organize such party successfully, it can lead to future expectations towards her. 

This guy goes to much trouble not to break your flow. Probably, as he stumbles on something, he needs to fight the impulse to ask you immediately. Then he formulates the question quietly. Then he silently proceeds to other activities, while constantly monitoring if you seem busy at your computer. He also knows that e-mail/IM is not a very effective tool to explain things. Putting away the nonconstructive question if the behavior can be judged as rude, I think it would be reasonable to agree with him (as well as others) on a visual flag. This would give you a very non-intrusive way of arranging your discussions. 

It makes it really easy. Switch jobs, if you see anything better available here and now (relocation maybe?). The easiest wage negotiation happens when changing an employer. Start worrying whether your job/industry switches are too frequent after you're 30. Certainly not at your age! If you have any loyalty, have less of it. Employers are not schools or families (the organizations you've maybe experienced the most; the organizations that are designed to suck you in and are traditionally hardly switchable). An employer can be easily switched. An employer deserves respect, but also deserves zero loyalty upfront. Z-e-r-o. They can eventually earn some loyalty, by doing/giving something more. Paying you is not enough - it's an expected bare minimum! If you want to stay for personal reasons, feel free to be really irritating with your continuing re-negotiation attempts. It's not something that can be ever brought against you. It doesn't show on your CV. You took extra responsibility, they implicitly agreed, so do demand a raise even twice a month. Your boss should ideally do negotiating for you. It's not theirs money, is it? You feed arguments to GM, who talks to VP about your pay. If your boss doesn't wholeheartedly support the idea that the team should be paid more and more and more, the raises won't happen. Ever. Try to convey the idea, but anyway it's only a first step on a long hard road. Their negotiation seems more like a haggling to me. I wouldn't overthink their arguments. Haggling is more often about how quickly can you come up with a great number of varied artifacts of speech only remotely related to the topic (the "too young" argument is exactly of this sort).