Think of yourself, after an accident. You're totally senseless, so you can't see, hear, feel,... Further you lost all your memories and with that, all your emotions. You can only think, but you think in a certain language, which was created by others, so it is dependant. So we take away language. Let's say there is only logical operations, like a computer. These operations follow some rules, which might be dependant, so let's take them away. When there is no operations on a computer we can switch it off as well. 

Thoughts, memories, information, all are stored in some kind of physical representation. You might get down to a single quantum state of a electron to store one (quantum) bit. Sir Popper tells us that products of the brain, like speech, music, math,... live in World 3, which is on top World 1, the material one. Can information be thought without a physical realisation? Or is it always connected to a certain kind of materialism? 

Any answer, yes or no, will answer this question, since even no, is an answer. I think this is related to the self-reference and to me seems to be related to the concept of tautology. Is this further related to this quite famous example: 

Is it possible to deny the existence of infinities in the real world, by philosophical means only? If it makes it easier, I'm mainly interested to deny that we can know an infinite amount of things (even if we would live forever), since (and that's what I assume) there are only finitely many? I don't want to make use of the physical finiteness of the universe. Is it then still possible? 

The higher energies we use the deeper we look into the mysteries of the universe. We started to find molecules, atoms, protons, quarks, ... All at different energy scales. Each new stage forced and forces scientists, to come up with new theories and models to describe the newly found phenomena. What would it mean if we come to the stage, when the whole energy of the entire universe is not enough the reveal the next stage? By "revealing the next stage", I mean that we find new results at higher energies that give rise to new models for the underlying physics. Doesn't this constrain the amount of information we can get out of the universe and put a final end to the depth we can investigate reality? 

As someone with a mathematical background, you might appreciate that there's a difficulty in expressing the concept no two things are identical. In the way in which we use the word 'two' here, it's tautological — we mean to imply objects which are distinct from one another, in which case they are ipso facto not identical. When we talk about having objects which are interchangeable, we implicitly invoke some notion of equivalence, which stands in for identity when we're prepared to ignore differences. A tarnished coin is not as valuable to a collector as one in mint condition, but so long as it's still identifiably a coin of the same denomination, they can be put to the same purpose. (Of course it would be difficult in practise to describe the precise physical qualities in which usable coins are equivalent: there is a case of the Sorites Paradox going on here, in which any division between usable and unusable coins is likely to be quite arbitrary.) Schipol has already made reference to the identity of indiscernables, which is a criterion which describes "identity" as the most refined equivalence relation — that 'two' objects are not in fact the same object if and only if they differ somehow. This may be considered impractical in a naturalist account of metaphysics for a few reasons, though: when would you be presented with two things without being sure that they're distinct? Perhaps you're presented them at different times — but then how can you be sure that, if what you're being presented with is one object and then a similar object, that it is not the same object but changed slightly with time (because perhaps something was done to it)? Or if the object is extremely similar, how can you tell that there isn't some subtle difference which you didn't think to test? Perhaps you would like to say that each object has its own distinct identity which sets it apart from others, however it changes and however similar other objects are to it. This, again, is the notion of haeccity mentioned by Paul Ross. But it's not clear what this gets you — it's impossible to observe the thisness of an object for comparison at a later time (it is by definition not observable as a quality), and it is undermined by such problems as Theseus' ship, which note that our notions of identity of physical objects (including our own bodies!) can not be reduced to continuity of the matter in the object — it has more to do with form, and relationships between the parts, than substance. Is identity made exclusively up of relationships between parts? Then any two Macintosh computers are the same. You might complain that there may be incidental but discernable differences between some of the parts, but then the alternative is that changing a single screw, or making a single scratch on the case, changes the identity of the object. One possible reaction to this is to reject the notion of identity entirely, as in Zen Buddhism, which teaches that even a notion such as "oneself", but also categorizations of objects into classes such as chairs, tables, rivers, etc. is a misunderstsnding. Perhaps it is useful to accomplish certain tasks (without remarking on what tasks are when trying to accomplish), but at the least it masks or understates the facts of the matter. Such categorizations might be best understood as a form of language game: a way to operate, and co-operate, in the world which however does not necessarily bear any truth-content, except inasmuch as the game models well features of reality. But there is no a priori reason why any particular way of speaking about the world should be expected to do so, and even some particularly effective way of speaking about the world may still have defects. Perhaps all ways of speaking about the world has deficiencies, however slight; this is the position of Daoism, for instance. And however useful for everyday discourse, perhaps thre notion of identity is one of these defects. But then why is the notion of identity a useful one — is there not a feature of the world which it identifies, or is there not a feature which it at least approximates? It's unclear. In summary, the question of identity (or its negation) is either trivial, problematic, or complete nonsense, depending on what you demand from it. 

Because we have much more evidence of the impact of old ideas than we do of the impact (or potential impact) of new ideas. Therefore it's much harder to know the relevance of new ideas and much harder to find any consensus of what will turn out to be important in the future. It is easy to deny an idea's relevance based on the lack of evidence and so many will deny it until it is impossible to do so. Maybe for good reasons, but maybe because of my second explanation for why present philosophers don't appear to be as important as those of the past. People seem much more comfortable giving away credit to dead people than people who are alive. (I don't want to go into the potential psychological reasons for this but there could be plenty of alternative explanations for this phenomenon.) 

In my mind: The main difference between philosophy and science is that science is not allowed to tell you how to coordinate desires, i.e. what to do with your own and other people's lives. The main similarity between philosophy and science is that they both try to find out about reality, so good philosophers certainly use scientists or their tool e.g. verifying and falsifying claims in physical reality, trying to be coherent, adding up probabilities, etc. But I do recognize that most universities for various reasons have got stuck in the analytical school which seem to separate science and philosophy somewhere between fact and definition. Leaving life's most important questions of how we should live our lives to be taken over by religion, astrology, and self-help gurus. 

If the question was not only about whether materialism and physicalism are the same I want to add a comment about what you said about gravity and electromagnetic forces. Natural forces can seem non physical at first glance and I hear many people talk about them as being the invisible laws that govern the universe. But a less magical way to view it is to see that all natural laws or forces are just functions of matter. If you take away the matter the force disappear as well. Gravity and electromagnetic forces does not exist by themselves as non-physical entities, they are just a way to talk about material change as apposed to mater frozen in time (like your cup of tea). 

Ultimately, the robot is stuck. In a world where the Turing Test is needed to tell humans apart from robots, robots have no means of determining whom they should obey. And so, rather than admitting that they were robots, they would have the freedom to tell them anything, up to and including claiming that they are a unicorn. This, incidentally, is accepted by some people as being more or less as Turing himself would like; that the question of personhood is dealt with on a level of their intelligent behaviour rather than their internal configuration or appearance. But the concept of "intelligent behaviour" raises very complicated issues of cultural standards of intelligence. Even the "sonnet" example presented in Turing's original paper demands acquaintance with western forms of literature (if not necessarily Shakespeare as a particular example). Communities of actual humans have varying performance on S.A.T. tests for these very reasons. Ultimately, what a Turing test measures is not intelligence, but whether we can regard the person we're conversing with as a peer. Actual humans can produce boring and formulaic conversation, or appear to perform super-human feats of computation, to other humans. The judgement in that case is not that they are sub-human conversationalists or super-human calculators, but just "not like me". I would posit that this is, at the core, the key concept of the phenomenon of discrimination: against gender, against skin colour, against cultural practice, against language speakers, even against people in other social circles in public school. (The Uncanny Valley is another symptom of this same syndrome of testing similarity to yourself.) Whom do you consider similar enough to yourself to regard as a peer, to accept as a social participant? The Turing Test is an answer not to whether or not a computer is intelligent, but whether or not you can be "fooled" (as a person who is, hypothetically, bigoted against computers) into thinking of the computer as someone you might consider socializing with. Equipped with an English-to-Chinese dictionary, I am more than adequately prepared to fail a Chinese Turing Test quite abysmally; not because I am not intelligent, but because I do not possess the facility to demonstrate fluency in Chinese, cultural awareness of things Chinese, etc. If told they were performing a Turing Test, the Chinese person might be amused to find that they gave a failing grade to a human from an English speaking country, but I imagine that they wouldn't be shocked; they would just shrug (or whatever is the Chinese equivalent of a shrug) and accept that of course I would fail a Turing Test administered by a typical person in China. After all, I'm not one of them; not necessarily inferior, just in some sense incompatible as an intellectual agent. A robot can only be forced to admit that it is a robot to a human, or (if there is doubt about humanity) to everyone that asks, if we consider it important enough for some reason to distinguish between humans and robots as potential social participants to (a) require all manufacturers to embed it into their programming at a deep cognitive level, and (b) severely punish manufacturers who fail to do so (probably destroying any robots that they make as well). There are also very important reasons, which have nothing to do with the prejudice of the average person (and more to do with the consequences of manufactured AI on systems of government such as democracy) why doing so would be necessary for a stable society. But this, as I see it, are the circumstances under which robots would be forced to confess their inhumanity. 

(late edit: I have come to the conclusion that no words (or claims) have 'direct' reference to reality since all words are about people's conception. Words reference particular concepts in people's minds (i.e. the people who used or are using the words). People's conception can then directly (from memories of empirical experiences) or indirectly (though other conceptions) reference reality. By providing definitions of words we try to understand the same concept but in the light of words referencing concepts which are more familiar to us. Preferably concepts we have real life experience with i.e. those that have a more direct references to personal experiences for us. We often continue defining the definitions until our conceptions reference direct empirical experience i.e. some evidence that what we are trying to conceive have some effect in reality according to our past experiences. This is why we can never fully understand things until we have real life experience with it.) I just answered this question about 'Whether a definition is a proposition?' by arguing that it is. My argument is based on one of my most fundamental ideas. It is an argument inspired by Quine, which leads to the claim that there is no fundamental difference between a fact and a definition. "Like other Analytic philosophers before him, Quine accepted the definition of "analytic" as "true in virtue of meaning alone". Unlike them, however, he concluded that ultimately the definition was circular. In other words, Quine accepted that analytic statements are those that are true by definition, then argued that the notion of truth by definition was unsatisfactory. " ($URL$ I will put my argument underneath so you know what I'm talking about, but my question is basically whether it is true or not that both definition claims and fact claims can (and therefore should) be verified and falsified against reality; does anyone know about any useful definitions (useful words) which have no direct or indirect reference to reality (i.e. the physical world); what words, that are not directly or indirectly verifiable against reality, not even hypothetically, do we find useful? "... The way I understand the theory, or my spin on it, is that ultimately all definitions have to be verified and falsified in the physical world just like facts do, since they are ultimately about the same thing; they are about our experiences of reality. When you define words with other words you are at the same time making claims about what is true (i.e. propositions). (side note: a made up a story can have definitions which are not about reality, but they are still about our experiences of reality since they are about a story which exist in a book, online or memory etc.) When you claim that e=mc2 you are both saying that mc2 is a useful definition of energy and that it is true that the function of energy can be determined by these measurements. A more straight forward example; when you say that the earth is round you are at the same time saying that round is a good definition of the shape of the earth and that it is true that the earth is round (it is actually no way near round since we have high mountains and deep valleys). When you attack the argument it can be about definition or fact, but if you change one you will have to change the other in order to stay coherent. If you say that 'almost round' is a better definition of the shape of the earth, then it is also true to you that the earth is 'almost round' and not round anymore. If you conclude that it is true that the earth is round then you are also saying that the shape of the earth is a useful definition of round. An interesting consequence of this is that 1+1 is not necessarily 2. In order to claim that 1+1 is a useful definition of 2 you have to prove it in the physical world. We have a lot of proof since we have added up a lot of apples and bananas throughout history, but there are cases when it is not true. If you add 1 pile of sand to 1 pile of sand you don't get 2 piles of sand, you only get 1. So 1x+1x is not always 2x and so it is not always true that 1+1 is 2 and so 2 is not always a useful definition of 1+1 in the same way that the shape of the earth is not always a useful definition of round (even though sometimes it is). Summary: all definition are propositions because unless you can verify or falsify something which they are supposed to directly or indirectly be about they are not useful definitions because they ONLY try to describe something which does not exist i.e. something which does not have the slightest present or historical reference to reality. What use would 1+1=2 be if it had never been used to verify or falsify any real world events?"