Morality is nonsense, and is the source of many confusion when regarded as guidance. If the baby's life is one of untold misery, it is humane to terminate its life as soon as possible. 

As far as I know, Russell never threw in the towel. Gödel's sentence is nonsense (neither true nor false) because it violates Russell's vicious circle principle. I wonder in which book Russell referred to his own work as a failure. 

Whitehead and Russell proved that logic and mathematics are one and the same by deducing mathematics from logical propositions. Logical propositions are propositions of the form "p implies q." Some propositions are well-know logical propositions, such as "p or p implies p"; some others are dubious as to whether they are logical propositions or not. W & R's primitive propositions are are all well-known logical propositions except perhaps the axiom of reducibility. See Mathematics and Logic By the way, if you study logicism long enough, you will find it difficult to put up with people speaking inaccurately. It is a gross misunderstanding to speak of backward extension as reduction. In W&R's words: 

Notice that Mill's argument is utilitarian. That is to say, Mill prefers freedom of speech because he thinks it is profitable, not because he thinks it is an inalienable right, like your neighbour's right to bear firearms. Empirically, most people who have long enough experience on SE will develop serious doubts about vote-based systems. 

The fun part is watching your prediction comes true - it is no less gratifying than winning a lottery. You can do science just by looking at things scientifically without conducting any experiment. All these double blind, inter-factorial experiments are just techniques to single out contributing factors for greater precision and accuracy, but they are not fundamental. A shrewd observer can draw lessons from historical events without conducting any experiments. One obvious example is Darwin, another is Machiavelli. Bertrand Russell said Machiavelli's theories were scientific. Another example was China's Deng. By 1978, when Deng took the helm, entire China was poverty stricken, but Deng was virtually innocent of any economic theories; he never read Das Kapital, and Adam Smith was as unintelligible to Deng as Laplace was to Benjamin Franklin. Deng observed that all the countries that sided with the West had become exceedingly rich; all those who sided with the Soviet had become desperate poor. Deng decided to side with the West. Now China is filthy rich.* Of course being scientific is not synonymous to being true or accurate, but science at least enables you to place the round in the vicinity of the target. The scientific conclusion is extremely tentative, subject to revision based on new evidence. So long as you are willing to revise your opinion in accordance to new evidence, you are a scientific man. Enough emphasize is on observations. Few people realize how important the hypothetical part is. In Bertrand Russell's words: 

The distinctions can be made in virtue of how much dogma and empirical evidence are involved, but philosophers have pointed out that the lines of demarcation are rather blurry, like the distinction between bald and not bald. Philosophy involves very little dogma and very little empirical evidence; it is the art of rational conjecture. Philosophers seldom agree with each other because common premises are few and far between. In the realm of opinions freedom should be absolute because the opinion doomed by one philosopher may be perfectly acceptable by another philosopher. Bertrand Russell preferred a quarrelsome atmosphere in philosophy and refused to play the authoritative role at the height of his career; he was generous to his attackers and lavished compliments to anyone who demonstrated some understanding of his philosophy. Science relies heavily on empirical evidence. Nevertheless philosophers have pointed out that there are hidden faiths in scientific knowledge; the empiricist creed that all knowledge is derived from sense-experience is itself a dogma. Because of these all-agreed-upon common criteria, scientific methods are widely accepted in scientific community, and peer review is a reliable procedure to ensure the quality of scientific work. Hidden faiths in empirical knowledge do not license other groundless faiths; empiricism too is not immune to doubt - this is what faith implies. Both philosophy and science are highly tentative, subject to revision based on new evidence. Religious pillars are dogmas. Paradoxically and by the same standard, scepticism can also be called a religion. The dogma that is fundamental to scepticism is this: 

Wittgenstein's Tautologies. A tautology is a proposition that is always true regardless the true-values of its constituent propositions. For example: p v ~p 

So can we infer from our perception to the thing that we think we perceive? If you sit in a security room, and the monitor shows a gunman walks into the building, can you infer that there really is a gunman at the door, or some prankster is playing an old movie on your monitor? Both are possible; both are open to doubt because there involves a leap of inference from what's on the screen to what really happens outside. We are not certain there really is a gunman, neither can we assert that there isn't such a gunman in virtual of that images on the monitor screen is not a real person. Philosophical scrutiny only increases doubt. Yes or no, we are not certain either way. Down to the last analysis, we are still making do. 

If determinism is true, creativity is an illusion because thoughts are natural phenomena. It follows that Mozart's masterpiece is no different from a beautiful sunset in the sense that they are both natural wonders: none of the processes that create these beautiful things transcends natural laws. Is the little ugly duckling being creative for growing up to be a swan, or is he just being himself? Is a machine creative, or is it made to work differently? Is a person creative, or is he born different? Creative people are born different; many of those who are different are also obnoxious to various degrees. One common characteristic of these creative societies - or organizations - is that people who are different are not ruthlessly pressured to conform and are tolerated by circumstances to have a little place where they can be themselves. 

This is a great question. If you come up this question all by yourself, I would call you a philosophical genius. A word is not a single entity. It is a universal, or a class of entities that have a common property. Every time you write down "x", you only write down an instance of x. Humans have the ability to sense universals or the common property of different things. Take the colour red for example, you have seen many red things, but no one ever saw red alone without shape, area, depth, etc. You know what the colour red looks like because you have the ability to sense universals. Similar remarks apply to words spoken, heard or read. Source: Russell, Bertrand An Inquiry into Meaning and Truth 

The original question is very interesting. A closer scrutiny will reveal that mathematical proof does not involve halting problem. A mathematical proof ultimately appeals to a sense - a sense of mathematics as Russell puts it. Some people's senses of mathematics are very strong, some others' are moderate, still others have none at all. Most of those people whom we call "sensitive" probably have this sense of mathematics. The following joke may illustrate the point: 

As far as current scientific knowledge can warrant, all courses of events in the world, including those that occur in human brains, obey physical laws. It is valid to say "it is not my fault," because You are as responsible for your fault as the earth is for earth quakes or the volcano is for eruptions or a cancer patient for his brain tumour. In Bertrand Russell's words: 

A name that does not have a corresponding object is called nonsense. It is not OK to speak nonsense. If an object is spoken of in the form of "the so-and-so," that object is mentioned by description, where "the so-and-so" can be interpreted as "the x that satisfies ϕ(x)." "The so-and-so does not exist" means "for all the x's, ϕ(x) is false." It is OK to speak of non-existent object by means of description. 

Yes, by joining the logicist school. Gödel sentence presents no threat to logicism because a self-referential sentence is meaningless to logicists. The meaning of Gödel sentence G cannot be determined until each of G's constituents is determined; one of G's constituents is G itself, thus a vicious circle ensue. To formalists, mathematics is ink blobs that have no meanings, thus Gödel sentence presents a valid argument. To logicists, meaning is fundamental; since Gödel sentence has no meanings, Gödel sentence G has no impact on logicism. Any branch of mathematics that has practical application must concern itself with meanings. Assigning number to magnitude is called measurement; measurement is not fundamental to mathematics. 

Scientific method assumes the principle of induction by simple enumeration (IBSE); but the principle itself cannot be proved empirically. IBSE is fallacious, but is simply assumed in science: Any theory that does not contradict observations is valid. Given a finite number observed occurrences, infinite number of theories are valid; with each additional observation, infinite number of theories are invalidated, but at the same time, infinite more become possible. This is why scientific outlook must be tentative, subject to revision based on new evidence. Among infinite number of theories, it is Occam's razor that helps us select one out of many. But what exactly is called simple is rather vague. In the theoretical community, people are actually making do: Everything is tentative. For a given set of observations and a sufficient theory, neither the theory nor "the entities" implied by it are necessary. The only reason that makes a theory acceptable is that the theory does not contradict observations. And infinite number of theories are acceptable for a given set of observations: this is a feature of inductive reasoning. Philosophical scrutiny only increases doubt. In Human Knowledge: its scope and limits, Bertrand Russell scrutinized IBSE and traced a priori assumptions further back. He suggested that "the postulates required to validate scientific method may be reduced to five." They are: 

Whitehead and Russell in Principia Mathematica showed that Cantor's notion of one-to-one correspondence is sufficient to deduce transfinite number: 

Gx is either true or false, so the proposition in question must be true. But I guess the more important part of this exercise is to practice making inferences. So a better way of asking questions like this is to tell us which textbook you are using, or which axioms we are beginning with. Questions asked this way betray a misplaced emphasis in the classroom. Mathlog is about the art of inference - making connections between premises and conclusions - not about whether a particular proposition is true. 

Good question. First, you should be vividly aware that, no matter what they display, you have absolutely no privacy. People with sufficient privileges know everything about you. If your co-worker has a part-time job with FBI or some other government agencies, she or he not only knows your past but also your future with remarkable accuracy. Secondly, humans behave better when they know they are being watched. Since you are being watched all the time any ways, it is better to let you know that you are being watched lest you do something silly unaware. Finally, If you live long enough, you will make mistakes. But there is no reason for you to wallow in sin, because morality is nonsense. Why curse the fig tree when the time of figs is not yet? 

Since events in the brains do not transcend physical laws, the ultimate reason why some people have these impulses must lie in the physical nature of these brains. In another book, Education and the Good Life, Russell emphasized the importance of good habits. 

Speaking of non-existent objects has been a major source of confusion. Bertrand Russell caught this language bug and developed his famous theory of description. Basically, it says: 

Definitions are purely opinion based. "There are nine planets in the solar system" appears to be a fact, except that the word planet implicitly assumes a definition just like fat does in your example. "There is a man that weights 500 pounds" implicitly assumes the definitions of its constituent words are well-known. Nevertheless, well-known definitions are definitions, which are opinion based. Every proposition that is either true or false involves judgement; every judgement is an opinion. We can say something about the fact, but what we utter are seldom the facts we are referring to; we can speak truth but we rarely speak the fact. Paris is a fact; everything we can say about Paris are opinions. Paris and what we say about Paris are never one and the same. Everything we know about the world is inferred from our sensations, i.e. the ultimate source of our knowledge is the mind. We believe the causal origins of our sensations are in the physical world, but this belief is a leap of faith, and, if there is any reason for believing it true, that reason is also based on sensations. You see a red apple and you firmly believe that that apple is red. Someone else sees the same apple and firmly believes it is yellow. It is possible that both are speaking the truth because colour is a mental event, not an intrinsic property of the apple. It is possible that the same apple which causes red sensation in your head causes yellow sensation in the other person’s head. As Einstein has pointed out, even such "objective" qualities as mass, length and duration, which used to be thought as intrinsic properties of the objective world, are not independent from the observers. 

Morality is non-sense and is often misleading. This kind confusion only exists among moralists. A person who kills random people for fun is no different from a shark that has developed a taste for humans. The shark is a danger to the public. It can either be treated to change its taste, or can be relocated to remote reefs where fishes are plentiful and humans are few. Whether the shark ate a mass murderer or not is irrelevant. 

The scientific mind is very tentative, subject to revision based on new evidence because we are never so sure about our senses. If we know our senses are failing us, the right thing for us to do is to suspend judgement. Take Arab spring for example. What evidence do you have that revolution will improve people's lives? The Cromwellian revolution killed a lot of people and created a dictator; American revolution created the world's largest mob rule, where envy ran riot and where nobody knew his place, and severed the connection between the new world and the locomotive of the world's civilization; the French revolution exterminated the best elements of the French people; Russian and China' communist revolution inflicted severe brain damage upon themselves. Even the sudden collapse of the Evil CCCP did not make things better; it made the Russians poorer and gave the rest of the world more nukes. If you do not see any beneficent effects of revolution, a reasonable question that follows is this: how likely a revolution will make things worse? The Brits averted a French style revolution in the first half 1800's - thanks to Macaulay's eloquence - things did change gradually for the better. 

Note: I may appear unduly critical about science but the truth is I don't even think religion is worth considering. 

My complaint is that Russell said non-mathematical language was inaccurate, but he went on to use non-mathematical language regardless. I'd appreciate it if someone can can translate his law of causality into a differential equation. Thanks. 

The dominant reason behind creativity is blind impulse. Few communities have realized the value of blind impulses because blind impulses do not appear to have purposes. In Bertrand Russell's words: 

If we replace understand with "see", it is possible that a proof understood by only one person is still valid: Suppose you see a statement written on one of your classmates' shirt, but, upon your inquiry, no one else in the room sees what you see. As more people coming in, some acknowledge that they see exactly what you see, but they too cannot convince those who don't see any statement on the shirt. This sort of thing do happen, and almost everyone had this kind of experiences. Take the proof of the "principle of reductio ad absurdum" for example: Starting from the principle of identity: 

It takes minutes for sunlight to travel from the sun to a beholder's eye on earth. The sensation of seeing the sun actually takes place in the beholder's head. The sensation is not the sun. The beholder utters "the sun!" This is only her or his opinion which expresses what she or he perceives. The cause of her or his sensation of seeing the sun could be either the sun itself or just a mirage, none of which is the same as what the beholder sees and utters.