If we talk about those small castles on hilltops which (or their ruins) can be found all over mainland Europe, it's important to first understand what their purpose was. We are not talking about early medieval castles which were just protecting the property of a single family, but military installations of late medieval to early modern Europe. So, what purpose did such small castles (most of which couldn't hold more than a few hundred defenders) have in the face of an army of tens of thousands? They are obviously not the goal of a campaign, they are not the fortified cities which would be valuable for the attacker. What does the attacker want? They want to besiege an important city or the capital, or force a decisive battle with their opponents so they can sue for an advantageous peace. They arrive to a tiny little fortress which sits on a hilltop. What would you do? 

Not only is the German school dominating modern European martial arts, but almost everyone who talks about late medieval fencing refers to German fencing manuals as the primary source. Why are German fencing manuals the most well-known today? The Italian states were also well developed by that time, and Spain and France were also famous for their well-trained armies and skilled swashbucklers. However, today even martial artists form those countries refer mostly to the German manuals and use German technical terms, instead of their own. What contributed to the German school of fencing to become so dominant? Was it also dominant in its own time (Germans were used in a lot of armies as mercenaries), or is the major cause that just more books have been written (Germans did invent the printing press after all) or more books survived? 

For his part, Hecker offers this rather cursory explanation of the rationale behind hiring musicians and sturdy dance partners as curative measures: 

"Sick Body, Sick Brain," in Harper's New Monthly Magazine (December 1854) offers this brief account of the Strasbourg "dancing plague": 

It is unclear to me whether the reports citing the year 1418 and the year 1518 refer to the same events or to events that coincidentally occurred exactly 100 years apart. J.F.C. Hecker, The Epidemics of the Middle Ages (1844 translation of a work published in German in 1832) discusses the regimens recommended by Paracelsus (who visited Strasbourg in 1518) for treating two of the three varieties of the dancing sickness: 

"St. Vitus," in Chambers's Journal of Popular Literature (August 22, 1857) reports that ecclesiastical treatment of the mania was aggressive: 

Theories about the causes and cures of dancing mania John Waller, Dancing Plague: The Strange, True Story of an Extraordinary Illness (2009) argues that the Strasbourg dancers were exhibiting extreme penitent behavior: 

Hiring musician and dancers to exhaust the afflicted Robert Burton, The Anatomy of Melancholy (1621/1638) mentions that government officials would hire musicians to play music for people afflicted with dancing mania. In fact, Burton uses the present tense to describe this treatment: 

Hecker then points to an account (from before 1615) of authorities in Basel, Switzerland, "having commissioned several powerful men to dance [successively] with a girl who had the dancing mania, till she recovered from her disorder"—a process that took more than four weeks but resulted in the girl's eventual recovery, after she collapsed from exhaustion and was carried to a hospital. Presumably the theory was that if the treatment didn't kill you, it would cure you. I am not persuaded that "local physicians, who ruled out astrological and supernatural causes" (mentioned in the Wikipedia article) were responsible for the decision to hire musician and pace-setting dancers to wear out the afflicted—if, indeed, that tactic was adopted in the 1518 Strasbourg instance (which is not at all clear from Hecker's account). As noted above, Paracelsus (whom Hecker credits with opposing the prevailing theory that the dancers were possessed by demons or suffering from divine punishment) did not approve of encouraging the dancers to continue dancing. If the authorities accepted Paracelsus's opinion that dancing mania was a "natural disease," it is unclear why they did not adopt his recommended treatment of it as well. The other possibility is that the authorities did view the dancers' behavior as having a supernatural element, Paracelsus's opinion notwithstanding. If the authorities interpreted the dancing in an outbreak of dancing mania to be the result of demonic possession, it seems odd that they would have tried to expel the evil spirits by, in effect, pumping up the volume. But if they viewed the dancing as constituting either a punishment from God or an exercise in penance by the dancer, they might well have viewed its continuation as a form of purification and perhaps sought to hasten it along by keeping up the beat. 

The Ottoman Empire conquered the Balkans and occupied it for half a millennium. They managed to convert most of the Albanians to Islam, however, all the other nations in the area remained Christian. What are the causes of the Albanians being predominantly Muslim, while all the other countries in the Balkans predominantly Christian? 

It was in a time period where history and mythology cannot be fully separated from each other, so its authenticity might be accepted by some, and debated by others. Only 6 people took part in the fight proper. However, both armies (likely above 1000) did meet each other on the battlefield, and only there was it proposed to decide the battle with a trial by champion. So, depending on how we define "battle" and "fight", this might or might not count. 

Note: if the underlying societies would prove to be so different that the very terms of "trial" , "law", or "lower class" would have vastly different meanings to decide a "winner", one could list other, possibly later cases from a different continent / completely different civilization. 

In the USA before the abolition of slavery, it's easy to conceptualize that different slave-owners treated their slaves differently. There might have been sadists who tortured their slaves, and there might have been those who were kind with them and considered them almost family. And probably many between the two extremes who only cared about profit. However, is there any information about their statistical distribution? Around how much percent were excessively brutal with their slaves, and around how much percent were treating their slaves humanely? Please, no general opinions or politically motivated rants. I'm only interested in serious sources. The perfect answer would cite surveys or statistics, or if such information is non-existent, then contemporary sources from which an approximation could be reliably inferred. 

Ideally, this would be in the form of a short discussion on the history and trends as applies to SAHMs but with some level of historical background and context. If possible it would be great to have some level of statistics included for the trends, though I understand this may not be possible for time periods further in the past. 

The numerical outnumbering is true nearly exclusively in the initial stages of the war. It was not long after Midway that the Americans had a massive numerical superiority. However if you look at the battles prior to Midway, most of them were actually at best strategic victories (or neutral) but absolutely were tactical losses for the USA. 

I am interested in learning more information regarding the history of family structures, specifically as relates to stay at home parents. The only data I can really find is from the late 60s until now. The USA BLS site has a fair bit of content, but mostly from this time period or later. Loosely, defining SAHP as a parent who does not work outside the home. In the case of farms, this becomes more complicated, I guess. I am wondering: 

Keep in mind Midway was a few small not-getting-so-lucky decisions away from being a crushing defeat for the Americans. While it was a massive victory in hindsight, other than a few dive bombers the Americans were very ineffectual. After the Battle of Midway, there were not many major engagements in the Pacific until the early 1943 except Guadalcanal (which incidentally resulted in another Japanese tactical win and strategic loss, during the Battle of Savo Island). The allies sort of won the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, if you can say that both the American and Japanese carriers getting damaged enough to require repairs is a "win." Several other engagements throughout the latter half of 1942 were slightly in favor of either the Japanese or Americans. This was mainly because both sides were lacking in operational carriers and airplanes. The Japanese were devastated from Midway but the Americans weren't in a whole ton better shape with damage from Midway, with the Yorktown sunk. Later in 1942 the Wasp and Hornet would also be sunk, with only a few Japanese light carriers actually sunk in exchange. Throughout the last half of 1942 neither side had a decisive battle. Two campaigns result in sunk American fleet carriers at nearly no carrier cost to the Japanese (a single light carrier). Arguably this was a series of strategic victory for the United States but tactical losses but it came at a time when they could afford this - in early 1943 the volume of ships that the Americans were building (Essex class fleet carriers for example) start showing up and nearly all future battles result in the Japanese being significantly outgunned. Basically for most of 1942 and early 1943, the Americans consistently either had tactical losses with a few strategic wins in nearly every battle other than Midway. The main reason this didn't affect the long term outcome of the war was the industrial and personnel production of Japan was significantly lower than the Americans.