For those with être, the past participle agrees in gender and number with the subject. For example: . (She came) Ils sont venus. (They (male) came) Elles sont venues. (They (female) came) 

What is it about these diphthongs that make them rare, in terms of acoustics? Even diphthongs consisting of the same vowel are not rare, such as /ji/ (Cantonese, Mandarin), /ij/ (some dialects of English), /wu/ (Cantonese, Mandarin), /uw/ (some dialects of English), /ɥy/ (Cantonese, Mandarin). 

For those with avoir, the past participle does not agree in gender or number with the subject. For example: 

Many aspects of cognition lack neurobiological evidence - consciousness for instance. Now if Cartesian duality is correct (and given its formidable presence in the history of philosophy, it's not a totally insane possibility), it follows that human cognition will never be completely understood within any biological framework. The language faculty can then be one of the 'magical' aspects of cognition, in which case, biological inquiry will be useless. However, this does not preclude the notion that the language faculty employs computational mechanisms like Merge. In light of such possibilities, the computational approach to the language faculty, namely that sentences are formed via Merge, is correct to the extent that we can successfully account for natural language syntax with Merge along with the other assumptions of the minimalist program (e.g. The Strong Minimalist Thesis). I would say that Merge has been very successful in this regard. On the other hand, it's possible that neurolinguistic research will one day provide a more illuminating account of the language faculty. For instance, perhaps Merge can be localized to Broca's or Wernicke's area. Or as an extreme case, perhaps the language faculty doesn't exist at all, and by extension neither does Merge. That language is nothing more than the result of domain general cognitive processes is a view held by many (e.g. Lakoff and most functionalists). My personal view is that the current generative approach will be vindicated when generative ideas are used to solve the central problem of AI. Once we create robots that speak indistinguishably from humans, using such hated principles of Universal Grammar, generativism's detractors will be at a loss of words. 

All forms of the Latin verb "FACERE" that went to French had a "c", but it has disappeared in all forms of the French verb "faire". In FACIS > fais, the "c" completely disappeared. In FACIUNT > font, the "c" also disappeared. In FACIAM > fasse, the "c" became "ss". I have noticed that some of the instances of "c" in the Latin forms are followed by a yod. Perhaps this is the cause of the difference. However, the "c" in FACIUNT is also followed by a yod, and it also disappeared. I am seeking an explanation of the evolution of these forms, and I would also prefer to have a step by step evolution of those three selected forms above. 

So it would seem that after [DP where/who/what all] merges in its theta position, wh-extraction can target only the wh-pronoun. Turning to long-distance wh-extraction, the following are all grammatical. 

Thus, it is possible to strand the quantifier in intermediate Spec, CP. This lends support to the cyclicity of wh-movement shown here. Angled brackets indicate lower copies. 

Assuming the copy theory of movement, cyclic wh-movement is further supported by languages in which multiple wh-copies are pronounced. Consider the following Afrikaans data from du Plessis 1977 

Merge is more useful as a structure building operation than traditional phrase structure rules or X-bar theory, because unlike the latter, it can freely intersperse with movement. If you require structure building to precede all movement processes, you're in some sense postulating at least two different levels of representation. Economy of derivation principles say that one or zero levels is always preferable to two. Furthermore, once we adopt Merge, movement does not need to be a separate, primitive operation, since any instance of movement is equivalent to copying the relevant object and Merging it. This is known as the copy theory of movement. Note that syntactic computation begins once we select items from the lexicon and form a numeration (i.e a set of ordered 2-tuples consisting of the lexical item and the number of times it was chosen (Lexical Item, n)). Since n can be as large as we wish, it follows that the copy theory of movement does not introduce a new operation into the system. Economy principles are observed. There's much more to be said about our Lord and Savior, Merge. We are humbled by His Recursiveness. 

/ɥu/ /uɥ/, which does appear in Cantonese. /wy/ /yw/ /ɰi/, which does appear in Korean. /iɰ/ /jɯ/ /ɯj/ 

I apologize for my formatting. It is hard to do this in a neat style. If I had included every step, the 4 sound change chains above would take a whole page. In words This wikipedia page has detailed the causes quite well. Basically: 

Main problem In French, past participles that take avoir are not inflected to agree with the object in gender and number, except when the object is placed in front of the verb. Is this phenomenon found in other Romance languages? How did this phenomenon originate? How is the agreement of the participle in Old French? This page seems to have some clues. How is this phenomenon in Spanish and Italian? 

Learn some formal language theory via Sipser's Intro to the Theory of Computation. Having the background will be useful when dealing with Minimalist Grammars and their parsers. 

The three projections of X'-bar theory namely X, X', and XP exist to establish the Head-Complement, Specifer-Head, and Adjunct relations. If intermediate projections were also XPs, then there would be no way to distinguish adjuncts from (multiple) specifiers. 

Your analysis is not correct. It is well known that wh-extraction out of adjuncts is impossible. See Huang 1982. Thankfully, the derivation of your sentence involves neither wh-extraction nor adjunction. Notice that it involves the passive construction The plot was discovered by the authorities, in which case the plot and the authorities are both assigned theta roles by discovered. Ignoring the technical details of passive constructions, the derivation involves building up [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities] And in the usual manner, we merge in an interrogative C bearing a wh-feature that needs checking [C [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities]] The subject inverts with the auxiliary, and then how gets merged into the tree to yield [how [[C+was] [TP the plot was discovered by the authorities]]] 

I am seeking an explanation for the development of the forms of Spanish "seguir" from Latin "SEQVI" (Vulgar Latin: *sequire), especially the irregular forms. Especially, why did the "e" become "i" in the first syllable in some forms? I have read that it is because of the yod that follows it, causing the vowel "e" to be raised to "i". For example, in *sequivit > siguió (pretérito tercera persona/preterite third-person): 

That the first sound has become the sonus medius. That it is a regularization of "sigillum" based on the prefix "sub-" ("sug-" before another "g"). It may have been entirely analogically constructed from "suggetto" (which can also explain /i/ > /e/). But, this is irrelevant to the French word "sceau" (since the French word is "sujet"). 

Successive cyclic wh-movement is motivated by theoretical principles of minimal computation, as well as empirical data. There's nothing inherently wrong with the 'one fell swoop' analysis, but cyclic wh-movement is preferable. Minimal computation: At any point in the derivation, the range of visible syntactic objects available for computations (e.g. Agreement) is restricted. Remember, SMT assumes that derivations form interface-interpretable objects as efficiently and lazily as possible. Thus, we assume visibility is restricted to phase (CP and vP) edges, which rules out one fell swoop movement. This is known as the Phase Impenetrability Condition. Data: The following data comes from McCloskey 2000. In a dialect of English spoken in Ulster, the quantifier all can attach to wh-pronouns. 

When Latin evolved to French, the vowel /u/ fronted to become /y/... except in Latin "VRSVS" /ur.sus/ > French "ours" /uʁs/, in which the vowel /u/ was kept. I do not think that the /rs/ environment kept the /u/, because we can see Latin "DVRVS" /du.rus/ > Old French "durs" /dyrs/, where the "u" is changed anyway. Usually, front vowels tend to be unrounded and back vowels tend to be rounded, but this sound change seems to have violated this rule. 

Background (skip if you know French) In French, to generate the past tense, you use the past participle of the verb, attaching in front a conjugated form of avoir or être. For example: