OK, let's say that you have an interstellar human population. You've got people who live on different planets in various systems, but you also have people living in space stations in different systems. Now, given such a society, the ultimate weapon would be a long-range kinetic impactor: something that accelerates a reasonably-sized mass to a substantial percentage of the speed of light, so that it can hit planets and take them out. Eventually. The obvious problem with such a weapon is that there's basically no "aiming" mechanism possible which is accurate enough across interstellar distances. Even if you knew the locations of all celestial bodies in the target system when you left and could predict their locations by the time the projectile arrives, you still cannot guarantee that you can aim with sufficient accuracy to hit the target location. No problem; you just install a guidance system in the projectile. It should have some kind of camera that can see stuff, and it should have some minimal reaction mass so that it can perform course corrections based on what it sees. Which brings me to the question. If you've got a projectile going 0.99c (relative to the target system), would relativistic effects make it difficult to perform the course-corrections needed to strike the target planet (assume it's Earth-sized)? 

Yes, war can lead to development of new technologies. However it is by no means the only, or even primary, reason that most technology has been developed. Take a simple thing like the transition from nomadic to agricultural lifestyles. There are many theories about why this occurred, none of which involve war being a motivator. Further, it is arguably one of the greatest changes that early humanity went through and whose technology is still advancing even today. If war was the only driver then we likely would never have made the switch as it's obviously more advantageous to be nomadic in that situation. It is entirely possible that a culture without war never advances beyond a nomadic existence. Generally speaking this means that something is missing from that culture. However, it is entirely possible that a culture without war would be so far advanced that they would appear as gods to us. One thing to consider is that peace is what helped get the renaissance period started. Any period of relaxation for a naturally inquisitive species will lead to testing new concepts and ideas. Examples of drivers include: a population explosion would lead to new ways for collection and distribution of food; while a period of depopulation might lead to innovating ways of keeping entities alive (exa: soap, clean water). Either of those could also lead to inventing written communication - in order to preserve knowledge and transfer knowledge. Eventually this would lead to long distance communication would rise if the need were great enough. So, in the end, war isn't necessary for the advancement of the species. If you look at history, war actually sets all parties back as it causes depopulation of the prime members of the participants, results in upheaval of societies, stops and even destroys most industrial activities, etc. Generally speaking, the cost of large wars far outstrip the benefits received and is a reason why most reasonable leaders use this as a last resort. We can even look at specific inventions credited to war and with a bit of reflection realize that those inventions likely would have come out anyway. If for no other reason than to solve economic hardships. 

This is really coming closer to the biggest unasked part of your question: can a random 30-year-old actually function as King without being deposed or conquered? I highly doubt it. Imagine running a business. Can most 30-year-olds actually keep a business functioning? Drumming up new customers, keeping old ones, getting things done on time, dealing with competition and government regulations, etc? Lots of small businesses fail, after all. Now, how many such people could run Apple, without cratering the company within 10 years. The thing about running a kingdom is that you have to run it. And the fact is, most people wouldn't have the first damn clue what to do with a kingdom. 

The example you suggest doesn't qualify, since there are many ways to neutralize the system you propose. Sending missiles to destroy the machinery on the asteroids, sending robots there to just directly take control of that machinery, figuring out how to fake the signal used to control them, etc. Note that this would be done preemptively, before you engage in a nuclear war (and likely with the backing of literally the entire rest of the world). Stopping a thousand ICBMs is much harder. As is stopping sub-launched nukes. You want something which has property #1, but without something that could proliferate. That is, it can't win through force of numbers, but through force of force. That's difficult. The smaller the number of anything is, the easier it is to attack them. Your asteroid example falls prey to precisely this: there are only a few of them, so they can be attacked and defeated. Or the signal can be hacked. Etc. Indeed, if so much as one person leaks the secret of the signal, your weapon is rendered impotent. The most effective way to guarantee #1 is having a lot of something. But they don't all have to be the real something. Let's say you engineer a super-virus, which will be deployed by ICBMs. Instead of having thousands of viral warheads you have thousands of potential viral warheads. Only 5 of them will have the actual virus. And you can make sure that nobody knows which 5 are the real virus. You can even make the fact that only 5 are the virus a closely guarded secret. That keeps proliferation under control, but still ensures that you have second strike capability. 

Historically, winning a war isn't always done through stealth or even the usage of actual force. Threat of force, especially in the open, can compel participants to take certain actions. Consider a chess match. Both sides know exactly where each piece is. At the grand master levels, both sides even know a huge range of strategies and usually have researched their opponents prior games before it even starts. Yet, there is a almost always a clear winner. Winning the game comes through maneuvering. Forcing your opponent into a position in which they either cannot stop you from accomplishing your objective or you effectively stop them from completing theirs. In chess all of this is done 100% out in the open, with only the private thoughts of the participants during the match being hidden from view. In war history there have been many battles that were won without a single shot being fired simply due to both commanders recognizing the inevitability of the outcome and reverting back to standard political negotiations. Winning a war would be similar. There would be no surprise attacks, the deployment of forces would be completely out in the open. So, by necessity, both sides would employ generals that acted like chess grand masters. They would keep their thoughts private and wouldn't discuss their strategy with anyone. Rather, they would just issue deployment orders. Sometimes shots would actually be fired because no matter how many simulations you run, there is an element of chance in every endeavor. However, at some point the outcome would be obvious and the war would conclude. 

The current date/time system is based on applying arbitrary numbers to important physical constructs: day, moon-th, and year. Month is the odd one, because you cannot divide a year into moon cycles evenly, which is why we get the arbitrary number of days in a month. Moon cycles mean a lot less to modern humans, so we can theoretically dispense with that. However, days are still vitally important to us, as are years. Given those as fixed constructs, let's see what can be done. Summary 

What percent of the speed of light you go is not really a function of how "advanced" you are. So long as you have reaction mass for thrust (or whatever your particular method of acceleration is), you can get arbitrarily close to the speed of light. Obviously, you need some minimum tech level to be able to fly in space and navigate over long-distances at all. The limit on how fast you go is therefore based primarily on your particular engine design, any external motive systems, and how much reaction mass you carry, all of which is relative to the overall mass of the ship you're using. But these elements of technology don't map to the practical speed of a ship. So you can't look at a ship that travels 75% of the speed of light and judge anything about the tech level of the people who made it based solely on that. Maybe they had a stationary magnetic accelerator in their launch system and are relying on high-impulse propulsion to slow them down. That's not particularly higher of technology that someone who uses low-impulse propulsion over a long duration to achieve the same speed. 

Another alternative, and highly Sci Fi in nature, would be to have the assassin's body changed in such a way that they excrete a highly targeted toxin (maybe through sweat?) which would only affect the target based on their DNA. Such a thing would likely be undetectable, wouldn't require more than the assassin to simply touch the target, and would allow ex-filtration at a convenient time. It could even be written that it's a slow working toxin that whose effects are irreversible after a certain number of hours. 

Due to the distances involved any fleet engagement is likely to only occur at or incredibly near to an objective. You mention wormholes as the primary means of travel between 2 star systems. These would be very well defined locations. By extension, the location that a ship could emerge from one would be well known. Because of this those locations can be heavily defended with any type of weapon system you can imagine: large kinetic weapons, space "mines" designed to explode on command, a ring of lasers, etc.. By the same token if an enemy fleet manages to smash through those defenses then it's a matter of stopping them at their destination. Locating and tracking that fleet will be trivial and you'll have plenty of time to muster defenses before they arrive. Are they heading towards that mining space station orbiting a moon? The station will likely have a standing picket fleet to ensure the enemy doesn't get close. Are they heading towards a planet to bombard it? The planet will likely be ringed with defenses designed to kill bombs that are in flight... My point is: these fights will be up close and personal. It will involve not just the ships but relatively static defenses at the target location. There will be no need to chase an enemy fleet around the solar systems - which means the defenders can simply wait them out. All of this means that the likely real world attack profile will be to insert a large landing force that can take and hold the gates around the wormholes thereby establishing a beach head. Once that is done then the attacker would transfer additional personnel and ships in order to launch attacks on other target sites. Each attack would require closing on the target until you can be reasonably assured that you can land regular troops - or that you can launch enough nuclear type weapons to obliterate the target. The defenders goal would be to prevent each location from being taken. The combat would favor the defender because it should be apparent where the enemy would need to be in order to launch their attacks and therefore you could prepare for those attacks well in advance. Again, because the potential locations are known the defender can place weapons at, or very near them ahead of time - easily sidestepping the problem of distance and therefore any of the weapon systems you described are viable. 

Being King does not make you God, despite what Kings try to say. The King's word is not law because it's the King's word. It only becomes law because other people with power like it and/or are willing to go along with it. So whatever the King does, it has to be something which will not upset the existing noble structure. I'll group your priorities based on the ease with which a King could actually accomplish them: 

Detection of temporal incursions. You don't need to necessarily know when and where they went to, but you have to know in the present when such an act was launched. It could be a particular energy signature or tachyons or whatever technobabble you feel like using. So long as neither side can prevent the detection of their breaching of the fabric of time, it will work. The "time" to launch your own temporal incursions before changes caused by the enemy's team would overwrite you. There are several ways to achieve this one. You could have it that changes in the timeline do not propagate instantly; it takes some "time" for time changes to reach the present. Or you could say that the temporal war departments have the ability to shield particular areas from changes in the timeline, thus preserving their ability to respond and retaliate. Or something of the sort. 

Taking a slightly different viewpoint: I could easily envision that multiple companies are producing their own spaceships and 3rd party manufacturers want their devices to be on them. Today it's nearly impossible for a 3rd party to have the exact same GUI experience on multiple devices (iOS/Android/Linux/Windows). However if the app is a CLI then it's trivial for the usage to be near identical. It's also far cheaper to produce and maintain. 

Space is easy. Weapons will need to disable your opponent without putting a hole in the vessel and causing catastrophic decompression. Otherwise there is no point in a boarding action. So, energy weapons rather than small fast ballistic makes sense. Maybe something along the lines of today's tasers. Energy weapons would need time to transfer energy to a capacitor before they can be discharged. Even using something like a bean bag gun might work against unarmored opponents and those weapons are loaded like shotguns. Ground warfare is an interesting one. We are currently developing armor that can shred bullets on impact. If your enemy hasarmor that can essentially shrug off kinetic weapons then the next step is to move to energy based ones. Which means we are back to needing to build up a charge prior pulling the trigger. Obviously in this scenario bean bag guns are unlikely to work; however an electrical shock would work very well against an enemy encased in metal. The ground warfare one would mean that most engagements are at pretty close quarters - close enough for an energy weapon to work before it's output dissipates. Of course electrical type bombs would be developed to control large areas. Also, all armor has weaknesses due to mobility. This means a blade might be able to sneak past armor joints in areas such as armpits, necks, etc. Double points if it's some type of an electro blade designed to vibrate it's way past armor... 

The weapons of annihilation can be deployed with little chance for your enemy to stop you once you have committed your weapons. There is a delay between the time you commit your weapons and the time when those weapons have actually taken effect. And this delay is long enough for the enemy to commit to their own capabilities against you. 

Outside of making the potion work this way by definition (aka: magic or whatever), what you want is impossible. So long as the potion is able to do its job sans-consent, then it will be used that way. The most you could do is minimize the opportunities for abuse. If part of the potion's ingredients come from the people in question, it would be entirely possible to steal them. Hair, skin, blood, it isn't too hard to render someone insensate and extract the necessary tissue from them. One forced imbibing later, and they'll be willing to lie to the police about being abducted and forced to drink the concoction. So that's not a functional solution. The problem with regulation by some agency is that it would just create a black market. Not that this would matter, since the potion as you have described it would quickly lead to complete societal breakdown. After all, you're giving people the ability to create devoted slaves. Why bother with a harem, when you can enslave police officers, government officials, or whomever? You could even do a multi-level thing, where your slaves enslave others in your name. If you want a solution where it is difficult to abuse, and hard to do without being detected, then you should add a time factor to it. That is, the "lovee" must be in the presence of the pheromones for an extended period of time, repeatedly, over the course of several weeks. And that the symptoms could come on slowly, so if someone doesn't want it, they can still act to stave it off before it fully takes hold. Oh sure, you'll still have people who are able to abduct someone and bend them to their will over the course of weeks. But it wouldn't be a quick "drug someone at a bar" kind of thing. So you'll cut down a lot on the number of people who have this happen to them. Also, it'll be much clearer to the authorities what is going on. 

Now, I still think it's better to use GUIs on core systems that require immediate or very fast operation such as flight controls in order to increase reaction times and reduce the possibility of human error. 

I think the war is the least of both sides concern. If the only mode of transport has such a drawback then potentially every single ship equipped with an FTL drive is now a huge liability. The moment news of that situation breaks out, commerce and all travel between systems in both empires will grind to a complete and total halt. Mass panic would tear the empires apart from within. No planetary leader would willingly allow an FTL capable ship anywhere near their own planet, and likely not even close to the solar system at all. The companies that make such ships would be torn apart by their own workers in fear. Essentially these empires would break apart into solitary systems. Hopefully the planets within each system are able to be self sufficient. The ones that aren't will die. That one shot and the explosion which followed would be the death knell of both empires and certainly society as either know it. So, the war would end. Not because either side gave up, but because neither would be capable of prosecuting it.