Muhammad I of Granada, the founder the last Spanish Muslim kingdom, was also known by the name "Ibn al-Ahmar" ("son of al-Ahmar") The dynasty he founded, the Nasrid dynasty, was also known as "Banu al-Ahmar" ("children of al-Ahmar"). It seems that ''ahmar'' simply means "red" in Arabic. How did Muhammad I and the dynasty come to be associated with these names? 

But did not give references or citations on this statement, and did not explain who was harbouring the refugees, what they had to do with Venezuela and the Netherlands, and how this led to an attack and overthrow of a foreign government. 

but did not explain what the "unfriendly acts" were. Wikipedia's Dutch–Venezuelan crisis of 1908 has slighly more details 

In the middle ages, Christian-held Spain were split into different kingdoms and realms. Before the eventual unification by the "Catholic Monarchs" (Ferdinand II and Isabela I), other kings have unified multiple kingdoms, but the kingdoms split again between children. For example: 

I'm curious about this convention. How did it develop and what was its intended purpose? Naturally, in a battle, any enemy should be "fair game", but if this convention was observed, it must have had a clear benefit to everyone. 

I can think of several examples which are big enough, recent enough and well known enough not to be disputed. 

This is mostly about urban planning, and how much change the local government can or will be able to make to the existing streets. In London, the central parts of the city (Westminster and the City) still have their street plan from medieval days, as the 1666 fire didn't burn the foundations. The streets there are far too narrow, and the buildings too important or politically unchangeable. When industrialization came in the 19th century, the trains couldn't go all the way into town. If you look at today's mainline rail maps, all of the stations are at the outskirts of the City. The only remaining way to get trains in and out of central London was to put them underground. That said, once you get out of central London, the London Underground trains run overground, and occasionally on elevated tracks. Once they were out into the suburbs, it was possible to get planning permission for tracks and stations above ground, and that's what happened because it is much cheaper. The same is true for Paris, Moscow and New-York. In all of these places, the city existed long before the trains did. Because of that, the trains were built in afterwards underground. Since Chicago grew into a city after (or at least during) the industrial revolution, the city was planned and built to include the trains, or at least space for them to pass through where no historical structures stand. Because the trains weren't added to the city, but planned into it, they had the option of building them above ground. 

The 1096 People's Crusade were joined mostly by peasants, led by the priest Peter the Hermit independently of their lords. What was the status of these peasants' trip? Were they free to take trips and not serve their lords, or did this fall under some exception, or did they violate their feudal obligation by going on this trip? 

My question was, how secret or well-known were these countries' involvement in this role? Did the general public (in Iran and in the West) know about this? Or did only "conspiracy theorists" believe that the US and the UK did this, initially? 

Before this codification, the Islamic law was applied by Islamic judges - and religious minorities were allowed various autonomy to have their own laws. In addition, with the capitulations to European nations, citizens of those European nations were not subject to the Ottoman courts, but rather a "mixed court" composed of Ottoman and European judges. As you see there were multiple jurisdictions here which might get confusing. I am not sure how "codified" the religious-based laws were. The Sharia was and is based on the Quran and the prophetic tradition, but there can be multiple ways to interpret and implement them in specific situations. The mixed court was based on a local version/translation of the French commercial code, but its resources were limited and it was unable to take on the rising number of cases. With the codification, the Empire adopted a "standard" implementation which was published in 16 books comprising 1800+ articles, written in legal language similar to European legal codes. And as your quote noted, it was now governed by the state as opposed to Islamic judges/legal scholars. Another effect of this standardization was that non-Muslims were now subject to the Majallah - which covers civil and commercial law; family and inheritance laws were exempted. Another interesting impact of this is that Majallah lived on long after the fall of the Ottomans, in former territories of the empire. For example, Israel's law was based partially on the Majallah, but it was replaced step by step until abolished in 1984. Sources: 

Christianity and Islam The obvious candidates are Christianity and Islam, both of which are clearly monotheistic. However, both of those religions can be said to have "learned" their monotheism from the Jews. For Christianity, we have Jesus, who grew up as a Jew in Israel, and was brought up montheistic. Islam, for its part, recognizes both Moses and Jesus as prophets of God (Allah). For true parallel development, I would nominate the religions of the Indian sub-continent. Though, in all honesty, I'm not quite comfortable calling them religions at all. Hinduism Calling Hinduism a religion is a little misleading, as it is a set of schools of philosophies and practices. Some of these believe that all spirits are part of Bhrama, which is close to the Western concept of God. Trying to use the terminology of Western theology, they would have one God, and many saints and prophets. Of course, other schoold of Hinduism are fully polytheistic, having many and various gods. However, there are some who see all of these gods as avatars or incarnations of the same single God, basically having a properly monotheistic religion. Buddhism Once again, there are many schools of Buddhism. I think there are at least some schools which can be fairly defined as monotheistic, and others which are basically atheistic. Mostly, Buddhism teaches that there is a divinity (which can be thought of as God in Western terms) of which everyone is a part. It also has various Buddhas, who are indeed worshipped. However, there is no dogma that requires this, and becoming a Buddha is something to aspire to become through enlightenment. I would equate the worship of Buddhas in Chinese Buddhist culture more to the worship of Saints in Christianity than to believing them to be gods. It is clear that Buddha was indeed a person, not divine. In other schools of Buddhism (perhaps the Japanese Zen Buddhism is a good example), there isn't really a divinity as such, merely the universe in its entirety as a singularity. This is, in my opinion, quite close to the oxymoron of an atheistic religion. Others Unfortunately, I do not know enough about other religions and belief system in the world to make any further actual knowledgable comments. However, I do think that the Australian aboriginal beliefs of Dreamtime are an interesting candidate for this. Perhaps someone with a better understanding can add something in a comment or a separate answer. 

This is a question I've never heard asked about the English Civil War (+1 for thoughtfulness and creativity!), but perhaps for the reason that it's not relevant to the conflict. The overwhelming present-day historical consensus holds that the tensions and causes of eventual warfare between Charles I, Parliament, and the realms over which they ruled were homegrown. In short, they had as much to do with Charles' personality and horrible crisis management abilities as the political and religious ideals of Parliament and the Roundheads. The form of "Republicanism" that emerged under Cromwell--and the constitutional monarchy formed after the Glorious Revolution--were sui generis to 17th century Britain, as were the Protestant faith traditions that underpinned them... No political incenctives for intervention As the OP and commenters have pointed out, the military conflicts that were sapping the Continent at the time meant that there was absolutely no incentive for foreign intervention from polities that--in times of peace--would have had an interest in stirring the English pot. (I'm referring to the Dutch, France, Spain, or Sweden.) Consider as well that just because England was a "Republican Commonwealth" under Cromwell does not mean that the Dutch or semi-democratic city-states of Italy considered it worthy of ideological support or even lip-service, in the way that America today might provide to other liberal democracies. A Protestant Civil War It's also important to note that from a religious standpoint, this was very much an intra-Protestant conflict. The factions had no sympathetic parallels on the Continent. Charles I subscribed to "High Anglicanism", which may have been Catholicism in form and function, but hardly in affiliation. Hence no Catholic countries would have been religiously motivated to support the Royalists. Conversely, the Presbyterian Scots and Puritan Roundheads adhered to largely grassroots, English sects of Protestantism. Sure, they shared some common doctrines with German/Swedish Lutheranism, the Dutch Anabaptists, or France's embattled Huguenot minority, but not in ways that would underpin meaningful political support or a productive, cross-Channel military alliance. A word on schools of interpretation There have been a lot of competing schools of interpretation concerning the English Civil War's ideological motivations over the years. Describing them here is outside the scope of the question, but I mention them since most have at one time or another claimed ideological sympathy with contemporary thinkers on the Continent. A good example is Thomas Hobbes' commentary that the war was a clash between those who ascribed to an emergent scientific worldview and the forces of traditionalist religion (see the "Behemoth" excerpt from Robert Kraynak's History and Modernity in the Thought of Thomas Hobbes). Hobbes openly expressed that his view was shared by other intellectuals both in England and abroad. However, let's take a step back and observe that the current "overwhelming historical consensus" on the conflict's causes that I allude to in the first paragraph is scarcely 20 years old. Any theories devised earlier have been more or less discarded, whether for imposing values upon the conflict's factions that are anachronistic (in the case of the Whig School), incompatible with 17th century English societal dynamics (see class-based and Marxist interpretations), or too personality-driven (i.e. Hobbes). Unfortunately for Hobbes, and the Whigs, Marxists, and Revisionists who came after him, most professional historians today hold to an interpretation that puts the Crown's difficult relations with the polities of Scotland, Ireland, and "Parliamentary" England front and center. 

Improvement in sanitation, based on the understanding that not washing your hands causes disease, is a relatively new concept. Ignaz Semmelweis was the first man to work out the correlation and publish data. This was in the 1840's, a good couple of centuries after most of the plague had gone from Europe. It's not just that he was the first to discover it, he had to fight the medical establishment of the day to get his data accepted and understood. Basically, sanitation as a health issue was only accepted in the mainstream near the end of the 19th century. 

The phrase "green on blue" originates from the colour assignments for the various forces in a theatre of operations as shown in the tactical displays. These displays are now all electronic, but this holds true for older systems of markers on paper maps as well. Red traditionally signifies danger, and is therefore used to show the enemy. Both green and blue were used for friendly forces in the past. However, with the proliferation of UN "peacekeeping" missions in the 1970s and 80s, the blue was used more for UN forces. This is because UN troops always wear a bright blue helmet or beret due to the UN needing to have it's forces clearly recognizable as UN rather than any one nation. UN vehicles are usually white with the letters UN marked on them, for the same reason. From this, "green on blue" has come to mean "friendly forces firing on the foreign international peacekeepers". 

Such scenario is not uncommon during the decolonization-related wars of the 20th century. The colonial power is often able to defeat the other side militarily, but for political or other reasons had to withdraw. Some examples: 

The right keyword to look up is the Majallah (transliteration variant: "Mecelle", "Medjelle", and many others, the Arabic full name is مجلة الأحكام العدلية). It was a commercial and civil law code based on the Hanafi school of Islamic law. The codification was quite an extensive effort, led by Ahmed Cevdet Pasha, happening gradually from 1869 - 1876 and entering into force in 1877. 

This chart (public domain from Wikimedia Commons) illustrates the question. Is there an explanation for why the Union Jack have a darker shade of blue than the original Scottish flag that it's based on? 

French used to have a status as working language for international institutions, somewhat like English today (or Latin in the past for Catholic Europe). This was the case around the time of the founding of Chalmers University of Technology (1829). It is not surprising if some universities during that time used a French motto. Today there are also universities and other institutions in non English-speaking countries that uses English motto, for example Erasmus University. From Wikipedia 

There is almost no direct historical evidence that openly-practicing Muslims were LIVING in the British Isles in the decades and centuries after the Norman Invasion. But I guess I'll start this post by highlighting the one prominent fringe hypothesis that would say otherwise (note that I mean hypothesis in a loose scientific sense here, as in a well-researched conclusion that has not gained widespread acceptance). The geneticist and demographer Donald Yates in The Early Jews & Muslims of England & Wales claims that he has discovered distinct pockets of Muslim patrilineage among UK citizens in Wales and Lincoln. According to Yates, these individuals possess the "right" North African genetic markers and surnames to surmise that they are descended from 9th-11th century Moorish merchants. However; Yates is the only resource out there making this claim and it is such a recent one (2014) that there hasn't been a lot of outside investigation by historians that would confirm this conjecture. On the other hand, the historical record is full of examples of English-Islamic cultural exchanges going back as far as the 8th century. Note that we can't necessarily assume that these cultural exchanges were a product of Muslim traders coming to Britain (many Islamic ideas about science, trade, and jurisprudence came to Britain via contact with the Normans), but the influence was nevertheless significant. Examples include when Offa, the 8th century King of Mercia, ordered the minting of gold coins designed to resemble the dinars of the Abassid Caliphate. The reason for doing so was to apparently facilitate Mercian traders venturing to Muslim Spain and southern France. How about another example: Islamic geographers from the 9th century included Britain on their maps. Also, starting around the time of the Third Crusade, if not earlier, the Latin-translated works of highly-regarded Muslim scholars were also making their way to England and being studied by intellectuals of the period (see writings of Roger Bacon and Chaucer). As far as hard population numbers and primary source documentation of a permanent Muslim presence in England, you won't get that until the Elizabethan period I'm afraid. For various reasons, these folks also tended to be native English who converted (save the Ottoman diplomatic delegation to the Court of Elizabeth), so it's doubtful they "stood out on the street". Good luck in your search. 

The Netherlands attacked Venezuela in 1908, which resulted in the overthrow of Venezuelan President Cipriano Castro. According to the New York Times article Dutch at War with Venezuela, the Dutch said that attack was: 

The Muslims of al-Andalus (Islamic Iberia) consisted of Arabs, Berbers and native Iberians who converted to Islam (+descendants). Were there significant social distinctions between the three ethnic groups? The official and literary language was Arabic and presumably everybody speaks it. But did they, for example, live in separate communities, speak in different vernaculars at home, or have distinguishable names, clothings or customs from each other? Did they intermarry? Or were they generally assimilated since they had the same religion? I'm interested in the period around the 10th century, e.g. during the Caliphate of Córdoba: long enough after the initial conquest, but still before the disintegration of the Muslim power. 

At first, this question sounded basic to me, but I couldn't find easy answer in Wikipedia. Since this SE prefers restricted scope, let's limit it to the empires of the 9th-10th century, e.g. the Carolingian Empire, the Byzantine Empire, the Abbasid Empire, or the Tang dynasty in China. My assumption is that the government issued coins (exclusively?), and the coins would be used by its subjects for trade as well as to store wealth. How did the coins that were issued by the central government get into everyone's hands? One obvious way is through government expenditure, e.g. by paying people or buying things, someone other than the government would have coins, who would then pay someone else, and so on. Was that all? My guess is that government expenditure would be a small part of the total trade, would the coins circulated this way be enough for everyone's trading and wealth-storing needs? Also, how about the corners of the empire, which might not have interacted much with the central government? Since the government collected taxes as well, wouldn't this also cause the money to be taken out of circulation? Related Wikipedia articles (but none seemed to directly answer this question): Mint, Coin, History of Money. 

That's all I can come up with in the time available, I'll edit the answer if anything more comes to mind. 

In 1938 the Germans occupied Czechoslovakia, and civilians were free to settle there under the "Lebensraum" (breathing room) philosophy. The occupation was (at first) of an area populated mostly by ethnic Germans, but legally at least that doesn't matter. The Chinese occupation (and annexation) of Tibet, in which people who are ethnically Han Chinese are settling in areas of TIbet for many years now. If I remember correctly, they are now about 50% of the population. Israel again, this time in the Sinai peninsula. The territory was conquered from Egypt in 1967, and civilian settlements were built in the 1970's. The settlements were entirely (and forcibly) dismantled as part of the Begin-Saadat peace treaty in 1980-82 and the territory was handed back to the Egyptian government. 

Anyway, that was a quick comparison to the US. Note that even in modern times, the US spends more on defence than the next 26 countries combined. So perhaps the defence budget of the UK, France or Australia is more comparable to Roman numbers. Addition: I have now looked up the UK's 2014 budget figures, and defence spending is on the order of 5% of spending, which probably puts it at about 2% of GDP. 

Did the CIA follow a documented set of criteria when determining targets for political assassination during the Cold War, especially in regards to foreign heads of state or government? There have been examples from history where the CIA assassinated foreign leaders, "on orders from the White House", but would they have always been blind orders, or was a defined, protocols-based evaluation process implemented first? 

In most societies today, keeping one's nails trimmed within a few mms of the top of the nail plate is the grooming standard. Do we have evidence that clipping nails when they reached a certain length was a regular grooming ritual in ancient societies? By "ancient societies", I'm referring to the societies that popularly come to mind: Ancient Rome, Greece, Egypt, and the successive Mesopotamian empires of the Biblical Old Testament. Would nail clipping have been performed with some type of crude file or a knife perhaps? 

The best barometer we have of the attitude of the general population of the Irish Free State towards the Anglo-Irish Treaty are the "Pact Elections" of 16 June 1922. They occurred twelve days before the commencement of hostilities in the Irish Civil War. As the linked Wikipedia article points out, 75% percent of the electorate supported pro-Treaty parties. We can also bear witness to the Irish electorate's overwhelming and uninterrupted support of Charles Stewart Parnell's Irish Parliamentary Party from the 1870s through WWI, during which time Parnell and his successor John Redmond advocated for a much more conservative form of Irish home rule than was stipulated in the Anglo-Irish Treaty. I think it's still within the scope of your question to discuss why you are asking it in the first place (i.e., Why, if the Irish electorate overwhelming supported the treaty, did civil war break out?) In his excellent biography on Michael Collins, TP Coogan makes a convincing argument that the Irish Civil War was less a "civil war" than a conflict between highly factionalized professionals (i.e. opposing members of the Irish political establishment and their respective supporters in the Republican Army). On the one side, you had Michael Collins and the other "compromisers" who genuinely believed that they had, through tireless negotiation with their haughty British overlords, finally delivered to Ireland the "freedom to achieve her freedom". And on the other side, you had the majority of the Republican Army, whose members, for practical and logistical reasons, had been left out of the negotiating process and whose fiercely anti-British ideology prevented them from accepting anything less than total independence (which you point out in your question). Since both groups were heavily armed and seasoned veterans from years of conflict with the British, a violent clash of ideology vs. compromise was pretty much a foregone conclusion. Yet according to Coogan, in this time period, everyday Irish citizens prioritized their confessional and economic freedom over unadulterated Irish nationalism (though this would shift later in the century as unification with North Ireland emerged as a major political cause celebre), hence, they did not feel drawn to engage in partisan violence. This summary is grossly over-simplified for the sake of space. If you haven't already, I'd suggest you explore biographies of both Michael Collins (see TP Coogan's) and Eamon de Valera (a great one also written by Coogan). Both of these men had an insane amount of influence on the process of shaping modern Ireland. In fact, if it weren't for de Valera's public repudiation of the Treaty, the Republican Army would have had little pretext to do the same, and the Irish Civil War probably wouldn't have happened.