I used to lift weights, and I loved it. I'd like to get back into it. The problem is, I have all the symptoms that come with extended computer work. Anterior (and lateral) pelvic tilt, bound up muscles in the shoulder, some curve in the lower spine. I've been going to yoga a bit and seeing a rolfer. Do I need to work all of these issues out completely before beginning weight training (so as not to further solidify them)? 

I have started pilates (on machines) with the intent of reversing my 'computer posture'. y arms rotate inward, and my shoulders slope forward. This is a well-known problem that comes from using computers for too much time. I've finished 4 pilates sessions. It seems like we focus on front muscles, like the stomach, and not as much on back muscles, which are what I'm hoping to fix. The last thing I want to do is make the front muscles tighter by working them out, and ignoring the back muscles. Is the issue that we've just begun (fourth session)? Do I simply fail to see the work the pilates sessions are doing on my 'computer posture' affected muscles? Or, is pilates simply not good for computer posture? 

Has anyone tried hanging from a bar with a dumbbell between the legs and trying to do leg curls? For leg/knee raises it works fine, I'm asking cause I don't want to injure myself in the gym while experimenting exercises. For people who tried it, does the dumbbell between legs work? if not are there better alternatives, like maybe using bands as resistance or using dipping belts with plates... Edit: So I tried it by myself,the dumbbell between legs only works with small dumbbells. 10 kilograms at max With the dipping belt it works fine with the plate behind the back and allows to use the most weight, but it doesn't give any resistance in the bottom part of the exercise and after a while either the grip or the trapezius get too fatigued to keep doing the exercise. Bands are by far the best as they be placed in different ways and still work, but again has the same limitations of the dipping belt. 

I have begun the Stronglifts 5x5 program. I am constantly working on my form for all exercises, but I think I'm not terrible at any. I do have a problem with the overhead press, that is potentially dangerous. I am following the form the best I can, imitating the Stronglifts website. When my arms are locked (and the weight is at the top, my chest and head have moved forward, and my glutes are contracted), I sometimes feel like I'm going to tip back. I shift my body weight forward to avoid doing so. This also occurs when I start to bring the weight back down, sometimes. This isn't every rep, just once in awhile. But the consequences of falling backwards with this weight overhead make me take this issue very seriously. I am working with low weight now (55lbs or so), and don't want to increase the load until I fix this issue. Is there any obvious issue that's likely behind my balance issues with the overhead press? 

We know that individual muscles cells can either be fully active to their greatest potential or completely off, there's no such thing as partial activation. We also know that strength training recruits more muscle fibers at a time depending on the force needed, that's why larger muscles are usually stronger, think glutes vs biceps. Muscle growth usually happens by muscle cells getting bigger from being put under tension. So my question is : Do big muscle cells output more force than small muscle cells or are they just more resistant to stress? This is not related to other questions like ''how does muscle size relate to strength'' or ''are bigger muscles stronger'' because those questions are usually about the entire muscles, while this one is about the individual muscle cells and anyway most of the answers are just ''reps in the range of X build strength and reps in the range of X build muscle''. 

Weight loss Weight loss comes from eating less calories than your body needs. If a 90 kg man needs 3000 calories to maintain his fat then he needs to eat 2800 calories to lose around 0.2 kilograms a week. The most commonly used method is to eat 200-500 calories less than needed. Muscle building Progressive overload is the name of the game The body builds bigger muscle to withstand stress, bigger stress=bigger muscles. If your muscles are not growing then try increasing the sets,repetitions,weight,speed,time under tension or the rest between sets. Since you asked about which rep range to do, The truth is that it really doesn't matter for muscle building. Low reps build strength and muscle while high reps build endurance and muscle, it all comes down to preference. Biological law of accommodation If you keep giving your body the same type of stress over and over again you will eventually plateau in all senses be it endurance,muscle building or strength, once you plateau if you don't implement any kind of Periodization you will totally stall or worse become weaker and lose muscles because the body no more adapts to stress but ''accommodates'' itself to stress. People who never did any physical activity in their entire life might be able to train for 1 or 2 years without experiencing any stall. Keep changing exercises every 2-3 weeks and use a variety of exercises to avoid plateaus. Example : Bench press> Weighted dips> Weighted push up> Repeat 

I want to work my upper back to help fix my hunched "computer posture" shoulders. I'm sitting with my legs extended, wrapping the band around my feet, and pulling the handles of the band to my torso. I did 65 reps yesterday, some with my elbows bending downward, some with them bending out. Today, I'm not sore! What gives? Is there a more efficient exercise for this? 

I've read that even someone doing yoga should also take massage / do foam rolling, in order to get out knots / adhesions. Would someone with adhesions and tight muscles do fine with lifting and massage, or would stretching the muscles (e.g. with yoga) in addition to massage be more affective for someone with this problem? 

I've done yoga several times, but am not really big into it. I'd like to get more into it. The problem is, I'm the type whose mind is always running. Trying to simply stop and feel my inner self, or feel the posture, or whatever seems very hard. Is this something someone picks up as they progress, or is there a trick to it? 

The lower leg has about 14 muscle, most people only train 2 muscles the Soleus and the Gastrocnemius. Are there any compound movements that work more than just the calf but more lower leg muscles at once or are isolation exercises the best way to go? 

What exercises can be done anywhere with no equipment, not even a bar for the upper back muscles and is as easy to learn as a bodyweight push up. 

Its a great way to build muscle, muscles don't know how much weight they are pushing, they only know they are being forced agaisn't resistance which is enought to grow muscles as long as there is progress. Progress can be made by increasing frequency, weight, repetitions, sets, speed, time under tension or by decreasing rest between sets. Growth requires muscles to be fatiqued and broken down which can be done with light and heavy weights. Nervous system strength requires heavy weight. If you don't care about getting stronger its fine, why would you care after all... it bring no functionality in real life to bench press 3 times your weight. Or are you a mechanic who plans on bench pressing cars to change their oil? 

My muscles are tight from working at the computer. If I shrug my shoulders back, there are muscles popping around in the back. If I move my arms up and back, my sternum area pops. Things are very tight. I'd like to begin weight lifting, but I'm worried about doing more harm than good. Specifically with the bench press - my chest is already very tight - should I just avoid that exercise and go with the others, while stretching? I stretch occasionally but I'm at the computer so much that it simply doesn't help. 

I would like to use one of these exercises to help strengthen my back, in conjunction with stretches in my chest and shoulders to help correct my rolled forward shoulders ('computer posture'). Of these two, which is more appropriate for that purpose? 

I'm in my mid-30s. I've always been thin and had a very high metabolism. I've been doing Stronglifts 5x5 for a little over 3 months. I've increased my weight in each exercise a fair amount over that time. I've taken breaks after running a 10k, and while feeling a little sick, but for the most part I'm sticking with the program. I eat eggs and salad for breakfast, have a protein shake before lunch, eat beans and potatoes for lunch (or something similar). I try to eat a burger for dinner, but my wife is a vegetarian, "which pretty much makes me a vegetarian", as Samuel L Jackson put it. I eat yogurt and cottage cheese before bed. I've gained several pounds since starting the program. My muscles feel healthy and firm, but they don't seem any bigger. My gut however has grown enough that it's obvious to others. What's going on with me? Edit: the comments imply that my question is perceived as "how can I stop gaining weight with this diet". My real question is, why am I not putting on perceivable muscle, though I'm following the workout, and the dietary advice of the workout (which is, for skinny people, essentially "stuff yourself with protein and calories")? My muscles aren't growing but my stomach is, is what it comes down to. And I am increasing the weight often enough that workouts are becoming quite difficult.