If you are talking about the things that look like thin, wide plastic washers that go on the outer part of both sides of the bottom bracket, they are called bearing seals. Assuming that you are saying that the bearing seals were not installed, then I would absolutely remove the cranks and install them. They are designed to keep most of the road gunk out of your bottom bracket, helping it to last significantly longer. If you have the appropriate crank puller then you can do it yourself. Remove the cranks, put a light coat of grease on the inner side of the seals and then press them firmly into the bottom bracket. They should seat firmly into an outer groove on the bottom bracket. If you are talking about the clear plastic cylinder in the pic then I don't know what it is officially called, but I think you can do with out it. Not having it may mean that you need to check and tighten your bottom bracket more frequently, but I don't believe it's necessary. 

A highly trained competitive cyclist can ride at ~ 350-400 watts of power output for a 2 hour ride. So adding a 400 watt electric assist motor is roughly equivalent to adding a competitive cyclist 'stoker' to your rig. The speed and battery size make a big difference but here are some rules of thumb: 

There is a Wiki with an International List of Bike Collectives and Community Orgainizations at BikeCollectives.org. There are many other organizations, like the Salvation Army in the US, that take almost any item and either operate second-hand stores or sell the items to other thrift shops. I prefer to deal with organizations like the Salt Lake City Bike Collective because I know the bike is going to checked well and repaired if needed before being returned to the community. 

When I replaced mine I found similar laces at a sporting goods store, but I've seen similar sport laces at some of the big box stores as well. If you google "oval athletic laces" you should find a large number of online sellers as well. 

CardioTrainer is an app that also works with the GPS functionality to track your workouts, and can create tracks and virtual training partners if you do the same routes. 

For "Vintage" attire, try your local second-hand or thrift store. They will likely have clothing and shoes that will pass muster, and for pennies on the pound. If you really want to go the extra mile, and have basic sewing skills, you can make your own knickers from wool slacks. For comfort, I don't care how "lycra-free" and event is supposed to be, I am wearing a pair of standard bike shorts or a padded liner underneath my slacks. 

Absent some kind of abuse or extraordinary stress (like falling on top of the bike while it's lying on the ground - stressing the tubes from the side, riding with a friend sitting on the top tube...) a carbon fiber frame should outlast the rider. Lennard Zinn covered durability of Carbon Forks for Velo News a while back. Here are some quotes from that article in case the link breaks: From Kestrel 

I don't suppose anyone knows the make and model of this tyre? These allegedly came as OEM on all Carrera Virtuoso Road Pro circa 2008, the Black and Blue Road Pro model. This has been bugging me as I cannot find ANYWHERE the model of these tyres, and I found these ultra-grippy compared to any other tyres I've used. I've done many hours of research online over a couple of days, but I just cannot find any information on these tyres, or even people who sell these. 

I'll answer all your questions in order. 1) "Will this tire wobble wear down the bearings faster, or other components?" -Nope, this wobble will do pretty much nothing to the rim. If anything, you will feel the slightest of 'floating' (the only way I can describe it, the bulge ever-so-slightly lifting the bike when you go over it.) 2) "is this amount considered normal, and won't do any harm?" -Any tyre wobble is not classed as normal, though it will not do any harm to you, the bicycle or your bike's performance. 3) "Is this as true as you can get on such a cheap bicycle?" - The bicycle has nothing to do with the tyre. If the bike was £120, you can still get £80 Continentals. The tyre's quality, however, is quite a big factor. If you bought them for £12 a piece, there's a high chance that there may be minor defects. 4) "Should I spend more time trying to adjust or leave it as it is?" -Leave it. If anything, you risk doing more damage to the tyre/rim, constantly playing with it. Ride around on this tyre for a couple days. In my experience with cheaper tyres, they'll settle down. It's usually due to storage/transit. Re-inflating usually gets rid of any deformation, though not always. Riding it for a while will eventually get it to even out. If the tyre is damaged, you'll usually notice a very major bulge. If you take an innertube and inflate it, looking at the valve, you'll notice it has a weird shape around where the valve is. It'll look somewhat like that, but on the tyre. 

I personally do a full bike overhaul every six months, though I absolutely torture my road bike doing off-roading on places I wouldn't even put a mountain bike.... My chain is cleaned thoroughly after every ride, and then stored in a small vat of chain oil to keep it from rusting. (Bad practice, I know, but I'm lazy and like to make sure the chain is ready for every ride. Pull it out, attach it, run it through the cogs a couple of times and then wipe off the excess oil from the chain and cogs and derailleur before the ride.) I'd first remove the wheel, get my cassette lock-ring removal tool and a chain whip and remove the cassette, taking a note of all the positions of the rings. Then, on my cassette, there are little holes that were probably put in for weight reduction; I'd nail each cog onto a big board of ply-board, soak in a strong degreaser and agitate with a brass wire brush, then pressure-washing off everything, then repeat on the other side. (As I said, this bike is tortured, and as such, everything needs a very heavy cleaning...) The free-hub itself I would also replace, too. Every year or so, I replace my chain, chain-rings and cassette, bottom bracket, headset and hub axles/bearings. I personally disagree with using a degreaser on the cassette whilst it's still on the wheel as the degreaser can get into the wheel hub, and much worse, into the free-hub mechanism itself. A more basic way would be to just remove the cassette, degrease it in a plastic tub and leave it to soak for a couple of minutes then brush off with a plastic brush, rinse off and then re-assemble. Place your (I'm assuming) freshly-cleaned chain back on, lubricate the chain and then ride on! If possible, avoid getting oil on the chainrings; only the insides of the chain need lubrication. There is no extreme heat happening on the chain and cassette, so lubrication is not a requirement, and if anything, would hinder the efficiency of your chain by something hilarious like 0.0005 percent because of the layer of oil there. A pathetic number, but another good reason is it'll turn any road dust and brake dust into a grinding paste for your chain. 

You should not have to switch to a different size rim, and doing so may not work with your brakes anyway. Riders for decades used 27" rims and if maintained well, do so with few problems. Note however, that if your current rims are in bad shape, they may not be able to be trued, and in that case, new wheels of the same size are recommended. If you are riding on bumpy roads a lot, learn to true and tension the wheel yourself to save money. Constantly riding cobbles or bad roads may require you to true the wheels every few days or weeks. 

The key problem in this kind of analysis is holding all of the possible variables equal while you change only one factor. Weight, construction materials, tread pattern and inflation pressure are all at least as important if not more important that tire width when it comes to rolling resistance. That said, VeloNews has an interesting article where they tested various tires at different pressures. From Resistance is futile: How tire pressure and width affect rolling resistance 

I like Base Building for Cyclists as a good guide to building your aerobic fitness, building a solid base for seasonal training, and working up to high volume rides. 

Four times a year I teach a workshop called "Be a Bike Commuter" for the local university's community education program. It's mostly based on my experience and information from the League of American Bicyclists. I am looking at making some changes for the next session and am wondering, from other experienced commuters, what things you wish someone would have told you that would have made your first few commutes more successful and/or enjoyable. 

There are a number of rubber overshoes that would work. Two of the most common brands are Totes and Tingley. Try a search for "rubber overshoes" on Google or Amazon. These will protect your shoes, provide some traction, and can be rolled up and strapped to the frame or seat with velcro. Below is an example of the Totes brand: 

Yes - frames are subject to wear, tear, aging and fatigue. The primary area of concern or failure on most frames is at the bottom bracket. On both metal and carbon frames this is a point of high stress and flex. But any weld or joint is subject to stress and may fail over time. You should periodically inspect the whole frame, paying particular attention to and weld-points or joints. Look closely for signs of paint or weld cracking as well as any rust on steel frames. The best way to do this is to hand wash the frame and inspect it as you go. If you want it to last even longer apply a layer of bike or car wax your frame every six months or so. Wax makes it harder for dirt and mud to stick to your frame, and will make the next clean easier. That said, if you make it a habit to clean and inspect your frame, are an 'average' rider (not excessively heavy or riding aggressively off jumps and drops), store the bike properly and care for it well it could conceivable outlive you. 

Seems like I'm a Necromancer again... Most likely a spacer. No, I take that back; Almost certainly a spacer. With the Hybrid cassette fitting correctly, it's quite often that they are slightly thicker, even by a couple of millimeters. An easy way to check is to check the limiter screws on the deraileur if you haven't adjusted them. If there's too far away from the wheel for where the jockey wheels line up, it's probably missing a spacer. If not, it needs a thicker spacer or more, assuming the gears were properly set up before you took it to pieces. Also, good call, taking the cassette off to clean it. Too many times, people leave it on their wheel using a degreaser to clean it, and it breaks down the grease inside the hub and freehub body! Annoying because I usually get asked to replace them when it happens, then I lecture them about all the problems from doing so..... Boring! 

On the one I had, however, it had a seal which meant there was no way the grease could get out. Something important to note is that, if you DO have one of these with a seal on them, don't competely fill it with grease. Where you have moving parts, you want a void and a way for it to 'breathe', otherwise the seal will physically pop. You want more air than grease; Air is compressible, grease (classed as a liquid) is not. If it's not sealed, only a very thin layer. It's purpose is to keep it lubricated and to keep the teeth themselves clean and not directly contacting metal-on-metal, a bad thing in an electric motor which moves very fast under heavy load. If you use too little, the gears will chew each other up, making what little grease there is turn into a grinding paste. Too much grease, and it'll start blurting out of the side, onto other vital, expensive components. Good luck! 

Not sure I'd call that a clutch.... ;) More a freewheel. I have done jobs like this in the past, and I found using a Lithium Grease (very thin, textured a bit like facial cream) works great, so long as you only line it on the teeth. 

This image is from: "$URL$ It's a bit math-y, but hopefully it'll help you understand how it works in a sense. 

As any others have said, nope, nothing will reeeaaallllyyy happen. The only thing you need to worry about is if the water sits for too long on parts such as your chain. Just make sure you buy proper lubricants, and NOT WD40's spray can!!!! ;) Also, if you plan to do that often, it's best to just get a cheap rag and wipe the bike down to dry off most of the water first. Stops the water sitting in places that it probably shouldn't be in! 

So, I broke a Shimano Sora rear derailleur last night... Ouch, there goes a load of cash... What had happened was the hanger was bent slightly inwards, yet was functioning fine, so I rode it home. Came to a slight bump in the road whilst in first gear, and then the rear wheel spokes decided the derailleur looked tasty, caught the mech and bent it all the way up, over, in front of and then below the chain-stay. Long story short, it broke. Just in case you hadn't gathered. :P I've repaired bikes for years, but I've never come up to this part; Can I use HeliCoils to place into the bolt holes for where the hanger itself is meant to meet? I cannot bring myself to part with this frame as it was my best friend's, and he had died after riding this bike in a small criterium near me, I brought it up to scratch, offered it to the family to help pay for funeral costs and they decided I should be the one entrusted to look after and care for it. I screwed up big time. Theoretically, HeliCoils should ('should') work in this application; If it works holding brake calipers on cars, it should work for this. But, would there be any other way to fix the threads (which are warped and stretched, not even a thread chaser would work on it!) so I can still use the same bolt size? I don't want to have to bodge it together with a bigger bolt size in a larger, re-tapped hole. In fact, I'm not even sure THAT would work, either. Could I put a big tack weld in where the hole is and then drill the weld out to tap a thread into? (After rubbing the paint back and all, though Aluminium is a pain to weld) I've never tried anything to do with frame/fork work directly, I'm used to fixing bikes, not frames, if you know what I mean by that. Any help would be great, and I'm curious if HeliCoils would actually work. Cheers.