How is it scientifically defined? I don't think there is a large science behind it, it's just a convention that is used to refer to words and search them easily. It's like asking why the words are look up in this alphabetical order and not another order, e.g. by phonology etc? 

So, let me explain that faith is πίστις but hope is not ἐλπίζω but . Ελπίζω is the verb not the noun. The etymology of those two words is not related: ἐλπίς < ἔλπω (make someone have hope) πίστη < πείθω 

is the main factor which determines the difficulty to learn a language. Other factors that can affect someone trying to learn a language is: 

Greek has cases so the case depend on the surrounding text. In Greek all words have similar rules, not like in English for proper nouns, so it would take an article to match its case if necessary. To the original question I guess that the etymology is simple enough: It derives from the verb (and this from Hebrew as you have mentioned) and it's not created by the second method since it's quite old word and at that time the adding of in irrelevant words to apply a new meaning was not known. P.S. In Greek means Saturday not Sunday and it has lost the original Hebrew meaning since the typical day of pray (if it's kept) for Greek-speaking people is Sunday (). 

We can derive from (1) a true sentence if we replace the pronoun she by the definite description the witch reported on in the Gotham Star, but this definite description may not be available to any of the participants in the conversation (perhaps none of them reads the newspapers). The point is that the sentence in (1) may be true even if all the sentences derived from it by replacing she with a contextually available definite description are false. 

Assume someone utters this sentence to a group of people who are familiar with Hob, Bob, Nob and Cob and their livestock, but who, up until the moment the utterance of (1) is made, have been unaware of Hob’s and Nob’s belief that a witch has been harming farm animals. Assume further that all the participants in the conversation rightly believe that witches don’t exist and that Hob and Nob are wrong. Such a context provides the two definite descriptions in (2) as possible substitutes for the pronoun she in (1): 

Duden and other sources state that -lich is a grammaticalized form of the Middle High German līch ["body"] (which also gave rise to Leiche). -ly, -lich, -lijk (and Scandinavian forms) are actually all of similar derivation and converge to a single Germanic ancestral suffix (see discussion on details here). The Turkic -lik appeared already in the Old Turkic times and probably was related to a similar in form and meaning Mongolian suffix (see e.g. here). So, a hypothesis about common ancestry of the Germanic and the Turkic suffixes via borrowing is at least non-parsimonious. (Not to mention, that there are no genetic links between these two groups of languages.) 

It seems to be a terminological question, because the fact that ursus and arctos are cognates is beyond doubts I guess. The only sphere where these two words come together is taxonomic nomenclature, so: The correct name for scientific species names which have identical (or repeating) generic and specific names is tautonyms. They are allowed in zoological nomenclature and forbidden in botanical nomenclature. The case of Ursus arctos is not even tautonymy in the strict meaning, i.e. no tautonomy-related articles of the Zoological (or even Botanical) Code would be applicable here. This could be called a "semantic" tautonymy and it is not covered by the Codes, meaning that it is no better/worse than any other non-tautonymous name. 

The finite clause (with or without the complementizer that) is a different syntactic category than the noun phrase, as can be seen from the fact that finite clauses have a different distribution than noun phrases. Some examples are given in your question and in @curiousdannii’s answer above; two more examples are given in (1) and (2). 

I might also add to the discussion the question of grammatical function. In theories that include the specification of grammatical function (subject, object, etc.) in the syntactic representations they posit, the question arises what grammatical functions can be realized by non-finite VPs (or clauses). There is a discussion of this question by Rodney Huddleston in Chapter 14 of The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language (pp. 1206-1220). He argues that non-finite clause complements in English usually do not realize the object function (which is mainly realized by NPs), but a different function, which he dubs catenative complement. A discussion of the grammatical functions of finite clause complements across several languages can be found in the paper “The grammatical functions of complement clauses” by Mary Dalrymple and Helge Lødrup (which can be found on the second author’s webpage). In case you might find it useful, here is a tree for your sentence that follows by and large the syntactic framework in The Cambridge Grammar of the English Language. 

is incorrect. The 3rd person singular of an English verb would be "he asks", "he " and "he is". Id don't know any dictionary to use this form. So, it probable the infinitive rather than the 3rd person singular although in English it's hard to guess sometimes. See wikipedia article also: 

All person except the 3rd person singular coincide usually with the infinitive, with possible exception the verb "to be": I am you are he is BUT to be. Anyway, to your question now the same link of Wikipedia just answers your question but I guess you validated the answer as complete enough: 

I think the major idea behind the linguistics perception of all languages (except the pidgin ones I guess) is that all languages are good to what they are made for: to make people using it communicate clearly and effectively. That said all languages include all words and meanings necessary to achieve the communication. So, when people compare languages, words, vocabulary size etc they often project to a different language idea of their own language. Example of the latter are when we are looking for a specific word to a different language that we cannot find. Or that the equivalent word is broader in sense than the one we are looking for. This often reminds me about the story of Eskimos having a huge amount of word to refer to the snow (I don't know how many words there are and I guess it's probably true if we consider they live an environment full of snow) while other languages does not have this diversity. For me apart from your opinion (with which I agree) that the 

Subject and object are names of grammatical function categories. The grammatical function of a constituent in a sentence is determined by its relation to other constituents in the sentence. The subject, for example, is what the meaning of the predicate is predicated of, and it also agrees with the head of the predicate - the main verb, if there is one - in person, number and gender. Note that verb is not a grammatical function category but a syntactic category. The verb in a sentence realizes the grammatical function of head of the predicate (sometimes called the predicator), as can be seen in the syntactic structure tree below, where the grammatical function categories appears in blue. You can read a little more about this distinction here. 

Edelberg shows that there are circumstances in which the sentence in (1) is true, but the sentences derived by substituting (2a) and (2b) for she in (1) are false. He gives the example in (3) (repeated with omissions and slight modifications from his EXAMPLE 2, p. 2): 

I'd say, among the Slavic languages at least in Russian such adjectives are quite productive and don't always "intersect" with genitive semantically. Thus: 

In other Semitic languages the situation seems to be similar, including Maltese, which utilizes the Latin script. 

You haven't mentioned, which Hebrew you mean and what format you expect. Presuming, you are interested in the Modern Israeli Hebrew and that the format is not so important, the best choice would be (Hebrew-Hebrew) Even-Shoshan Dictionary: it includes both words in vocalized form and in ktiv male; plural and smikhut forms are provided for nouns, and basic inflected forms - for verbs. There are scanned versions of the 1979-edition on the web and there is an electronic version from babylon, but it's for money. 

(In some orthographies some of the above distinctions are even specially marked with extra diacritical marks). Now, there are spheres in which both systems interdigitate: for example, the vast majority of affixes are written phonetically even when attached to words of HA origin. The systems are sometimes separated when they meet in the same written word, with the symbol ׳, e.g.: אונטער׳גנב׳ענען זיך Examples (HA-words in bold): 

A case where a pronoun cannot be substituted by any definite description that may be recovered from the context is discussed by Walter Edelberg in his paper ‘A New Puzzle about Intentional Identity’ (Journal of Philosophical Logic 15 [1986]). Edelberg discusses the sentence in (1) from Peter Geach’s paper ‘Intentional Identity’ (Journal of Philosophy 74 [1967]): 

According to (3) and (4), in deriving the meanings of the expressions almost half crazy/sane, the meaning of almost half combines each time with another meaning, and therefore it is not surprising that the two final expressions differ in meaning. A second way to solve the problem is to accept the constituent structure in (1), but to deny that half crazy and half sane have the same meaning. Maybe the meanings of half crazy and half sane always combine with some approximation/precision value, and when such value is not expressed it is taken to be the absolute precision value (the value expressed by exactly). We can now assume that the meanings of half crazy and half sane are such that they give the same meaning when combining with the meaning of exactly but not when combining with the meanings of other approximation/precision expressions (like almost). A third way to solve the problem is to accept the constituent structure in (1), but to deny the principle expressed by (2). We can now assume that in deriving the meanings of almost half crazy/sane, the meaning of almost is combined with the meaning of half, even though it doesn’t form a constituent with this element. Reference: Invitation to Cognitive Science, 2nd edition. Daniel Osherson, general editor; in Part I: Language, Lila Gleitman and Mark Liberman, eds. MIT Press, Cambridge 1995, pp. 311-360.