If you wanted to pick one up without a live snail inside, I would say finding one on dry sand without a trail that looks like it has been there a while. The signs of that would be, being flipped upside down and having small debris like sand or dirt on top of it. This video shows a sea snail moving at a snail's pace leaving a trail behind it. If you were to find some empty shells, then it would give you an idea of how much they weigh empty and then if you ever did pick up a live one, you should be able to tell the difference and put it down right away. 

According to United States Forest Service, fire has a number of benefits for the wildlife including more nutrients in the ground, more open spaces, there are some plants that need fire to spread and it helps control invasive species. 

Sometimes mountains won't have trails or recorded routes simply because they don't get enough traffic that a trail will be created. Not every mountain has a recorded routes simply because people haven't written them down in an easily accessible place for everyone yet. For example, consider this Google Earth picture of a mountain. (Larger image) 

Sometimes when hunting elk, especially archery, you will hear elk calls and be unsure whether it is an elk or a human using an elk call. How could one tell the difference? 

Given the huge number of people who visit Yosemite each year (5,217,114 in 2016) it seems safe to say that the number of people who are never found is a tiny fraction of all visitors and that it is a very rare occurrence. 

The New Wilderness Handbook (131-132) Paul Petzold used rythmic breathing on the first attempt of K2 by an American team. 

It's pretty common to use 1 oz Nalgene bottles to hold the spices in a spice kit for backpacking as they are waterproof and the right size. 

Probably the best, but not the cheapest solution is to get a GPS with a hunting map overlay. These will show all sorts of things like, 

Here are the steps on the the clip and slide / slip-slap-slide method. First here is how you should hold the rope when you are not pulling in slack. 

The first thing to know is what is the latest you want to be on the summit and aim to be off before then. Then you calculate the estimated time it will take to summit and return. The start time is the the lastest time minus half of the trip time. So if thunderstorms are know to hit the mountain starting at noon, and to be conservative you want to be off by 11:00 am, and the whole trip is estimated to take 14 hours, then you want to be on the trail at 4:00 am. 11 - (14/2) = 4 If getting down at 6:00 pm would mean that you get back in the dark, then it would be better to get an even earlier start. If a thunderstorm starts moving in earlier, then you should turn around anyways. Usually, going up and down take pretty similar amounts of time, but there are few things that make the descent faster, like 

The simplest way that I can think of is to have all of the fishermen carry a climbing harness and enough gear that they could ascend the rope. Have two climbing ropes in the truck, one for use and one for backup and if a a fisherman needs help getting up the cliff, anchor the rope, toss the end down to the fisherman and have them pull themselves out. If they need extra assistance, you can set up a z-pulley and help pull them up the cliff. For your worst case scenario, I would carry a spinal board in your truck and get the training to use it. 

Source So two candles would produce more heat than one person. As regards the oxygen, using an open flame inside a tent is a BAD IDEA partly because you can set the tent on fire, and partly because of the risk of carbon monoxide poisoning. 

The simple answer is that yes it does make sense to ration, see the stories of the men who survived the Essex or the Mutiny on the Bounty or the Chilean Miners or many countries during wartime. From a mathematic point of view, one rations when does not have enough food for the timeframe between now and a resupply. If you eat enough to be full all the time, you will run out of food. When one is backpacking, one wants to make sure that there will be enough food to finish the trip and while that may not mean eating less than needed, you do want to keep an eye on how much is left to make sure you don't run out. From my experience backpacking with fewer calories than needed, there are some tricks to make it easier. 

The canisters that I have purchased so far have included a warning not to let the canister get above 120 degrees Fahrenheit. It looks like the inside of car can get well above that, hot enough to bake cookies. I would prefer not to leave on a backpacking trip with an extra canister left in my vehicle and come back to find that it had exploded. What are some things that I can do to prevent that from happening? 

Great Lakes Water Level Observations There is a chart here where you can seen some of the data for yourself. Lake Erie also has short-term seiches, where the wind will push the water up on one side of the lake. 

I have tried a reverse Google image search but all I have found is pictures of computers. Presumably it is somewhere in the Sierra Nevada Mountains. 

I would say that the risks would be fairly significant, due to how things are going to be fairly flat and the banks wills have lots of vegetation, both of which will limit the amount of distance you can see. Also, in any areas like that, things will start to look the same after a while. The tricks I would recommend for avoiding getting lost are,