There is an assumption here, that there is such a thing as "post truth" world, as an unprecedented phenomenon. The fact that a concept exists with its own term does not make the phenomenon it describes a fact. For all we know, this might be a temporary moment where systematic alterations of truth are being used to influence masses, such as there have already been several in history (not the least the European authoritarianisms of the 1930s). But supposing we were entering a post-truth period where "objective facts are less influential in shaping public opinion than are appeals to emotion and personal belief", then this would be trouble for a philosopher or intellectual. A much more mundane term would be that "post truth" is the reflection of obscurantism ("a policy of opposition to enlightenment or the spread of knowledge" -- Wordnet). What post-truth describes, is not people acting under their own rationality or observation, but reacting to appeals to faith or emotion. Clearly, this tendency of people, would be called "intellectual nonage (minority)" as Kant described in his essay What is Enlightnenment: "Laziness and cowardice are the reasons why such a large part of mankind gladly remain minors all their lives, long after nature has freed them from external guidance. They are the reasons why it is so easy for others to set themselves up as guardians. It is so comfortable to be a minor." Indeed, what post truth generally describes is people acting irrationally under the influence of fear (of economic difficulties, immigration, terrorism, etc.). This intellectual nonage would be opposed to enlightenment, the ability of an individual to think for oneself, which requires an individual ability to observe facts and analyze them independently (sapere aude = dare to know). What this would describe is a society where individuals would no longer be citizens (something that requires the courage to assume independence of mind), but subjects. Elections and votes (and thus democracy) would therefore lose their meaning, since people would vote according to suggestions they are receiving instead of according to their reason. Separation of powers would be hurt, since neither justice nor the parliaments could work serenely. Republic (as Kant or as we understand it) would deperish, since power would be held by people who are capable to manipulate emotions and personal beliefs (i.e. superstitions). The result of this individual disenfranchisement would be tyranny. In a post truth context, the position of a philosopher, intellectual or any person who seeks to practice their freedom of knowing (enlightenment) would be difficult in a largely comformist society, and liable to be restricted by law (typically laws preventing lèse-majesté against the ruler, the government or the status quo). This is nothing particularly new for thinkers, as they would face the same challenges as from authoritarianisms of the twentieth century or from the absolute monarchies of Europe. If they were true to the traditions of American or European democracies, they would have to defend freedom of thought and expression. I imagine however that they would split in two, like they did in the 19th century: those who feel that the cause of "one-human-one-vote" is lost (as this would lead to ochlocracy, the rule of the mob) and would advocate the rule of an elite minority who are worthy of governing the post-truth people (oi polloi); and those who advocate that in spite of everything, "the inherent dignity and the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world" (Preamble of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights). These would be existential questions! 

Since I am more familiar with the philosophy of anarcho-capitalism, I will answer with respect to that philosophy; others can elaborate on the theory of anarcho-communism. 

Most of science is a matter of testing the nature of external things to establish their properties and test causal relationships. That kind of work presupposes confidence in some stability of the nature of things and the causality of action, and it presupposes the validity of sense data and its ability to establish objective knowledge. Hence, philosophically speaking, I would say that the groundwork for science is the philosophical conclusion (not really an assumption so much as acceptance of certain philosophical arguments) that existence exists (i.e., the world external to the mind is real), that things in existence have a nature and follow causality, that the senses are valid and are able to objectively establish the nature of things (through various processes like the scientific process), and that objective knowledge is possible. Now, all of that involves a lot of philosophical conclusions. Many working scientists take those things for granted and do not explore these philosophical issues, but those who are interested study the philosophy of science and study metaphysics and epistemology more broadly in order to form conclusions on these kinds of issues. No doubt there are scientists that disagree with the above positions, and interpret their scientific knowledge differently (e.g., as subjective knowledge, or as knowledge of mere "phenomena", etc.), but I suspect that the majority of scientists hold an implicitly objectivist realist philosophical stance. 

As you see, it's a tough choice, where you are going to lose either the inviolability of the principle of conservation of energy, or the inviolability of deep-rooted intuitions and most philosophical traditions. All is not lost. Mathematicians and physicists can live with singularities, knowing that they are bound (at the risk of oversimplifying: without being afraid that airplanes will fall from the sky and GPS will stop working). For the rest of society, the notions of incompleteness and singularities are not palatable (hence the initial skepticism about black holes). As Richard Feynman used to say: "I don't feel frightened by not knowing things". Which is why we might get some advances from that side, rather than from other disciplines where doctrines are more radicated. As you realize the debate is not only philosophical or (anti-)religious, it is also highly political since free will and freedom of thought (in a social and political sense) are closely connected. According to the position 1 and 2, the imperative of defending freedom of speech, research, etc. might be interpreted in very different ways. With 2, it is necessary, with 1 it is contingent and conventionally accepted as merely functional. 

This is an important point to understand with regard to the whole of the Objectivist theory of moral philosophy and rights. Since Objectivists appeal to reality to ground their philosophy, the Objectivist moral philosophy is thus necessarily grounded in consideration of the consequences of action. This is the source of the moral principles, but those principles must then be framed at a level of generality and applicability that does not require exceptions that appeal to the ability to fully project the consequences of a particular action. 

Part of the issue here is that the people heavily quoting Marx and Engels, and building statues to them, presumably are supporters of their views and hence they do not interpret their ideology as a failure. It is fair to say that Marx and Engels represent two of the primary theorists of socialist ideas and so they are still popular among socialists. (You will find that only a relatively small number socialists have a sound knowledge of his views; the rest merely take for granted that he was an important theorist.) Personally, I agree with the view that socialism is a failure, and the ideas behind it are wrong, but people like me are not heavily citing Marx or building statues to him. Even from a critical perspective (regarding his ideas as incorrect, which I do), Marx (and to a lesser extent Engels) has a justifiably legacy as a thinker for some of the economic and social theories he put forward. A few of his main contributions that stand out are: 

I would point out that in mathematics, an axiom does not need to be "self-evident". Indeed, new forms of geometry were invented by altering the "self-evident" Euclidian axiom that "only one line connects two points". Whether the Riemann or Lobatchevski versions are "self-evident" is a matter of personal opinion (relative) and many people might agree that they are less "self-evident" than the Euclidian one. In essence, an axiom is a basic proposition in a model. It seems that its property of being "self-evident" is not necessary; but merely useful in order to build a successful theory that could have practical applications. One of the least "self-evident" axioms that I can think of, is those that found geometries in dimensions over 3. 

Fits your needs (sufficient completeness) Is the simplest you can think of (minimal number of parts => Occam's Razor) Gives you a correct (accurate, sufficiently precise) calculation/prediction according to experiment. Hopefully will not get you in some contradiction or dead ends (consistency with itself and the rest of your knowledge). 

In his classic book How to Solve it, G. Polya writes: "induction is the process of discovering general laws by the observation and combination of particular instances." I would say that your question contains its own answer: deductive reasoning (hypothetico-deductive as a matter of fact) is the type of reasoning you are trying to do, since you are using logic rules to infer from a hypothesis. The fact that you are not 100% sure of your hypothesis does not alter that fact. Inductive reasoning works in a very different way. You are taking a large number of individual facts and trying to guess some higher rule from them. In order to go "inductive", you would have to have all the relevant instances where government spending has gone up, not the conclusion that someone else made, which has by now become your hypothesis. The only "logic" part there is in inductive reasoning, is that you should try to explain what the matter is with the individual facts that do not agree with your rule (measurement errors, something else?). So you dont' "prove" anything with inductive reasoning, there is nothing "true" or "false", you are just trying to find some rule that matches the (hopefully reliable) facts you have, in the best possible way. Inductive reasoning is one of the most misunderstood forms of human thinking and rarely taught at school. And yet it is absolutely crucial to the evolution of any science. It is also crucial if you want to learn anything from daily life experience. Indeed, most of what is taught at school as "inductive", is not. For example, we could use linear regression to find a line between points. In order to do that you have to assume first that what you are looking for is a line, and then the rest is a deduction. Linear regression is an algorithm that can be easily implemented with a computer. Stricly speaking it is not induction. It is a heuristic tool that you could use in a general process of induction, though. To our knowledge, we don't know, in the general case, how to formalize inductive reasoning and we don't know how to program it. Whatever we program turns out to be deductive reasoning -- or a brute force attack -- or a mix of the two. How humans do that, is anyone's guess (litterally: induction requires imagination, to "think outside of the box", to walk outside the beaten path, plus healty dose of artillery skills, to reckon how far you are shooting from the target). From there it opens an avenue for debate on whether artificial intelligence is different from human intelligence. And I would argue that machines (in the current state of our technology) can sometimes give the impression to work by induction, but in reality they aren't. 

Regarding another answer here, the claim that you'd be hard-pressed to find a serious philosopher who takes Ayn Rand seriously is a classic case of the No True Scotsman fallacy --- the many many academic philosophers who have worked on Rand are dismissed as not "serious" because they like or are influenced by Rand. There are literally hundreds of philosophers who have engaged with, extended, and argued over Rand's work. You can find a whole bunch of them through ARI, and another bunch through the Objectivist Center, and no doubt there are others tucked away in various universities without any affiliations to institutes like this. There is an entire academic journal devoted to studying Rand's philosophy and thought, and a Google Scholar search of her name yields over 20,000 results.** Amongst the detailed extensions to Rand's work are detailed works of moral philosophy by Prof Tara Smith, works of epistemology by Prof Stephen Hicks, and many other smaller contributions by other academic philosophers. Aside from those engaging directly with Rand, there are many instances where concepts and ideas put forward by Rand in broad terms are later introduced to academia in greater detail by other academic philosophers independently of her, and then those ideas are discussed in detail, often without reference to her work. A case that comes to mind is the work of the philosopher David Chalmers, whose work on the philosophy-of-mind bears strong similarities to Rand's view of consciousness. In these cases there is often an academic discussion that occurs without any reference to Rand, though the ideas discussed are remarkably similar to those in her philosophy. (To be clear, I am certainly not suggesting that Chalmer's work is just a rehash of Rand - he goes into far more detail on the nature of mind and academic arguments over this. Having said that, I am surprised there is not more reference to her in this field.) It is fair to say that Rand presented her philosophy in a broad description that is less detailed than the philosophical discussions that occur in academia. However, her ideas have been fleshed out by many academic philosophers, and there are many cases where her ideas should be referenced in academic discussion, but are not. 

Any reflection on the moral character of an action would have to take the environment into consideration, particularly the dominant norms. This principle should also remain valid if one does not regard them as absolutes, or even in the case one disagreed with their legitimacy (freedom of thought). Hence you might want to divide the question into two distinct situations according to the environment: the state of nature and the state of society (a concept that traces back at least to Hobbes, but see also the Social Contract by Rousseau). This dichotomy might be useful. In the state of nature1 where there is no police and no justice (and supposing that could really exist, since some state could still claim jurisdiction on the location) the decision would be in principle strictly personal, by definition; in other words down to the individual's own sense of ethics (or more likely, and at a lower level, survival instinct). This would, consciously or inconsciously involve weighing chances of survival when selecting courses of action; or in the extreme it would boil down to killing with one the various techniques animals use in nature (pursuit, ambush, face-to-face duel, poisoning, stealing food, etc.). In the state of society the functions of police and judicial have been delegated to the state. According to the social contract, it is not up to an individual to make that type of adjudication. So a citizen who reasons like this would be in breach of the social contract and would undermine the rule of law. In a state of society, this "thin line" you are contemplating is the laws of the land, specifically the criminal code, which explicitly forbids this kind of behaviour. On top of this, this runs against the dominant moral codes of most human societies, which consider killing bad per se. Indeed, acting by pre-emptively killing someone would qualify as assassination, which carries among the highest penalties in criminal codes. Since those law codes are consciously written by people who carefully ponder a "scale of represession" (or whatever it would be called), this is an indication of the extent to which such a behaviour is considered a dangerous transgression for a society. Going back to a similar situation in a state of nature, let us remember that an individual would also probably want to go back to "civilization" which (still and regardless of the specific conditions) enforces its dominant set of values. If the behaviour of the individual had violated those rules, the individual would also have to live later with it privately, or else need to justify themselves to their fellows; including (because of the practice of territorial claims, or even extraterritoriality) in front of courts. And then the "thin line" would be back to the only admitted exception, i.e. self-defense. Perhaps with some allowances due to mitigating circumstances (due to the harshness of the conditions), as well as the presumption of innocence. 

It is important not to conflate metaphysics with epistemology. Your question asks for the "criteria of existence" and seeks a set of criteria for determining when something exists. However, you then posit a set of operational criteria not for existence itself, but for obtaining knowledge of an existent. That is an epistemological ---not a metaphysical--- issue. As a metaphysical issue, there can be no "criteria" for existence since it is not up to us to decide what rules reality must conform to in order to exist. Existence merely exists, and is whatever it is --- it obeys whatever principles are in its nature to obey and it is for us to discover its nature. (One might cleverly argue that the fundamental nature of existence forms the "criteria" of existence, but that would be putting the matter backwards.) In regard to what particular schools of philosophy say about the nature of existence, that is virtually the entire subject of metaphysics (or at least the main starting issue in this field). There are many ideas that have been put forward by different philosophers (and schools of philosophy) throughout history, and it would be difficult to summarise this discussion in a short post, since that would mean recounting the history of the subject of metaphysics. While I won't attempt to do that, perhaps I can nonetheless give you a taste of it by considering a couple of common issues and positions. Is existence a property? To start with, there has been historical debate within metaphysics as to whether "existence" is a property of a thing or a precondition of a thing. Plato believed that the "forms" for various things existed apart from actual objects. Similarly, some of the medieval philosophers (e.g., Aquinas) held that there was a distinction between existence of a thing and its "essence", and they held that a thing could have essence but not existence. Hence, they regarded "existence" as a property of a thing (e.g., a horse has this property but a dragon does not). Other philosophers (e.g., Hume and Kant) regarded this as an illusory distinction, and regarded existence as not being a property, but a precondition for having properties. The noumenal and phenomenal worlds: Once you transition from metaphysics to epistemology, you will encounter Kant's famous arguments about the relation of existence to perception. Kant believed that existence was split ---epistemologically speaking--- between what we perceive with the senses (the phenoumenal world) and things as they are "in-themselves" (the noumenal world, unmediated by the senses). He regarded the noumenal world as the "real world", and denied that we can have knowledge of this through the senses. ("I have therefore found it necessary to deny knowledge, in order to make room for faith.") Is existence all in the mind (idealism)? Berkeley made a similar argument to Kant, but used it as the basis for the idealist claim that existence is merely a mental construct. Berkeley argued that the mind "cannot conceive of bodies existing unthought of", and therefore its only apprehension was of a special kind of existent that exists only in the mind. (The philosopher David Stove famously called this form of argument "the worst argument in the world".) As you can see, there are some arguments about existence which use the duality of what can and can't be perceived to ground a theory of the limits of human knowledge of reality (e.g., Kant's phenomenal world). Arguably the idealist position attempts to elevate this to a claim about the criteria for existence itself, but even here it is usually frames as existence "to the mind". 

You can also see Feynman's introductory lectures, particularly this excerpt on the Nature of Scientific Thinking (1961). 

I will give an answer from an applied sciences or engineering viewpoint: it depends on what exactly you are trying to achieve. Are you trying to simply group them together? In that case, the possibility expressed in your "hypotheses" have already been experimented with (and a mathematician could likely provide a rigorous demonstration), so they would rather count as facts. The function of a hypothesis is to provide a statement that you are going to test. If you say: 

This tells you how the model should look like. It doesn't tell you how to get there, except by increments (pare down and toss away elements that are not strictly necessary, add new ones that are missing, subject your model to "stress tests", by making experiments or trying to find calculation errors, inconsistencies or contradictions, etc.). Most importantly, the adjudication on what your "good" model should be, is on a case by case basis, according to the function of the model you need (e.g. *what is one trying to do with the cars? Producing them, selling them, managing a company fleet, or starting a personal collection?*...).