While perusing bodybuilding videos on Youtube, I came across an eye-opening comment on one of the videos: 

How should men and women differ their chest workout to attain a chest suitable for their gender? Here are the qualities that I believe are masculine and feminine. Your thoughts may differ, but I'd like to hear chest exercise variations that attain these particular definitions. Masculine A masculine chest should be like plates of armor. They should be wide, flat, and square shape, They should not be bulbous. The top should be like a plateau and not recede smoothly into the collarbone. It should not be top nor bottom heavy, but rather even throughout. Dexter Jackson, below, is a great example. 

Optimal muscular hypertrophy is achieved by using enough weight that makes you hit failure in the 6-10 rep range. To answer your question frankly, neither. This weight range would be considered moderate. Higher weight would mainly increase strength, while lower weight would mainly increase endurance. Source: $URL$ 

I've seen incline, decline, and horizontal squat machines at the gym. Does each one activate different muscles or are they effectively the same? 

You may remember hurdler Michelle Jenneke's famous dance where she wiggles her fingers to warm up before the race. In this interview (at 01:11), she reveals that wiggling her fingers activates her fast twitch fibers. Is this scientifically valid? And if so, why do your legs become more explosive from movements in your fingers? 

Is this true? Are people who find it difficult to gain muscle mass just not eating enough? From a scientific standpoint, this seems true. The law of conservation of mass and energy would refute any claim of a person eating more calories than he/she expends, yet not being able to gain weight. Let's make this question easier: in the absense of any debilitating gastrointestinal diseases, is it possible to eat a lot and still be classified as a hardgainer? 

There is no one ideal weight because beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Each person will give you a different formula. Even within one sport, there exist many different proposed formulas for ideal body weight. For example, this article shows the many different forumulas proposed by scientists and athletes within the sport of professional bodybuilding. The famous old-school bodybuilder Steve Reeves gives this formula: 

Background Isometric - holding a weight in the same position. Example: holding heavy bags of groceries. Isotonic - moving the weight through a range of motion. Example: bicep curls. Question How does isometic strength relate to isotonic strength? Does increasing one increase the other? Or must they be trained individually to increase their respective strengths? Application Say I want to increase my ability to hold heavy bags of groceries for a long time. Would I train by holding dumbbells isometrically (farmer's walk)? Or would I train by doing isotonic exercises such as shoulder shrugs and bicep curls? 

By walking on an incline, your knees bend more and as a result, your quads can be used to extend the knee back to the straight position. The greater stretch on your glutes allows them to generate more power to thrust the leg backward. The more acute angle of your foot will help exercise ranges of the calves which you aren't used to in daily walking. 

Alcohol is almost as calorie dense as fat. You will have to exercise harder to burn those calories when drinking alcohol than when eating the same amount of protein or carbs. But it's nearly impossible to exercise after drinking because alcohol impairs motor skills. So undeniably, alcohol will be stored as body fat. Most alcoholic drinks are just empty calories. They lack any substantial vitamins and minerals. Take a look at the nutritional facts for hard alcohol. It's zeroes across the board. So drinks have no beneficial side effects for your diet. The bottom line is alcohol will not help you lose fat. It will only get you fatter. 

To find the perfect sleep schedule for bodybuilding, I think we should look at the top professional bodybuilders. 4 time Mr. Olympia Jay Cutler said in a Q&A session that he gets 8-9 hours of sleep in the off-season, but only 4 hours while preparing for a contest. I have two questions about this style of bodybuilding sleep schedule: 

The bodybuilders of today would give a different formula than Steve Reeves. They would lean towards a much heavier ideal weight because that's the current trend. The best thing you can do is to look at who you want to look like and follow their formula. Maybe it's Steve Reeves, maybe it's not. And if they don't have a published forumula, look at their current weight and height, then make estimated adjustments for your height. 

Testosterone production peaks in your 30s and steadily declines thereafter. Since testosterone is the most important hormone for muscle growth, you will need to put more effort into your workout to see the same gains. I have not heard anything about the actual muscle tissue fundamentally change as you age. 

When doing push exercises, such as the bench press and military press, what is should the angle of the wrist be to prevent injury? Should the wrist be straight or should it be bent like the following image? 

Background of HIIT High intensity interval training (HIIT) is generally performed by sprinting close to maximum capacity followed by rest. The process is repeated several times. Proponents of HIIT say that it burns more fat than steady state cardio, because the resting metabolic rate is increased after a session of HIIT, which leads to burning additional calories even after the HIIT session. Question The procedure of HIIT sounds quite similar to weightlifting. If you just replace sprinting with lifting weights, all the other steps are the same. Performing a weightlifting set to failure is also considered pushing oneself to maximum capacity. People also rest in between sets. This makes me wonder why articles on HIIT always suggest sprinting and never even mention that weightlifting as a form of HIIT. Well, is it? Can weightlifting also give you the same increased RMR as well as traditional sprinting HIIT? 

Let's say a bodybuilder has been lifting heavy in the 8-12 rep range, eating a high protein diet, and so has attained substantial muscle mass. Now the bodybuilder would like to just maintain the same muscle mass. How should the exercises and diet change from the previous bulking mode to this new maintenance mode? 

To summarize, Dorian says machines are better if need to work around an injury or need to do advanced techniques like forced negatives. On the other hand, free weights feel more natural and work for any body type. From personal experience, I feel the same about Dorian on the natural feel of free weights. When using bench press machines, I often find my wrists contorted into awkward positions at the peak of the movement. Arnold Scwarzenegger 7 time Mr. Olympia in his Encyclopedia of Bodybuilding 

It is advised to have a distinct bulking phase and cutting phase. Don't try to do both at the same time. I've asked on other bodybuilding forums such as simplyshredded.com and everyone agrees on this principle. The only way to gain muscle and lose fat at the same time is to walk the fine line near your caloric equilibrium. This fine line is where the calories burned from fat is equal to the calories from protein needed to supply muscle growth. Since humans don't have a calorie meter like a water pump, it's extremely difficult to maintain equilibrium. It would be much easier to eat a lot and go well above the equilibrium in a bulking phase or eat less and go well below the equilibrium in a cutting phase.