As a new graduate, it would look very bad to possible employers to stay at your first job for less than a year. Stick with it. No place is perfect and all of the problems you described are in your own attitude. You need to learn to adjust to the real world and you don't do that by running away if everything doesn't suit you. Everything will not suit you at every job. All of them have their minuses. If you do a good job, the company you are contracting for will likely come around. Right now at one month in, you are a liabilty not an asset. So stop being a liability and learn to be an asset. That is part of what your first job is for - learning how to successfully navigate the workplace. 

Unfortunately, nasty co-workers are present at many employers. You will run into this repeatedly through your career. I agree that if the job is making you this unhappy, you should look for a better one, but while you are looking (and after you leave this place), you need to work on your own ability to deal with people because the next place might have someone as bad or worse. Since you have decided to leave, you have more luxury to experiment with different ways to handle this than if you were planning to stay. So this time until you leave is a gift, it will help you become better prepared to face any workplace problems. First thing is to realize that unless you are manager (and thus have power over the person's continued employment), you are going to be unlikely to change this person's behavior significantly. So stop wasting energy on trying to change that person. The only behavior you can control in this situation is your own. You do have control over your own reactions to the behavior even if it doesn't seem like it at the time. Bullies thrive on hurting people who won't fight back. The more you show that you are hurt, the more they will bully you. So the first order of business is to work on that reaction of wanting to cry. Whatever you do, do not cry in front of this person. If you absolutely have to cry, do what many of us have done in similar situations, go to the rest room and close the stall door and cry in private. Part of why his actions make you want to cry is that you believe what he is saying is true (often it is not with bullies). And you feel insecure. When you come at him from a place where you feel confident, much of what he says becomes just noise and you can ignore it. This is one reason why older workers tend to be less bothered by such actions, we have learned that getting upset makes the situation worse and that the person is clearly an idiot and no one else cares what he says. You say you are one of those people who can't defend herself verbally. This is an excuse not reality. Yes it is difficult, but you can learn to defend yourself verbally and it is better done sooner rather than later. It takes wanting to learn the skill, doing some research in how to get the skill and practicing. You say you are clinically depressed, so if you are seeing a therapist, he or she should be able to help you with the techniques to do this or refer you to a behavioral therapist who can. Being able to defend yourself is a necessary skill, you need to set a priority on getting it. If you don't want to consult a therapist, there are lots of books on the subject, start reading them. I particularly like the books of Suzette Haden Elgin. Another useful skill is acting. Find someone whose behavior is self confident. Then figure out exactly how they stand and what they say in response to negative feedback. At home, practice behaving as that person does. Get friends and/or your spouse to help by playing the part of the bully. When you start to feel as if you can do that, then start acting like that person at work. There is a saying, "Fake it till you make it." You need to do this until you genuinely have the self-confidence you need. If you have trouble with this, take an acting class. When you feel pressured to give an answer in front of him and you want to make sure it is right but feel stressed, take a few deep breaths before you start to talk. You will be amazed at how much better your brain works when it has oxygen. If you know you are going into a meeting where you will be questioned about your part of a project, write down what points you want to make. Then you will make fewer mistakes. Many people who are successful have had to deal with people like this early in their careers. They chose to stop thinking of themselves as a victim and chose instead to use that energy towards proving the bully wrong about them. So don't just be Ok at your job, don't just be good. Decide to become the best at your job that anyone has ever seen. Then go out and do just that. Maybe this person will be doing you a favor by making you so determined to show him that you do what you need to do to be wildly successful. This is likely to be an ongoing issue for you. You need to start working on fixing it, but there no quick fixes to the lack of self-confidence that allows people to successfully bully you. You goal is to be better at it with each successive job until the problem isn't there anymore. Learn to measure your progress by celebrating small successes not measure yourself all the time against the overall goal. Looking at what you accomplished is more satisfying that berating yourself because you have so far to go. I know this sounds daunting. I know because I had to do it too and frankly it was daunting and it took years. People who know me now would be shocked to meet my 23 year old self. I hid from my boss because he made me nervous, I spent hours in the ladies room crying and I couldn't even look anyone in the face. I was told that I needed to toughen up. I was told that my technical skills were good but I would get nowhere unless I learned to cope with criticism and learn to look at the world more confidently. I was even told that I was only hired in my first two jobs because they needed a person immediately and had no other qualified candidates. I am not like that at all anymore and that shoudl give you some hope that it is possible for you to overcome this issue. 

Legally you can talk about salary. As a practical point is is usually not in your best interests to do so if the company discourages it. If you want to try to change the policy to be more transparent, you will need to build a business case for why the change is needed. It is highly unlikely that you could do this as a new employee unless you are the CEO or Head of HR. If you feel strongly about this and want to do so after you have some credibility in the the organization, then you need to develop not only a business case, but you need to develop political capital in the organization and work to get allies so that when you make the presentation, you know that you have supporters. Be aware though that in a company where salaries are not currently transparent, it is a very hard sell because there is close to a 100% chance that they are drastically underpaying some people and possibly people of a particular category such as women or minorities who could win a class action suit if this information were to come to light. If this issue is so important to you, I would suggest that you reduce your own employability by only looking at places where salary can be openly discussed. Government positions tend to have published salaries (of course they are often lower than what a person can negotiate in private industry). The chances of driving change in this area are fairly low, so go where the policy is already in effect. 

The hiring managers for each position make choices based on their own criteria and needs. What made you not get offered the internship may only be something that particular manager was not interested in, but it just might be the thing that makes a differnt manager interested. I would doubt that anyone will even notice you applied for and got rejected for an internship unless you did something so massively stupid that people still remember it (I am talking about things like showing up to the interview drunk out of your mind and naked type things, not misanswering a few questions). You are not the same person who applied for the internship. YOu now have work experience from your current internship, you have new skills hopefully or more depth in the skills you had then. This is true even with experienced employees. JUst because you weren't right for job a 2 years ago may not say anything about your qualificatiosn for job B today. Again, the only times I know of perople automatically being excluded based on a past interview were when they behaved inappropraitely. That doesn't mean you will get an interview, just that they are likely to judge you using the criteria they are using for everyone. Don't bother to ask HR for feeback on your old interview. They are more than likely not allowed to give it to you and asking will make them more likely to notice you negatively. 

The basics are analyse your audience and write to the level of information they expect. You may need two communications one for the technical crowd who will expect more detail and one for the nontechnical crowd who just need to know what they need to use the software and don;t care about the detail. Format etc, are generally based on company culture. Some places would use emails, some might use Wikis or SharePoint, etc. Some might want it informal, some might have a style guide for exactly what sections you need to have and how they should be named and numbered. If is this a rollout, I would expect an attachment that is a quickstart guide, a link to a more extensive user manual, who to contact for help and any logon requirements they might have and a link to the URL of the site they will be using. I would also expect the schedule of the rollout. Further, you might describe some of what the software does and how it is an improvement over what they are doing already. 

The strategy I would suggest is to get a lawyer. Now. If he has moved from asking her out to negative comments on her performance, he is likely trying to build a case for dismissal. You need a lawyer ASAP. You could also, in the US, talk to the EEOC and see what advice they give you. Thanks for the addition @closetnoc. 

You could ask for a salary review at six months as part of your initial contract. Be aware though that pay raises after joining a company are often much smaller that what they would pay a new person from outside the company with similar levels of experience. Expect that the raise in six months might not be more than 2-3% range. To get to your targeted salary, you may need to leave after you gain some good experience. Yes, even if they are paying others that much at that company. So when you start low at a company, you tend to remain in the lower salaries for the rest of the time you spent there and possibly for a good part of your career. I realize you need a job, but low-balling your starting salary is a tactic that tends to harm you in the long run.