I think it kinda depends on what type of ride you are going for. Generally, breathing from mouth provides more amount of oxygen compared to from nose. So it comes down to this IMO (& Experience): 

What kind of ride would be best? Mountain Biking, Commuting may be.. What kind of routine would give the best result? 2 Hrs Uphill, over 10 km may be.. What time is most suitable to go for such ride? What should the diet consists? What are the re-hydration choices during/after the ride? How to control the fatigue level to control the stress level? How to make it a more enjoyable experience? I don't want to push him so much that he decides to run, on day 2 What kind of bike is the best choices? How expensive should he go? Focus on quality products or get something to get the job done 

So, breath depending on how you are riding. If you are sprinting you will want to get as more oxygen as you can into the lungs, but if you are going on a casual ride, breathing from nose is enough and safe (from bugs etc). 

Its really not sure, both way have their own disadvantages. I will say never park your bike anywhere, where there is a chance of you losing its sight, whether busy or quite place. When you have to be permanently out for several hours, then 

MTB's cranks usually have a 42 or 44T where as Road bikes range up to 53T. So far I am under a impression that more tooth, means more speed. Same goes for cassettes, lesser the tooth more the speed. But, nothing is as it seems, I want to know what are bad things I expect when I take this move? Is it that bad, that it would be simply better to forget about it and move on? My main intention is to create a super fast MTB, where possible. 

Sharing my point of view. I am pretty much an aggressive rider anywhere: commute, uphill, downhill and tours. Drivers in my nation have a lot of pride on what they drive and think cycling is one of low classed activities (applies to all type of people). So I hardly receive a co-operative response anywhere on the road. As sad as it may sound, it always depends on me to maneuver to safety. Here is what I do to overtake the vehicle. 

On about 15 km on the Uphill, I couldn't do it any more, took a bus, and came home. I eventually was overdoing on the downhill and on some sprints. I am not sure how to put up this question, but How to cycle, when heading for a ride I mentioned above? 

To Improve you needed to know yourself. Planning: Next important topic is planning. You need to find out what you need to do? How do you want to improve? Do you want to increase your timing? your speed? your stamina? your endurance? What is it that you want to improve and on what order, make a schedule best fit for you. Target: After you have a plan and you know your target, start working on it. Create drills, make workout sets on how you want to perform. For example: "Speed", lets say you want to improve speed. Then create a check point, set the count down timer for 5 minutes, then start cycling. After you hit 5 minutes.. stop mark the spot, go back again. And do it again from the same checkpoint and keep on doing until you go further than the last point. 

Try sprinting with foot back at the pedal. Is it possible? I hardly think so. I think this depends on type of ride, and what's the riders style. For racers, mountain bikers, who have to shift their riding position depending on the approaching terrain, there cannot rely on hard and fast rule to where to position, unless its clipped. The position can(and should) vary. For a road cyclists who is sprinting, it will be a worst nightmare if he thinks he can sprint with foot far back at cleat. For a downhill, placing your feet at the back will help you shift you weight towards back, may be helpful at some slopes. 

While loading on cycle, it will increase the weight of the bike, thus affect a lot of things, like speed, traction, more reactive on corners. Like while using pannier bags.. it will increase rear weight, making it difficult on uphill. Also while loading on backpack, it will tire you down fast if its a big load, decreases your flexibility, agility & etc. So what is right way to do it? Update: The type of ride I generally, go to are commuting, mountain biking, & trailing. And the items I generally carry are 

Analysis: Before trying to improve anything, First find out what you are capable of. Find out your strength, your weaknesses. For example: 

At my city, I park around a firm thing. Whether poles, or railing, to increase the difficulty (but its not allowed everywhere, so not so helpful). 

I have been commuting for the last 8 years. On my starting days, I did notice some differences among the first day of the week and last. But, this happens till your body adjusts to the cycling rhythm. From then you only have to maintain your diet and rest well then, you will be able to recover full on the next day. Give your body some time to adjust to the routine. Find out the correct diet plan and rest time it needs to recover full, then just maintain that and cycle regularly. 

Thats it!!! Best suspension is now with you, the one which you can fully customize and control. I am not saying suspension is not needed. Having ridden no-suspension, front-suspension and full-suspension bikes I can definitely say that suspension is definitely a very effective addition to your bike, but there cannot ever be a best suspension on any ride I think. A good suspension with good technology will perform better, but if you know how to use it properly. 

Ok, as an addition to all the answers. There is a possibility of the puncture being too tiny. And cannot be found easily, through submerging techniques or any other. On that case, only one last thing remains, inflate the tire at least 150% or double it up, if it is resistive. And then submerge it in the water. You will surely find the puncture. This sort of puncture occurs in old tires or bad quality tire. And this method should only be applied as last option. 

Water bottle(x2), Laptop (17"), books, copies, repair kits, hand pump, few other accessories. Water bottle(x2), repair kits, extra tubes, hand pumps, candybars & few other accessories 

P.S. The title sounds a little off & so are the tags. You guys are welcome to tweak it to make it more expressive 

I also commute 20 miles in a day. I have ran into your problem more than once. However I have a small trick to stay on safe side. I have a back bag, which has separate pockets for water bottle on two sides. I have two bottles, One I always keep on the bag, and never take it off unless I am refilling my actual water bottle. Another I keep at the bike. Whenever I get off the bike, i put that bottle on my bag, and when i am riding again, i put in back on the bike. This way, even if forget about the bottle, it will remain in my backpack, which I hardly forget. In case I forget to refill, I will have a extra bottle, from which I can refill the bike. Or in the worst case, if i left/lost my bike's bottle somewhere I already have a bottle at my bag, which can handle the rest.