You can try a search on the Virtual Language Observatory. Enter "korean" and "corpus" in the General search slit and search (600+ results) and then use the facets on the right hand side of the site to restrict language (to Korean) and resource type (to Corpus, Dataset, or Collection). You will find both spoken and written corpora. 

I doubt that this can be fully automated; you will always have to sift through your texts and decide whether they are meeting your criteria for topicality. You can try to scrape specialised sources (journals or websites only featuring the topic of your interest), but than you run into problems with intellectual property rights: You cannot share your corpus for reproducible research or some kind of contest without the consent of the rights' holders. 

I think it is unreasonable to expect to find a ready-made list of that kind. Just take a generic n-gram list and use some filters (e.g. to get consonant-only patterns) to extract the n-grams of interest. The letter may be a tricky case due to its dual nature, and you may even argue about the letter in words like motion or the in words like sigh. 

Phonemic and phonetic transcriptions are created with different purposes in mind. Phonemic transcriptions are often kind of a proto-orthography for spoken languages, and they are used to describe languages (in example sentences or grammars) that lack a proper orthography. Phonetic transcriptions are often used by dialectologists to describe how the sounds of dialects differ in space and time. Sub-phonemic sound shifts are a typical research topic in this area. 

I cannot give an exact number of correlation, but the correlation between genetic relationship and typological features is strong enough to be annoying when one tries to construct an unbiased sample of the languages of the world. Picking just languages at random is not a good idea because a few very large language families (Austronesian, Niger-Kongo and Indo-Germanic) contribute a large bulk of related languages. It is fruitful to include genetic relations between languages in typological studies, as demonstrated by Levinson, S., Greenhill, S., Gray, R., Dunn, M. (2011). Universal typological dependencies should be detectable in the history of language families. Linguistic Typology, 15(2): 509-534 

I have finally found an example meeting the rather strong criteria of the question: mine In older stages of English, mine was a form of my to be used when the following word starts with a vowel (similar to the situation of a/an in modern English). It has now developed to my. It has (at least) two homophones and homographs, the word mine in phrases like "this is mine" and the word mine related to mining. 

More traditionally oriented grammars call this subsystem Indefinite pronouns. Restricting the pronouns to words that really replace nouns (taking pro-noun literally) and reclassifying the rest of the old pronouns as determiners, adjectives, adverbs and particles is a rather recent innovation. EDIT: I found two more terms: In a (hardly citable, but once you have the term you can track it down) Lateinische Schulgrammatik I found the term pronomina corelata for the pronomial part (including adjectives) of the system you describe. Even better is the next one, it describes the full system. In Esperanto, thoses word are called tabelvortoj (table words). 

What software is concerned: You need to create a font for your conscript, e.g. with METAFONT, and use some typesetter, e.g., TeX or LaTeX, to produce some texts on the computer. 

No. There are many sign languages that are mutually incomprehensible. It can even occur that the sign languages of countries with the same official language (e.g., English or Spanish) are mutually incomprehensible. This is the case for American Sign Language and British Sign Language. 

I recommend the tipa package, a general package for typesetting phonetic transcriptions. It has all the stuff you need including the multiple accents. It works with all flavours of LaTeX. In addition, it comes with a really excellent documentation. 

When reading and writing is taught at German schools, the diphthongs are learned as single units. They are named like the vowel letters A E I O U Ä Ö Ü: Their pronounced sound is identical to the name for AU, EI, and EU. The variants AI, ÄU, AY, and EY are named by spelling them out: A-I, Ä-U, A-Ypsilon, and E-Ypsilon. An older and now obsolete convention used names like *weiches ei" (EI) vs. "hartes ei" (AI) and "fremdes weiches ei" (EY) or "fremdes hartes ei" (AY). Don't expect that the people in Germany now will understand the distinction "hartes" vs. "weiches" ei correctly any longer. They will think of eggs and just wonder. 

It is a bit difficult to talk about "phonetic symbols in total languages". What is sensible (and well researched) are the phonemic inventories of the languages all across the world, the results of this research are nicely summarised in the first chapters of WALS survey. I doubt that it is even possible to construct a kind of phoneme inventory of all languages of the world by accounting to all possible contrasts made in at least one language. Some the the so-constructed phonemes would be just undistinguishable to any listener and the set would be too large—I am thinking of the special way a ventriloquist or Bauchredner speaks. 

The question of word order AN vs. NA is a well researched topic in typology. The result may surprise you: English is in the minority position of being an AN language, NA languages are far more frequent. According to the WALS survey the proportion AN:NA = 878:373 (with 110 cases of no dominant order and 5 cases of no adjectives modifying nouns at all). 

In an inline (choosen with slashTags) format, the tag is necessary to denote everything that is not a named entity. You may find this superfluous on first sight, but when there are more layers of tagging, zero tags become essential for the interpretation of the corpus. P.S. Here is a link to a Stanford NER tutorial. 

Well, the Dacians spoke a language called Dacian. Unfortunately, there is almost nothing we really know about their language, there are no surviving inscriptions or other texts. Essentially all we have are some toponyms and personal names, and a list of about five dozen plant names (see, e.g., $URL$ With this small amount of evidence, it is hard to make any sound claims about the Dacian language. It was probably Indo-European, and it is speculatively grouped with the (similarly ill-documented) Thrakian language into a now extinct branch of Indo-European. Thrakian is the language the Wlachs spoke before adopting Latin/Romanian. 

There is some sound symbolism in the German language (e.g., small bells make "ding", large bells "dong"; little clocks make "tick" and larger ones "tack") but this is not used systematically. 

If you can afford the extra work, use as many of the lists as possible, of course using explicit tags declaring from which set the code is taken, e.g., 

The most important message is that about one dozen parts of speech seem to be sufficient for part-of-speech (POS) tagging. Additional markers often include things not classically regarded as parts of speech, such as punctuation, symbols (e.g., for Twitter corpora!) and a "residual" container class for everything else. There is some disagreement about the content of some classes: Traditionally, pronouns include pronomial adverbs and adjectives. A modern school takes the pronomial adjectives out of the pronoun class and names them determiners (and often, the classical articles are put there, too) and classifies the pronomial adverbs (e.g., "how") just as adverbs. There are several attempts to unify POS over languages, and here are some them: EAGLES: $URL$ EAGLES Recommendations for the morphosyntactic annotation of corpora, ''Obligatory attributes/values, Major Categories'', §4.2.1 on page 7 STTS/HW: $URL$ Guidelines für das Tagging deutscher Textcorpora mit STTS (Kleines und großes Tagset), ''Hauptwortarten'', Tabelle 2.1 on page 4 TANL: $URL$ Tanl Coarse Grained Tags UD-17: $URL$ Universal Dependencies UP-12: $URL$ Universal POS 2nd paragraph in the right hand column of page 2 The summary table below shows the tags drawn from the tag sets quoted above (in their original spelling). 

For a language with a large speaker base, Arabic has the dual. You can easily find more examples here: $URL$ 

Contrary to the expectations of some commentators, doctor-patient corpora are available (under some conditions, needing to sign some licence and confidentially agreement) for research. The standard entry point for a search for such corpora is the CLARIN Virtual Language Observatory and entring in the search slit gives currently twelve results. Here is a bookmarked query 

Considering manual annotation, there is WebAnno, a very flexible annotation tool that allows you to define your own annotation layers. It has a web user interface and allows for collaborative annotation. 

I think the answer for language retention is Religion. The francophone settlers of Quebec were Roman Catholics, but the later anglophone rulers were Anglicans. So they were separated by a religious barrier keeping the two communities apart from each other and hindering assimilation. A similar effect can be observed in the Palatinate dialect island in the Low Rhine Region (link in German). Here protestant settler in a Roman Catholic region kept their different dialect. Whether the language is still the same as in its motherland is actually a question of definition: Canadian French has significant differences to "Hexagonal" French, but they count as the same language, the same holds for Brazilian and Portuguese. And it is a matter of definition to call Afrikaans a language and not a dialect of Dutch. Only for Maltese the time of separate development (cut off from Arabic) is much longer such that it is fully differentiated from its parent language. 

Note that there are languages that do not have the contrast voiced/voiceless for stops. When you write such a language you can choose b or p for the bilabial stop without making any assumption on its (irrelevant for that language) voicedness. This happens, e.g., for many Australian languages (cf. $URL$ ) 

The Bavarian Archive for Speech Signals, a CLARIN-D centre, has lots of corpora containing the acustic signal, phonetic transcription (in SAMPA), and orthographic transcription (that's what you call lexicalic in your question). Here is a list of the available resources. 

Yes, there are. Most famous is of course the Chinese script with several thousand characters. For Unicode purposes, Korean also has a lot of characters, because Unicode encodes Korean syllables as one character (and not just the hangul alphabet). Even the Latin script has surpassed the limit of 127 characters because there are many accented letters (like ä, é, ô, etc.) encoded as single characters, not to mention all those odd additions to the Latin alphabet used for languages where the usual character set wasn't sufficient (e.g. Icelandic Edh and Thorn). 

There are whistled languages, e.g., El Silbo whistled on Gomera. I see no problems in general, to extend that concept to languages created by some musical instruments. Perception is of course a problem, specially when different species are involved (with different frequency ranges they can hear, with different features they can identify (consider Absolute pitch, an ability that is rare among adult humans)), so any design of such a language needs to be "tuned" towards the specific abilities of the involved species. 

I won't say that a voiced dental fricative is "so rare". With a frequency of 4.88% in the UPSID sample (see $URL$ for a nice interface to the UPSID data) it is neither particularly frequent nor particularly rare. There are of course patterns in the sound systems of the languages of the world, many of them under heated debate. There is some agreement on the vowel systems that the vowels tend to take maximal distance in the vowel space (so a three vowel system comes out as /a/, /i/, /u/ and not, say /e/, /ə/, /o/). For consonants, things are much more difficult (e.g, there is no such thing as an easy-to-picture consonant space). BTW, in the UPSID sample, the vowels /i/ and /a/ are more frequent than /u/. 

Just a quick test using Wortschatz at Leipzig University Some examples from German language mehr "more" vs. weniger "less"; größer "bigger" vs. kleiner "smaller" 

It can also be a contamination from the biblical name Zebadiah. Zebadiah mixed up with Jedediah gives Jebediah. P.S. (This is an answer to the question in comment: Is it a joke?) It is partly an elaborated joke indeed. The name Jebediah was popularised by the TV show Simpsons. But Jebediah Smith (as founder of Springfield) is an anachronism. The name is in use in the USA, as the SSA data show, since 1973. This trend was caused by the figure Jebediah Nightlinger in the film The Cowboys (1972) 

Yes there are. Using WALS with a combined view of "Order of Subject, Object and Verb" with "Number of Cases" gives 10 VSO languages without case marking, including Welsh, Chamorro, and Tagalog. Malagasy is VOS without case marking. There are alos some verb-final languages without case marking. 

According to this article (popular science, but quoting Mark Dingemanse of Max-Planck-Institut für Psycholinguistik in Nijmegen), there is one such word given in German orthography as hä? (English huh?) meaning "I don't understand you". EDIT: Here is a link to the original work (thanks to ba for the hint!) 

Meta-answer: How did I find those doubly annotated treebanks? I visitied the CLARIN Virtual Language Observatory and entered the following words in the search slit: 

Words like um are called fillers in linguistics, and there is ongoing research on the use of fillers based on spoken corpora. 

There is a lot of terminology floating around that. First, the basics: There are word forms occurring in real life. A word form belongs to a lemma that is a canonical word form relating to some other forms (e.g., for the lemma "have" there are the word forms "have", "having", "has", and "had"). Then, there is a stem that is generated off a word form by cutting some affixes. All those terms relate to basic morphology (there is not a lot of it left in English, other languages have a much richer morphology). Note that one lemma can have several (more or less obviously) related stems, like Latin scribere, scribo, scripsi, scriptum exhibiting three stems (present, perfect, and supine stem). Morphemes come into play when you consider semantics. Derivational morphology and composition are means of creating word forms (and even stems) containing more than one morpheme. A word form containing only one morpheme is called monomorphemic. With two morphemes, it is dimorphemic and so on. As an opposite of monomorphemic, the term polymorphemic can be used. You can also put your focus on word formation, than you find that a word is suffixed (only rarely suffigated, has a suffix attached), prefixed (with a prefix), infixed (with an infix), or just affixed (with an unspecified affix).