Run for 2-3 hours. If your not running with a straight posture you'll get a sore neck or back. The long time allows you to focus on staying straight like. The movement allows you to program this posture into your frame of mind more. I have a posture problem that I ignore and the longer I got without running the worst it gets. I knew its not as bad when Im running and now know it since I got a comment like "Wow you really stand straight when your running". Reading and working on a computer seems to undo the good posture I get from running. Hope that helps. 

Does the impact of temperature on running performance increase with distance? This would mean something like for a 5k maybe a decrease of 3% in avg pace but for a half marathon a decrease of 8% avg pace. These numbers are just random values to try and make the question clear. Also Im asking in respect to the hot side of the ideal 50-60F running temps. 

Is your HRmax when biking different then for running, or can you train to raise the HR you can achieve when biking to comparable levels? I think your absolute HRmax - the point when you faint - is different than the HRmax achievable by just running, so maybe its different for different activities? 

Many different possibilities. Cross train to build up your overall athletic ability since sprinting seems from my view relies on your whole body and it will allow your muscles a break from training while still improving your cardio or other strength. Run intervals and run further to improve speed and your base. Train in different locations so that you are not training to stop at the finish line which may mean your slowing down before you cross it. Use Endomondo or something similar to track your speeds so that you can focus on effort in place of time, distance, results while your running. For sprinting I've had some help with my form by running down hill but do this at your own risk. Look at your cadence and stride and how they compare to professionals. One way to run faster for longer distances is by focusing on a faster cadence and shorter steps because it is easier to lengthen your stride then to increase your cadence. Thats my sum knowledge on that and I hope it helps :) 

Treat squats like a sprint workout. Take 1-2 easy days afterwards on your legs. This means any runs should be only 30 minutes at an easy pace. Even if your not too sore the next day take that day easy by running no more than 1 hour at an easy pace. 

Even paces for marathons seem to be the norm, but seem to require very intense efforts near the finish. For example Greg McMillan recommends a fast finish long run to be done with an additional increased effort over the last few miles as a test to see if it is possible or more likely to meet the goal marathon pace. As someone who is trying to maximize their time without worrying about sprinting past others at the end then why not run at a constant effort where your pace will drop over time instead of your effort increasing over time? 

After a marathon or any race many people, I cant think of a solid reference - maybe Greg McMillan, suggest to do a reverse taper. Using McMillan's it would be 50% of normal (20 miles) for following week, 75% of normal for the next (30 miles), 80-90% for the third week, and back to normal from there. Alternatively, Hal Higdon relates a saying from some other famous runner (Prefontaine?) who says take one day off for every mile raced. So kick back and relax :) or do some cross training. I like to jog the soreness off over 1-2 weeks. I like to think that this easy work out is helping me to recover and push my body to replace the muscle and add a little. 

For me, effort is the best "pace" with easy quick cadence upto 12-15 miles, medium effort upto ~22 miles, and then hard effort (with ape-like curled lips). In general it is definitely dependent on your fitness, attitude, and the race atmosphere. This answer is opinion but McMillian does state in YOU (only faster) that their predictions depend on proper fitness. I think this may be true in general for the other methods If you are well trained or a veteran marathoner then all those methods mentioned will work for you. The main difference from my point of view is that you chose one that will impact your training the least, and this I think is one reason for Yasso 800 being so popular (plus it easily to push hard for a shorter amount of time). I dont like any of these predictors much because I'm not well trained for a marathon distance, and every attempt to meet those times is a nightmare for a marathon compared to a half marathon when I can meet the McMillian calculator prediction. 

If you use a calculator like McMillan.com then you'll see what you should be able to do - equivalent efforts - for different distances like going from 400m in 60 seconds to 1600m in 4:40. I think the reason for the difference that you or the person your talking about is that the 400m run is being done more as a sprint than the 1600m run which cannot be done as a sprint. Perhaps the problem is exaggerated by trying to sprint a lap or two in the 1600m run which can typically be sustained only about 45-60 seconds. Some proof of this can be found in the McMillan calculator where the sprint time for a 400m sprint is a good bit faster than the 400m speed pace. 

Say your training in the same conditions as a recent race, you have completely recovered from the race, and the distance is a half marathon or less. What pace should you train at when running the same distance as your goal race distance? So a 19:30 5k race would mean what training time for a 5k distance in order to improve race time. 

Google says the flight time achieved while running is the largest difference between athletes and us commoners, so I'd like to focus on these muscles alittle. What muscles do we use to launch off the ground? 

Easy running will give you cardio and hard running will give you speed. If you are just starting out perhaps running 5x 5 minutes are better at this point. After building up your cardio do both. Run easy the day after running hard. Alternatively run an easy five then a hard five for a good 10k. Besides running easy on sore legs is hard. Variety is very important in a running plan, so sticking to one workout is not good. Think in terms of weeks and months including hard weeks and easy weeks. Never run hard too much and always ensure your rested and recovered before running hard again. Thats the key. 

Two ways, but first figure out what the dizziness feeling is or at least make sure your training with someone else who knows they need to keep an eye on you. I cant think of a time I was dizzy after stopping fast, so that would scare me. So you know, to compare, my heart rate doesn't drop too fast after a certain point. After training at 160 bpm it will drop to 130 quickly then 110 after 30-60 seconds maybe then down lower over the next 5-10 minutes. My resting heart rate is 45 bpm which is different from most people in the same shape that I am in. One you should incorporate some high intensity workouts in your routine. Sprint for 10-20 minutes at a time. Go all out for 5-10 minutes. I do this for running so swimming may have a little difference in the timing. Two you need to find out what low intensity means. You can do this by using heart rate monitors and defining what each zone means. For example, when your entering the aerobic zone this means that your breathing rate is just starting to be more than normal. See the chart here for more reliable information. Another way to do this is by running with someone to help them start out running which will force you to their slower pace, force your self to slow down using a watch, or take very short and slow strides to do a lazy jog. 

This is half an answer, but should help. Drink water when eating gels (usually has caffeine I believe) during a race, and dont drink Gatorade. Alternatively, drink Gatorade when not using gels but still drink water. For any sugar or carbohydrates eaten you need water to help digest it and use it, so people usually talk about finding a balance. From my experience, I try not to drink/eat too much during a race. For a 5k or 10k I would not eat anything during the race, and I think this is the common view for anything less than 90 minutes. One or two bananas before a short race is good for me. The GU packets recommend one gel before the race then one every 45 minutes, so that also supports this view. See ultra running and race reports for example dealing with the stomach problem issue because it seems to happen often and can be overcome during a race. 

What workouts can you do to determine each threshold between your heart rate zones? For example a lactate threshold pace can be determined by running as fast as possible for 30 minutes at a even pace. Is there something similar for each heart rate threshold and what is it? Right now Im using 90 minute runs to determine any heart rate as being aerobic versus anaerobic, but I dont know how accurate this is nor feel that it is a very good measure. Really need something like this for knowing the threshold between aerobic and fat burning (or easy) zones. 

Steep being 12% grade or more, where is the longest steep run in the eastern United States? Or more broadly, where is the best place to train in the eastern US for races like the Hardrock 100 or Pikes Peak Marathon? In these races there are long stretches of +12% grade for 3, 4, 5 or more miles at a time. 

Thats normal for me and I think in general its true. Heart rate is really a measure of effort though limited and dependent on many internal and external factors. Note that HR shouldnt necessarily be constant throughout and some coaches (Greg McMillian) say that its normal for it to increase over the total distance and for older runners like myself its even normal to be at a higher %maxHR. See Greg McMillian's book "YOU (Only Faster)", Chapter 13: The Endurance Zone, under "Nerdy Note: The Science of Endurance Zone Training" first paragraph. For long runs at an easy effort I let myself run a little fast mainly just to establish a good easy effort. After 2-3 miles or about 20 minutes my heart rate stablizes and pace slows/stablizes but as the distance gets longer my pace will still drop slightly at the same HR & effort. Lately I have been trying to keep the same rhythm and pace near the end of a long easy run and even though it feels like Im pushing harder and harder to keep the same pace my heart rate only goes up slightly. Its kind of shocking because near the end I'll feel like Im running a faster run or a tempo pace. If you look at race prediction times (which tend to follow the curve of world records scaled to your most recent race time) then you'll see there is a large change in pace for shorter distance than longer ones. I think effort over distance is kind of proportional to this curve, and can be used to understand how effort changes over distance in a single run. 

An ultra-marathon, marathon, and ironman events all seem to be very dependent on being able to replenish your energy reserves. Biking seems to allow you to eat anything, but running is different. 

Jogging is running without effort or worrying about how fast you go. Running requires pushing slightly at the least while worrying about time. This question is for all the marathoners who transitioned to Ultras for the challenge. If training experience is needed lets say 50-100 miles/week and marathon capability is about 3 hours even. Thanks. 

Ive also been experiencing something like this at 800m and I suspect its because Im sprinting much of the 400m but not sprinting much in the 800m. Im starting to think its about running close to VO2 max pace instead of all out since VO2 max pace corresponds to a 8 minute race and going all out is only 1-2 min of race pace. 

To answer your question in the title. No, dont train at what you want to be able to run at. Do a mile, 12 minute, or 2 mile test run at your best then use this to base what your training should be. Look up Jeff Galloway's magic mile table or use McMillian's calculator to figure out what your goal distance time would be using the test run time. This time is what you should expect to do or better. During training never run more than 60% of your goal distance at this pace. 2-4 weeks out run no more than half of the distance at this pace several times to train at your this pace. Training at the proper paces will eventually bring you into range of achieving your goal ignoring things that are out of your control. McMillan has some suggested goal paces you can use and I just paraphrased what he says. 

One ex sprinter I talked to mentioned similar pain from running long distance. The doctor told them its common for sprinters to have problems adjusting to the different running form needed for long distance since sprinters paw or run on their toes alot. 

No, not from my experience, minimalist shoes don't force you into good form or improve fitness. In fact, since there is less protection on your feet you are more likely to injure your feet. If your not doing 5-10 hours a week running and running on soft trails - not gravel, stony trails, mountains, or pavement - then maybe you'll be fine. I'd like to know how your experience has been. Hopefully in full contradiction to my post your running strong and healthy. If you experienced any improvements then I believe it is more likely due to your attention of form due to your new footwear and maybe some additional running - and sprinting? A good training program will make you run better and faster, and with this comes proper form. I've discovered the importance of cadence and heart rate through training first and reading second. I think Im on the edge of getting the technique for a longer stride, but Im waiting out an injury. I've discovered several different forms of injury from wearing minimalist shoes, and now I'm leaning more to the opposite side of shoe wear and might buy the extra soft / maximum protection shoes. All the best to you :)