Why don't you have some sections on your resume, like "occupational experience" where you state company B, and later on something like "other activities / voluntary work" where you state company A, giving the time frames of the activities you performed. For someone doing an extensive background check this would seem as: 

This way you won't mix irrelevant activities into your professional resume while keeping company A on your resume. 

Should you not get any information on this person (even the information allowing you doing some research), be honest about it and ask them to tell something about themselves. You can do the same. 

I believe there is nothing wrong in asking "what do you mean by..." if the topic is really unclear. Also concluding their ideas by "if I understood you correctly, you mean..." or "just for my understanding, ...". To avoid fuss refrain from making statements like "I don't understand what you mean", rather ask open questions instead giving the other party the possibility to share their thoughts. In the beginning it may seem as it is you, who has problems with understanding your colleague, but as the times go, they will develop the ways of communication leading to the situation that you don't need to ask additional questions. Anyway, it is not something that will happen immediately, it will be a process. Have patience, act proactively. Good luck! 

I'm baffled by the number of people focussing on the amount of time that you spent with them and how that renders your point of view invalid. This is precisely the reality of an interview - you spend time with a candidate, you ask them questions and you make an assessment on the appropriateness of their fit in the company and in the role. This is particularly important in a small startup where the cultural impact of a new employee can be significant. I think that it's important for you to share your experiences with this candidate with the hiring team. I think you need to be up front and candid about how you came about the information and then I think you need to provide an objective assessment of what you observed. I think a lot of the answers here presume too much about why you concluded that this candidate's attitude to women is a problem. If you genuinely believe that you could objectively describe the conversations that you had and the evidence that they provided that lead you to your conclusions, then you should share them. In short: be honest, limit your feedback to that which you can objectively support and let the hiring committee decide. 

This is a good responsibility to take up and prove that you have managerial skills apart from technical ones. Just be careful not to rub people the wrong way, or to lose your technical skills in the process. 

Make full use of this. When you go looking for your next job - which maybe some time away - your title will matter. At the same time, don't get pushy with your new company. 

It does. Your job could get outsourced to a vendor. Your performance might not reach the right ears. Whatever. Also, while you should talk to your reporting manager about these issues, keep in mind that his primary role now will be to "hold the ship" together. So if he gives you a negative answer, you need to start looking out for another job immediately. Even if he gives a positive answer, you should check out market value, understand what roles are available, what are your best career prospects, etc. In conclusion, an acquistion is something where you always need to be careful, especially if you are in the company that has been acquired. 

etc. A friendly, helpful tone will avoid the impression of pestfulness. Also, it's a good way to demonstrate that you follow through on your assignments. 

Since this forum is about professional conduct in the workplace, I feel it's appropriate to comment on your language and perspective and how it would reflect upon you in the workplace. You repeatedly use language that is dismissive and subjective about another's work as if it were objective. You call your colleague's work 

You refer to your colleague's work as a "thesis", and that they don't deserve it. None of this represents a professional way to refer to a colleague's work. It's destructive criticism. It also completely fails to take into account that, according to an accredited certifying body (the university), your colleague satisfied the examiners that they deserved to be awarded a BSc. It would be quite arrogant for you to believe that you know better. You're basically asking how to get away with not congratulating someone on completing their degree. My answer is this: reassess the problem and treat your colleagues with respect and don't denigrate their work is such a callous way. 

There are many ways to approach such a situation. A lot of this depends on your personality. The general strategy I would employ would be give subtle, verbal and non-verbal signals that fighting is not appreciated among the team. This would include letting the people concerned know that it would impact their appraisal negatively -again hints rather than threats. You should be able to carry this off for it to not backfire. 

is just not possible. Now let's come to the difficult part. The most common reason to acquire another company include synergies between the two companies, the acquiree company is not being well-run, and there is potential for cost cutting. The synergy reason is the most compelling from a growth perspective, but is the most difficult to realize in practice due to culture clashes, knowledge silo, operating and legal issues, and a hundred other small things. The acquiree company not being well-run, and the cost-cutting are what get picked up in the short term. When a company is being set up they tend to acquire a lot of people who are needed to put the departments and processes in place. As they do their job, they get rewarded with C-level positions, and can't be asked to leave without causing culture and morale issues. With an acquisition, ALL positions will get looked with a fine-toothed comb, and a "strategic perspective". The top level management has the most difficulty in justifying its role, because they generally drive long term projects, and don't do hands-on work. Either way, if they are leaving, they have been asked to leave, or been given a hint. Either way, you need to be aware yourself of what is happening. 

If you've received no notification that the hiring manager has received your assessment, it's reasonable to follow up with a request for confirmation that they received it. If something got lost in transmission, it could look like you have failed to complete your end of the bargain. A quick email along the lines of: 

Start with the assumption that their offense is sincere and appropriate. By calling your own comments "non-offensive", you're assuming that their offense is either insincere or inappropriate. It's clear that their offense does not make sense to you. If something doesn't make sense to you, wouldn't it be logical to seek to understand it first, before dismissing it as ill-founded? It's clear that there are topics that do not seem problematic to you that do seem problematic to your colleague. A good step forward is to talk to them with a view to seeking to understand why they feel that way. I strongly recommend inviting them for tea/coffee/water/beer (as appropriate) with a view to just listen (to begin with). Explain that your sincere desire is not to upset them and that you've been unsuccessful in this. Ask if they'd be willing to help you understand the broader issues that are causing them concern and (and this is important) only listen. By all means, ask questions to further your understanding, but do not seek to "explain" or "justify". Perhaps, after listening, you'll see their point of view and agree. Perhaps, after listening, you'll still feel that they're having a chilling effect on the team. However, at least you'll understand and any conversation about making your workplace a comfortable place for all of the people will come from a place of mutual understanding and compassion. 

The first thing to understand is that you are in a good dilemma. Being made redundant, and having to be unemployed create stress on the mind. Hence, it was logical on your part to take the job offer. Note that had the first company valued you highly they could have made you an offer at market rate. I am guessing that the reason you were able to close a better offer so much faster is because the first offer was below market rate. Having said this, morally and legally you are not liable to continue with the company just because you have spent a week with them (I am presuming there is no contract that you have signed). You should politely, and professionally inform your reporting manager that you have another offer in hand and would like to leave. If at all, your manager wants to discuss (don't bring it up first), you should give him the chance to negotiate and counter offer. Companies behave like rational agents when making offers, because their stakes in it are often quite low. You need to focus on getting the best career and job that you can.