A large part of this falls down to planning as to where you build the fire in the first place. If you have got a natural water source nearby then build close to there which will give you an ample source of water to make sure the fire is doused. As an added measure, it also provides an easy source of water for putting out your fire if it starts to spread beyond where you intended. If not, then at least try to build your fire on a stony area away from foliage where the fire may spread more easily, or will have more material to spread out of control if it re-ignites. However, bear in mind these are just things that can help, they're not substitutes for properly ensuring a fire is dead before moving on. I'd feel comfortable smothering on stony ground and then waiting until things had cooled down, but at the end of the day if you haven't got the time to make sure a fire is properly put out and cooled down, you shouldn't have started one in the first place. In short, you just shouldn't move on before your fire is out and has cooled down, but there are steps you can take for that process to happen faster. 

There's no real hard and fast rule of course and some people's strategies may differ. The other thing to remember is that a lot of erosion is seasonal, and therefore not as bad as you might think - in summer for instance, paths tend to get eroded a lot, but in the less popular walking seasons they're often repaired and recover. 

It sounds obvious, but check that you haven't got anything like a sighting compass on you or anything else with a mirror - I once heard of someone who was rescued but the process was more difficult because of his lack of a mirror. Later investigation found he was carrying such a sighting compass the whole time! If you really haven't, then find the shiniest thing you do have that might reflect light - a glossy notebook, glasses, transparent base of a comapss, anything like that. It won't be as good but it'll be something at least. Of course the other option is to light a signal fire with lots of smoke if you can - burning damp foliage is the classic option here. 

I could find no authoritative source, but I would imagine taking a "few rocks" wouldn't cause a problem - unless you're taking it from a protected area or area of scientific interest of course. My reasoning is that I would imagine the situation is similar for UK beaches - technically taking stones, sand etc. is illegal but if your 5 year old son decides there's a couple of stones he likes and wants to take home, no-one is going to care one bit. Rock up with a couple of land rovers / trailers and fill them up with shingle, the situation will be very different! 

Through hikes are typically separated into "sections" between resupply points. Nobody carries all their food on them the entire time, and people exit the trail to hike out to a nearby town (or the town is on the trail) to purchase supplies, relax, do laundry, etc. In certain areas it may be necessary to ship yourself supplies because there are no general stores available to purchase food and gear. It is important to identify those sections and plan ahead. Some areas it might be possible to hike from town to town and sleep in hotels, other areas it might be necessary to hike a week or more in the wilderness. Europe is a fairly well developed place compared to the western american wilderness, It may well be possible to hike through without much issue by going town to town and maybe skipping sections by hitchhiking or public transit with the most difficult parts in the eastern rural areas, without being familiar with the trail I wouldn't know which sections would be the most wild and which the most urban, but I suspect the trail is most likely very similar to the Appalachian trail with historic foot transit paths interconnected with constructed wilderness trail sections. The easternmost section hits the balkan mountains and is probably your most difficult section Your average through hiker will typically do 15-30 miles ( 25-50KM) a day on flat terrain, dropping to 10-20 (20-40km) a day in mountainous terrain. When I hiked the signficantly shorter John Muir Trail, we were pushing 30-40 km a day with 1000-1500M of elevation gain every day, many of the longer distance through hikers did the same. Keep in mind that this doesn't include "zero" days or shorter days for recovery, which will drag your average down significantly. What limits you more than your vacation time is your weather window, you will likely not want to hike in winter, early spring, or late fall so your choice of route direction and time frame will be dictated by this. Making sure you pass your colder/taller areas in the summer to avoid winter mountaineering conditions 

Choices vary significantly on your hiking philosophy, The Ray Jardines out there will say that you need to go as light as possible, bringing only a poncho for rain protection (both sleeping and hiking) and a sweater as a ground cloth, hike in sandals, backpack over one shoulder, etc etc. the more old-school expeditioners will rely on heavier packs and gear to be ready for everything and just deal with the weight. The modern athletic through hiker brings state of the art light-weight everything to combine both for a cost. Essentially all you really need is a pack of some kind with food, and footwear. Depending on the conditions/terrain/country you may need or want to bring a tent, water purifier, stove+cooking equipment, navigation (gps/maps), snow/ice gear, entertainment. You may not need everything the entire time so your resupplies may require gear drops/pickups as well (for instance, early/late season PCT through hikers usually send themselves crampons and ice axes only when they get to the mountains, to avoid dragging the weight through the desert) 

Tent vs bivvy bag - different camping experience, protection from the elements, comfort and weight? What are the pros and cons of both? Is it even a valid comparison - e.g. is it viable to rely on multi-day camping if you only have a bivvy bag or on the contrary does it make it easier to find somewhere to sleep? 

I am looking to buy a rucksack. I want to move quickly and pack minimally on a week-10 day long trip so I"m tempted by packs around the 45-55L range. However, I want to get a pack that is also versatile and there will be times in the future where I will want to go for longer trips. Packs are expensive so I want to make sure that I buy one that covers what I want to do. What is the extra affordance of packs with greater capacity that round the 55L mark. In the 55L pack I am planning to fit Sleeping bag , Mat, Cotton shirt, Hiking trousers, socks, Underwear, Sunglasses, Suncream, Swim trunk, micro Towel, Sandals, Buff hat, Multi fuel, Mess tin, Utensils, Food, Water, Water carrier , Camelback / hydration pack, Bivvy bag , Camera , Backup battery , iPhone, iPhone rugged case, backup , walking poles, Solar charger , Backup battery: , Maps, Notebook?, GPS, batteries, Pens / pencils, Multi tool. 

I've got a tent with a hole in it. I've bought some ripstop waterproof nylon fabric. What glue will stick it on? 

I'm in the market for a backpack for fast paced multi-day hiking (away from food up to 1 week). I've tried some of the really big backpacks (65L) and found the padding bulky. I've tried some good ones around the 45-55L mark but I'm concerned about having space. There seems to be a cut off point where the newer backpack of the lowerage literage have less padding which offers a freer feeling. What kinds of other features exist on backpacks that are the most useful as there seem to be many. 

I'm going on a week long hike in Southern Spain. I envisage myself being away from civilisation max 3 days. What kind of food should I take at any one time? There are infrequent farm houses and outbuildings. A friend recommended dates, nuts, sultanas, carrot, cucumber, olives, salt, pepper for food? What do you think? 

I just bought a new sleeping bag online and it came in a large draw cord bag and there was also a small stuff sack in the package. What is the point of the large draw cord bag? 

Have a look at these solar charger options. Solar charger solio, power traveller, brown dog, snow lizard, Bushnell Bear Grylls SolarWrap Freeloader pro / freeloader, links $URL$ $URL$ In the end I went with an option by a company called Portapow and on Amazon they were doing a 11w solar panel and usb battery bundle for £80. Batteries by Anker also come with a good reputation and portapow also have an AA USB battery charger. 

A smart phone with a gps and maps app, and a solar panel to charge can replace a gps reciever, extra batteries, and a stack of maps. Many AT/PCT through hikers have this set up, when it rains they place the phone in a plastic bag and can still use the screen while keeping it dry. This can also double as your nightime entertainment (download movies/tv shows when in town) and emergency communication. Additionally, a spare phone is not more expensive than a new gps receiver, the extra batteries, and map software for it 

Boiling eliminates only a certain class of contaminants that can make you ill. Specifically living bacteria and other microorganisms (protozoa, amoeba). It does not purify, or decontaminate the water completely. Certain bacterial and algal toxins can survive boiling and make you sick, and as Russell pointed out, there are also inorganic contaminants that will definitely survive the boiling process. Distillation on the other hand, will produce water that is safe to drink in most cases. 

Separate answer because I feel it addresses a different point than the other answers As stated in the other answers, you should of course teach basic clipping and leading techniques, making sure to emphasize the stuff that will get you killed (whenever teaching beginners I don't dance around this issue, "don't do this or you will die" ) basic anchoring and the like. However, I like to stress, besides just teaching the technical details, is the proper APPROACH to outdoor climbing vs indoor climbing. Just because you can clip a dozen draws and lower off an anchor does not make you a good outdoor climber. Things to stress 

There are far, far too many people that get profficient at clipping up indoor gym routes and then decide to try it outside thinking that cragging is just an outdoor gym. It's not, and make sure to stress that to any new person you take outside climbing. Just because you are strong enough to climb 5.12 doesn't mean you are a good climber outside, this applies triply so for trad climbing. ONE FINAL WORD Spontaneous gear explosion/failure is responsible for a tiny fraction of climbing incidents, of which the majority are related to fixed gear failures. The rest of the non-act-of-god (read:rockfall) accidents are due user error, your number one risk in climbing is you or your partner making a mistake (or several) so do everything to minimize the risk of mistakes, including your choice of partner. If you partner objects or is offended by you checking their systems, their gear, their rigging, or their belaying, DO NOT CLIMB WITH THEM. 

A general answer to a general question Long distance through hiking is a fairly well developed activity in terms of common best practices. I would suggest picking up a book on more popular through trails (The Appalachian Trail or Pacific Crest trail in the U.S.) that has many handy suggestions. Take from it what you will based on the terrain you will cover.