Bears are not naturally attracted to smoke - except for Smoky the Bear. Same goes for mountain lions, wolves, etc - they will generally avoid smoke (actually, all mammals will) for obvious reasons. I suppose there is always some incredibly unlikely scenario where a bear (or other animal) has become habituated to smoke and associates it with food, somehow, but I think you can take your chances. While there are always warnings about hiding deodorant, toothpaste, etc, the risk is incredibly overblown except in areas where people have engaged in poor campsite practices, and I don't think tobacco would really fall into the same category (things which smell sweet or sugary). The significantly greater danger is that you will burn down the forest. 

I don't think you have to treat that topic significantly different than on lower altitudes (but I have to admit, I have never been higher than 4300 m) as long as you stick to trekking. As you already introduce your question, warming up is especially important for sports where maximum strength (e.g. climbing) and/or explosive muscle movement (e.g. sprinting) are required or where parts of your body are moved to the full possible range of mobility (e.g. acrobatics). Other than you, I wouldn't classify trekking into none of these categories. Therefore I would characterize trekking an activity that can require significant physical condition (especially in higher altitudes) but is – if we omit walking downhill with a heavy pack – rather gentle regarding muscles and the skeletal system. As such, I would not say that you have to take very special care about warming up. There are two things to remember: your blood will get thicker due to height acclimatisation, therefore the blood circulation into your fingers and toes can decrease and the overall temperature is colder than you're used to. The former is basically a thing to keep in mind and react on if you have the impression that it affects your extremities. The latter is mainly a matter of preparation, i.e. right clothing and gear. Above that, cold climate is something one can get used to to some extent. If you have prepared well, you have brought a sleeping bag and pad that kept you warm and comfy all night, not just a bit warm like in "didn't die from freezing". Waking up warm and not shivering from the cold will already be an important piece of getting ready to go. The rest should be done more or less automatically by your normal morning routine: If you're tent camping, preparing a breakfast, unpitching your tent, and packing all your stuff should give you enough amount of movement to get your muscles warm, even in cold weather. If you have slept in a lodge, hut, bed and breakfast, or the like (whatever rather simple but solid accommodations are called locally), the ambient inside should be significantly warmer than in a tent. This will compensate for the less movement you will get, as you don't have to pack that much stuff here. In any case, the key is not to waste much time in the morning as you will get cold if you sit around for too long doing nothing. Then just start to walk rather slowly. Don't rush away from the start but begin with a unhurried pace until your body is fully warm. If you have had an unpleasant night where you didn't sleep well and feel cold or just out of any reason have the feeling, that you are not quite warm in the morning, you can do the same stuff that you would possibly do at home as well: hop around a bit, do some squats, swing your arms around etc. to increase blood flow and get especially your limbs warm. The above should be enough as long as you're only trekking. If you are climbing (high intensity movement) you will surely have to warm up more thoroughly. This is especially true if you have to start climbing hard right away from the camp without any approach walk that would get you warm. 

If you wear a bear bell on your backpack, your fellow hikers will kill you for being annoying. Just don't walk like a ninja. Also don't be a pig in your campsite, and you will be fine. IMO the separate clothes for cooking is hogwash and only reasonable if you are A) car camping in Yosemite and B) cooking some wicked BBQ ribs and get grease all over you. Same goes for the notion that bears are attracted to deodorant enough to overcome their timidity, unless you rub Oreos under your armpits. Otherwise all the advice is good. For the record, it is my understanding that groups of four or more hiking closely together will not be attacked by a bear. 

Finally, you will have to decide yourself if you want to keep it or not and it depends a bit on your preferences and on how much oversized the shirt is. I for myself prefer my base layer shirts to be skin tight since in colder weather I often wear two similar shirts on top of each other where every one qualifies as a base layer for warmer conditions. If they were sitting loosely, chances are high that you get some pleats on spots where you don't want ones, since they might cause chafing. Other people, especially such who think they have the one or other problem area or fat pad, might prefer their clothes sitting a bit more loosely to make those problem spots not point out too much. Again other people feel constricted by clothes sitting too tightly and prefer that even their base layer shirts to be some baggy style. Well, as I wrote in the beginning, it depends. It depends also on the type of activity you plan to use it for. If you want it for example for running or stuff like that where you don't wear too much other clothes on top and typically no backpack, it's not too critical if the base layer is a bit crammed under the other layers. With a heavy backpack and some more layers of clothes this can be more of an issue. Those are some rational thoughts. However, finally it boils to feeling. In my own experience, if some piece of gear does not feel quite right, i.e. it is "OK-ish" but a bit flawed in a way that I feel slightly uncomfortable about it, I tend to not use it if I have alternatives where I feel better. Such pieces have the tendency to diffuse deep down into the back of my wardrobe and get forgotten there over time – and this would be sad for a brand new shirt that cost some good money. Therefore my final advice: if you feel not quite sure about it and have the possibility to exchange it for an equivalent but better fitting one at low or no additional costs, then get the better fitting one. You will be much more happy about it than about one where you think "I should have exchanged it" every time you wear it... 

For water-resistant or water-proof gear, I apply a DWR (durable water repellent) finish via aerosol spray about once or twice a year to gear that absolutely needs it (rain shell, rain pants, hiking pants, boots). I try to do this as infrequently as possible, or before a winter trips where failure of the membrane would be very unpleasant or dangerous. For other clothes - base layers, fleece, etc - I wash them as little as possible or only when they are visibly dirty (or stink to high hell). I hand wash or do gentle cycle in a machine and almost always line dry. For more durable items (e.g. GoreTex boots), I scrub them with a soft bristle brush under warm water. Storage is ideally hanging in a cool, dry place with no direct sunlight, but this isn't always possible. I live in a city, where closet space is at a premium, but if you live in a house and also don't want to clutter up your closet, I would say a basement is better than an attic. Regular use will be far more degrading to a membrane than folding, and by the time the membrane is failing you will probably be onto the next big thing, whether due to fashion or technology. That said, there are some who say that crumpling is better than folding because you aren't always stressing the same area of the fabric/membrane, but these people are probably also just slobs. 

For central Europe I can recommend www.wanderreitkarte.de, which is a German site but has also an English and Italian language layer. Its data is based on openstreetmap data which is (at least in Germany) much more detailed off the beaten track than google maps is. Unfortunately it does not contain Norway, where your hike has obviously been done. Nonetheless, I will reference it here as it might help other visitors to that site who are within the covered area. The tool has some nice core features, with the most appealing (for me) being able to mark some points along a desired route and make the tool figure out a route through those points along certain characteristics. The characteristics can be divided into horse riding vs. hiking and then into generate a preferably flat route, allow some ups and downs or include even via ferratas. The generated route can be downloaded in .gpx format and it's also possible to get an elevation profile. 

Swinging your arms and legs to move blood to your extremities is good advice and will overcome your body's vasoconstriction response, but keep in mind you should also layer up after doing this since you are driving heat energy away from your core. If you are in camp, drinking a hot beverage (and also holding it while you drink) will warm your core and ease your body's cold response. If that doesn't work, filling a Nalgene with boiling water and getting into your sleeping bag with it is pretty sound advice, assuming you haven't gotten yourself some frostbite (tough to accomplish at 0 deg C). Best thing is to acclimate yourself to colder temperatures by slightly under-dressing in the lead-up to cold weather adventure. 

I don't know how robust the waterproof bottom of your bivy bag is, but with the bivy bags I know (which are predominantly some kind of mountaineering emergency equipment) I would not want to put the sleeping pad into them. The reason is simply, that bivy bags are designed to give a good weather insulation (primarily by being waterproof and windproof) while being (more or less) lightweight. A result of the latter point is that they are normally not that robust. If you now put your sleeping pad into the bivy bag, then the bag is the layer that is directly in contact with the ground and that has to bear most of the friction that arises while you move in your sleep. This won't be a problem if you camp on snow as you have a smooth ground surface there but if you camp on rougher ground, I could imagine that you would wear down the bivy bag rather quickly. If the bottom part of the bag is actually more like the bottom of an inner tent, i.e. made of some robust plastic foil, that might not hurt that much. In this case it might be better to put the sleeping pad inside so that it does not get dirty.