There were many people fleeing the Nazis in the 1930s, a lot of them Jewish. Mostly these people were welcomed by Britain. However what greatly complicated their assimilation into British society was that a lot of them were German speakers. Passports did not record people's religion, merely their nationality. So for official purposes, fleeing Jews from Vienna, were recorded as Austrians, and considered German. Often they had to explain to neighbours and others that they were Jewish and hence refugees. Equally among Czech or Polish refugees there may well have been people who were sympathetic to Hitler. Generally so far as the public were concerned anyone speaking German was suspect. After war broke out parliament gave the government powers under the Defence of the Realm Act, to intern aliens. Anyone who was not British, (in practice mostly Germans, Austrians and Italians) was forced to register with the police. Their cases were considered and depending on what sort of threat each appeared to pose, they were categorised. The lowest category were free to live among the population and merely report at intervals to a police station. They were generally not allowed to live near the coast. However the highest category were put in internment camps for the duration of the war. To begin with, due to the pressures of events, all this was quite crudely done. Some Jews found themselves in internment camps where they were living cheek-by-jowl with Nazis. People who were seen as a risk were sent to such camps as the one on the Isle of Man, out of harm's way. There is a considerable literature on this subject, but I am not really expert enough to point you to it. 

There were, believe it or not, limits to the numbers of men and equipment that Hitler had available - and in the event he took on vastly more than Germany could cope with anyway. Armoured divisions by the score simply disappeared into the frozen wastes of the Russian winter. After the autumn of 1941 German resources, and availability of oil, were always stretched. Mountainous Spain would have been a difficult country to hold as an invader, in any event, and since Hitler had a compliant ally in Franco, the necessity was not there. Remember that the Germans didn't even attempt to hold the whole of France. Spain had no oil, as did Russia and the Middle East. Nor did she threaten Germany. But Hitler's biggest strategic mistake (apart from underestimating the Russian winter) has been seen by some as his not having taken Gibraltar, Malta and Cyprus early in the war before Britain got its act together. Had he done that he may well have won Egypt and opened up a route into the oilfields of Arabia. It would also have prevented the Allies being able to invade Italy, which campaign was tying up huge numbers of German divisions at the time of the Normandy invasion. 

You would probably learn a lot from reading Jacques Dalloz' The War in Indo-China 1945-54. Do you belong to a good library, such as a University library? If you want to buy it Amazon UK are asking about £95 for the hardback. This is how it is reviewed by Amazon: 

Because of his importance to history, I think we often look at Hitler to provide us with evidence of some comprehensive philosophy, which would include things like his religious views. It is worth remembering that Hitler was not an educated man. (Before he became a politician he had been a corporal in the army.) And I am not sure that knowing what he thought about any religious or philosophical subject is of any more value than knowing what Joe Bloggs, an uneducated racist and bigot who lives in one's street, happens to think. I am certainly not prepared to attach any value whatever to knowing the views of such an ill-informed charlatan. However, whilst we do know that he had been brought up, at least in name, as an Austrian Catholic, Hitler's expressed religious beliefs in Mein Kampf and elsewhere do not follow any consistent pattern. Many of them relate to a justification for anti-Semitism, which as Alan Bullock points out in Hitler: A study in Tyranny borrowed heavily from attitudes of some red-necked Austrians of the early-twentieth century, and especially the visceral prejudices of the gut-right-wing elements of some of the German-speaking petit bourgeoisie in cosmopolitan Vienna. This corresponds with the time Hitler was a down-at-heel artist, mixing with ne'er-do-wells in down-market cafes and doss houses. Almost certainly he did not have the capacity and mindset to develop and sustain a consistent religious position, radically outside of the mainstream. As far as I know, he was not a man given to spiritual reflection. Hitler's religious utterances throughout his life tend to be disorganised and haphazard, perhaps not unlike the expressions of someone not tied into a church structure, and lacking the disciplines of a university education. Nor do they indicate any particular personal religious commitment. During the days of his youth, when he was trying to make it as an artist, Hitler pretended to intellectual thought - but based on Bullock's assessment it was shallow. There is ample evidence that Hitler was ill-at-ease in educated company. He always found small-talk difficult, and was far more comfortable in a beer hall - especially if he was able to grab the floor, and, heaven-forbid, a microphone. The milieu in which he lived was hardly conducive therefore to the sort of intellectual thought and discussion necessary for developing religious and philosophical positions. The religious question had bedevilled German unification for centuries, and one of Hitler's predecessors, Otto von Bismarck, (Chancellor 1871-1890) had pursued a Kulturkampf against Catholics, in which the term Reichsfeind (Enemy of the state) had been widely employed. The notion of a cultural "enemy within" was not therefore new to recent German history. Thus it was that politicians who wanted to succeed as badly as Hitler, needed to tread carefully as between Protestants and Catholics in a Federal Germany. Moreover, in the later 19th century, religion in Germany, as elsewhere in Europe, had undoubtedly been challenged by intellectuals. The writings of German philosophers such as Marx, Hegel, Nietzsche, as well as scholars elsewhere, such as Charles Darwin, feed into the general zeitgeist of the defeated post-war nation, and undoubtedly influenced the climate in which National Socialism prospered. Hitler's pot pourri of ideas and expressions borrow variously from these different sources. Who knows what Hitler would have become had he ultimately been successful, and what path he might have taken as regards the churches? He would not have been the first German Chancellor to have taken on the Roman Catholic Church if that had been his plan. So in answer to the question, I believe that whilst Hitler, like many in society would have had a perfunctory religion of Catholicism, any beliefs associated with his divers utterances on the subject, from time to time, were held more in service of his political ambitions than for ideological reasons.