So now about their heat emissions, and why are they detected in the X-ray range in the first place (the ESA's article mentions the photograph featured there was taken by the ESA’s XMM-Newton X-ray observatory): 

I don't think it was ever observed to actually lower mass of black holes that we observe as astronomy phenomena, the process would simply take too long for any measurable effects to manifest, but scientists did try to observe it experimentally. In September 2010, Belgiorno et al. claimed they've: 

So, the direction from which the Moon is illuminated from is the same as the direction the Earth is, both illuminated by the same celestial body - our Sun. So, when you see the Sun high above the skies, and if the Moon is visible during daytime, it's going to be illuminated from the same direction from which you are, and during night time, when you'd expect the Sun "below where you're standing", it's illuminated from that direction. 

Yes, and no. You will be able to see your hand's silhouette as it blocks incoming light from other sources, but you won't be able to see any features on it. For example, illuminance of starlight overcast moonless night sky is quoted at $0.0001\ lux$ which means that in absence of a brighter light source, human eye simply isn't that sensitive to such low illuminance, even if your hand reflected all of the incoming light (it doesn't). What is the minimum lux rating that a human eye can resolve is not as straightforward to answer though, as it varies greatly by specific wavelengths. This is explained in more detail for example in this Human eye sensitivity and photometric quantities (PDF) document, or perhaps Wikipedia on Scotopic vision. But in a nutshell, no, you wouldn't be able to see any features on your hand in outer space, unless closer to a brighter visible wavelength light source. You'll still be able to infer that it's still there and all fingers on it accounted for, though. 

         Visualisation of the relationship between two massive bodies and their five Lagrange points (Source: Wikipedia) There wouldn't be any debris clutter there, or any other matter like smaller particles, at least not any more likely than elsewhere around them, only transient in nature and possibly even less likely than elsewhere since all the other mass particles would gravitate towards the more massive bodies of two Lagrange system centers in their vicinity. No body with rest mass would stay there on its own accord, not unless it has active attitude control to position itself there and constantly adjust for changes in gravitational attraction vector as the two mass bodies rotate around their axes, change distance while orbiting each other, or L points being influenced by other mass bodies of the same planetary system. At the same time, JWST will be shielded by the Earth from any Solar activities and also Sun's interference with JWST's sensitive equipment as it starts observing the Universe in the infrared spectrum. Most of the orbital debris from our own space exploration missions is cluttered in the LEO (Low Earth Orbit) belt at roughly an altitude of 500-1500 km above the Earth's surface:                   Source: Active Debris Removal: EDDE, the ElectroDynamic Debris Eliminator, Jerome Pearson et al. (PDF) Now, the JWST will be deployed to a very large 800,000 kilometres (500,000 mi) radius halo orbit around the Sun-Earth L2 point, that is 1,500,000 kilometers (930,000 mi) from the Earth, around 4 times farther than the distance between the Earth to the Moon. So not exactly in Earth's shadow and it will still use large deployable sunshield, but that's a long way away from where we're littering our LEO or even GEO/GSO (Geostationary/Geosynchronous orbits) with GEO being the farthest of these frequently used orbits, at 35,786 kilometres (22,236 mi) above the Earth's equator (and its graveyard orbit a bit farther than that). JWST will be placed in halo orbit nearly 40 times as distant from the Earth as you'd expect any space debris cluttering our planet's orbits at. Yes, it is a very good idea to place JWST around the Sun-Earth L2 point. 

Yes, there is NASA's Near Earth Object Program that catalogues all detected NEO's and had advanced reporting and seearch capabilities (a bit overwhelming number of options actually). There is also ESA's own (actually DLR's, the German space agency) database under the EARN (European Asteroid Research Node) project within the SSA-Programme (Space Situational Awareness) called The Near-Earth Asteroids Data Base: 

Tought to answer, because the amount of airborne dust due to meteor showers and its stability in the upper atmosphere will vary significantly enough. We had many meteor showers, Perseids included, in the past that were a bit of a letdown and didn't produce as many shooting stars as initially predicted, and also the other way around of course. But here's the thing tho, that discounting for any additional atmospheric glow during a few crucial hours of dusk and dawn, this airborne meteor dust might even improve the average atmospheric refraction with mostly extremely fine powder silicate dust settling onto the lower atmosphere and dispersing water molecules and binding to other solids (read: decrease humidity and pollutants), by being highly electromagnetically charged from the atmospheric reentry and electrostatically binding to larger atmospheric or pollution molecules, or simply for being hygroscopic and binding really good to water molecules, making them heavier enough to fall in a light spray back on the ground and remove the pollutants from the lower atmosphere in the process, too. There might be other physical phenomena going on that I'm not aware of, but what I wanted to illustrate is, that there might even be positive side-effects in terms of light pollution vs increase in meteors, which is how we call meteoroids entering Earth's atmosphere. 

Another problem that we didn't yet discuss is that we have no observational proof that such small gas planets actually exist, whatever you might end up calling them. Problem of course lies in the fact there simply aren't any smaller gas planets than Uranus or Neptune (you pick your candidate for the smallest one; former is least massive, and latter is least voluminous of the four gas giants) in our own Solar system, while extrasolar small gas planets would likely be too small to be detectable over enormous distances to even our nearest stars by any methods of detecting such extrasolar planets, or we wouldn't be observing enough into the system's past (i.e. distance) to see it still forming and it would have already lost grip to its former planets now exoplanets, or erode the smaller protoplanets. So we have this conundrum between whether they exist (likely they do), are in theory possible (I have no doubt), and how we'd end up calling them, because neither of the two possibilities I can think of for their existence would be considered planets by mentioned current convention of what actually constitutes a planet. Protoplanet wouldn't have cleared its neighborhood yet, and exoplanet wouldn't orbit a star. 

There are a few major problems with calling something a small gas planet and of course depends on your definition of a planet. By currently accepted classification (that excludes Pluto), a planet has to be: 

I've added a few clarifications in quotes encapsulated in square brackets, but what this means is that parts of these WHIM interact with AGN (Active Galactic Nucleus) as the galaxies pass by, and the X-ray emissions of AGN excite Baryonic matter to a temperature $T ∼ 10^5−10^7 K$. Quote sources: 

No, it doesn't contradict the paradigm of the universal inflation. It would merely mean that the example galactic cluster that you mention has its proper (own) motion at a smaller velocity relative to the proper motion of the Milky Way than the speed of the universal inflation at the distance between them. I.e. it would move towards us, if the Universe wasn't expanding. But since it does, galactic cluster's proper motion only managed to decrease relative velocity at which it moves away from us. To put it in analogy, say you're on a speeding train that moves at 120 km/h relative to the station it just passed by. You then lean out of its window and throw an apple towards the station that the train is now moving away from, but you can only manage to throw the apple at a velocity of 40 km/h. That apple, since it came from the train moving at 120 km/h and shared its momentum, is now travelling away from the station's platform at 80 km/h, even though you threw it towards the station, because you only managed to reduce its velocity relative to the station for 40 km/h. So it would still move away from it, but for 40 km/h slower than the train does. 

What you describe is a technique called averted vision and takes advantage of the arrangement of cones and rods, two types of light sensitive elements within the eye: 

You can see some of them with a naked eye. Many of the Messier objects, including galaxies and nebulae are observable even without any telescopes. As for others, if Charles Messier could catalog them in 1771 with a 4 inch refractor, you should see most using your 3.3 inch reflector too given good observation conditions, knowing where to point and using a properly collimated and otherwise maintained telescope. Messier was from the Northern hemisphere and you seem to be closer to the equator judging by information you provide in your profile, so you shouldn't have problems seeing these objects either, and there are equally interesting objects also in the Southern skies that you could observe. Some of the easiest recognizable on the Northern skies are the Andromeda galaxy, or Messier 31, and the Orion Nebula, or Messier 42. You should also be able to discern quite a lot of detail of other astronomical bodies, including e.g. Pleiades, or Messier 45 which is also visible to the naked eye and many astronomers use to determine observational conditions and their visual acuity by. 

Yes, stacking Barlow lenses is a common practice to effectively increase focal length by multiplying their individual focal lengths. When I say common, most advanced eyepieces actually have many glass elements and are a type of a Barlow lens themselves, so just by using a single Barlow lens in front of your eyepiece you'd already be, technically, stacking Barlows. It is a technique that is particularly useful for bright object like our Solar system's planets, with Jupiter that you mention perhaps even the best example. Your image quality might vary substantially tho with the Barlow and eyepiece quality of glass elements and the manufacturing precision. You might also want to play with the order at which you stack them and find an optimal arrangement of all of the glass elements they add to the system. The more precisely they're made, the less the order will matter though. And you'd technically want the less precise ones at the end of the stack, so their deficiencies don't magnify with each added element. And yes, with any additional glass element you'll be losing a bit of the illumination so this is, like mentioned, most suitable for bright objects. Do not however, under any circumstances, do this when observing the Sun! You shouldn't need additional glass elements anyway, but should you try, you'll most certainly cause them to overheat, expand and permanently deform quite fast, regardless what material their tube and thread are made of, metal, alloy or plastic. 

All of these points are largely argumentative, but two major problems that a small gas planet would have to sustain itself for longer time during and after the formation within the protoplanetary disk are: 

What you do in this particular tool is click on the calendar bar below and enter date and time of your observation (if you forgot that, there's a good chance your photograph has a time stamp, either of the file or in its EXIF data). You can adjust epoch later on, too. Then double-click on Jupiter, then its Orbit button, then click on link As seen from Earth below, then click Go back button and use mouse wheel to zoom out so all four Galilean moons display. Then compare with the photograph that you took. Note that it might take a bit of rotation for you image to align perfectly. I use the old neck twisting and turning technique, but photo editing tools or even rotatable screens will do just as well, if not better. Note that this mentioned tool does offer settings to switch between orrery and realistic model and large and realistic sizes of displayed celestial bodies. But there are many such tools online or downloadable for both computers and smartphones. I think even this one is available as an app for smartphones for free, but last time I tried to install it, it didn't work for me. Maybe they fixed that. Do check because it's a lot easier if you can check orbital alignment of Galilean moons as seen from Earth directly on the field, as you're doing your observations. Have clear skies and I wish you happy hunting for planets and moons of our Solar system and beyond! 

I guess one of them you're referring to was GRB 130427A (not in December of 2010 or 2011 tho, but in April 2013)? But yes, there are several such catalogs, as are different designators and phenomenological classification methods for these gamma-ray bursts (GBR). For example, GRB 130427A is a simple nomenclature that consists of a date of discovery (130427 denotes 27th of April, 2013 and suffix A is just the first letter from the alphabet, increased when there's more than a single such event in a day), but it doesn't indicate e.g. its type or origin. The same GRB event is so cataloged under designator CSS130502:113233+274156 in the Catalina Real-time Transient Survey catalog, SDSS J113232.84+274155.4 in Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalog, and so on. So, as you can see, it would help if you could clarify which designators you saw, so we can identify the catalog easier. But not wanting to leave you empty-handed, one such catalog that is frequently used and is relatively easily searchable is the Goddard Space Flight Center's GRBCAT (Gamma Ray Burst CATalog) (on top of those already mentioned). 

This is referred to as diurnal motion, due to Earth's rotation on its axis, and it affects apparent motion of stars differently depending on their position on the skies relative to the axis of Earth's rotation. For example, on northern hemisphere, the star that appears not to move at all is positioned so that the earth's axis of rotation points directly towards it, and is called a Polaris due to its role as a pole star. Stars further away from true north (not to be confused with magnetic north), will appear to prescribe a circle around it as the Earth completes one rotation on its axis:                                                               A long exposure photograph of the night skies, showing their apparent motion So what you assert, that the stars don't seem to move isn't exactly true. Stars closer to celestial equator will move at equal apparent radial velocity as any object fixed on the night skies would (so at the speed of Earth's rotation), while the stars closer to celestial poles, while maintaining this radial velocity, will prescribe a smaller circle and appear to be more stationary. And the stars exactly aligned with the Earth's axis (like Polaris, but there isn't any such exact counterpart on the southern hemisphere), would appear not to move at all. 

What that ESA (European Space Agency) page titled Hot gas sloshing in a galactic cauldron that you link to describes are called WHIM (Warm–Hot Intergalactic Medium). They are not interstellar medium, but intergalactic medium gas. The difference in density is huge, with interstellar medium density at an average of $\rho ∼ 1\ ppcm$ (one proton per cubic centimeter), but the density of these WHIM being even a few orders of magnitude lower at $\rho ∼ 10^{−6}−10^{−5}\ ppcm$, or roughly 1 to 10 protons per cubic meter (NASA's Chandra X-ray Observatory quotes average density of 6 protons per cubic meter). What is interesting about WHIM is that they are absolutely huge. We're talking of distances that extend across clusters of galaxies (so stretching multiple millions of light years), which means that even as tenuous as they are, account for a large portion of the baryonic matter of the Universe: 

The duration of one lunation (the period between one new moon to the next one) isn't neither constant as the Moon rotates around the Earth and it around the Sun (changes between 29.272 and 29.833 days due to the perturbing effects of the Sun's gravity on the Moon's eccentric orbit), nor integer divisible by 24 hours or one Earth's rotation around its axis. So this position of the Moon on the skies where the next new moon as the first of its lunar phases will be first observable constantly changes.          Phases of the Moon, as seen looking southward from the Northern Hemisphere. The Southern Hemisphere will see each phase     rotated through 180°. (Source: Wikipedia on Lunar phase) Saying it differently, by the time the Moon completes one lunation (or it's synodic period) and starts the next one, it won't be positioned exactly above the same Earth's longitude (East to West) as the one it started at. 

Shorter, the cones are sensitive to color and work best in bright light, while the rods are most effective in low light conditions. And since the rods are concentrated off center of retina, our night vision is best off center. This averted vision technique can be used with a naked eye, as well as with any optical equipment like binoculars or telescopes, although it can be a bit of a bother with eyeglasses and contact lenses. Especially with the latter, using this advert vision technique can cause additional irritation of the cornea. As per "beating the system" part, with a bit of practice, you could train yourself to view dim objects better with the corner of your eyes at will, and not merely by chance or for only short periods of time. It might seem hard with first few tries, but it really isn't and you soon get used to not looking directly towards the observed object, countering what we tend to do naturally, direct our eyes towards the object of our observations. Practice makes perfect, but there is no long term and unwanted side effects to doing this, and you'll still be able to direct your eyes towards whatever you'll want to see clearer, just as you did before. There is one other thing to add to techniques to observing the night skies. Namely, our eyes need some time to adapt to darkness, and with our more frequent staring in computer monitors, television and other illuminated sources, our pupils need even longer to dilate and let the maximum of light to fall on the retina. So for best results, rest your eyes and do not expose them to anything except red light for 30 minutes prior to observing. This allows your pupils to expand to their maximum diameter and build up the levels of optical pigments, which are rapidly lost if exposed to bright light. It is also important to observe with both of your eyes open to avoid fatigue. If you find this difficult, you may try covering the other eye with your hand or an eye patch. It should also be mentioned that both smoking and drinking cause deterioration in your sight. Your blood-sugar levels are also important and a low level of blood sugar causes lowering of sensitivity of eyes. Lastly, your eyes will tire using this technique, just as they would by focusing for longer periods of times as you normally would. Look away every now and then, preferably not towards too strong sources of light, but still at least slightly brighter than those you previously observed. Also stretch your legs and blink fast a few times. Stretch your back too, and relax your bottom. You might find it funny, but this technique of relaxing and contracting muscles of that part of our physique has been used by trained spies to cheat polygraph tests that also measure pupil dilation. How's that for "beating the system", huh? It is by far the fastest way of relaxing your eyes, at least that I know of.