The basis of all communication is common ground and context. In addition to a physical inability to make audible sounds, an ants mind would be so far removed from most human concepts that communication on any level would be insanely difficult. Ants, as you mentioned, communicate predominantly using pheromones and chemical secretions. They are believed to operate as cohesive elements of the greater population, controlled in a strict hierarchy. About the only common ground we would have with ants would be on topics such as food, water, fight or flight. Probably navigation and giving direction would play a large part in an ant's chemical vocabulary. We are currently unable to really communicate with whales and dolphins, even though they are much closer to us in terms of evolutionary development than ants. Unfortunately, I think it would be a major struggle to communicate in any meaningful way with ants. However, if you anthropomorphise ants to the point that they have a more human mouth, voice box, lungs etc. you might have a chance. Another option might be to communicate by a form of sign language using body parts, antennae. 

I think a dragon would still be at the mercy of the FAA. As with all government entities, they don't like it much when something new enters their jurisdiction, and is unregulated. They would issue a large stack of amendments to cover operations in controlled airspace (after the review boards, consultants, lawyers, military and other bodies with an interest got through their 'fact finding missions' in the Bahamas). I'm not convinced that a dragon would have better situational and navigational awareness than say, an AWACS aircraft, which is still required to follow IFR and have ATC clearance in controlled airspace. Minimum instruments would have to include: Backup attitude indicator: A requirement for IFR at any rate. In order to avoid spatial disorientation. As mentioned before, dragons would likely have a much better sense of motion and balance in three dimensions than a 'seat of the pants' human pilot. But I'm guessing disorientation might still be a factor. Transponder: With presumably better vision than a human, in a wider range of wavelengths than humans, you're still dealing with airspace full of aircraft operating at a range of airspeeds. ATC would need to be able to maintain separation speeds. Coms: The dragon would be required to carry two radios. Radio NAV: ATC:"Dragon Zero One, Dulles Departures. Can you confirm that you are outbound on the two two zero radial?" Dragon 01: "Departures, Dragon Zero One. Negative, I don't have VOR". ATC: "Fail." TCAS: Not sure what the FAA regs are (I've been out of the game for a while), but TCAS wouldn't hurt. ASI: Regardless of how well a dragon thinks it can fly, ATC would need it to maintain airspeeds accurately for separation. Altimeter: Same again. ATC would need to know that the dragon was following a set flight level. Would need it to provide data to the transponder anyway. Nav lights: Red port and green starboard lights at least. And strobe light. And landing lights. Another thing to consider: What is the dragon's max cruising altitude? Does the fire breath deplete the oxygen available to the dragon in flight, and at lower air densities? Would supplemental oxygen be required in Class A airspace and/or above 10,000 feet? How would an oxygen rich environment affect fire breath safety? Other considerations: Weight and balance calculations, and loading charts. As the dragon grows, the weight and balance might need to be recalculated. Possible recertification every year until maturity, then every two years thereafter? Communication with ATC would have to be in English, the international language of aviation. A dragon would need to be conversant using standardised aviation phraseology. If it's good enough for (or at least tolerated by) the Chinese, French and Russians, it's good enough for dragons. 

One thing you might need to clarify, which will greatly affect the kind of fortification you will need, is this: What level of weaponry are you looking at giving the attackers and defenders? An army using spears and stones will need a different defensive structure to an army equipped with artillery, snipers, tunnelers, air support, nukes. Unless your wall extends completely from one end of your country to the other (and even then you've still got problems) it can simply be bypassed by going around the sides, as the Germans did in WW2 with the Maginot Line. The Great Wall of China didn't stop the Mongol invasion, nor did the Atlantic Wall stop the allies from getting into France in WW2. Admittedly the Atlantic Wall wasn't actually a wall, but a series of complementary fortified positions. The main thing you'd be looking for would be converging fields of fire along the walls, possibly from buildings projecting from the walls themselves, such as caponiers like this one. By having a castle disconnected from the wall, you're making it much more difficult the reinforce, resupply or evacuate the occupiers of the castle. Having it connected to the defensive wall by tunnels, walkways etc. gets around that. Any defensive line can be breached at its weakest point (or any point) if you apply enough force to it. Walls and fortresses are costly to build and maintain, require high manpower to protect and cannot be repositioned. But you really need to define the level of weaponry technology in use. 

As distasteful as it is for me to say it, there were some things that the Third Reich pulled off successfully, although at GREAT expense of human life, morality, and truth. After the Great Depression in 1929, Germany was in chaos. They'd lost the first World War, and massive reparations payments that they couldn't hope to make to the winners, and the economy was ruined. Currency was devalued to the point that to buy food, you'd need a wheelbarrow to carry all the worthless currency required to buy a loaf of bread. That all changed when the Nazis pushed their way into power (that in itself is a story of violence, lies, betrayal and political backstabbing). Over time, it all turned around. The really nasty thing is that to this day, people are still debating whether to use the data and research findings that were meticulously recorded by such characters as Dr. Josef Mengele. He (and others) conducted medical experiments on live humans in concentration camps as if they were lab rats. I won't go into which chapters you'd write for this book, it's already messing with my sense of right and wrong writing this much. But one thing I will say is that IBM would probably not have been able to advance the electronic computer as much as they have done, without having had the Nazis as their biggest customers before (and even during) the war. The cross indexing tabulating machines that the Nazis used for their comprehensive census operations were sold and maintained by IBM. These machines were instrumental in allowing the Nazis to separate out anybody they deemed to be an undesirable. And that sophisticated technology was one of the stepping stones to the modern computer. 

As Joe Bloggs says, it's a very broad question, and difficult to answer directly. Here is an blog post which talks about a 3:1 ratio of attackers to defenders as a general rule. I've heard other ratios discussed as well. But in almost every situation where an attacking force has come upon an entrenched and aware enemy, the attacking force is only successful when it has overwhelming numbers. From Thermopylae (where the 300 Spartans held out) to Khe Sanh, an attacking force requires a higher ratio of attackers to defenders. The alternative is a long, protracted siege. Cut off supply lines, deny reinforcement and wait until the enemy starve. Much harder when you are blockading an entire planet. An example: The American Vietnam war. There was a disparity between the two sides in terms of training, experience and equipment. You can argue that the North Vietnamese Army/Viet Cong (for simplicity I'll refer to them as NVA) had less in the way of hard training infrastructure (a lot of their training was undertaken in the field) and had a generally lower tech level of weaponry. What they did have were numbers, and the experience of thirty years of fighting against European armies (Japan, then France, then America). The NVA had possibly an overall higher level of discipline due to the hard nature of life in a communist country, and immediate repercussions for not following an order (AKA a bullet in the head). Also, they had the homeground advantage, and a well embedded intelligence network that went as high as the upper levels of government. The U.S. and allied forces on the other hand, had a training infrastructure the NVA could only dream about, weapons and support systems that could dominate a battlefield. Their command and control system was much more elaborate and generally more immediate than the NVA's. When the U.S. and allied forces attacked a dug in NVA force, the attrition was often horrendous despite the areas being prepped with napalm and bombs from B-52s and other aircraft, and artillery fire before the troops went in. The NVA faced a similar problem when attacking a fortified position. Their approach would be to use surprise as much as possible, and throw much higher numbers at the position until their enemy just ran out of combat effective troops. A hole would open up, and NVA would pour massive numbers through it and overwhelm the defenders. During the Tet Offensive of early 1968, the NVA sent anything up to 100,000 troops against dug in positions all over Vietnam. Roughly half of all those troops were killed. It more or less ended the Viet Cong as an effective fighting force, and in theory was a victory for the U.S. led forces (despite the footage of the U.S. embassy being overrun in Saigon being a major catalyst for the U.S. withdrawal). At the end of the day, if you send a few hundred space marines against a population of 500 million, even if they are only armed with rocks and spears, your marines are going to have a very, very hard time. 

In a number of countries the taxation on cigarettes is in the 1,000% range. In Australia, for example (using a packet of 25 cigarettes, and using AUD$, a population of almost 24,000,000): Production cost for one packet: Roughly AUD$2-$3 (guess) Sold for AUD$25-$30, tax roughly AUD$20 per packet. Number of smokers: 1,000,000 (conservative estimate) Assuming an average (maybe high) of 1 packet per day, Tax recovered: AUD$20,000,000 Per year tax recovered: AUD$7,300,000,000 If the Australian government suddenly lost this revenue, there would be a collapse of many services. Healthcare, infrastructure, government salaries, national credit rating, education, defence. All would be affected by a sudden loss of revenue on this magnitude. IMHO, Governments are not so much interested in the health implications of people smoking, as much as they really do enjoy spending the revenue raised by the taxes on smoking. Yes, I am a smoker, and I'm a bit cynical about the government approach to the health problems associated with smoking. These numbers are rounded up, rounded down and guessed, so therefore not entirely accurate. But a ball park figure. Current U.S population is roughly 326,000,000. Imagine the revenue there. China's population is 1.4 billion. 

Disputed territory always seems to work. Dragon: Get off my land, elf. Elf: This land has always been mine. Dragon: Rubbish, it was given to me by my grandfather. Elf: After he stole it from mine. Ideological differences are another favourite. Dragon: Why are you elves so much into the magic of war? Elf: Why are you not? You're built for it, look at your claws and fire breath. Dragon: You're a fool. Peace is the answer. Elf: You're the fool, and you stink. A perceived insult. Dragon: Your wife is looking pretty good today! Elf: What did you just say? Warfare for generations. If you want to find out what would cause a war that lasts for generations, just look into the Balkan Wars, which led to the First World War and also the later Yugoslav Wars but realise that the true causes of those wars (and the bad blood that preceded them) have been disputed for hundreds of years. Typically, wars like those have roots going back so far that nobody can reliably pinpoint the true reasons why they fight. Sometimes in situations like that, there will be a period of peace, and then the old rivalries flare up again, going around in a cycle of anger built up over generations. Another example is the history of Jerusalem. 

I'm looking for a credible technology which could be used as a shield for a spacecraft sometime within the next 100-200 years. Not necessarily a spherical shield which covers the whole ship, it would only need to sweep aside micrometeorites and other debris, much like the way the bow of a ship cuts through water. The higher the velocity of the ship, the more water is displaced. Another analogy might be the way that the Van Allen belt diverts radiation to flow around the Earth. If it can refract laser light so that it doesn't reach the ship itself, but bends around it, that would be a win as well. The idea of an almost solid shield which has missiles, fighters, small planets etc. exploding uselessly against it is not really what I'm looking for. But by all means, if that might be feasible I'd be all for it. Another direction might be to have a superheated plasma around the nose of the craft which burns through micrometeorites. Or something else that is able to convert the kinetic energy from the velocity of the micrometeorite into enough heat to destroy it before it can do any damage. My approach to this is that larger objects could be detected at a distance and avoided wit only a small evasive manoeuvre, but micrometeorites would be more difficult to detect in time. The spacecraft is to operate away from any large planets, in the asteroid belt. Lots of dust and debris, but no large gravitational masses around, except the larger asteroids. EDIT: @Jim2B suggests that the four known forces would be unlikely to help in the way I would like. Any other options? Remember, this has to be credible, not necessarily factual with current technology.