Parasites in two senses. In terms of the world as a whole, considered as an organism, that is Lovelock & Margulis' Gaia theory. While it is contentious as a paradigm, we have to acknowledge that the oxygen we breathe came from cyanobacteria, and regenerated by plants. Every breath we should give thanks, but we don't. In particular, the Earth has various buffering mechanisms that have stabilised the climate, and human activity is causing the most rapid heating and biggest drop in biodiversity, in the planet's history. Rebirth at least in the cosmic sense it's understood in Buddhism & Jainism, can be understood to set us in a far bigger psychological context. Second sense, parasites on each other. Marx certainly saw the owners of capital as increasing their wealth parasitically. Criticism of that looks at capital risk and innovation. But cartel capitalism and the overwhelming tendency for the rich to get richer especially by lobbying or corruption, are parasitic, and arguably dominant over the 'good' kinds of capitalism. Eusociality is a useful for understanding the emergence of altruism. We have something in common with hive organisms like bees, and other animals that sacrifice individual benefits for the collective like meerkats. You dismiss altruism for it's own sake, but we have conscious choices. We can choose to generalise eusociality into a wider sense of service and sharing, like $URL$ Beware of a simplistic interpretation of 'egoism'. It tends to be used in a way that misunderstands the word on several levels, and ignores the capacity for self-concern and self-awareness to be able to work positively in a persons wider psychological being. I recommend finding a different way to say the same thing, and actually make a case don't assume it's how everyone sees our behaviour. Edit to add: It's worth understanding something about parasitism before throwing the word around. There are six broad strategies of parasitism. It can have positive ecological effects, controlling numbers of species that over-dominate, balancing out long term into mutual benefit, or even forming new hybrid modes of living with cell organelles and all kinds of mutualism such as corals and plant-mycelium partnerships probably starting out as parasitism. Maybe we shouldn't be scared to be parasites, but understand we need to give back to our host, and stabilise rather than destabilise and destroy. 

If there were no reality, then all would be unreal. If all is unreal, then you are not real, your thoughts are not real, the statements you make are not real, there is no truth or falsehood, there is no reason, there is nothing but nothing (and not even empty space, since that's something. The verb "is" simply isn't available, period). Thus, the person who says "we cannot really prove that there is a reality" is speaking nonsense. He's making a logical statement, containing meaning, conveying an idea that is falsifiable and has the capacity to correspond to other things or not correspond to them. His words have an inherent order, and while open to interpretation, there are many things they cannot be saying such as "the moon is made out of cheese." It is therefore patently obvious that in the final analysis, in his very statement about reality, he's asserting that reality exists. One can't say anything at all without accepting reality. To try to do otherwise is a kind of gross and public self-pleasuring at the expense of other people's value and their comfort—though, if there is no reality, then other people don't exist, and it doesn't matter what we do to them, does it? If words have meaning, then reality exists. If words don't have meaning, then I wish people asserting this would get their gratuitous and disgusting public self-pleasuring as far away from me as possible... If a person asks "Does reality exist?", and thinks there's an answer besides utter nonsense such as "Zlopfnarglesoweiglawepqoijse"—even "well, we can't really tell one way or another"—then he is asserting that reality does exist. There's a more compelling way to say this: It's a category mistake (similar to asking what the color blue tastes like) to ask whether reality can be proven. You can't prove it, and it is meaningless that you can't. You also can't prove logic, or math. Have fun without those. You have to take reality for granted to do anything at all, and most especially to communicate with others on the nature of reality. 

This is an extremely broad topic, but there are a few concepts we can introduce to get you started. The terms "actual infinity" and "potential infinity" aren't really used in mathematics, but they do appear to relate to a distinction that is made: the ordinals vs the cardinals. There are also a variety of sizes of infinity within each category, that we will briefly discuss. A note on typography: Unfortunately, philosophy.stackexchange doesn't seem to support typesetting mathematics (if there's a way to do it, someone let me know). So assume A_i means A with the subscript i. A_{i+1} means A with the subscript i+1. Types of Infinities Let's examine each of these using the natural numbers, ℕ, and the successor function from Peano Arithmetic: S(n) = n + 1 for all natural numbers n. ∞ can be used to represent any type or size of infinity, and may show up when the context makes it clear which we're dealing with. But there also exist more precise notations, which we'll be using exclusively here. Potential infinity Consider a sequence that has no greatest element, but for which every element is finite. e.g. let A be a sequence such that A_0 = 0 and A_{i+1} = S(A_i). Every A_i is a finite natural number, but there is no greatest element. The elements of A are thus potentially infinite. Actual infinity The set of natural numbers, ℕ. There are actually an infinite number of them, not just an arbitrarily large number. This relates to the potential infinity in that ℕ can be defined as follows: 

You've made a LOT of assumptions in your post, and have a pretty big set of seemingly unexamined presuppositions behind your statements that seem to me to need exposition. 

By saying that the legality of an action is irrelevant to its morality, you claim, unsupported, that morality is entirely detached from legality. This is quite a sweeping assertion! You seem to accept an innate human right to property, and furthermore that depriving a person of property is morally wrong. However, you have adopted a definition of property that is not necessarily justified, something along the lines of, only tangible, macro-size physical objects can be considered property. You insinuate that the small size or general imperceptibility of the foundational existence of a thing renders that thing as not property, or even not real. You offer no support for this definition of property and these additional insinuations. The picture you paint is that if music can be represented by "a handful of electrons"–something clearly of no value to anyone–then the music itself cannot also be valuable. You conflate the state of the world as it is now, with the state of the world if it were populated with only certain kinds of highly remarkable people. This overlooks the fact that value in most cases is determined in context of the whole world. To propose a different world than the real one as the basis for valuation of a thing is at best a simple mistake and at worst dishonest. Think about it! If everyone in the world were an acoustic genius who could instantly copy and masterfully play anything they heard, then music would in fact not be very valuable–correct! But that's not the world we live in, and people far and away cannot do that, so it's not a useful means for determining the value of property. Here is an argument that is equivalent to yours, and perhaps more accessible being so patently incorrect: "If everyone in the world had ten thousand kilograms of gold, then it wouldn't be valuable any more, so it's not wrong to take gold from people, as it's hardly worth anything." Since value is determined in context and not in isolation, your examples of amazing memory and talent proving the lack of an audio recording's value don't work. You are treating actions that can externally and artificially change the landscape of the world en masse (such as video cameras, which are accessible to anyone) with intrinsic internal abilities that are exceptionally rare and not shareable or duplicatable. Yes, there might be someone in the world who possesses the magic ability to exactly copy a Rembrandt painting down to the molecule and do it from the opposite side of the world, yet the morality of him using magic thus just once for his own private viewing cannot at all inform us about the morality of using a machine to make 10 million copies of that same Rembrandt and distributing them, rendering the original almost worthless (and the value of the painting, not just appreciation for art, is a huge part of the owner's pleasure in its possession, especially when he may plan to sell it in the future for consideration close to what it took to acquire in the first place). You're making the unsupported claim that placing technology within one's body turns whatever that technology does into one's private possession and right. That's a real whopper! Your being does not consist of the outlines of your physical body, such that the insertion into your physical body of something makes it an inseparable aspect of your intrinsic, unassailable self! You conflate the ease of copying something with the inverse of its value. At the core of it, you're suggesting that anything which can be represented as information, by virtue of the ability to copy information, cannot be property. In some ways, though, you're really talking about the state of technology, not the true nature of things. Consider: if technology progressed to the point that someone could exactly duplicate your spouse or mother or sister, totally non-invasively, would it then be acceptable for him to viciously torture the duplicate? If you had 3 copies of your spouse around the house and could Ctrl+C Ctrl+V another one any time you liked, would this mean it is not murder for someone to kill one of them? The ability of technology to represent a thing such as music as information has no bearing on the value of a thing or right to possess it, any more than the ability of technology to represent a thing such as a human as information would have any bearing on the right to do anything at all with that information (such as put a copy of your spouse's information online, there to be freely downloaded all over the world, turned back into a human, and mistreated in horrible ways again and again). Framing the issue as "potentially affecting another person's wealth" is the straw man argument. It's just a simple fact that some ways of affecting another person's wealth are clearly immoral, and other ways of affecting another person's wealth are not. Pretending that since the latter is true, the former is not immoral is just an unconvincing lie. 

Which is to say, A contains exactly the same elements as ℕ. The only difference between the sequence and the set is that the sequence is ordered. So it would seem that there isn't an especially meaningful distinction between "potential" and "actual" infinities. But there is a meaningful distinction between the size of A itself and the size of the individual elements of A. And that brings us to the cardinals and ordinals. Cardinals The cardinals are used for counting the number of elements in a set. The standard notation for the size of set A is |A|. The value of |A| is always a cardinal. Cardinals can be finite or infinite. e.g. |{1,2,3}| = 3. If the set is actually infinite, we use the aleph (ℵ) numbers to represent them ℵ_0 is the cardinality of the natural numbers: ℵ_0 = |ℕ|, and is the smallest of the infinite cardinalities. Ordinals The ordinals are used to establish an ordering over a set. The ordinals themselves are fully ordered, and thus if we can establish a one-to-one mapping between any set and the ordinals, we can establish a well-ordering over the set. In the example of A, that involves mapping the subscript to the value of the element. Since A_i = i, that's trivial to do: f(i) = i. For the finite ordinals, we just use the natural numbers, same as for the cardinals, since the context makes it clear whether we're talking about ordinals or cardinals. There are also infinite ordinals, but they work a bit differently from the infinite cardinals, in that they're defined (at least partially) as limits. The first infinite ordinal, ω, is defined as the smallest ordinal that is greater than all the natural numbers. ω is the limit ordinal for the set A: A_i < ω for all i. Summary So we have our set, A, which we can just call ℕ at this point since that's what it is: 

The fact is, you can't enjoy music in your mind without having the digital information required to reproduce it on demand, so all your different ways of saying the same thing about this action being tantamount to the same thing fall flat on their faces as mere wishful thinking. Please note that I have avoided, as far as I can tell, subjective personal opinions on whether stealing information is immoral or not. However, I have used logic to attempt to show you where your reasoning is incorrect or lacks a proper foundation, and globally, or in "developed nations", logic is something of high value. You've come to a philosophy site, and thus ostensibly are looking for reasoned, rational discussion. If you were looking for the irrational, you wouldn't have come here (right?). Now, I've saved what may be the most important thing for last. You speak of morality and immorality, and suggest that the only anchor for these concepts should be the "moral community of today/the world/developed nations". But how can that be of any value to you here? If you personally define morality as that which most people agree with or most people in developed nations agree with, then a philosophy web site dedicated to pursuit of truth is a horrible place to come. Instead, you should visit a site dedicated to polling the greater public. Run a poll on Facebook, "Do you think illegal downloading of music is wrong", and then abide by whichever answer is given by 51% or more of the respondents. My computer is about to run out of battery power, but I will try to return later to provide you with some links that go deeper into the various points I've made.