They show the correct IP address for web02. I also disabled the log limit directive and check /var/log/syslog and /var/log/messages on fs02 and don't see anything pertinent. However, I checked /var/log/messages on web02 and I see this message: 

How can I access this site from my phone? This appears to be a pretty common Apache error message that can be caused by any number of things. I've read many articles about it but haven't been able to resolve the problem. What am I doing wrong? Since I can access the site via my computer browser but not from my phone, I'm thinking perhaps it's an OS X firewall issue. Is there some way I can configure my OS X (Mavericks) firewall so that when I start the Django development webserver, my computer will automatically allow incoming connections and I won't get the pop-up window I described above? I've gone into System Preferences > Security & Privacy > Firewall Options and selected "Allow incoming connections" from the three "python" connections that are shown but I'm still getting the popup window. 

On the one hand, I know Supervisor should only be used on foreground process, which is not the case with this script. On the other hand, I've seen other questions here which seem to imply that you should be able to run a shell script from Supervisor. Thanks for your help. 

When I enter my website's non-SSL URL "cms00.example.com" into my browser, it won't redirect to $URL$ If I enter the HTTP address, I can see the site and if I enter the HTTPS address, I can see the site. I just can't get the redirect from http to https to work. I've read numerous articles on how to do this and tried all the suggestions but my configuration still isn't working. I'm running Apache 2.4.10 on Debian 8, and this is my first time working with Apache. I've run these two commands and verifed that the rewrite and ssl modules have been loaded: 

If you've installed digital certificates on your servers, are there any potential problems when replacing one digital certificate and its key with another? Are there any hidden ramifications? I'm building a website that will hold sensitive data. I have a web server running Nginx, a fileserver that I cross-mount via NFS that serves up static files, and a PostgreSQL database server. Ideally, I'd like to purchase a wildcard certificate with Business/Organization Validation but they're pretty expensive. What I'm thinking of doing instead is purchasing a cert with Domain Validation to start and then figure out how to get SSL running on all three servers. Once I understand that process and start getting customers, I would then replace the DV cert with a BOV cert. What problems, if I, will I encounter if I take this approach? 

Is there some other step I'm not aware of? UPDATE Here are the firewall rules if I run the command "sudo iptables -L -n -v": 

Since server 's only time source is server (which is stratum 3), it should be stratum 4. I believe the manufacturer has hard-coded its stratum level. Is there any way to get my machine to favor the "good" (10.x.x.X) server despite it's higher stratum level? I also tried the directive in my local file, but to no avail, the little black box always wins :/ For what it's worth, my local machine is running Mac OS X 10.6. 

Is it possible to configure to fudge the stratum level of a network source? Upon first glance, I thought the directive could accomplish this, however after browsing the man pages, I found this directive only applies to Reference Clocks. A few details: I have a local server running as the primary time source for clients on the LAN. This server is pointed at the ntp.org pool, and usually maintains a stratum level 3. In addition to my main server, I have a 3rd party network device whose primary job is synchronizing wall clocks wirelessly via. RF transmission. The device's specification says that it is a "RFC2030 compliant Time Server", but otherwise it's pretty much a black box. I have configured the device to use my main server as it's only time source: black box config $URL$ My problem surfaced when I configured on my personal computer to use both my main NTP server, and the wireless transmitter as time sources. When querying my local ntpd, I noticed that the "black box" (10.x.x.Z) was the favored time source: 

I'm recovering from a DNS disaster and I need some good advice on an alternate solution. My company owns a domain name through NetworkSolutions. Our website is hosted by another company who also maintains our DNS records. Our email is hosted by Google Apps, and the MX records are maintained through the afore-mentioned website/DNS host. Yesterday our website/DNS host had a serious hiccup in some software and completely overwrote all of our DNS records with invalid values; successfully pointing our domain and MX records at the wrong servers. Unfortunately the problem wasn't caught soon enough to avoid wide-spread caching of the invalid records. On top of that, it wasn't fixed until several hours later, combine that with a long TTL on the records; we have customers who are still bouncing emails. Anyhow, I am now completely terrified of this company's ability to do a good job, so I am considering switching to NetworkSolutions for our DNS service. I need the ability to configure A, CNAME, MX, and TXT records, preferably with a nice user interface (our current provider has a poor UI and doesn't support TXT records). Is NetworkSolutions a recommended DNS host? I am a little biased in their direction because the service will be free since we already pay them for our domain name. However I'm curious what others have experienced with their service. 

This message repeats every five minutes. I suspect this is the IP address of an earlier build of the file server since I can see it's a linode.com address if I run "whois" on it. But what's more interesting is that if I to a "grep -Rn 45.79.65.48 /etc" I see this address in the /etc/mtab file. I see now that this is the previous file server's IP address since I neglected to unmount the file server's directory before I destroyed and rebuilt the file server. I did "sudo umount -l /var/www/mysite.com" to unmount it. I then did "sudo mount -a" on the web server and now I can see that the file server directory is mounted onto the web server. However, if I re-run "sudo rpcinfo -u fs02 mountd" command on the web server, I still get the "Connection refused" message. I don't see how I can get that message if I'm now seeing the cross-mounted directory. I've been up all night working on this so maybe I'm tired and missing something. 

Should one always use "www" as the prefix to one's official domain name? I will be launching an e-commerce website shortly and my attorney needs to know the official domain name of my site for copyright purposes. Are there any reasons why I should designate it as "www.example.com" as opposed to "example.com"? I've always used "example.com" during development because it was easier to type and I'd have Nginx rewrite all requests for "www.example.com" to "example.com". Should I perhaps say "www.example.com" is the official domain name and reconfigure Nginx to rewrite all requests to "example.com" to "www.example.com"? Thanks! 

I haven't made any modifications to /etc/apache2/apache2.conf and I haven't created any additional .htaccess files. Here is my configuration file: 

I figured it out. The solution is to set "user = root" in the project's Supervisor configuration file. The documentation says, "If supervisord runs as root, this UNIX user account will be used as the account which runs the program." Thus, setting user this way is equivalent to my running the script manually using "sudo." 

I have a Django/Nginx/Gunicorn web server ("web02") and an Nginx file server ("fs02") that is used to store user images. When a user uploads images through the web site, they are saved to the file server via a directory that is cross-mounted from the file server via NFS. I build my servers using an Ansible playbook that provisions each server and then configures the file server first and the web server second. When I initially build my servers, NFS works perfectly. However, if I rebuild and reconfigure just the file server (for example, if it crashes and I need to rebuild and restore it), NFS doesn't work. In that situation my web server is unable to see the exported directory on the file server. I have confirmed this two ways: 

I've solved the problem. Here's what's going on. /etc/apache2/apache2.conf includes a call to any config files that have symlinks in /etc/apache2/sites-enabled. Since there was a symlink in that directory pointing to /etc/apache2/sites-available/000-default.conf, that latter config file was being loaded and it was over-riding the blocks and directives in my vhosts.conf file. Once I deleted that symlink, my vhosts.conf settings were able to take effect. The lesson for me was that any file that has a symlink in sites-enabled will be enabled. 

The 3 machines in different hosting providers are all dedicated machines, one is a VPS, other two are on some cloud platform e.g. VMWare / Xen using some kind of clustered SAN for storage This might be a naive thing to do but here are the results I found. 

Ok, so first off what is the best way to read the figures and are there any issues with really comparing these numbers? Is this in any way a true representation of IO Speed? If not is there any way for me to test that? Note: these 3 machines are using either Ubuntu or Debian (I presume that doesn't really matter) 

I'm trying to pin point what applications are using up my network connection. Is there an app/widget out there that can show me this? I'm aware of net monitor but that doesn't seem to tell me what apps are using what traffic. Ideally what i'd like to see is a bar chart of app usage of net traffic over time. 

I've created my own deb package for Redis 2.6.11 instead of the very old default version for Ubuntu. All works well except when I do an it tries to install what it thinks is the latest version of How can tell the package manager to stick on my custom one and don't refer to default repository for this particular package? Ubuntu 12.04 

I'm scratching my head on this one. Django is installed on my production and dev servers but the live server under not ver heavy load is running extremely slow. Every page is taking more than 30 seconds at times. here is my Apache sites-available/example.com file: 

Not sure what the terminology is for it but on Vim the 'cursor' is always like an insert/replace cursor instead of the blinking line cursor I'm used to in other gui editors. Is there any way to change this when in insert mode? 

I've a Ubuntu webserver with Sendmail as my MTA Currently when i email outside my webserver's domain e.g. example.com to something like gmail or any other email outside the example.com domain it works perfectly. I don't want my sendmail daemon to recognize example.com as a local address I want it to send to example.com the same way any other email is sent. There will never be a case were i will use the local users on the webserver to collect these emails for example.com. So how can I disable local delivery? 

Ok, because of a bunch of projects I'm working on I've access to dedicated Servers on a 3 hosting providers. As an experiment and for educational purposes I decided to see if I could benchmark how good the IO is with each. Bit of research lead me to Bonnie++ So I installed it on the server and ran this simple command 

I have 2 straight forward websites I want to host. example1.com and example2.org This server was originally set up by someone else and example1.com works as expected. So my task is to add example2.org to the server. I create a basic index.html test page in C:\www\example2 add a virtual host record to httpd-vhosts.conf and for test purposes add a 127.0.0.1 example2.org to my hosts file so I can test locally. This all worked as expected and I can view example2.org which shows my test html file. The problem is... when the DNS propagated it shows the example1.com site when I go to example2.org from anywhere but the local windows server. I'm completely baffled as to why this is happening? Any ideas? At what point does apache read in outside connections differently to local ones?