You're reading Descartes out of context; he doesn't just say "cogito ergo sum" and go home, he says it in the course of an argument. I'm not going to rehearse all of the steps of the argument here-- the Meditations on First Philosophy are readily available, and easy to read-- but in broad strokes, he's asking: what do we know indubitably? Is there any kind of knowledge that it is impossible to doubt? For example, I see the cup on the table in front of me, but when I am dreaming, I often see cups? Can I be certain, beyond any shadow of a doubt, that I am not dreaming now? No, he argues-- sense perception can be doubted. But, can I doubt that I exist? Doubt is a form of thinking, and if I am thinking, I indubitably exist. Thus, no matter what else I doubt, I cannot doubt that I exist. Whether I am a bat or a person is not really relevant to the problem; if bats are capable of doubting their existence, they fall under the cogito. (If they're not, then the issue doesn't come up for them-- Descartes is not aiming to investigate bat epistemology.) I suggest you read the Meditations; they are fascinating, and brief, and a wide variety of secondary literature exists to help you along the way. And, what's more, Descartes published a number of responses to objections from his contemporaries, so we can see exactly how we would respond to a number of possible refutations. 

Wittgenstein's arguments about Gödel's Incompleteness Theorem are found in his Lectures on the Foundations of Mathematics. There have been several recent papers trying to assess Wittgenstein's comments; for example, here and here. Are you finding the arguments in these sources unclear? 

Actually, it doesn't. The case of an infant seeing itself in a mirror is used as an exemplary case of self-recognition; Lacan posits that all children pass through this stage of self-recognition, as reflected (primarily) in the mother as primary caregiver. Clearly, for blind infants, this would occur in some other register within what Lacan calls the perception-consciousness system. Similarly, Freud (to the best of my knowledge) does not explicitly describe the dreams of blind people in The Interpretation of Dreams; this omission does not imply that blind people are lacking the unconscious drive for wish-fulfillment, etc. 

In order for that to be an example of Occam's razor, we'd need two competing explanations for the same phenomenon. That's not the case here. 

The phrase "if and only if" is used rarely in daily English; it tends to be used only for emphasis, or to avoid an otherwise unavoidable ambiguity. When it is used, it has the same meaning as the mathematical/logical usage. To summarize: "if and only if" is always a biconditional, both in mathematical/logical usage and plain English usage; "if" can be a biconditional in plain English usage, depending on context, but not in mathematical/logical usage. 

This is correct. A standard (deductive) syllogism moves from the general to the specific. In this case, the argument is structured inductively: that we should induce the general rule from the specific case. If you are using this textbook for a course, I'd talk to your instructor. If you're studying on your own, I'd look for a better text. 

This does not appear to be a kōan at all, but merely a story. The moral of the story is clear, but if you would like it spelled out, the master is saying (through his actions) that it is time for the disciple to stop following the master around, but to go off and learn on his own. 

Note that Descartes distinguishes between thoughts and doubts, so the word thoughts is used in a somewhat more limited fashion than the arbitrary subject matter of thinking. That is, one can think thoughts and one can think doubts, which Descartes treats as quite separate categories. (This might be considered a fallacy in itself today.) After several iterations, Descartes is left with untrusted thoughts (or doubts as your quote has it). But even though those thoughts were untrusted, their existence could not be denied (i.e. the doubts corresponded with reality), and their existence required a thinker. Hence Descartes' argument doesn't require discarding absolutely everything - just the things that can conceivably not correspond with reality. 

I'll take your question to be asking for the flaws in the linked argument to moderation. The 'middle ground' needs to be evaluated on its own merits. It's not a priori a good solution or a bad solution simply because it is the middle ground. More generally, if the values at the ends are comparable in the context of a partial ordering, the value of the middle could be argued to lie between them. That is, if there is a metric by which the 'worst' solution is measurably worse than the 'best' solution, a 'moderate' solution would by definition be measurably 'sandwiched' between them. If the values at the ends are not comparable (in that same sense), or if there's no agreement on the overall metric to use, then they are not truly 'ends', but simply alternatives in some solution space for which no metric has been imposed. In that case, a 'middle' or compromise might well have better utility - or worse. In the information-misinformation example you raise, one end is considered to be the only answer. There, it isn't simply that the middle is no good - it's that except for the single accepted answer, every answer is no good. 

It's not always the case that the natural-language pattern B causes A translates fully to the logic statement B -> A. But if we accept the mapping for sake of discussion, then the deductive step itself is simply taking the contrapositive and therefore sound: B -> A, therefore !A -> !B. The problem with the two natural-language examples in your question is that in each case, "A occurs because B causes it" hasn't been established. It is simply assumed, and a conclusion is derived from that assumption. Let X = "B causes A" and Y = "!A -> !B". Then the argument is "X, therefore Y". But since X and Y are logically equivalent, if someone doesn't already accept Y then it makes for a weak argument to prove Y by simply assuming X. In your examples, if the statements of causation aren't already accepted as axiomatically true, then they don't help establish the respective deductions. 

Each model necessarily has its own set of abstractions. Conclusions that are consistent with each model don't necessarily have to be consistent across models. For example, the strings model may not encode the concept of colour, and a static model may not encode the concept of growth or change. Nevertheless, since the models are non-destructive descriptions of the tree, they can co-exist. So to your question of whether the various 'beings' can simultaneously be valid, I'd answer that yes, they can be simultaneously valid, but any conclusions must reference the respective model(s) from which they were derived. For example, if one synesthesist calls the tree colour 6 and another 7, the numbers are relative to the respective synesthesists.