Source: Cold War International History Project / Wilson Center Analytics says the following about the letter and Oppenheimer - Jerrold Schecter, a historian and journalist, writes this: 

1. Is superglue safe for sealing wounds? As to current status of the component for surgical use (in USA): 

As a (secret at the time) member of the Communist Party in USA (other references here) and considering his scientific platform, it is highly likely that he at least was being approached by recruiters from KGB (GRU). If he eventually passed secrets to the Russians and became a spy, only the Russians would know as there exist no available evidence of such. A letter from Boris Merkulov (USSR People’s Commissar for State Security) to Lavrenty Beria (USSR People’s Commissar for Internal Affairs), 2 October 1944 states: 

Lead in paint was banned from household paint from 1978 (16 Code of Federal Regulations 1303) in the US (other years for other countries). For lead in plumbing - California enacted laws in January 2009 that increase public protection from exposure to lead in drinking water. The laws reduce the amount of lead allowed in plumbing components intended to convey or dispense water for human consumption. Source: $URL$ However, EPA writes the following regarding lead in drinking water: 

In a footnote, Weinstein and Vassiliev cite an unpublished KGB document as the source for their conclusion: "File 25748, Vol. 2, pp. 116, 148". Gregg Herken, a historian and curator at the Smithsonian Institution and author of "Brotherhood of the Bomb, conclude in his comment: 

I have heard that it is possible to unlock a car using the remote key-fob over a cell phone network. Scenario: Adam locks his keys in his car. He uses his cell phone to call his wife, Betty, who is at home with a cell phone. Adam holds his cell phone close to the car while Betty holds the spare remote close to her cell phone and pushes the UNLOCK button. Will this unlock the car door? 

Conclusion: While dog saliva has been shown to be bactericidal against Escherichia coli and Streptococcus canis, it is only slightly so again two specific bacteria. No research was found supporting the hypothesis that cat saliva has any similar qualities. There is much more evidence that suggests that dog and cat saliva applied to an open wound can transmit more bacteria than it will kill. My advice: wash your hands thoroughly with soap after playing with your pets. 

It depends on the particular illness. With some diseases you can spread (be contagious) before symptoms appear, others you don't become contagious until after the symptoms appear. Viruses and bacteria have evolved to reproduce and migrate in different ways. Some spread by contact and can survive in open air for a long time--these could possibly live on external skin or be on kitchen counters, desks, pens, pencils, etc. and be transported to a new host when the new host comes in contact with the infected area. These are probably also most likely to spread before a host shows symptoms. Other types require a moist environment to survive and cannot exist in dry, open air. These would need to be spread via bodily fluids (saliva, sperm, blood, etc.) and are often spread through coughing or sneezing--hence the symptoms are there in order allow the organism to spread to a new host. 

In other words, it is presented in a similar way to homeopathy. The concept of "good wine" seems to be very individual (I like wines which would be an abomination to others) and classification highly subjective (for lack of quantifiable reference) so I was wondering to what extend oenology is something more than a circle of reciprocal adoration and more like a quantifiable exercise. EDIT: I am not asking whether the concept exists (it does) or whether it is studied (it is). This does not make it a scientific (reproducible, measurable) activity where people objectively decide whether a wine is good or not. To take an analogy - painting is a completely subjective area. It is studied and people learn how to draw. This allows them to move from a stick figure to a realistic portrait. It does not mean that there is an objective classification of good and bad art, this is purely a biased decision of an individual or a group group with their own preferences. Oenology is seen as a "science", that is a place where you can objectively decide about the quality of a wine, by tasting it. The competition is not done with a chromatograph but with someone who takes a sip, looks at the wine and says "this one is better than this other one". 

I am French so oenology is obviously a big thing here. I then read from time to time that it is, generally speaking, a scam - "scam" being defined in various ways: 

A peer-reviewed paper by Andrey Korotayev and Sergey Tsirel (PDF) (permalink) claims that spectral analysis of the available data supports Kondratiev's hypothesis. In addition to Kondratiev's original three cycles (1790-1844, 1844-1890, 1890-?) Korotoyev and Tsiral complete the date for the end of the third cycle and add two more cycles (1890-1939, 1939-1984, 1984-?), providing about 4 1/2 complete cycles for analysis. Korotoyev and Tsiral also found other shorter-term cycles within the data; Juglar cycles with a period of 7-9 years and Kitchin cycles with a period of 3-4 years. Their analysis also indicates that the Kuznet cycles, with a period of about 17 years, should be considered a third-wave harmonic of the Kondratiev wave (K-wave) and not as a separate, independent cycle. The paper admits that before 1870 there was no detectable K-wave in the global economy, but that K-waves are discernable in "Western" economics. [My own hypothesis of this is that global capitalism and logistics was not mature enough to allow K-waves to exist at that level. Additionally, independent economies could theoretically experience cycles that were out-of-phase with each other, thereby reducing or negating the global scale K-wave cycle.] While an analysis like this does not prove conclusively that Kondratiev was exactly correct, it does provide strong statistical support that the phenomenon exists. This analysis also cannot predict if the lengths of the various cycles will remain relatively constant or if some unforeseen events could cause them to change significantly.