OK, now that I'm looking at the spreadsheet again, and the fact that this is a whole day's worth of food, I can make a few suggestions: 

The first question is where is the bar? The single most common problem I see with people squatting is placing the bar right on the back of the neck. The neck is not designed to handle all the weight, but your back is. In fact, it's much more comfortable to have the bar on your back without any padding or towels than it is to have it on your neck. This common problem is many times caused by personal trainers. I know the PT I had told me to do it wrong. Take a look at Mark Rippetoe's platform on bar position and determine if you have the bar too high. Also I do recommend learning to squat with free weights instead of the smith machine. Take some time to look at the ExRx.net article on squats if you are nervous about them. 

That will help fuel your exercise better. Carbs are pretty important to keep your energy up so you aren't digging a deeper fatigue hole than you need to. Next, choose your activities. I highly recommend doing some strength training and some cardiovascular work. Done intelligently, they can help each other out. 

You can get a starter set of weights with an Olympic bar and 300lbs (136kg) of weights for around $300 USD. The standard set includes: 

I find it much easier to keep the weight over your center of gravity, which will be your major limitation on using a backpack to weight the squats. Should you ever want to venture into barbell exercises, these are an excellent preparatory exercise. Some variations to increase difficulty is to perform pause squats of varying lengths. For example pause for 3 seconds at the bottom before coming back up. Pistol squats are very good, but they require a lot of coordination and mobility to perform. I do think it's worthwhile to develop the skill to do pistol squats, but the goblet squats will help you get the work in while you develop that skill. They can also be yet another variation once pistols are at the same place that bodyweight squats are (goblet pistols). 

I know someone who recently used the cyclic ketogenic diet to get good results. Based on his experience, and some of the other experiences I've read who used the approach, it's important to set your expectations appropriately. 

You have to factor in recovery time, which really depends on how much volume you are doing, and your ability to recover. A beginner recovers pretty quickly, but that is because they can't get the same volume as a very strong intermediate lifter (someone who can squat 1.5x body weight to full parallel). Lastly, you have to make sure you do these lifts correctly or you will get injured. If you do half squats or anything less than the full range of motion (ROM) you are setting yourself up for injury at a later point. If you don't perform the steps of the deadlift correctly you can injure your back. Yet, they are very powerful lifts. Even if it's not your goal, you won't be able to help getting stronger doing these lifts. Your program can work as long as you have a full day of rest between each workout. Other than your forearms, neither lift works the arms appreciably. NOTE: regarding the question of them stimulating arm growth, I don't think that they do. Your muscles respond to stress that you put on them, and neither lift stresses the arms that much. 

You'd be surprised by what your body can handle on a mild calorie deficit. If you aim for losing at a pace of roughly 1 lb a week (0.5 kg / week), you might not have to change anything. The biggest challenge will be ensuring you don't fatigue too quickly to accomplish the work set out for you. If you find that being the case, then I would alter your set/rep/weight schemes. An example is to work like this: 

The concept of using bands and chains with any lift is to make the lift more difficult at lockout. That's fine if lockout is actually your sticking point, which is often the case if you use powerlifting gear like squat/deadlift suits or bench shirts. For many people who don't use powerlifting gear, the most difficult part after getting the bar off the floor is getting it past the knees. Bands force you to work harder through that range than if they weren't there. 

According to the Exercise Prescription (ExRx.net) site, there are a few exercises and stretches you can do. Testing: 

The high fiber carb sources are low density foods, so they fill up your stomach without packing in a lot of calories. That helps with satiety, and it can also help with adherence to the diet because you don't feel quite as deprived. Last point is that it is possible to go too low in calories. In at least one study there was a statistically significant population who's metabolism slowed down to the point where they barely lost any weight on the protocol they were testing. The remainder lost weight in accordance with the calories in/calories out balance. Slow and steady fat loss always wins over crash diets. If you cut out too much, you may be undermining your own success. 

Don't over think it. If you aren't getting bigger, eat more. If you are gaining too much fat, dial it back a bit. Most folks I know that started with a low body weight took a lot more food than they or anyone else might have thought to get bigger. I can't give you exact numbers. The calculators provide estimates. Just eat and adjust the diet from there. Strength Goals In short, yes, they are unrealistic. You want a deadlift that is 3x your body weight, and at 159lbs that is 477lbs. At 185lbs that would be 555lbs. I've been lifting seriously for about 2 years, and while I'm not young, it took me about that long to hit about 500lbs deadlift, and my lean body mass is roughly your target total body weight. It's tempting to plug in the numbers and fantasize over how long you can go without failing (in the sense of Starting Strength). My suggestion to you is to forget about targets and schedules and just do the program and see how far you get. If you start with just an empty bar on most of the exercises, it might take you upwards of 3 months to get to the point where you are stalling more often than you are progressing. If you start with more weight, that time could get shorter. Bottom line is you will get stronger. You will put on muscle. But once you hit the end of Starting Strength, which even Rippetoe will tell you doesn't last forever, you'll have to find a new way to train to keep progressing and getting stronger. A lot of people switch to Texas Method which is very flexible. That gives you weekly or biweekly increases. I can't tell you what you should expect at the end of it. I can tell you that I got to about a 300lbs squat at 250lbs before I had to switch off of Starting Strength. You might not get that high. You might even get higher, particularly since you are trying to increase your body weight a lot more than I was. Just take time to look back, appreciate the journey, and then keep pressing forward. 

I don't have a whole lot of immediate help for you, but the bench you linked to has a couple of design flaws that will make unracking the bar more difficult: 

If you want to increase your overall time under load (which based on other posts of yours is a strong possibility), this would be a good time to increase the weight. That way, on your low energy days you'll already have built the base to keep the higher weights. 

Now, I specifically left out carbs and starchy vegetables like potatoes and corn. The reason is you will be getting more than your share of these at either breakfast or dinner. Additionally if you overdo quickly processed carbs (like pizza crust, french fries, or corn pudding), you might be overcompensating with your insulin levels and be left a little hypoglycemic. The goal here is to provide energy without overloading the digestive system. 

One example where muscle imbalances can cause problems is with tendinitis. If you do a lot of work on your triceps and don't do a lot for your biceps (or vice-versa), you can develop tendinitis in your elbows. If you can't do pull ups, you may consider doing curls to help balance the strength in the arms. 

Get used to saying "Don't finish it in butter" when you go out. Get used to saying no to carbs until you reach your goal weight. I've answered why this works several times before. If you go to my profile and look at the answers I've given, you'll understand a whole lot more. 

Fat is not as harmful to weight loss as carbs (in my experience), so if you need something crazy for a snack it's better to have a handful of mixed nuts than a brownie. 

General Creatine Facts NOTE: some of them don't line up with Eric Kaufman's answer, but check the examine.com article I linked to for the list of studies they looked through to compile that information. 

The approach above is similar in spirit to SL and SS, but the work is spread out and incorporates circuit training after the main lift. With the circuit training, wait until your heart rate gets down to about 120 BPM before starting the next super-set. If you need a breather between each exercise (something I need at over 40 years old) then wait till the heart rate goes down to about 150 BPM before starting the next exercise. The assistance exercises listed above are more guidelines. Feel free to change out parts or add an exercise or two to build up weaknesses. Just focus on higher reps and lighter weights with the assistance work and don't increase weight on them until what you are using just feels too light all the time. The rough outline I gave you is more focused on building strength and cardio using barbells/dumbbells/machines, etc. If one of the exercises proves too difficult (like pull ups) feel free to substitute for something that hits the same muscle groups or do partials or use assistance. Your approach to training will evolve over time, particularly as you change the focus of your training. The outline I gave is also centered around the power lifting focus that SL/SS both employ. If you want to incorporate work that's inspired by a different strength sport, feel free. The only caveat is that the main exercises should be compound lifts that work the whole body if possible. If you want to substitute the military press instead of bench press, there is no harm or foul. If you are fatigued one day, cut down on the reps for the assistance work but try to keep the main work the same. If the fatigue is really bad, drop the assistance work altogether. 

The choice really is up to the person exercising. Sometimes the person can feel better after exercise, and sometimes worse. Be understanding, and if they tell you it's enough, respect that. 

It's very possible that your bench isn't going to go up linearly any longer. As you grow out of the beginner programs this is what happens. The solution isn't adding new things, it's changing the way you program your bench. I'll write up more on that in just a moment. The best raw bench instructional series I've read was Paul Carter's Developing Your Raw Bench: