Again, in each of these things, the point of effective communication is this simple - Focus on the recipient, not yourself. The best communication has a hint of yourself but is made concrete in a way that says "You are the most important recipient of this." 

The only "bad" answer here is to use generic adjectives that don't set you apart or boring, vapid ones that say "He's a muggle." (Obviously, you don't want to get too wild and wooly - "hard-drinking, life of the party, etc..." But an interesting adjective has a lot to commend itself.) Oh, and you don't need 5 - you just need one really, really good one. (And 4 backups, in case you don't wow them on the first.) Everybody is "smart," "hard-working," and "creative." If you choose interesting adjectives and can back them up this is an opportunity to set you apart. 

You should first order your preferences. If they say no to full-time, is your next best option to take their part-time offer? or would you subsiquently not choose them at all? This could have a large impact on how you should present your request. Sounds like there are a number of questions about the internship like how many of their interns turn into full-time, which you might want to fill in by talking with them in more detail. You should figure out which questions you need to ask and what answers you need to hear to prefer it. If you would only choose them as full-time, there is no reason to beg or demand or bring in emotion in anyway. You can simply state in a matter of fact way that if the company was able to offer you a full-time position, it would be your top choice, but that you're primarially interested in full-time, so if they couldn't you will select one of your other full time offers. If you're going to choose them either way you can still request a full-time offer, but perhaps just tell them that the company is your first choice but that you're weighing it against other full-time offers and if they also offered full-time it would make your decision much easier. You should collect your thoughts about the questions you want to ask about the internship that would impact your decision, the answers you would want to hear, and the responses you would give in each situation, like my above example responses. Then take care of all of them in one phone call where you can get your answers as well as make the full-time request with the appropriate force. 

Its a classic question of specialization. I have a great deal of Lotus Notes experience - a technology that is greatly loved by a very small community and pretty well dismissed by everyone else. If I chose to headlight those skills, I could get jobs very, very easily in a very, very small pond. As the number of people with that expertise dwindles, it becomes more and more lucrative for the few people still using it - but it limits you at the same time. The question you have to ask yourself is whether or not you want to play that game or play the game of being the best on a wide range of new technologies. In other words, are you going to go broad or go deep. Going Broad has the advantage of allowing you to advance in terms of leadership (if not necessarily salary) and in my case, helps me to sleep at night, knowing that when the last Lotus Notes shop moves to something else, I don't have a massive retraining. (And no, I haven't used my Lotus Notes background for about 3 years now). On the other hand, if you like to stay put and go deep on one thing, you could do a lot worse than VB6. Sure, its nearing EOL, but as recently as 2009, 87% of companies were still using it. There will be VB6 apps around for a long time, in the same way COBOL is still out there. Will you have the pick of jobs anywhere? No. But will you have security? Sure. 

You should immediately inform BOTH B and C about the situation. It might make you look good to B and they might rush. It shouldn't hurt you to tell C and they might give you the time you want. When you tell C just say you have another company you're waiting on another offer and its details in order to make the best decision and would like some additional time. I wouldn't tell them that you prefer B. Perhaps contact B first so you can see if you can get a sense of timing to provide to C. Many companies will be pretty accommodating (will rush or give you time at your request) for candidates with multiple offers because those are generally the best candidates. If it comes down to the wire and you only have an offer from C it is a personal decision and could burn some bridges depending on how you handle it. 

Really it matters less whether you use past or present tense than if you are consistent in your use of the same tense. As an advertisement for your services, a resume is just a document that highlights things about you, such as your attention to detail. The old advice about "always use past tense" is more about looking consistent and "style guide correct" than anything else. If only to show your new employer that you are already in the mindset of working for them, I would suggest being consistent in the past tense- but only to the extent that it seems natural. I doubt anyone reading the resume will even notice what you do there. 

Rather than faking work experience, a better tack would be to make relevant experience. During periods of unemployment, there are usually volunteer projects that can be found which can fill in the gaps. During a period while I was waiting for clearance, for example, I did some freelance programming for Prison Fellowship. I made my own "company" hired myself, and did freelance volunteer projects. It wasn't paid work, but it was real work - and yes, it is on my resume under "Self-Employment" Pretty much as long as you are doing something, you can call it experience. Indeed, even if you try your hand at coding a project and launching it into the world, that's self-employment. Don't lie - you will be found out. And, you can be fired for lying. But you can hire yourself and use that time to fill in the gaps. 

Transparent salaries means both the decision makers and the top earners will face more scrutiny. This creates an incentive to justify the salaries with more objective measures, which aren't necessarily better measures. One of the easiest default objective measures that will end up having a more weight in a transparent salaried company is years working for the company. Salaries will also likely become less extreme, and more people will get closer to the average. Any parts of performance that aren't objective will simply get less weight in the equation because they are hard to justify so make everyone uncomfortable. This means that exceptional and young employees working in fields where performance is mostly subjective will end up making less at a companies with transparent salaries, so they may just go elsewhere, but older worse employees will stick around. Even if the salary setters were stubborn and ignored their incentive to lean more towards easy to justify objective measures and paid everyone simply based on their best subjective measure of performance, it'll likely make the top performers uncomfortable making more than everyone else but not being able to objectively justify themselves either. You see this effect in Sweden where all tax returns are public and people make much closer to the median salary. 

What you value in yourself How well you can describe a situation using a few words How quickly you think on your feet. 

Print out this question Tape it to his monitor after he goes home Buy a package of "Bean-o" Let shame do its thing. 

Remember that your resume will probably find its way past a parser at some point. As such, adding a section like this - and making it as complete as possible - is only a help to you! Obviously, if you include a "buzzword" you should be able to back it up in an interview, but including the concept on the resume prevents the parser from denying you that interview in the first place. 

Wear the tie. If the environment is such that it is inappropriate, you can always take it off. Indeed, the act of taking it off can even signal that you feel relaxed, and non-verbally cues others to this fact. If you take the tie, you can remove it. If you don't take the tie, it looks silly to be putting it on if you feel you need it. On sales calls, even if I suspect the environment is casual, I always aim for one notch above. You never know when you will need it, and you can always kick it back. It is harder to kick it up...