The first thing to note is that depending on the range of the cassette, you may need a different derailleur. Derailleurs come in different cages (short, medium and long - these are marked SS, GS, SGS respectively). These set your chain wrap capacity (and usually tell you what the largest sprocket you can run in the back is), and you can use a longer cage derailleur with a larger cassette (there is no harm in running a longer cage derailleur than you need, other than looking less cool). Luckily, if your derailleur can't take a larger cog in the back, you can just drop in another derailleur from either the road or mountain group of the same manufacturer (for example, if you're running Shimano, you can put a nice Deore SGS 9 speed rear derailleur on if you need a larger cog in the back and your current can't take it). As for the smallest cog in the back, most people don't use it. It would be good if you specify what kind of spacing your current cassette has. I think for most people who aren't racing, the spacing of cassette that comes on touring bikes is probably adequate (e.g. Shimano HG-50 11-32), and just dealing with it. However, the spacing is probably too big for your liking. Here is a list of cassettes - I think the "Harris Century Special" (a custom cassette) looks good, but it is pricey. Also, Sheldon has a gearing calculator so you can put in some cadence you try to maintain and see what kind of speeds you hit at that cadence - the drop down has a set of standard cassettes. As one of the comments says though, you may want to try changing your chainring spacing instead. 

Looks like a Shimano SPD pedal (Shimano PD M-545 maybe?) -- normally these say Shimano on them somewhere in the cleat area, so look for a marking on them. You can take the bike to the shop with you when you go to try cycling shoes (which you'll have to try in person) since they size in stupid ways. Then you'll easily be able to verify that its a SPD cleat. 

As for why derailleurs break on the road, I'd say wearing out, being out of adjustment, bent or taking an impact would be reasonable causes. One can avoid some of these by not putting the bike derailleur side down and avoiding impacts to the derailleur. 

Depends on the tires. A larger slick tire can be better on pavement than a smaller knobby tire. Unless you're a racer, you probably won't see a penalty with buying a bike that ships with 25 mm tires vs 32 mm tires in performance; in fact, you'd probably get a bit more comfort out of it (bikes designed for bigger tires generally tend to be more comfortable as well). Note that there are other factors which go into which bike to pick, and the best way is to get a test ride in conditions you'd ride in. That being said, walking paths near canals tend to be pretty smooth typically, so I wouldn't fret on a road bike. (*) There are obviously other issues to tires for heavy loads; a tougher built bike is better in this case, particularly high spoke and well built wheels. 

If the Shimano freewheel didn't fit, it means that your bike uses French threading for the freewheel (which isn't surprising given that it has a Maillard freewheel; the other non-bmx standards are interchangable). You're basically out of luck and need a new wheel (or at least new hub). Depending on the hub, you may have to re-space the frame(*), since 6 speed likely means 126 mm rear spacing, where a newer hub would be 130 or 135 mm. This isn't difficult, and a shop that has a decent amount of clients with older bikes should be able to do this easily. You can also still find 126 mm wheels on the market if you look (Velo Orange still sells them, for example), so you wouldn't need to respace the frame. Or, you can respace it yourself. But this is the way I'd go. (*) Assuming its steel, which given the age, it probably is. 

The bike is made by Univega and probably has a freewheel. If the pedaling motion still works, I'd guess your freewheel is shot (the thing that the gears are on in the back). You have to remove it with a freewheel remover and put on a new one. This requires a freewheel remover tool and a large wrench or vise, so you might want to take it to a shop and let them check it over and swap the freewheel out. 

It sounds like the bike is in pretty bad shape if someone drove a car or truck over it to bend the frame. I'd probably opt for getting another whole bike. Moving components to a new frame may require some specialized tools and is likely not cost effective except for high end parts (usually otherwise, reselling the bike is a better idea, but in this case it sounds unethical). I'd donate the old bike to a bike charity (someone who is aware of bike safety), let them strip the parts they can use and dispose of the rest. As for bike upkeep, on most bikes (and cars and what not), you spend more than the bike costs over the lifetime on repairs and upkeep. If you buy a 500 dollar bike, you'll be spending maybe 50 dollars every 5000 miles on new cassette + chain, so at 50k miles, you've spent 500 dollars on that alone (disregarding tires, lubricants, possibly new shifters, saddle, brakes, etc.). 

Putting 500 dollars into a Specialized Sirrus is insane, unless you have one of the top end ones which are well over 1000 dollars. I'd say that you need a different bike shop to tune it up -- 210 lbs should not be a problem on a hybrid like the Sirrus, and all of them from the Sport Disc upward are spec'd with decent components for commuting. If you were to be willing to spend 500 dollars though, I'd sell the Sirrus and get something else. Also read this on troubleshooting bike noises -- since a bike is made out of tubes, its pretty hard actually to figure out where exactly a noise is coming from. 

That being said, is it worth it? Look at the clubs in your area and look at how much they're charging. If it makes sense to you, you may want to go for it. If not, don't. A lot of clubs are only 15-20 dollars a year, some will be good, some will be bad. Some will be more expensive, and some will be free, depending on how much they're providing and what not. The best thing to figure out to avoid or join a club is to talk to cyclists in your area -- you may want to visit bike shops you trust and talk to the staff there, and other cyclists you know in the area. If you're new in the area, you may have some work to do in this regard. 

Lower gearing (or gearing in general) is generally more important than the bike weight for climbing (for most riding as well, sans high level racing). Both of the gear choices are pretty low and you'd need a pretty steep hill (or towing a lot of cargo) in order to need the lower gear over the slightly higher lower gear. As Criggie points out, there are other factors to consider other than weight -- ergonomics, build quality, etc. which can have a more profound effect on how you ride. A difference of 2.5 pounds is easily within the fluctuation range of your weight over the course of a few days, and is likely on the order of a percent or two of the total bike+rider weight anyway so you can basically ignore it. As the comments say, you can switch your gearing in the back fairly easily, but this may require a new derailleur depending on capacity and cog size limits and a new chain (this is a relatively easy replacement). Note that you have to give something up for a fixed number of cogs and different gearing combinations (such as the spacing between shifts, max or min gear). So, if the largest cog is 32 in one case and 28 in the other and they have the same smallest cogs, you'll likely have bigger spacings between shifts on the larger cog one. Ideally, you'd try them out and see what you like better. 

It depends on the bike. If you're commuting on a race bike, you'll be more hunched over than if you were commuting on a cruiser. A lot of people use road bikes in NYC, which force you to be more hunched over than on something like a citibike. The parts of the bike which contribute to the hunched over ness is primarily the top tube length (the top bar on a standard diamond frame), the stem reach, the handlebars, saddle height and saddle position. The best position is something that works for you - you can do your commute comfortably and arrive in reasonable shape (not drenched in sweat for example). As a former NYC'er, old road bikes are relatively cheap to get in the area but I'd feel more alert on a flat bar hybrid (provided I could take it into my office, since the likelihood of something getting stolen in NYC is pretty high). Rack mounts are generally useful, and since NYC gets rain, fenders are too.