I am trying to troubleshoot locking behavior and the READ_COMMITTED_SNAPSHOT isolation level while attempting to resolve concurrency issues. Background: Assume an online ordering system (ecommerce). Product price changes are calculated minimum monthly, and this results in around 600,000 records that must be changed in the database. When posting the price change updates to the database (SQL Server 2008R2 Web Edition) the site becomes unusable due to the significant levels of locking in the primary ProductDetails table when using READ_COMMITTED transaction isolation level. To resolve this, READ_COMMITTED_SNAPSHOT is enabled, however other transactions are still being blocked during the price updates. Investigation of sys.dm_tran_locks shows the blocked session is caused by a waiting Sch-S lock. As I understand it, Sch-S locks (schema stability) are taken while a schema-dependent query is being compiled and executed (aren't they all schema-dependent?). But sys.dm_tran_locks also shows a series of Sch-M locks (schema modification), which are not compatible with any outside operations per BOL. I assume this is caused by the fact that the 3rd party tool used to replicate data changes drops foreign keys during the update process and recreates them after the update is completed. And so, in spite of READ_COMMITTED_SNAPSHOT, other queries are still blocked, not by the update, but by the Sch-M locks cause by the changes to foreign key relationships. This theory was confirmed by eliminating the setting that dropped/recreated the foreign keys. Now the update process no longer takes Sch-M locks (sys.dm_tran_locks only shows X, IX, S locks), and other transactions are not blocked from using the version store to satisfy their queries. However, when executed using this process, the price changes take approx 1 hour to process (vs. 1-2 minutes) and sys.dm_tran_locks shows the transaction taking almost 90,000 different locks, compared to around 100-150 when foreign keys were being dropped/recreated. Can anyone explain this behavior and offer suggestions on how concurrency could be maintained without exponentially increasing the maintenance time for price changes? 

I have recently started using the dba_indexDefrag_sp stored procedure from SQL Fool ($URL$ against my production databases running on SQL Server 2012 (Standard 64-bit). When I execute the procedure I use all of the default settings, the only parameter I provide is the @database, which I use to pick out the active databases which need maintenance - for example: 

I have now sorted out the disk space issue and have re-run the full backup successfully, but I remain concerned about the log item above which references F:\sql\log because the machine does not have an F: drive at all, just a C: and an M: drive. It does appear that the 'Could not generate mail report' issue is related but again this error is a bit odd; I am receiving emails when the various jobs complete and I was alerted to the disk space error via an email, so I wonder why an error is logged if the email was sent successfully? I've dug through the SQL Server, SQL Agent, Database Mail and the maintenance plan configurations but I can find nothing which is set to F:\sql\log and so I have no idea why the maintenance plan is trying to write to that path, or why it is logging an error when email is sent successfully. Can anyone help me to work out how to resolve this? Thanks for any assistance. 

I have a SQL Server 2012 maintenance plan which backs up all of the databases. Today I had an issue with a failed backup which I was able to resolve by viewing the detail in the 'Log File Viewer' through SSMS: 

General setup I'm using the following script to setup a publisher, distributor, subscriber on the same server, create a source and destination database and a table with 10k rows and a publication and subscription for this table. I'll use this setup for the next tests: 

It seems as if the Windows OS Scheduler tries to divide the load across both cores by alternating the task between cores. Set the processor affinity explicitly to use all cores. From a SQL cpu perpective everything is still the same. SQL Server still has goth both vCPUs are both usable. 

You could initial load it in simple model. (as long as the load by itself isn't a multi step process where you want to be able to do a point in time restore). Now after the load, it could be that your logfile has grown quite a bit if you had a long running transaction regardless of being in simple model. You can then shrink the log file. Then you need to size the log file. A good starting point would be to check your largest table. If your in full recovery model, you'll need at least as much transaction log file space as your largest table. Since when you do regular index mantainance and you do a rebuild, the transaction log generated by the rebuild is about as much as your table. So sizing for your bigest table is a good start. However, you'll see over time if your transaction record rate compared to your log backup frequency is making hte log file grow or not. You can either ajust the size of your log file or the frequency of your log backups. Sizing up front is important. Having the file auto grow is a huge performance penalty, since the log file needs to be zero initialised. Remember, it always autogrows at the moment you are doing transactions, the transaction log writing is synchronous, so waiting for the autogrowth to finish is a direct wait on all pending transactions. Then the auto grow option is also bad for the internal layout of your log file. see: $URL$ and: $URL$ so properly sizing it up front will be best. 

I have had no issues with this trigger since implemented months ago. However, now it appears to be preventing even a sysadmin from executing an ALTER LOGIN, DROP LOGIN, etc. under certain circumstances as follows: My environment also includes MS Dynamics GP 2010 (Great Plains). Great Plains allows an admin to manage users, and for each new Great Plains user, the software creates a SQL login for that user in SQL Server. Resetting a password in the Great Plains interface resets the SQL password. And so forth... However, even if logged into Great Plains as 'sa' as long as the above trigger is enabled any attempt to alter or drop a login fails with error 15151 (Cannot alter the login 'loginname', because it does not exist or you do not have permission). If I disable the trigger, everything works normally. The same operations executed in SSMS, or through some other interface, are successful, even for non-sysadmins who have some level of DDL permissions. It only fails when performed in Great Plains. A profiler trace of the operation shows that GP is merely submitting a standard T-SQL 'ALTER LOGIN' or 'DROP LOGIN' statement, and that the statement correctly shows as called by the sa account. It does not appear that the session ever switched to a different context, other than for the insert into the audit table (which it never actually got to, as no record was logged for the statement). And just in case the session somehow was maintaining the wrong context after that impersonation, I tried making the dummy-insert login a sysadmin with no success. My question is, are there certain combinations of SET options/connection settings, etc. that could result in this type of behavior or issues with DDL trigger execution that could prevent a sysadmin from performing certain operations? Or is there some other avenue to investigate that I am completely missing? 

I don't understand why it fails as a SQL Agent job yet succeeds 'interactively'. Is there something about that INSERT statement which needs special attention? I would appreciate some help to allow me to resolve this problem. Thanks. 

If I run this from SQL Management Studio, on the server, the procedure executes to completion, doing its work and recording its activity, taking about an hour and a half. If, however, I create a SQL Agent job for it, using the same login account (my own) to run the job then I see the job execute successfully BUT I see that the job completed in 0 seconds and the job history indicates an issue: 

I moved dba_indexDefrag_sp and its associated objects into a 'HouseKeeper' database, rather than putting them in the Master database. (I note Michelle Ufford recommends this, saying: 'It’s up to you where you create it. You could technically create it in the MASTER database, but I recommend creating a utility database for your DBA administrative tasks.') I created a new 'SQLJobRunner' Windows login, then added it to SQL Server, setting it as db_owner on the dbs I'm defragmenting. I also applied to same to the HouseKeeper db, to give the login full access to that database. I changed the defrag SQL Agent job to run using the 'SQLJobRunner' login. 

and then it worked, which deals with my issue. It is notable that I have the same security setup against my own login and that still doesn't work. Odd... but that isn't really a problem for me now - I don't know why it that doesn't work though. Note that I'm aware that giving the login db_owner is a bit of a sledgehammer approach, but now that it works I'm able to make the security a bit more fine-grained. Thanks! 

The service account you use to run SQL server (what you enter in configuration manager) must also be a member of the sysadmin role within SQL server. If you have not done so already, log in using the sa account and grant the Windows service account the sysadmin server role. 

Yes, you absolutely CAN connect to a SQL Server 2000 instance using SSMS 2012 as a client. I do it every day as I still have 5 SQL Server 2000 instances in my environment that I manage. However, keep in mind that SSMS will present you with some options based on functions that are available in the version of SSMS you are using, and you may not be able to perform those functions from SSMS due to differences in commands between the versions. And there are some things that SQL 2k simply doesn't like coming from SSMS. For example, if you use the GUI to manage permissions for a database role be prepared for SSMS to crash in some circumstances. For that reason it is always a good idea to keep a copy of SQL 2000 Enterprise Manager handy somewhere. 

The "Security Audit>Audit Add Login to Server Role Event" will capture role drops as well, not just role adds. However, that one alone might not give you the information you're looking for, depending on what you need (such as the specific statement executed if necessary). So you could also add the Stored Procedure>RPC: Completed event, and if you want to get really granular add the SP: StmtCompleted as well. An alternative could also be to use a server-level DDL trigger. I use a trigger on the ADD_SERVER_ROLE_MEMBER event so I can catch if one of my admins decides to throw someone into the sysadmin role without my knowledge. In my case I have an admin database with a table designed to store DDL event info and I insert a record for this type of event, among others. The full list of events you can create a trigger on is here: $URL$ and there are good basic examples of how to use these events in T-SQL in the trigger body here: $URL$ 

I would advice you to upgrade the package by following these steps If after your upgrade you still run in to problems, it could be that your package is using components/drivers that are not available on 64bit. In that case the "easiest" work around would be to have your package use a 32bit runtime. Open de Job properties and then edit the job step that is calling the SSIS package. Go to the Execution Options tab and check "use 32bit runtime" 

If you create symmetric keys that's encrypted by a certificate (that is created by another db user) for example: 

3 important pieces of information are missing to pinpoint exactly what went wrong in your particular scenario: 

By copying the complete DATA directory, you most likely also copied the system databases, specifically your master database from your old server and overwritten the system databases of your second SQL Server. When copying a USER database in general, the easiest method is to make a backup of that user db on the source server and restore that backup on the destination server. there is no need to ever copy the master, model, msdb or tempdb files from one server to another just to migrate a user database. To fix your server again: 

To answer the question: How to find the offending query: Since the spikes in the graph you posted last for several minutes you have plenty of time to use the following method: Download sysinternals process explorer 

I have a DDL trigger defined for database- and server-level events in SQL Server 2008R2 (Standard) which exists to log all DDL events into an audit table in an admin database. It's only function is to extract the relevant data from EVENTDATA() and insert into this table. For the purpose of the insert (as only sysadmins can access the admin database), I have created a dedicated SQL login with only INSERT permission to this table, and granted IMPERSONATE on this login to public. This is intended to prevent permissions-related errors from the trigger firing and attempting to insert into the audit table, when the caller does not have the necessary access to the database/table. Here is the trigger definition: 

After a considerable amount of testing, I finally discovered the reason behind this error. The client connection explicitly set ANSI_WARNINGS and CONCAT_NULL_YIELDS_NULL OFF. XML data operations, such as @data.value('(/EVENT_INSTANCE/EventType)[1]', 'nvarchar(100)'), require both to be ON. I had attempted to override these within the trigger, but I may have placed them wrong. The final code below works, even with the explicit SET options in the connections from Great Plains: 

What precisely does the query duration measure when conducting a profiler trace? I have a stored procedure which performs data access (SELECT), and it is taking an average of around 30 seconds to return results to the application. But when I run a trace on it I get an average duration of around 8 seconds, max duration 12 seconds, average CPU 5.5 seconds. What could cause it to take so much longer to return the result set? I am not accumulating large NETWORKIO waits. The result set is only around 270 rows of simple text data, around 50 columns total.