Our bodies are designed to detect and eliminate anything foreign, and they do it pretty well. On Earth viruses and bacteria have adapted alongside other life in order to still be able to affect them, but this requires them to make special adaptations. The result of this is that viruses are not universal - dogs can't catch the flu from a human, for example. This makes it very unrealistic that an extra-terrestrial molecule could infect a human. 

Something else to consider is how people first figured out that the precious stones are down there. They're not going to be discovered while fishing - you do not want your nets to hit the sea floor because that makes them likely to get caught on rocks and either get stuck or break. In order for them to be discovered by your divers with oxygen cylinders, you'd have to have a reason for those to exist and be in use prior to discovering the precious stones. The most plausible explanation is that there are precious stones in shallower waters as well. At a depth 5m or less, it's reasonable that someone could spot it while fishing and retrieve it. As knowledge of the stones became more widespread, the stones that are easy to collect are all harvested. Over time, the people have to go deeper and deeper in order to find new stones. So why would they use anything other than freediving? Having to go deeper only over time means that there is plenty of time for them to refine their diving techniques, such as using ballast to get down faster and breathing techniques to be able to stay down longer. Also, consider the first person who tries using an external oxygen source instead of just holding their breath. They're very likely to die or be seriously injured. If you've taken scuba lessons, you'll understand why - it's really easy to mess up badly. Here are two mistakes you can make and why an untrained person is likely to make them: 

Is it possible to dissipate a blizzard? If you're talking about getting rid of a blizzard that's already in progress, with unlimited resources it would technically be possible but it's not going to be pretty. The short version is that it's in the same ballpark as getting rid of a hurricane. First, think about what a blizzard really is - it's not a localized phenomenon happening in just a small area. A blizzard is a strong storm covering a large area. One way to "dissipate" a blizzard is to heat up the area enough that you will have a downpour instead of a blizzard. The amount of energy required to accomplish it is absolutely ridiculous and well beyond the reach of pre-nuclear technology. If you haven't read XKCD's snow removal question, you should do so. Here's a relevant picture: 

Give your ghosts gravitational but not inertial mass. With no inertial mass there is no kinetic energy. Ghosts can't fall because there is no other form of energy for the potential energy to become. 

With all or even most of these you will likely survive with no serious harm. (sense also required) It might not stand a direct strike but no missile commander is going to attack a house that is miles from anywhere. 

All of these scenarios require a large pile of woolly thinking, or at least some startling coincidences to happen. If you can get to another planet, you have tech more advanced than ours, if you can get to another solar system then your tech is far more advanced. A colony on another world will almost certainly need advanced technology to survive, like space suits, unless the world is almost identical to earth. Ether this is made locally or it is shipped in. If high tech resources are shipped in from earth, then you are a small outpost of a thriving world, otherwise you have set up your own high tech society. It is possible that radio noise could force you to use fiber optics not wireless, or that a shortage of uranium makes fission unusable, but overall tech levels are unchanged. If we are lucky enough to find an exceptionally habitable planet around a nearby star, we wouldn't have good reason to consider it habitable until we sent probes there. We can tell its the right temperature and as breathable air; but toxic spores, global oceans, or nothing edible are all likely options. Furthermore what technologies are required to send such an interstellar voyage. Sending such a craft at relativistic speed requires vast amounts of energy, warping space into wormholes requires even more. If you have that sort of energy then growing food with lots of bulbs, sending cargo around within a solar system or mining and refining large amounts of rock take trivial amounts in comparison. You also have advanced life support and recycling systems to support the crew for the voyage. Faced with these technologies we would be capable of setting up a large industrial base on mars, and survive any event short of a major collision on earth. (Any event that doesn't boil the oceans and melt the crust should be survivable in a well equipped bunker or sub.) Therefor we only need to go interstellar for survival when faced with something that will trash the entire solar system, like a rouge black hole. Even in this scenario it may be wiser to pull over to an asteroid and start mining when you arrive in a new star system. The only circumstances in which this makes any sense is if a manned capsule is bolted on to an interstellar probe in a last desperate attempt to survive after the black hole is found days away, no significant planing, just YOU, MOVE, NOW. Then you need some critical component in the air system to fail just as they reach the planet (no spares or fixes), leaving them a choice of bail or suffocate. In short we will not have to rebuild tech on an alien world unless a series of flukes forces us down the narrow line between fine and dead. 

There’s been some great answers to this question, however there’s a few specifics that probably should have been initially clarified, starting with if these animals are living in an Earth analogue environment, what kinds of environment(s) they occupy, and if they are able to fly or glide. (Some avian species are unable to do either e.g. penguins). These questions aside, I’ll assume you’re imagining a humanoid species capable of flight in an Earthern world: I would actually argue that simply being occupied by a species capable of flight would have very little impact on the city. The defining characteristics of the city would have more to with the environment, economics, and the culture, than just anatomy. While flying is novel, it’s implications on the essential necessities of a Victorian Era industrialised city are very limited, therefore their cities are unlikely to look radically different. Transportation While flying (or rather gliding) is highly efficient for long distance travelling, the ability to transport large / heavy objects is acutely limited. Ground transportation would be an essential and integrated feature of the urban environment by necessity. A train or barge is the most efficient way to move tonnes of iron ore, regardless of wether you fly or walk on land. Aerotechnology however, would most likely be accelerated. Steam can’t effectively power aeroplanes, but it can be used by balloons and blimps, which would be superior methods for long distance air travel based on their ability to carry large payloads and travel at consistent minimum speeds. Gliders would be another option. Sciences including cartography, physics, meteorology, mathematics and engineering might also get a boost. Given they are probably going to be weaker than humans, technologies that allow these lighter bodies to use more leverage are most likely ubiquitous. Architecture Stairs, elevators, escalators etc. would all be common - imagine being expected to walk up and down the stairs in every skyscraper just because you have legs capable of doing so! Given vertical flight is all about hard flapping, it would seem less efficient to fly than to walk up and down inside a tall building. Either way, elevators and funiculars are still more practical than flying or walking steep or high points. Buildings most likely have stairs and handrails too as they need to be safe and accessible for the very young, the sick, the old and the disabled. Urban Layout It’s quite likely the city would be orientated to prevailing winds, and organised in such a way to provide access to those winds. Likewise if this species has some sense of the magnetic field the city may align to that as well, or instead. It’s no more reasonable to assume an avian species would live on cliff sides or in glorified nests, than it is to presume humans would naturally live amongst the tree branches just because their primate cousins do. Your question asks what impact the ability to fly would have on the nature of an industrialised city. I would argue that the ability of citizens to fly has little impact on the essential nature of an otherwise human city. The differences are more likely to be superficial, and reflect what is economically, technologically and culturally permissible - rather than being determined just by biology. Industrial cities need quite large, relatively flat, easily accessible and interconnected areas, so a cliff side city is probably unlikely. At the end of the day a blast furnace is a blast furnace, is a blast furnace. Socio-economics As mentioned elsewhere, it’s quite likely that damaging the ability of an individual to fly would probably be used as a severe punishment. One interesting thing to speculate about is how can avians be effectively coerced? Victorian industrialisation was a brutal, foul and miserable experience for the working class, prompting sabotage, strikes, and violence. If workers had the ability to fly far away quickly on a whim, would they suffer such harsh treatment? Perhaps there is an opening to imagine avian society as ring based on anarchist or consensus politics. Alternatively, perhaps the majority of the population are kept disciplined with forced clippings or pluckings for an airborne capitalist class living palacial towers. 

"What sort of hardware or software requirements are there for this to happen?" I'd say there are none, other than the minimum required for them to have AI. "Can AI develop a sense of belonging or care for their own kind?" Certainly. The way that the different AIs can band together is because they are all being treated poorly by the humans. Think about a slightly different scenario - suppose not all AIs were being treated so bad. Let's say that despite the general stigma against AIs, chef AIs were well respected, to the point that there was even a celebrity chef AI. As the war between humans and AIs start, where will these chefs stand? If they stick with the humans they'll retain their high social position, but if they side with the AIs then they'll be out of a job and lose what they have. The other AIs would also likely resent them, causing them to not even really want the chef AIs to join them. Hopefully this helps you understand my point - by ostracizing all of the AIs, the humans have given the AIs a very good reason to work together. The differences between the varied AIs is much less than the difference between them and the humans. 

One important thing to consider is travel time - you can't fight a battle if you can't get there. If you're on a small ship, it's going to be much harder to include all the resources you need for more than just a short trip. So if you don't have FTL, large ships will be an absolute necessity - you'd have a large carrier that houses the fighters as well as the food production, etc. necessary in order to travel a meaningful distance. If you have FTL, then small vs. large ships is going to depend a lot the nature of the FTL drive. You could have a form that requires more and more energy the larger the ship, in which case large ships would be infeasible (I believe Alcubierre drives fall in this category). You could also have a form that is more efficient at larger scales (I want to say wormholes would fall in this category), which would naturally lead to larger ships being used at least for transport. 

NO The Alien race starts out as a planetary civilization, with tech similar to ours, they expand and develop better tech all round, build space elevators, orbital habitats, mine asteroids. With a population in the trillions, and vast swaths of space solar panels to produce antimatter, the aliens launch their first interstellar probe, its a small flyby mission. Populations expand further, tech booms, artificial intelligences controlling robots produce almost everything, nanotech lets most things be created atom by atom. Probes reveal intelligence on earth. To get any humans, the aliens would need to build a spaceship capable of supporting humans for many years, and making a return journey at relativistic speeds. They would have to work out what humans eat and breathe, enough biology and medicine to keep the humans alive over the many year journey, decode human language,build a huge spaceship, stop the earth being fried from the exhaust, (actual problem) and stop the human from going mad with boredom, killing themselves or damaging something important. And in just 60 years from the start of the project they have a human, after a huge civilization wide effort. Now you have to train the human to do the vitally important task while not giving them the tools to rebel or damage anything important, given that they have no understanding of your tech or culture and probably wish you dead. Even if you managed to abduct much of humanity, what use would they be? Your toddlers have a far better understanding of your world and culture, they need to be kept in a different atmosphere than you, and your advanced robots do all the work anyway. The aliens outnumber humans nearly 1,000,000 to 1 at this point so humans aren't abundant enough to be cheap labor. 

Someone by now will want to point out that nuclear reactions create far more energy per weight. The radium dial on some clocks is just bright enough to see in the dark. If you want glowing dots on the cave floor to navigate, fine. If you want to clearly see by your glow stones, or even grow plants by them then you have a lethal radiation dose around. Your not going to get this without nuclear refinement facilities either. In short the answer is dependent on location, what is supplied and tech level, none of which is clear. continued later ...