It sounds as though you'll get yours eventually, if others have done so. So, just keep trying and you'll get there. I've pretty much assumed that the only way to get a measurable salary increase is to move jobs - I don't remember the last time I got a review based salary increase. 

Create test plans and test your own work, test the heck out of it. You've also partially answered your own question: 

I'm assuming here that it's the form data that was deleted, not the form itself. We don't know what the reasons for the deletion was, but it appears that it's a low-quality issue. It seems reasonable that low-quality data can be deleted as it might adversely affect statistical reports for the approvals/rejections. If you delete the rubbish, you're left with good quality data to report against. If that's the case, then deleting the data is fine. If the situation is different to my assumption, you'll have to correct me. 

This should be pretty straight-forward. 1) Ask your manager 2) If your manager isn't around when you're done with your tasks, ask your co-workers how you can help them out. Do what they say. When your manager re-appears, tell him/her what you've done and then move on to whatever he/she tells you to do next. Ask about door access (you may need a security card or a pass-code), and ask where you can store your personal items. In short - Ask. 

It's not likely to come up again and you should be fine. Since the customer pressed an official complaint, then your company took the easiest way out of this by issuing a written warning (as opposed to rejecting their claim) - this neatly resolves this official complaint (since someone other than the customer was found to be at fault and 'punished'). If this does happen to come up in a future interview, then deal with it in a positive manner - don't try and defend it or bad-mouth this old customer but instead demonstrate that you've learned from the experienced and that it's improved your customer relationship skills. Interviewers tend to respect an employee who's willing to learn from mistakes (even if it's not really your mistake) rather than one who blames others. 

Yes, it's still viable. You're working with C#, CRM, business logic, SharePoint, SQL (I assume). All of these skills are transferrable to later technologies if you decide to move on. If you're enjoying where you are, stay and grow until you're no longer enjoying it. There's a lot of cool new things out there, but you have the core skills right there. SQL/SharePoint/C# aren't going away any time soon. I learnt COBOL back in the 80's, it's still a viable platform that's powering more than you think it does. 

I guess it depends largely on the company/role. In my experience, the hiring manager looks at the resume and judges whether it appears to hang together or not. The candidate is expected to demonstrate their skill-set and knowledge during the interview process and defend any holes in their resume. Having said that, there's no reason why the HR department can't make sure that the resume comes from a reputable source and whether the university/college listed actually exists (or whether it's a known "internet college" where people can buy fake degrees). Most of this is common sense. 

To put things in obvious terms, ask her. There's going to be a date at which she wants to consider herself as female, so respect that. One day, he'll go into the gents toilets, and the next she'll go to the ladies. As it's a small company, it shouldn't be too hard to get this simple idea across to people. Yes, there's going to be some transition for people getting their head around a change in gender, but the important thing is that it's the same person. Same experience, same skills, same knowledge. Nothing about his/her working practices should change apart from dress code and perhaps an email address (which happens anyway when women get married, so you have a process for that). But ask. She's probably thought about this for a long time and has looked for advice on this and has her own idea on what will help her and you (as a company/colleagues) feel better about this transition. 

Your job is whatever is listed on your job description as held by your HR department. If that differs significantly from your current on-going tasks, then I'd think you're in a position to negotiate a raise and change of job title. If that doesn't pan out, you're in a great position to find another vacancy that equates to your newly-found skills and offers the appropriate remuneration. 

Just ignore the tone; some people don't go to work to be polite - they just want to do their work. I'd just reply with: 

Note: I wrote this answer before I learned that the questioner has the authority and capability to make these changes for the customer. My answer in this new context is now somewhat invalid. My new answer is: 

You should ideally have been told this yesterday by your boss during her talk to you (or you should have asked then). Ask your boss if she's still there - maybe she's still negotiating the handover process and allocating resources/reorganizing teams etc. Ask if you can help in any way, it seems more productive than just sitting there waiting. 

Does it take more than 15/20 minutes to use the rest-room and grab a drink before working? If not, don't worry about it. 

Of course it depends on what your friends and their families are like. If they're going to abuse the "free booze" offer and get blind drunk on your money, how are you going to feel about it? You could temper this by buying the first round, or a couple of bottles of wine per table, and then allow them to buy you drinks... 

Since companies generally prefer their employees wanting to stay employed by them, your request will probably be denied. Or they might not decide to continue with you and terminate their offer of employment. 

I'm not so sure you should read too much into the email you received other than it telling you that there aren't any positions open. It's basically a courtesy in case you treat this as an interview. Since there's the opportunity to meet up, I'd treat this as a networking meeting if you still want to go ahead with it. From the email, it's implied that the hiring manager still wants to have the meeting with you, so I don't think there's a need to offer a cancellation (but if you want to cancel, you can do). If you offer a cancellation, it might be taken. 

From your question, it seems as though you called your boss after she left for the day and dumped the news that you're leaving on her and expected her to be able to have a discussion with you there and then regarding your leaving process. It's pretty understandable to me why she's feeling a bit angry about this - you threw a curve-ball at her during her personal time. Your director was probably ok about this because he's used to working after hours, or he's that kind of guy who cares about his employees and is happy to talk after hours. Your line manager seems to have a different personality, she didn't appreciate being called after work, and I guess didn't really appreciate you emailing your resignation and copying in the director immediately afterwards. That being said, we need to move forwards. You've entered a discussion with the director regarding your leaving process and your line manager should really be in alignment with that. If that's not the case, mention this to the director and see if you can request some kind of resolution to this. 

This (to English ears) flows better than "subordinate" or "direct report" (even though they're technically correct). 

Yeah, it's ok to propose these changes, or at least ask. It probably won't be HR that you'll ask. More likely the operations/facilities department (although this really depends on how your company is departmentalized). I'm not sure that conducting an employee survey is needed, you can ask off your own back. You're not likely to annoy people by wishing to be more environmentally friendly in the workplace. However, it's one thing putting bins in the workplace, it's entirely an different thing to organize getting the waste collected and dealt with appropriately. This will inevitably incur extra cost to the company and may not be economically viable. 

Carry on as you did before and then deal with any issues as and when they arise. I assume you have some kind of email/note from your manager/HR indicating that your dog is acceptable to be in the office. Obviously, your co-workers will continue to be ok with you doing this. 

After almost a year, I'd say that the role has now being filled for some time and you can pretty much consider that offer terminated. You could try reaching out to the same person and point out that you're ready to explore options again, and see if there's other roles available, but I wouldn't count on it. Carry on looking for other opportunities in the meantime. 

Break things down As with any challenging task, breaking things down into manageable pieces makes sense. It sounds as though your boss puts some effort into maintaining good relationships with her readers. Look at the following aspects of her letters: 

Ask your HR department. They'll be able to define to your what constitutes overtime as regards to your contract and role. This might also depend on how long these change in hours are likely to last. See links on the gov.uk web site: Overtime Rights and Pay and work rights helpline 

Only contribute medications that are over-the-counter and in-date. No one must ever put prescription drugs into that box (ideally, you'd want to contribute items that are newly bought, not just found in your home drugs cabinet from x years ago) Only use medication that you're sure are suitable for your condition and you don't have any adverse reactions to Ensure that people choose and make their own choice of medication and dose Ensure that the contents are clearly labelled (anything which isn't, should be clinically disposed of) 

And see where things go from there. Depending on the need/solution, you might want to get an external consultant in to take a look over your proposal and get things tightened up before deployment. It's doubtful that this will impact you personally if something goes wrong - your boss/others should examine/test/approve whatever you propose which ensures that any liability with lies with the company, and not with you (you're just following orders after stating your limitations, after all). As part of due diligence, make sure that you have emails/paperwork demonstrating that the business is happy with you working on this and are aware of your lack of expertise in this area. Print the pertinent emails out - sometimes problematic emails have a habit of "disappearing" from Exchange accounts. 

Two hours is probably too long for a meeting like this, you'll lose people's attention. Try to put what you can into an hour and encourage people to email any feedback, then collate that feedback, or arrange a second session as required. 

A good manager wouldn't let this happen (at least in my opinion). If someone strongly disagreed with a manager, I'd expect the manager to say "Ok, my door's open, lets talk about this afterwards and see how we can sort this one out", and then carry on with the meeting. Open-house arguments are rarely productive. 

You've done what you can. All you can do is quite clearly state that you're on vacation and don't have a reliable connection or capacity to work. All you can really do is give a brief answer, provide an alternative resource if you have one (someone else who can provide fuller answers) and enjoy the rest of your vacation. And then ignore future voicemail/emails unless they're business critical in nature. 

I have to admit that I've never heard of this condition before. So, it's likely that your boss and co-workers are similarly ignorant. Getting yourself officially diagnosed may help to get you some level of cooperation/leeway from the business. It'll also lead you to getting some support/help outside of the working environment. There's a few ideas you could try out. 1) Change your eating habits/times so that you don't need to poop during working hours 2) Negotiate with your boss and put up a "Toilet is being cleaned" notice up on the bathroom door when you're using it so that you gain some privacy 3) Investigate some support groups and ask what coping mechanisms they use to get through their working day (obviously, you're not the only person to suffer from this) 

You could help out by filling in the form yourself and getting him read it over quickly and suggest any edits/clarifications. A quick scan/redo/sign should get this over and done with without slowing him up too much. 

Ask HR. They're going to be the point of contact with regards to dress code. So, you could bring up the fact that other people have the same or more lurid coloured hair. The answer might depend on whether you're customer facing or not. But go with HR's advice here. And your co-workers of course.... 

This doesn't mean anything at all beyond the fact that you have some keywords in your profile that match keywords in the job offer. If you think about all of the butchers, bakers, and candle-stick makers on LinkedIn that don't have any of those keywords in their profiles, it kind of puts this message into context. To put this into a dating website analogy: