Don't worry yourself with details such as this. Whichever order you feel like doing them in, is fine. It's going to make no difference at all. 

The gap is achieved by way of fat loss, and also by building a certain amount of muscles (by squatting) which will help tighten up the skin around your upper thigh. And as you've already been told, let me just confirm it; no, you cannot pick and choose where you wish to reduce fat. You gain and lose fat all over, based on caloric surplus/deficit. 

If you have trouble with the close-grip bench press, but you want to target the pectoralis muscles more intensively, I'd suggest you implement some flies into your program instead, while working on your possible injury. The chest fly can be done with dumbells or cables, and can be done standing up, or lying down on a bench. Alternatively there are machines for this as well, and they're found at pretty much any gym. The pain is likely to stem from poor flexibility in the shoulders. This can be worked on by getting into the habit of properly warming up, and doing some light dynamic stretching before your workouts. Personally, I warm up shoulders and chest by doing shoulder dislocators (which isn't as bad as it sounds), and some arm rotations. The dislocators look like this. They can alternatively be done with a stick. With a sufficiently wide grip, you won't have any problems with this. 

Diet The first thing I would change, is to drop breakfast altogether. You've probably heard the phrase "breakfast is the most important meal of the day", but the dirty secret is that this phrase was coined by a man named Kellogg. You may have heard the name. When you wake up in the morning, the body provides a natural increase in blood sugar. It's what helps you actually get up and out of bed. When you insist on eating while you enjoy this blood sugar spike, you increase your blood sugar even more, and you develop a risk for Type-2 Diabetes. The only thing your body truly needs in the morning is water. Lots of water. This will kickstart every process in your body; metabolism, moisturizing, immune system... Pretty much everything good your body does. Also, the longer you wait before breaking your fast, the longer your body stays in this fasting mode, where all nutrients required are supplied by burning fat. If you skip breakfast, and wait until lunch to eat, you're doing what's called intermittent fasting. This is where you do all of your eating in an 8 hour window, and fast for 16 hours. This method has been linked to good results to combat obesity, and for general health benefits. Sources on intermittent fasting $URL$ $URL$ Workouts In all honesty, most of the fat loss is done in the kitchen. Workouts help your body to adapt to the changes in a better way. Making sure your posture isn't permanently damaged, keeping muscle tissue active and maintained, and improving flexbility is quite important for someone who is going to lose a lot of weight. I'm not going to comment too much on your workout regimen. It needs to be replaced completely. It's important that you don't try to create your own workout programs. This isn't really something we do until we have many years of experience. There are lots of programs readily available. If you insist on using machines, I'd support that, but as soon as you feel able, you should move on to free weights. You can find a plethora of good 

That's actually a great question. As a PPL user myself, I think I can shed some light on it. First of all, we're not saying "oh yeah, we get to do arms 2 out of 3 days". We're thinking we need to have one day for chest and triceps (pushing exercises), and then another day for upper back and biceps (pulling exercises). If we do all that in one day, it's gonna be a LONG day. Also, the elbow joint can very easily end up with tendonitis if you do all of that pushing and pulling in one day. The knee joint isn't as susceptible to tendonitis, so we can do all those extension AND curling exercises in one day, and not have to worry so much about that. However, on leg days, we do the heaviest lifts of all, namely the squats and the deadlifts. It's usually recommended to limit these a bit because while your muscles may handle the pressure, all that weight can really take its toll on your lower back, not to mention the central nervous system (CNS). Of course, this is something you can tweak as you get some more experience, and learn how much your own body can take. If you find you'd rather consolidate Push and Pull into one single upper body day, feel free to. Also, if you'd rather do a PPLL split, that's fine too! 

People with spectacles are built the same way as everyone else, and will benefit equally from going to the gym and working out. Whoever told you that bespectacled people should not go to the gym is wrong. Next time, ask them why they think that. You'll find that they have no real scientific knowledge. 

First off, rid yourself of the "I could eat anything in any amount" mindset. You couldn't, and here's why; In order to gain weight, it's a simple case of eating more calories than you spend. A lot of people say "oh, I can eat 4 helpings of taco, and I won't gain any weight". Well, for the trained eye, this resolves into "he ate a lot there and then, but the next few days, ate less, as a result". You may not have noticed this, but over time, you simply didn't eat as much as you thought. It's just that the huge meals are easier to remember. Now, for your question specifically, the reason why you got a belly has to do with the fact that during the time you were ill, you consumed more calories than you spent. Surplus calories get stored as fat, and the belly is the more noticable place because it has higher storage capacity. You did also gain more fat elsewhere, but the belly is easier to notice. Reversing this is simply shedding fat as you normally would. Cardio in its various forms is an excellent place to start. Keep in mind: You can't decide where you want to burn fat. Fat loss and fat gain happens everywhere, or nowhere. You often see people go to the gym, and do situps for ages, because they think they're targeting the belly fat for extinction. This is false! It doesn't work like that. Stick to cardio! 

The muscles used during both directions are the same, just in the opposite order of intensity. So with V-sit in general, the muscles used are the rectus abdominis, obliques and hip flexors. Secondary movers are triceps and forearms due simply to the fact that they are the muscles that support the weight of your body during the movement. 

I've been through a similar endeavor, and in my case, it was a case of a pulled muscle. It's very normal to have low flexibility turn into muscle-pulls. Especially during squats, where a very heavy load is placed on muscles that are required to be elastic, or be destroyed. I suggest you start stretching your lower body quite thoroughly. Not only is it going to rehabilitate you in terms of flexibility, but it prevents this type of injury by balancing out your muscles' stiffness after things like prolonged sitting. Some good post-workout legday stretches are detailed here. For your particular injury - between the legs and groin - the butterfly (the one with the girl sitting, knees out to the side) would stretch the muscles (adductors) and tendons in question. Of course, while you're still recovering from the injury, this isn't the way to go, but if you start doing this after a legday, you'll reduce the risk of it happening next legday. You should also look into how you can improve your warmups. A properly warmed-up body also has a lower risk of mid-rep injury. Some dynamic stretches could be included here for more benefits. As a rule of thumb, without going into the nitty gritty, you should to dynamic stretches before the workout, and static stretches after. The dynamic stretches include movements which facilitates a good warmup as well as a light stretch. The static stretches ease the tension in your muscles, and provide immediate relief. As mentioned in the first paragraph, I experienced a mid-workout injury very similar to what you're describing, but mine was during a deadlift, and it was the top part of my hamstring. These days, I stretch and foam roll like it's my job, and I've been injury free since. 

I highly recommend taking some casein before sleep if your recovery time is high. This study shows that casein metabolism and absorbtion is pretty high during sleep, which stimulates muscle recovery at a higher rate. I discovered this study a few months ago, and tried it out to surprisingly good effect. Naturally, this is anecdotal for my own experience, but since my experience was aligned with the result of the study, I feel confident in recommending it. 

My idea I'm going to try and stimulate my weakness by performing 1000 repetitions of said exercise or an exercise for said muscle group, over the next 10 workouts. After one such cycle, I will find a different weakness, because it would likely be disastrous if I were to continue with the same one for consecutive cycles. This regimen will not replace a normal workout plan, but rather be done as an auxilliary type movement, with a very modest choice in weight. I.e. I will continue training my entire body. Any exercise chosen will be a compound lift, and not an isolation exercise. For example, if I deem my deltoids underdeveloped, I will attempt to fix this, not by lateral raises, but with military press, shoulder press, or maybe jerks. Caveat For reasons of self-preservation, I'd likely not attempt this with the heaviest of heavy lifts. Specifically, I'm thinking of excluding deadlifts from this regimen. Question Are there any concerns about this idea that can be attributed to documented cases of this going wrong? Naturally, success stories are equally, if not more desirable. Side notes In order to avoid this being flagged as opinion-based, I'm looking for concerns based on research. Anecdotal evidence, if documented, is also welcome of course. Also, as a solid answer might require more information, please ask and give me the opportunity to elaborate, rather than flagging on sight. 

That's not really something that happens in a gym. This happens in the kitchen. No matter how good your workout is, or how often you do it, you will never drop your bodyfat percentage if you don't get your diet in order. How you work out will only help to make sure your body transitions well. It will have virtually no effect on your bodyfat. 

Don'ts The biggest mistake people make when learning to flip, is that they try to flip into pools and onto mattresses. This is a mistake because it doesn't prepare you for the inevitable challenge of having to spot your landing. And it takes away the need to really cushion the landing with your legs. And this needs to be practiced. Dos Trampolines is a pretty good way to practice in the beginning. It teaches you to commit to the flip and spot your landing early. For instance, when you backflip, the very first thing we have in mind, is to rotate enough to see the ground again. From there, you spot the landing, and the rest of the movement is based on tucking (which increases rotation) and straightening out again (which decreases rotation), so that you land nicely, and don't over- or under-rotate. When you're ready to take this to the next step, it's on the ground. If you have mats, use that. But like I said, don't use mattresses. They're too thick, which makes them harder to jump off of. And if you try to flip onto one from the ground, you're jumping onto higher ground, which is also obviously harder. The best bet is to get a spotter. They will have one hand behind your knee, and one arm on your lower back. When you jump, you'll rotate around their arm, and they'll give you extra momentum by lifting your legs. Keep in mind, this is entirely the flipper's movement. Everything the spotter does is assistance work. If you do something a little bit wrong, no worries, they'll save you. If you have fundamental flaws in your technique, they'll notice. It's pretty easy to see what goes wrong. The more you practice this, the less your spotter will need to do. It should come pretty naturally, as you should easily feel yourself relying less and less on the spotter. More info This video shows some nice progression steps.