A satellite bigger than the International Space Station (ISS) could not be disguised as space debris. Considering ISS was assembled and constructed in space, this makes it the biggest human fabricated object in Earth orbit. If anything bigger than that was launched and place in Earth orbit, it would be even bigger than ISS. This means it would attract considerable attention and subject to careful surveillance. The United States Strategic Command already maintains surveillance on known orbital objects including space junk. Space junk is cataloged and accurately tracked. 

The answer really hangs on a point of law. It's actually a pity that law SE didn't decide to tackle this interesting hypothetical question. Situation: A has murdered B. The crime has been investigated. Everybody will in the world is Groundhog Day'ed back one year. B is now alive, but effectively else knows he was murdered by A. There are two possible approaches the legal authorities can take. One, they can warn for A from, again, murdering B or anybody else for that matter especially since they now know A is capable of murder. Two, they can charge A with conspiracy to commit murder. Conspiracy to commit a crime can be more heavily penalized than the actual crime itself. Which course of action will be determined by the probability there is a strong enough case to commit A of the murder. For example, if the case against A was based solidly on forensic evidence then that would have been all lost when time reset itself to one year earlier. On the other hand, if it depended almost exclusively on witnesses who know what lead to the murder or who saw the murder itself, then it could be possible for the prosecution to take A to court on the charge of murder. 

Assuming humans as an intelligent species will be able to changes to our planetary environment they could survive into the indefinite future except for one thing. namely, the impact of the increasing luminosity of our Sun as it progresses along the Main Sequence. 

I would expect a high death rate. This is the sort of thing that makes this as an experimental protocol a bit of a worry. Preparation and any outside assistance may need to be maximized to ensure their survival. This is contingent upon the level of hazards they confront in their new world. later on they will need to cope the difficulties of child birth. Midwives and other mothers were usually essential to assist with this. Survival can be difficult. Their training should ameliorate this. 

Source: Stellar black hole The mass of the Sun and a solar system converted into potatoes which were shot into the Sun to add its mass is only 1.01 solar masses. This is far too low to create a black hole. But launching potatoes into the Sun is something to do if you are the only survivor on a dead Earth, at least, until you also die, say, of old age or an accident during launching potatoes. 

This will be short. Dumping 130,00 human beings in effectively one spot means that their principal cultural reaction will be culinary. Finding enough to eat and finding ways of preparing and cooking their food. Those from cultures best suited to surviving the wild will thrive (in relative terms). Mostly this depend on how those who passed through the portals were chosen. Alternatively they may have been siphoned by the portals and simply dumped at the other end. The question is specific on this point. Initially they won't be building a civilization or planning military campaigns, they will be trying to survive. Food, shelter and safety will be uppermost in their minds. How they come out of those dilemmas will shape the culture they make afterwards. Remember people adapt to their circumstances. They abandon anything of their old culture(s) that isn't useful for their survival. 

The deadliest weapons on fission/fusion propelled spacecraft are their propulsion systems. The engines shot out jets of radioactive particles if it's fission or fusion products like helium nuclei if it's fusion. Easiest if we stick with a fusion plasma exhaust, it has a velocity 12.5% of lightspeed. Faster than kinetic munitions and missiles. While lasers are quicker a plasma jet cam absorb and deflect laser beams. Besides laser beams diverge and lose focus too fast to be effective at range. Mount fission/fusion engines fore and aft on a spacecraft and it's armed to kill. Pop-guns like machine-cannons can be added for close-contact combat, but why bother? A side-issue: it seems doubtful if spacecraft with fission/fusion propulsion could reach the outer rim of the solar system in a few weeks. Yes if the acceleration was around 1 g over its trajectory to reach the wormholes. The trouble is the rate of acceleration for fission/fusion spaceships will be around one centimetre per second squared. I am only guesstimating here, but the trip times should be a few months at least. This is based on Matloff and Mallove's discussion in The Starflight Handbook of the ratio of the mass of power plants in spacecraft to the acceleration they can achieve. With nuclear fusion propulsion, the answer is one centimetre per second squared. This doesn't necessarily prevent your vessels from having higher accelerations. This is your fictional world, after all. 

While it doesn't seem noticeable than basic income is applied in the Star Wars universe. However, if a galaxy-spanning civilization has communications system fast enough to keep up with the movement and transportation of its citizens. This might be easier to achieve in a relativistic universe where communications is at lightspeed and travel is sublight than a universe where faster-than-light travel and communications is the norm. What makes this kind of distribution of wealth possible is a combination of computer networks and the algorithms to ensure the allocation of basic income to its citizens. This might be as simple as if you are a citizen of the galaxy-spanning civilization you will receive your allocated quantum of income. But it is not unreasonable to presume that a galactic civilization will have a better understanding of economics that their basic income algorithms will be based on that improved knowledge. A discussion of the pros and cons of basic income can be found here. It is introduced by the following remarks which indicate that most institutions it will have its positive and negative outcomes. 

This could be basically a matter of how your fictional universe is constructed. There are wormholes, warp, hyperspace, and other unspecified FTL drives. As the author of this fictional universe you can assume it is structured in such a way that all the forms of FTL travel are connected through hyperspace. If this so, then hyperspace sensors can detect faster-than-light motion, irrespective of whether it is wormholes or warp and hyperspace itself or whatever other FTL drives are part of your universe. Espionage on the part of empire is always an option. This can cover the full range of spycraft. Everything from spies in enemy military services, government departments, port authorities, starship shipyards, and paid agents. This espionage can complement hyperspace detectors. Remember it's your universe, you can organize it to suit your story. Always have fun doing so. 

It all depends on the economic self-sufficiency of the island (or a planetary system, even). Being embargoed for half a century is enough time for local industries and businesses to develop and thrive in producing replacement goods and services to the islanders that had been formerly imported. A free market economy should be able to rise to this challenge, in fact, a free market economy will neither aid self-sufficiency nor inhibit it. In the long run, the islanders may welcome their pariah status because they can further enhance their own local identities, create work, build businesses, and culture. Trade isn't the be-all and end-all of life. Economies are more than imports and exports. 

This question can be boiled down to: could a nineteenth century technology level society, with or without magic, understand how a lump of electronic machinery works? The simple answer is no. They lack any equivalent machines to recognize it is a computer. Even if their society possessed Babbage computing engines, as those were mechanical and not electronic, there is no way that the appearance of the computer would tell them its function. They lack the microscopy to determine the structure of solid state integrated circuitry. They might recognize the wires and wiring in the device, so it is possible they could realize it was an electrical device. This does depend on whether they use electricity and conduct it via wires. The main trouble is a non-functioning computer (circa 2017) will look to people in nineteenth century level society that it could be a very sophisticated work of art. Unless the magicians in this world possess a form of magical divination, and as suggested by @Separatrix in his answer, which enables them to plumb its purpose and function. However, their divination would have to extend an understanding of the electricity supply needed to run and power the computer. Of course, if their powers of divination were that good, then reverse engineering computers would be as easy as pie. Then in all likelihood, they create computers powered by their aether. This would save on building power stations and all the other industries attend on the manufacture of the advanced electronics necessary to make computers. This is the other unspoken problem with reverse engineering a piece of technology nearly a century ahead in terms of technical development. It isn't simply a matter of reverse engineering one type of device, it is also a matter of reverse engineering all the industries, services, trades and professions to make all the parts and components, materials and services to make it work. This means building an entire sector of the economy that doesn't exist in their world. In summary, the simple answer is no, but so is the complex answer where the magicians have the powers of divination to reveal its actual purpose and function. This is not simple reverse engineering, it then becomes completely rebuilding their world to accommodate a new technology. 

It is necessary to assume the planet would be naturally extremely cold and that there is a constant source of heat maintaining the hot oceans. Possibly the planet is a long way from its primary star, so it very cold. While the oceans are hot, their thermal mass might not be too great especially if the oceans were shallow. The transfer of heat from the oceans to the land will keep the average land temperature in the 14 degrees C range. If the shores of the landmasses are hot, which is reasonable to expect, then their interiors will be extremely cold. This suggests almost tropical coastlines, sweltering hot and humid, and effectively polar hinterlands with extremely subzero temperatures and covered in ice and snow. The oceans could be heated by massive lava outflows like the Deccan Traps here on Earth. But this would need to be sustained for geologically long periods of time, for example, hundreds of millions of years to make life possible on the landmasses. This is reasonably feasible, although it's not possible to say how probable this might be but conceptually it makes sense. 

Roddenberry is basically right. Indeed most of the episodes of original Star Trek could have been set on a relativistic starship on a 500 year mission to explore strange new worlds etc etc. Then the speed of plot would be sublight. 

This would stimulate technological research and development into creating blast-proof trousers and more powerful deordorants. There will be changes in social behaviour. People will place items, for example, of furniture and other forms of minor property in locations to avoid them being damaged by overpowered eructations. As a matter of etiquette people will position their bodies, relative to furniture and other items of minor property, just in case, there is an inadvertent rear-end explosion. Gas masks might become fashion items along with nose-lugs and ear protectors. Synchronized emissions might be used as a military tactic, but undoubtedly this will be banned by a Geneva Treaty. Al the world's nations will definitely sign up as Victory gained via Field Artillery Flatulence would be too dishonourable. 

Because the 'expensive procedure' of super-advanced aliens disguising themselves as human beings isn't expensive for super-advanced aliens and their super-advanced technology. There is a straight forward reason why they'd do this, they will have adopted the morphology and biology of successfully adapted species to Earth's environment. Beats space-suits or environmental hazard gear and you can blend in with the primitive natives. Now unless I miss my guess being disguised as humans isn't a way to destroy humanity. Human disguises as the prelude to global genocide & world conquest might be a cunning strategy. Good old fashioned espionage and sabotage, perhaps. Recruiting quislings, agents of influence, and bringing our social, political and cultural elites onboard to make the take-over easier. Colonial empires often used sections of the societies they colonised against those self-same societies. Anthropologists during our colonial period studied the natives to help make colonisation run smoothly. Alien anthropologists might play the same role. On the other hand, there might be a galactic peacekeeping organisation, something like the United Nations but with more super-advanced weapons and infinitely greater caapcity and tendency to conduct military in the name of galactic peace, that has this unfortunate tendency to exception to super-advanced alien species invading planets full of non-starfaring primitive sapient species. In which case, covert invasions would be the way to go. Outwardly our totally subverted and conquered planet would appear to run by members of H. sapiens sapiens as if nothing had changed but in reality it is oppressed under concealed iron tentacle of an imperialistic super-advanced alien species whose true form is so horrible and ghastly it would scare the corn flakes out of Cthulhu and its cute little friends.