A new psychoactive drug is discovered. It has the euphoriant effect of cocaine but none of the downsides. It is as potent as LSD so it is impossible for the authorities to stop it being sold worldwide. Also it is popular and pretty much harmless. It becomes a global craze. "Everybody" is using it. Harmless... not. It had the side effect of triggering a protein reconfiguration in its users' brains. One similar to BSE or CJD. One dose was enough. It takes ten years to develop but is inevitably and rapidly fatal when it does. Who is left? A few adults who never indulged even once, and a generation of mostly under-tens. About 15% of the population? With a very skewed age distribution and psych profile that might help your story. Sorry ... just realized, not a weapon. Will an own goal suffice? Otherwise you will have to invoke an evil genius behind it. 

It depends a lot on the geology of the mountain, of which I know nothing. Is the rock sedimentary? Does it have horizontal strata or do they slope steeply downwards? Is one of the strata weak? It might be that all you have to do is shake it hard enough and gravity will do the rest. One really big hydrogen bomb? A medium or small one? Look up Cumbre Vieja (Canary islands) for a case of serious instability, and if you live on the USA Eastern seaboard, worry. Somewhere on my travels, I forget exactly where, I passed a roadside memorial to the people who had once been camping in the valley below. There was no valley below, just a field of boulders. One summer day, after heavy rain which lubricated a fault, a mountain had collapsed downslope under its own weight. That's an extreme case but not a unique one. It's said that the Swiss have permanent explosive mines in carefully selected locations in their mountain passes. If someone ever tries to invade, a large chunk of mountain will fall on them. 

This system won't have been around long enough for intelligent life to evolve, if Earth is any guide. Big stars burn fast and die as supernovae. A red giant represents its death throes, and this system has only a few million years left ( if that) But since it is a binary system, not a separate solar system that has strayed far too close to a red giant for its own good, we can deduce that the star and the planet formed at the same time as the six solar mass star. Therefore, nothing except primitive life will be there. EDIT see comment, no supernova, 6 Solar masses not heavy enough. But this system will nevertheless be far too young. The red giant will be a white dwarf well inside the first billion years. 

Xenqua isn't on Earth is it? These are aliens. So ... Xenquans expect to die in their 77th year. A few reach 90. A few die young at 64. Spot the pattern. Of course it is not universal. There are accidental deaths at any age. Here on Earth we have organisms that live precisely 13 years. Never 12 or 14. Related creatures live 7 or 11 or 17 years. They are cicadas. Xenquans have a built in 13 year timer started at conception. It triggers puberty at 12, which is rather more drastic for them than us. One very important thing that puberty does is to cause maturity of a gland which then secretes an inhibitory hormone. So the next time their 13 year timer ticks, they do not re-enter puberty. But later in life that gland weakens and their bodies go into total organ failure caused by the same mechanism that produces puberty the first time around. And now there is a plague which destroys this gland. Puberty at 12 years. Death at 25 years. Easy wasn't it? 

One of the problems with blackmail is that it requires high level mental processes to process, both as blackmailer and victim. The other is that the victims sooner or later work out that "if ever you pay the Dangeld, you will never be rid of the Dane". It is an unstable social arrangement, not a stable one. War will replace payment. So I don't think this relationship can exist purely by evolution. It requires intelligence approaching the human level, at which point evolution has given way to society. There are quite a few cases where one species leads another species to prey, for mutual benefit. The bee-eater bird has a call that it only ever uses to communicate with people, who it leads to a bee nest. The people break it open to take the honey and the bird gets the leftovers. I can certainly imagine something like this bird co-evolving with the prey. Maybe in the future there will be bees that feed bee-eaters like aphids feed ants, so the bird doesn't need to call humans in to destroy the nest, and instead protects "its" bees against other bee-eaters and small predator species. But in hard times if the bees cannot keep the bird adequately fed, it will switch to calling humans. This would look like blackmail, but would be missing mental calculation by the bees and communication of an ultimatum by the bird. 

Airships are simply lousy on economic grounds and would have been replaced by fixed wing aircraft in any case. The large area of an airship meant that adverse weather could easily result in being blown backwards! Operating any sort of reliable schedule would be impossible. (Unless they went for nuclear powered airships ... well they had nuclear rockets on the drawing board ...). Today we could build a fairly safe airship using advanced polymers as gas bags. Methane provides less lift than hydrogen but is far less prone to leaking and (in low concentrations) exploding. It might work but nobody has any interest in trying. On a world where polymer technology was fifty years advanced but where the Wright brothers crashed and died... maybe. 

Did the question specify naturally evolved? If so I missed it. So what are the limits to artificially engineered life? I cannot think of a fundamental reason why something like Larry Niven's stage trees could not be caused to exist. They were once ICBM rockets that grew instead of being built. They outlasted the war. My favorite fictional interstellar life form are the titans in John Varley's Gaea trilogy. They were originally engineered as cyborg seeds which would grow on large asteroids and small moons, then launch themselves and develop into space habitats. They are sentient beings. They have been modifying their own design over many millions of years and seeding neighbouring star systems. They can't remember what happened to their creators (or so Gaea says; she is a most unreliable source). Its a wonderful vision and the only thing in the fiction that I'm almost sure is impossible is oddly one that I'm now sure the author did not need to invent. Computers have come so far that an AI no longer needs a McGuffin as it's underlying hardware to be plausible! I'd agree that natural evolution on planets with atmospheres does not offer a means for life to get off-planet. Whether some other sort of life can evolve in space, we do not know. It hasn't here, as far as we know. 

Lots of Sulphur Dioxide and Hydrogen Fluoride belching from a thing that's bigger than a supervolcano? We do not know much about flood basalt eruptions of the sort that created the Deccan and Siberian traps. Do they build up slowly or does the Earth's crust open in a massive fissure over a mere decade, year, or day? And is what is emitted at the very start a pulse of noxious gasses even nastier than what it will be emitting over the next few thousand years? And was the Siberian Traps event the worst case? That event was at the "great dying", the Permian-Triassic divide, where something like 90% of the then extant species went extinct. For this story onset is very sudden, very noxious, and the Siberian traps were not the worst case. The largest mass extinction in geological history has started. Over to you. You might want to research the volcanic eruption in Iceland in 1783 that killed a quarter of Iceland s population and inflicted acid rain that scorched leaves off trees in Ireland and a European harvest failure. Then dial that up to eleven on a global basis with no prospect of the eruption stopping anytime in the next century.