While meditating today I found that the gathered saliva was bothering me a lot. I do not know why it just came up today. It was distracting and took me away from my concentration a few times . I swallowed it . What should I do when this happens again in the future? How should one keep the tongue and do with the saliva? 

"Not being reborn is the goal" , that is the precise reason why we need to practise loving-kindness. Committing actions that sow the seeds of karma will cause you to be born again , it is the natural law of cause and effects. Only when one has given up all desire for the world, when one is enlightened , do the seeds of karma stop being ceated. Committing bad deeds leads to rebirth in lower realms of suffering. Buddhism is not nihilism , it is the complete opposite of nihilism. Buddha said that things to exist , but they are empty of "inherent existence". That means they are always changing as they are conditioned. Even the smallest particles inside any given object are changing with time. This is what he meant by emptiness. Infact he said that those who say that nothing exists are infact having "wrong view" 

If what was said does not fulfill the criteria above than it is not right speech. For example , if you know for a fact that the intention behind the feedback was not to help you develop but to malign you or discourage you , you should ignore it completely. If it fulfill all the criteria above ,you should feel yourself as extremely fortunate. Buddha said that it is only the wise , who can understand when someone tries to correct their faults. It is only the evil people who hate such feedback. 

I have a problem that I am currently facing. There is a certain person in the family that triggers me and due to their actions I feel very angry and generate negative mind-states. The strategy I have adopted is to avoid this person all together , to the point of not even seeing them. I find that this helps me to keep calm and avoid negative mind states. Is this a good way to go about this situation? Can we avoid all triggers that generate negative mind states. Does that help in spiritual development? 

Absolutely , you can criticise someone constructively. Buddhism in no way teaches us to be pushovers. However, the Buddha mentioned from the (AN V (From The Patimokkha, Ñanamoli Thera, trans.)) Source : $URL$ In order for your actions to be skillfull you have to admonish the person hurting you or others very skillfully. How to admonish another skillfully "O bhikkhus, a bhikkhu who desires to admonish another should do so after investigating five conditions in himself and after establishing five other conditions in himself. What are the five conditions which he should investigate in himself? [1] "Am I one who practices purity in bodily action, flawless and untainted...? [2] "Am I one who practices purity in speech, flawless and untainted...? [3] "Is the heart of goodwill, free from malice, established in me towards fellow-farers in the holy life...? [4] "Am I or am I not one who has heard much, who bears in mind what he has heard, who stores up what he has heard? Those teachings which are good alike in their beginning, middle, and ending, proclaiming perfectly the spirit and the letter of the utterly purified holy life — have such teachings been much heard by me, borne in mind, practiced in speech, pondered in the heart and rightly penetrated by insight...? [5] "Are the Patimokkhas [rules of conduct for monks and nuns] in full thoroughly learned by heart, well-analyzed with thorough knowledge of their meanings, clearly divided sutta by sutta and known in minute detail by me...? "These five conditions must be investigated in himself. "And what other five conditions must be established in himself? [1] "Do I speak at the right time, or not? [2] "Do I speak of facts, or not? [3] "Do I speak gently or harshly? [4] "Do I speak profitable words or not? [5] "Do I speak with a kindly heart, or inwardly malicious? "O bhikkhus, these five conditions are to be investigated in himself and the latter five established in himself by a bhikkhu who desires to admonish another." In short , investigate whether you are doing it out of anger our out of a pure intention to protect yourself and the other person as well .Make sure that it is true that the other person is indeed gossiping about you and this is not just your assumption . And then ask yourself whether it is beneficial, to all concerned.If all these three conditions are fullfilled then pick a right time to speak it. 

If you do well ,you will achieve a higher re-birth. If you do badly and let your afflictions overtake you , you might get reborn in a lower realm such as that of an animal. 

Accept the feedback of the student only if it fulfills the right speech conditions laid down by Buddha .. 

A fully enlightened Buddha could have handled a relationship with a person such as your mother . This is because they are spiritually so powerful that her negative actions towards them does not effect them . You are on the other hand a spiritual novice. You do not have the spiritual strength to handle the negativity that comes from your mother. 100% of people living on this earth cannot. I know one day when you become enlightened and you are put in the same situation you will be able to handle the negativity. For now, and for your own spiritual development , it is highly toxic and dangerous for you to be around your mother or anyone like her. Right now you need all the conducive conditions to practice , to develop and grow.Your mother is hindering that progress. Buddha said in the Kalama Sutta "When you know for yourselves that these things are wholesome... these things, when entered upon and undertaken, incline toward welfare and happiness — then, Kalamas, having come to them you should stay with them" Look at it this way : Interacting with your mother will it lead to welfare and happiness for all beings in the world? The way I see it , she will destroy your mental peace , which will lead you to withhold the gifts you bring to the world, and will contribute to her spoiling her own karma. Avoiding her will lead to you being more happy and contributing to the world, bringing more peace and joy to the people around you. Think about it , which act will be more wholesome. Yes , the Buddha did say that we should be greatful for our parents, if our parents are wrong he said , we should try to bring them in the path of the dhamma , by helping them to become more virtuous. By now allowing your mother to manipulate you and spoil you , you are allowing her not to create more negative karma. If she listens to some reason and tries to lead a more virtuous life, and if you can find a way to make that happen for her that is the best gift that you can give her. If giving money to her means that she will spend it on alcohol, do not give it to her to enable her. Wish you all the best. Remember you are precious, we are waiting for your gifts. Do not let anyone or anything stop you from giving the world all the beautiful gifts that you have inside you. May you find peace. 

Was it True? Was the intention of the person behind the feedback good? Was it beneficial for everyone involved? Was it said in an affectionate manner? 5.Was it said at the right time? 

The law of cause and effect is unchangeable and we must face the consequences of the Karmas done through body, speech and mind. However, is it possible to hasten the manifestation of the results of bad deeds so that we can face them and be free. Is there any sutta or any practise that anyone knows that we can do to achieve this? 

Yesterday while reading a book suddenly my mind generated the following visions: I saw a girl in a white dress being tortured in this very unpleasant place which smelled bad and was horrible , I saw her being raped by this creature who looked horrific , again and again these visions came to me in the night. What could these visions mean ? Are they trying to warn me of some bad karma ripening. As it is said by many Tibetan teachers that they get warnings of future happenings in dreams. Although this was not a dream. 

The Buddha and his Dhamma by Dr. B.R Ambedkar. It can be downloaded here : $URL$ It is the best book on Introduction to Buddhism that I have come across. It contains detailed and well-researched information on the life of Buddha and a very understandable introduction to the Dhamma. 

I have a major problem in my practice. When things are going well in life ,doubt rarely raises its head and I practice diligently. However , when something bad happens , I feel, how could this happen , I practiced so much. I start losing faith in the Dhamma and start to question whether it is real or helpful. This is a very painful position to be in. There are things causing doubt; frequently giving unwise attention to them — that is the nourishment for the arising of doubt that has not yet arisen, and for the increase and strengthening of doubt that has already arisen. — SN 46:51 When in the midst of painful emotion , this is what revolves in my head. How do I take this advice of the Buddha on a practical level. How do I stop giving "unwise attention" to the events that arise doubt like when accosted with suffering even though I practice so diligently. I would like to hear you own practical experience or links to any meditations out there. Furthermore, for denourishing of doubt , there are the five antidotes: 

Example: Why is one born in the animal realm? Because of stupidity and ignorance. Your thinking in the animal realm will be dull and foggy there is no way that you can practise Dhamma. Also animals suffer a lot. Imagine the state of animals in the meat producing industry. This helps me a lot , by generating fear of being born in lower realms , I motivate myself to practice and control myself from doing harm. Here is the link to the teaching : $URL$ 

The english word "suffering" for the term "Dukkha" does not do it much justice. The Buddha said ( Source: $URL$ "Birth is dukkha, aging is dukkha, death is dukkha; sorrow, lamentation, pain, grief, & despair are dukkha; association with the unbeloved is dukkha; separation from the loved is dukkha; not getting what is wanted is dukkha. In short, the five clinging-aggregates are dukkha." — SN 56.11 This sums up everything that is Dukkha. Now while meditating how do we realise Dukkha. First of all in Vipassana Meditation, we never do it with music as it is a distraction. So , please do not do that. Meditation is done with the aim of seeing "reality" as it is by transcending our faulty perceptions and societal conditioning. How do you know Impermanence while Meditating? For example : You are meditating for half and hour and you notice an itch in your knee. You do not scratch but only observe it. While observing it you notice that after a while it ends , and some other sensation begins somewhere in your body. This is showing you the impermanence of sensations. How do you know non-self Annata and Dukkha? With more practise in meditation and realising the impermanence of things around you , you will realise this as well. However , it takes practise. In order to understand these things , I suggest you practise more for yourself and try to understand these concepts at an experiential level , through your own experiences. Merely intellectualizing these concepts will help only a little. 

In the Mangala Sutta, the Buddha says that one of the highest blessing is to support one's parents. Was this just meant for the lay people? Because elsewhere, he praises solitude and being alone in the forest to achieve salvation for oneself and others. If as a lay person due to job and other factors we are not able to be present physically to support one's parents, does this go against what Buddha required of us for our parents? 

Knowledge of the Buddhist scriptures (Doctrine and Discipline); Asking questions about them; Familiarity with the Vinaya (the Code of Monastic Discipline, and for lay followers, with the principles of moral conduct); 

Buddha mentions in the Paticcasamuppada that craving leads to clinging and this leads to existence ,birth and death. In other places Buddha mentions that Aversion is a very unwholesome state of mind and we should practice to remove it from our mind. However, I would like to know how aversion plays a role in the 12 links of dependent origination as only craving and clinging are mentioned. 

I think specifically when you are facing this problem you have specific people in mind who might judge you for being a Buddhist. Contemplate on who these people are and why might they object and what is the fear that is driving you to not say this out loud. For example being raised in a Hindu Brahmin household, my family hated the fact that I had turned to Buddhism as my spiritual path. I was often mocked , humiliated and insulted by my family often to the point where I started developing an irrational fear that they would take my Dhamma away from me. Due to the fact that I started developing such negative mind-states , I stopped commenting on people's questions about my spirituality. Also because when you announce this to everyone and as a human you have a failing , when you do something wrong , people often quip " so this is what your religion is teaching you". Its a very double edged sword. In the Brahmajala Sutta ($URL$ Buddha said : "If, bhikkhus, others speak in dispraise of me, or in dispraise of the Dhamma, or in dispraise of the Sangha, you should not give way to resentment, displeasure, or animosity against them in your heart. For if you were to become angry or upset in such a situation, you would only be creating an obstacle for yourselves. If you were to become angry or upset when others speak in dispraise of us, would you be able to recognize whether their statements are rightly or wrongly spoken?" Hence , if you are afraid of censure from the outside world , it will work against your own spiritual development. As the whole practice of Buddhism is about looking inward. However if you find that speaking about it would generate negative mind-states , best not speak about it with people you know are going to react with censure or insults. Cultivate a close relationship with a Sangha and interact with people who understand the jewel that the Dhamma is.