Lunar Eclipses occur when a full moon occurs when the the moon crosses the ecliptic. The ecliptic is the plane in which the Earth orbits the sun, and so also the track which the sun appears to trace in the sky relative to the stars. It appears from the diagram that there are two nodes each month (ascending and descending), but this is only approximately correct. The influence of the sun causes the nodes to move.It takes 29.5 days between two full moons, but only 27.2 days between two ascending and descending nodes). This means that a node can occur on any day of the year, and any day of the month. A "supermoon" occurs when the moon when it is closest to the earth, the perigee. This point of perigee also moves, so the perigee can also occur at any time during the month, and the time of perigee is not related to the time of the node. Unlike terms like "node" which astro(nom|log)ers have used for many years, Supermoon is a neologism. Thus is is possible, but rare for a full moon, a lunar node, and a perigee to occur at about the same time, and if it does, a supermoon eclipse will occur. 

The Draconids have a radiant that, from the the Northerly Latitudes (N America or Europe) is highest in the sky in the early evening of October 7th or 8th. This means that unlike most showers (which are best before dawn) the Draconids are most active after dusk. They are not visible to many Southern Hemisphere observers. They are capable of producing short-spikes of activity, and there is a prediction that 2018 may generate a meteor storm, with over 1000 meteors per hour. It will coincide with a new moon, so could be rather special. Astronomy.com Earthsky.org 

Metallic hydrogen is an odd substance. When you push hydrogen atoms very close together, their electrons can come free, and move around, instead of being tightly bound to the atomic nuclei. As this form of hydrogen would conduct electricity, it behaves like a metal. At least this is the theory. Nobody has been able to produce enough pressure to actually make any metallic hydrogen in the lab. However, the pressure inside Jupiter should be high enough to form metallic hydrogen. In extrasolar planets there could be large amounts of metallic hydrogen too. However as soon as you release the pressure from metallic hydrogen, it turns back to normal molecular hydrogen. So it could not exist on the surface of a "hot jupiter", even one from which the outer layers had been stripped away by the solar wind. The metallic hydrogen that had been in the interior would change back into molecular hydrogen as it approached the surface. 

From your description, an object that blocks out light from a star in only one location cannot be an astronomical object. Occultations by asteroids are fairly common. You can see a list at $URL$ When a star is being occluded by an asteroid there will be a fairly narrow strip from which the star will be hidden. But it is still about 50km wide. The star appears to rapidly fade, and it remains hidden for at most a few seconds, then reappears. Your description of "only hidden to one of my eyes" doesn't fit an asteroid occultation. The object hiding the star must, therefore, have been local, and not moving. It would be speculation to suggest what it could be. There are may objects that are hidden in visible light, not by asteroids, but by interstellar dust clouds. We can see them by using other wavelengths. 

The moon's rotation is very slowly decreasing. The page you link to is correct but confusing, and you need to understand one of the weird things about orbits to understand it: If you speed up in an orbit you go slower Here is how this apparent paradox works. If you are orbiting the Earth and you fire your rockets to speed up, you will lift yourself to a higher orbit, where you will be moving slower. The tidal bulge is a large mass and this large mass is in front of the moon. Any large mass has a gravitational effect and there is a gravitational force on the moon by the bulge, and an equal and opposite force on the bulge by the moon. The bulge is in front of the moon, so the gravitational action of the bulge pulls the moon forward. So the tidal bulge acts to pull the moon forward in its orbit, which makes it slow down, and since the moon is tidally locked it also slows its rotation speed. However the moon is already spinning quite slowly, only one complete rotation per month, so the amount of slow down is very small. The article writes 

The motion of the moon, as measured by the Lunar Laser Ranging data is not as predicted by Newton. As the scientist being interviewed says, Newton's model was correct to the accuracy of the data available to him, and was good enough to land the Eagle on the moon in '69. However the Lunar Laser Ranging data can position the moon to an accuracy of 3cm. Relativistic effects cause the moon to deviate from the orbit predicted by Newtonian mechanics by about 1m, mostly due to special relativistic effects such as Lorentz contraction. General Relativity accounts for a variation of 10cm. This is much less than the perturbation due to Jupiter (about 1km). However, general relativity does fully account for the motion of the moon, to the accuracy of the experiment. 

Radiating gravitational waves makes an inspralling binary orbit closer and faster. (Rob Jefferies) The source of the energy for both increased kinetic energy, and the gravitational radiation is the same: gravitational potential energy. (PM 2Ring) Two black holes at a distance of 1 light year have a huge amount of potential energy, about 10^48 Joules of potential energy. As they spiral, a significant amount of that energy is radiated as gravitational waves This is real mass lost. The mass of resulting black hole is smaller than the sum of the two merging black holes, though at no point does any black hole itself become smaller. 

If the sun is visible as a disc, then it is certainly can cause damage. As you move further from the sun the disc appears smaller, but the surface brightness remains the same. The eye can resolve a disc of about 1 arcminute, and the sun is about 30 arcminutes when viewed from Earth. So you would need to be at least 30 times further from the Sun than the Earth is, which puts you almost exactly at Neptune. From that distance, the sun would be a magnitude -19 star. If you stared at it, it could probably still damage your eyes, however, your eyes are constantly jumping (saccades) which might move the image of the sun around the retina enough to prevent damage. There is, of course, no atmosphere to protect you from UV, so let's hope that's not a problem. Beyond Neptune the sun gets dimmer, as it can't appear to get any smaller, and there is probably little risk by the time you reach the main part of the Kuiper belt. 

It is hard to give an exact spec. There is a formula: $m=\log_{10}(D)\times 5 + 7$ which calculates the limiting magnitude $m$, from the diameter of the mirror in cm $D$. This suggests you need at least 13cm mirror. However it assumes clear and stable skies, so in practice you would need something clearly in excess of that. 

Not recognising a known natural object, such as Venus, or unusual clouds. Planes, drones, Chinese lanterns or satellites. Optical illusion, dreams or the effects of drugs. Deliberate falsification. 

There are over 1000 operational satellites, and probably as many again defunct or non-operational satellites in orbit, plus a great deal more small pieces of space junk. About half of these are in a low earth orbit (LEO). Satellites in LEO have a period of between 90 minutes and 130 minutes. But you would not expect a satellite to follow the same path in the sky in two orbits, as the earth will have moved between orbits of the satellite. So it is very unlikely that you will see the same satellite pass in front of the moon twice. Satellites in LEO are moving fast! They will cross the moon's disc in less than a second, and transits are rare, as each is a path only 7km wide. at any one time, a transit is visible from less than 100th of 1% of the Earth's surface. To obtain the awesome photo that you have linked, the astrophotographer would have had to use some orbital prediction software to calculate the exact time of a solar transit by the ISS and travel to a carefully calculated position (and prayed for clear skies). You could be observing the moon all year and never see a transit. Most of the remaining satellites are in Geostationary orbits, They orbit at a great distance over the equator. As their orbital period is exactly one day, they appear to hang in space above a point on the Earth. Such satellites are too distant to be seen as "dots". 

About the only time it could make any difference is when considering impacts on the planet. In that case, if a body enters the atmosphere, it is considered to have impacted the planet. For example the dust sized particles that form meteors don't reach the surface of the Earth, yet are still considered to have impacted the Earth. On the other hand, quoted sizes of diameters normally don't include the atmosphere since the top of the atmosphere is fuzzy, and varies with temperature. For exoplanets, none of this matters since we don't have anything like enough resolution to determine atmospheric depth, or even the presence of an atmosphere in many cases. Remember that gas giant planets don't have a solid surface. The cloud tops are then used as a proxy for the surface.