Of relevance to the question, from the raw data they provide, for the time frame reported (2004-2009), there were 2,107 IED explosions (which ought to include car bombings, which doesn't have a separate category), resulting in over 29,000 casualties, the vast majority of those being civilian casualties. Behind "Murder" (with >34,000 casualties), the IED category is by far the most bloody, causing nearly 3x the number of casualties as the next category (direct fire), and more than 1/4 of all casualties. 

According to Wikipedia (which cites U.S. Census data and CDC data, so I'm going with wikipedia anyway, for the sake of its easy-to-digest chart), the U.S. population has grown by well over 1,000,000 every year (not counting immigration) and some times more than twice that, every year since at least 1950. I'm also looking at the U.S. immigration data found here (link from Wikipedia), for which 2010 is the last year available. Now, I'm making a few assumptions: 

I have yet to find any specific reference to the Wichita State study, however the Tulane study is easier to come by, although I have yet to find an online copy. (source) A few other referenced (but unconfirmed) claims include: 

Oil Pulling is apparently an ancient practice, but is seeing a recent surge in popularity. It is claimed it can cure almost anything, from bad breath to AIDS. The process apparently involves swishing oil around in your mouth for 10-20 minutes, to collect bacteria, and toxins, which your body expunges through the saliva: 

So from Tog's perspective, Apple does (or at least as of 1992, when the book was published, "had always done") market research. 

It's plausible. The map appears to be based on the same data set as this interactive map by The Guardian, which is of "every incident where somebody died" in Iraq, between 2003 and 2009, and is based on data obtained via Wikileaks. 

If this data is accurate, for 70% of current marijuana users to smoke at work, then even a good portion of even the most casual users would have to smoke at work, and that just seems unlikely. I suspect the most casual users are the least likely to smoke at work. So I would argue that for any useful meaning of statistics, it is clear that 70% of pot users do not use while at work. Of course, by massaging the numbers sufficiently, it may be possible to claim that 70% of people who have used at any time in their life, used at work at some time in their life--or more likely were high at work (used immediately before arriving to work, or over their lunch break, etc). But using such a statistic for anything other than curiosity, I would consider unethical, considering that 77% of "some time in their life" users no longer use at all, according to this data. 

The story is well-cited by Wikipedia, and it appears to be true. Wikipedia cites The Huffington Post, which in turn cites Robert Frock's book: 

No source for this claim is cited. (In fact, the book is mysteriously missing a bibliography entirely!) Is it true that casein "becomes even poisonous" to humans, specifically after the age of one or two years? 

Since roughly 1960, the typographical style has shifted from two spaces after a period to one space after a period. Some people have claimed that the old convention of two spaces can improve speed reading. Found in comments for the same article: 

It appears to me that the first links are looking at aggregate statistics, and from this drawing the conclusion that the overall harm to our society's health is greater from sodas than from smoking. I am willing to accept that this may indeed be true. But the articles all appear to be making a much different claim, that: On an individual basis, or perhaps on a per-serving basis, drinking a soda is more harmful than smoking a cigarette. Is there any validity in this claim? Considering that the types of harm inflicted by each substance is different, I'm open to suggestions on how to best compare the two. Two proxies I can imagine for comparing the two might be: 

To clarify, the claim is that in the US, any (eligible) person can declare him or herself a candidate for president. That is to say, I believe, they needn't be nominated by a specific political party, or be the member of some other governing body (congress, parliament, etc). 

I asked the reason for the hanging bags of water, and was told it's intended to scare flies away. Allegedly, the combined effects of make-shift prism, along with a fly's compound eye, alters the flies' perception of... something (??) such that they are confused, or frightened, or otherwise repelled from the area. It strikes me as a completely ridiculous claim, but it's clearly taken as serious enough that someone actually went to the effort of hanging mistletoe-like water bags, and the friend I was with was also familiar with the old wive's tale. So, is there any reason to think that bags in this configuration would repel flies? 

Now I'm no numerologist, but I'm pretty sure 47 != 46. Of course if we discount the last word, Selah, then speare is the 46th word... but why should we skip the last word? It's still a word. 

Further information about Nash's career can be found on the wikipedia page specifically about John Forbes Nash, Jr. 

Today while visiting the tiger exhibit at my local zoo, I read that in areas where tiger attacks on humans are common, people will often wear a mask on the back of their head to ward of tiger attacks, as tigers only ever attack from behind. Wikipedia makes the unreferenced claim that this strategy used to work, but no longer does because tigers are too clever. Is there any evidence to show that wearing a mask on the back of one's head is, or ever has been, effective in warding off tiger attacks? 

It's not true, simply because the numbers are off. We can count the words ourselves. Psalm 46, KJV (1611): 

It seems to me that it is physically impossible to reduce tailpipe emissions by 99% without reducing fuel (and/or air) intake by roughly the same amount. This suggests to me that the claim is probably talking about some specific aspect of emissions (such as particulate matter, or greenhouse gasses, or something). Did these car companies manage to reduce tailpipe emissions, or some meaningful aspect of them, for diesel engines, between roughly 2004 and 2014? 

I submitted this story to Snopes, and was notified that today they released an article about the incident, claiming it is verified to be false, in short because no female member of HMX-1 was in a position to have met Obama under the circumstances described in the story. The most relevant bit from the Snopes article: 

Although marijuana is now legal in Colorado, I don't see any particular attraction to mile markers from this state, as US mile markers are pretty standard--at least along interstate highways (where this photo appears to have been taken). In any case, is there any truth to the claim that the* 420 mile marker has been a special target of theft? And if so, did the CDOT change the mile marker as claimed in the photo? I haven't done any in-depth investigation, but the low quality of the image makes it seem quite possible that it was doctored... *The claim suggests that there is a single mile marker 420 in Colorado, which is clearly false, as, even if there is only a single (Interstate) highway long enough to have a mile 420, there would be one marker on each side of the road, one for east-bound traffic, one for west-bound. (A personal note: I'd rather steal a 419.99 mile marker myself....) 

Given a habitual smoker who smokes N cigarettes per day, compared to a soda drinker who also consumes N fizzy drinks per day, who is likely to have the higher medical bills from chronic disease? Drinking N sodas reduces a person's life expectancy by an amount equal or greater than the smoking of N cigarettes. 

Aside from the terrible grammar and punctuation, the claims at a glance seem largely ridiculous--cooking would kill any bacteria, for example. Is there any truth to the claim that an onion becomes dangerous, specifically for cooking (as opposed to eating it raw) within a day of being cut open? 

The implication, in the context of the entire article, is that as an immediate result of Obama signing the ACA, her regular cancer treatments were stopped. I am skeptical of this for a number of reasons: 

Is an imminent volcanic eruption the most plausible explanation for this reported animal mass-exodus from Yellowstone National Park? To be clear, I'm not asking if an eruption is imminent, I'm asking if there are other, more plausible explanations than this so-called expert Thomas Lupshu would have us believe. 

Today I had lunch in a small Mexican taco place, and they had hanging, in the middle of the room, two clear plastic bags filled with water: 

The on-screen stat and the voice over at minimum don't seem to really correlate to each other, as "in-government" could potentially mean anything including the cleaning staff at a government-owned gas station. Is this claim that the U.S. is ranked 90th in the world in terms of women in national legislatures true? And if so, what does it actually mean--what metric is it measuring? 

I just stumbled upon this article, which details an alleged Obamacare-induced horror story of a particular cancer patient. The particular claim of which I am skeptical is: 

I know very little about biology and anatomy, but the idea that a single, isolated heart cell, with no attached nervous system, can beat, strikes me as dubious. Is there any truth to this claim? 

It is common to see marketing for exercise routines that claim to target fat deposits in a particular part of the body. Examples: 

This claim is very easy to analyze. AS gsm is a standard measurement, and means grams per meter2, it's easy to do some simple math: 

TLDR It depends. Evidence suggests that many cats at least, can drink milk in some forms, particularly unpasteurized milk. There was a famous series of studies done on, among other things, cats and milk consumption, by Dr. Francis Pottinger, in the 1930s and 1940s. As the study has been around so long, the results have been analyzed time and again, and you can find much on google. Wikipedia summarizes the findings of the study quite well: 

Everyone has probably seen a car stereo head unit with a removable face plate; the idea being you can take the faceplate with you to deter theft. The claim is specifically made in this product description, for example: 

Is it true that the food stamp program (which is now called SNAP) is (or was, when it went by the Food Stamp name) the program with the lowest rate of fraud of any US federal government program? And if so, by what metric (as I can imagine there might be multiple ways to measure fraud, not to mention different types of fraud which may not be directly comparable)? 

So, Yes light has 12.5% less mass per square meter than 80gsm paper. So the original claim, that the Yes light paper has a 10% smaller environmental load per sheet should be approximately correct. This assumes, of course, that paper weight is directly proportional to environmental load, which seems to be a reasonable enough assumption on the surface. (Perhaps examining this claim would be worthy of a separate question, if anyone doubts it). The final claim, borrowed for your Sustainable Living post, is that the Yes light paper has the same thickness as the Yes Bronze paper: