Suppose there was a family who were suddenly scaled up to the size of the ones in Gulliver's travels, about 72 feet tall, 12:1 proportionally scaled up. For the purposes of the question ignore the impossible Biology of such people, This question is only about the effects someone would notice if they were suddenly scaled up? Also assume that their entire house is also scaled up along with them. The Question What would a person who has been scaled up start to notice in their immediate surroundings, how might things act differently to a giant person? Ex: things seeming to fall much faster and making a larger impact on the ground , Things seemingly break more easily, water acting differently. Additional info 

-Fuel is not an issue, they are basically showing off their might and the fact they can waste huge amounts of it without ever running out. -Once landed the ship can stand on its own and there is no possibility of it falling over Edit: -assume it is landing in the Sahara desert on earth 

There may be more that aren't listed, but if any of these listed could provide the effects pictured above then use that as the definition and or one that hasn't been listed 

Suppose there is a culture on earth that sees dead bodies as holy items and letting them decompose is a sin. I have seen many examples of mummies preserved so well that they almost look like their just sleeping like this girl 

I am writing a book in which criminals get their hands on a polymer which resembles chewing gum , but alters their saliva. This allows them to burn holes into walls made from plastic used as building material in an alternate future of earth. -Is it possible to create a "gum" that alters saliva enough to burn through plastic without significantly harming the user? 

Suppose there was a race of aliens who had created engines for there spaceships that could operate at any speed under light, and Hulls strong enough to withstand the crushing pressure of earths core several magnitudes over along with heat. These aliens are very arrogant and do not care about physical restraints and often fly down to planets with their very un-aerodynamically shaped ships and travel at amazing speeds causing extreme drag on the ship, but their engines are so powerful and their hulls so strong that they give no notice to this and just proceed faster The question What would be the impact of the surrounding area of (lets just say earth) if these aliens decided to fly past a city or a neighborhood with complete disregard of the hazardous effects of the atmospheric drag on their ships? -Assume the ship is a 200 foot cube -Assume that the ship is flying at about the height of 2722 feet or lower -Assume the ship is a cube or an even more un-aerodynamic shape -Assume that the ship is traveling at at least re-entry speed of the space shuttle, you can also assume they can travel at much greater speeds than that in the atmosphere 

On earth, there are humans that have been separated from each other for hundreds of years, living in isolation from each others cultures. Upon further examination into each different culture, you would find undertones that are common between them. cultures share common themes and items that all people require, although the appearance may be different. The question If there was another world like earth, same mass, gravity, etc.. the only thing different being the geography and position in space, and humans evolved on that planet just the same as us, would their culture be similar enough to things that we have on earth, that we would be able to recognize some of their culture even though it would be alien to us? 

Suppose there was an alternate-reality where humans evolved to see only UV light and were immune to significant amounts of UV radiation. These humans look just like us and consider it a copy of this world. How might this world look different than ours in terms of technology such as computer displays and other items that might be different if we saw in this wavelength? 

I am currently writing a story where natives are discovered in a jungle smoking a plant that depending on the variety will release different colored smoke when burned. The visuals in this story are very important to the plot. The question : How do I add pigments to the native plants that allow them to inhale different colored smoke without any serious* health effects. *by serious I mean any other effects beside the detrimental effects of smoking itself 

additional information: -Ship is approx 7 million tons (this is subject to change as answers come in and people adjust the weight to something more scientifically more accurate) -Height: 5280 feet tall -Diameter: 2000 ft 

The question: What would these humans see and could they see more/better/worse than us? Would their vision be obstructed when looking around because it might block part of their pupil? What are the social implications of these humans having black eyes? 

A superhuman character in my book has the ability to sense objects outside of his body by simply being around them without touching them. There is some sort of field that extends outside of his body and allows him to feel anything inside that it encompass. It takes a while for him to learn to harness it so he can feel smaller objects or expand the field. He starts out feeling basic shapes like a marble or a small simple box, and eventually is able to distinguish ink from paper with such accuracy that he could read a book without opening it. The question Is such a power possible? What would have to happen biologically for him to be able to achieve this? If this power isn't achievable by natural biological means, what technology could produce this? Additional information 

The question Using modern technology, is it possible to build a machine to preserve someone who died to the point that they look asleep but otherwise you wouldn't know that they had died? Addition info 

In a parallel universe , what would have to be different with computers and critical systems for the Y2k that people feared would cause chaos to be possible and actually happen? 

Lets say humans from an alternate reality find a modern day laptop floating out in space and bring it back down to to study it. The humans are a little less advanced than us and are very curious what all those different shaped holes in the side of the laptop do, so they decide to make their own USB and try to plug it in to see what happens. The question After opening it up and examining the slots, could they reverse engineer a USB and plug it in and based on how behind their computers are would it allow them to do anything meaningful? What would be the procedure for interacting with the laptop, would they open it up first or touch keys etc.. Additional info 

How better off would we be today if thousands of years ago during the roman empire, a "god"came down from the sky so that everyone could see them and instructed the human race to advance above all else and everybody listened and obeyed When I say advance above all else I mean to achieve the best of everything possible. If it can be improved then improve it to the limits of your ability. Humans would do everything in their power to improve everything around them. An example would be choosing the most efficient way of doing things, using and improving the efficient means of doing things so that if lets just say a Phillips head screwdriver was better at screwing than a Flathead, then humans would only use Phillips heads and start improving their design further. Think of it as evolution of technology, where the ones who do the best job survive and are improved upon and those who do the same job but at a lesser efficiency are abandoned The questions Would things be more advanced today? Would our quality of life be better or worse? How might society be different today because of such an event? 

I am writing a story that takes place in the sci-fi 50's with vintage ray guns. After watching several old sci-fi movies I have observed several effects of old ray guns when fired which I will list below 

There are many surviving pieces of clothing from hundreds of years ago, for example, there was a news story about a 500 year old incan girl that was preserved $URL$ There are also a dress found that was 5000 years old that belonged to a mummy $URL$ Suppose that thousands of years from now , assuming humans all died , aliens found earth and investigated to find a bunch of fully clothed skeletons. The cloths on the skeletons, unlike the above examples besides being a little dusty, are in such good condition that they could be washed and worn again as if they had just come from the store The Question Is clothing that is able to withstand time like in the scenario above possible and if so what would make it possible for clothing to survive for hundreds of years and be able to be worn just like new? 

I am writing a book where there is a binary system with a red and blue star. There is planet with the same properties as earth orbiting in a habitable zone around the 2 stars. The question How could a binary system be set up so that from the planet during the day the red star lights up the sky but at night only the blue sun can be seen but so that it lights up the night half no more than our moon? Additional info -The planet needs to be habitable the whole time -The parameters of the system can be manipulated in any way you need to accommodate the above description as long as the stars remains blue and red 

EDIT after further consideration I have allowed for interference with the body to be allowed only internally 

I was watching a science show with facts about the sun and one of the facts stated that if we could hear the sun from earth, it would sound like a train horn constantly blaring at us. I have also heard recordings of Jupiter making sound that NASA recorded. The scenario Assume some kind of substance comes into existence that encompasses the entire solar system all the way to Pluto. This substance is a medium for sound to travel but otherwise does not interact with the solar system and allows for it to stay exactly the same. The Question What would we start to hear if the space in our solar system could suddenly allow for sound to travel? would we hear the sun or other objects such as Jupiter if you were orbiting it? Addition info This is for a story about humans using sound for propulsion instead of rockets and I am trying to describe what a solar system that sound could travel in EDIT: I have included this link describing how nasa "listens" to planets $URL$ 

Imagine a gigantic cube 5 times the size of the sun and 5 times as massive ramming its way Into the sun, would the sun just explode or fade out as its smashed by the ram? *please assume the ram object is impervious to damage 

We don't have a pill that can serve all of our nutritional needs, but we do have soylent, which supposedly takes care of the nutritional needs for a person ( and is reported to taste quite bland). There are a plethora of dry pellets in the pet aisle that are specially made for each type of animal consuming them, each containing different ingredients for the animals they were made for. The closest thing I could think that we have to "Human pet food" is cereal. If such a food were created I imagine It would be like ramen in the sense that it would be cheap and you could survive on it for a while Is it possible for there to be generic food pellets made for humans in a variety of different flavors to serve as "human pet food" and supply our nutritional requirements and if such a food were created what might be the impact?