I think the case of the French campaign in may/june 1940 conclusively answers this question in the negative. Indeed, Blitzkieg tactics designed to entrap the opposing armies were used systematically, with great efficiency and with great success during the whole period. After the armistice, the Reich annexed Alsace and Moselle, where Jews could be find in large number, if only because thousands of them had emigrated from Germany an Central Europe in the 1930s. So here is a clear-cut empirical test: the Reich had used Blitzkrieg tactics and had as a result thousands of entrapped Jews under its jurisdiction. What did it do? It expropriated and expelled them to the unoccupied zone, thereby (of course involuntarily) actually ensuring that they would escape the harshest anti-semitic policies of the occupied zone for two years. More generally, the military history of the French campaign seems completely disconnected from the history of Jews persecution, deportation and extermination, with the first ending in mid-1940 and the second really picking-up steam only in spring 1941. Based on these facts, I think it can be reasonably concluded that maneuver warfare on the western front had nothing to do with Jews extermination. By way of reference: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ These links show that the occupied zone had a much harsher treatment of Jews than the unoccupied zone (English versions accessible from the page, usually). $URL$ details the expulsion of Jews from annexed Alsace. 

Mixture (370-750 AD) Grecoroman + Christianity + "Barbarian" Gestation (750-970) Viking raids, petty kingdoms Expansion (970-1270) Feudal system, guild economics Conflict (1270-1440) Hundred Years' War and economic institutionalism Expansion II (1440-1650) Renaissance, commercial capitalism Conflict II - (1650-1730) Imperialist wars, class conflict Expansion III - (1730-1890) Industrial revolution, financial capitalism Conflict III - (1890-??) 

On the topic of the Aztecs, an intriguing book on this subject is Aztec Warfare: Imperial Expansion and Political Control, by Ross Hassig. The Aztecs were an extremely war-like civilization, that were constantly attacking and subjugating their neighbors. Interestingly, though, their style of warfare was quite different from what we are familiar with from western european history. For the Aztecs it was all about taking prisoners. The more prisoners you could bring home to sacrifice to the gods, the higher your standing. Thus, weaponry, tactics, and military strategy were all geared around maximizing capture of the enemy rather than defeating them in detail. They didn't really care about securing administrative control over their conquests quite the way the Europeans did, and often allowed the conquered to continue under their existing leadership, so long as they continued to send tribute. Typically the Aztec army would set forth from the capital at the start of the war season and go from one town to the next. They might start with towns that were lax in their tribute or that had refused to give it. When they appeared at a town, those people had the choice of surrendering or going to war; the Aztecs would be particularly harsh to those that resisted to dissuade others from doing the same. Flower War was another interesting warfare technique rather unique from European war; the nobility would leave their regular troops and engage in non-lethal battle with nobility of neighboring empires. These did not result in capitulation of their enemy, but were done for practice, honor, and to "test" the strength of the opponents. I suppose there is some analogy to the jousting tournaments of the European middle ages. Thus the Aztec empire was always a bit amorphous, with cities and towns shifting in allegiance depending on the strength of the king, the proximity of the army, and heaviness of tribute demands. The empire was maintained not by territorial control via castles and forts, but rather indirectly via political influence, propaganda, and fear. It also meant that the maximum effective range of the Aztec empire was limited to how far the army could march in one war season. Thus, while the Aztecs probably would have no qualms about conquering, say, Texas, the structure of their civilization would just not support such a long range expedition. Also, the central Mexico basin was a very agriculturally rich area and supported very large populations. Outside this area populations were more scarce. So I think the Aztecs would not be as interested in areas far from them where captives would be harder to obtain and more time consuming to bring back for sacrifice. While the Aztecs were distinctive compared with Europe, they didn't live in a cultural vacuum. Neighboring empires followed similar style warfare, prisoner capture, flower war, and so on. Religious practices, agricultural technology, war strategy, and more would drift northward, influencing the practices of other Native American tribes. The Flower Wars remind me much of the "counting coup" of the plains indians for instance. For contrast, I'd suggest reading Empire of the Inca by Burr Cartwright Brundage. The Incas engaged in war for keeps. They didn't take captives for sacrifice, they wanted territory. When they took a new region, they'd transfer some loyal families from Cuzco to serve as the conquered region's ruling class. Dissidents would be rounded up and relocated elsewhere in the empire. The Incas would terrorize the newly acquired until they accepted the Emperor's law without question. They also practiced warfare in a much different fashion. War was not to win social standing but to take territory, so their armies were organized much more differently; as they often faced enemies fortified in cliff-high strongholds they developed "tortoise" shield-rush tactics that would have impressed the Romans. Logistics were the Inca's particular talent. While marching within the borders of their empire, they would enlist the commoners of the province as porters to carry goods from one end of the province to the next, whereapon they'd hand off to people of the next province. The people would open up their granaries to supply the marching army; foraging and looting were strictly forbidden. The Incas also had a unique ability to "snowball" as they took new lands. Upon taking a new province they immediately enlisted the military man power of that province into their army, to be used as the cannon fodder for their next campaign. This both strengthened their army and depleted the resistance power of the new province. [Update] A third book I've been reading lately is 1491: New Revelations of the Americas Before Columbus, by Charles Mann. This goes into much more detail into both the Aztec and Incan empires - from how they arose to how they fell - as well as surveying other Indian civilizations throughout North and South America. In school learning about the Native Americans, I was given the impression of the Americas as being populated by two civilizations (the Aztecs and Incas) and everywhere else was just nomadic people. This book really drives home the point that this was far from true: There are traces of complex farming civilizations dotting all over North and South America, that apparently died out of disease or other causes well before being encountered by Spanish or other explorers, for which little is known. As well, going back through time there was a rich history of other geographically extensive civilizations prior to the Aztecs and Incas - the Mayans and Olmecs are perhaps the best known of these but there were many, many more. 

A stele was found in the area of ancient Moab from the 12th century B.C. during Pharaoh Rameses II's domination of Canaan, which depicts a local ruler flanked by two (possibly Egyptian) gods, and the stele is made in imitation of the Egyptian style. 

In terms of broadcast technologies, which was seen as more revolutionary for its time: television or radio? How was each technology utilized in terms of its intended purpose and audience/users in its earliest years? And were telecom companies its earliest providers, presumably having already provided telephone services and telegraph long before that? Also, was the invention of broadcast technologies seen as a surprising and significant development from prior point-to-point communications like telegraph and the telephone, or was it more of an expected logical progression from those precursor technologies? Lastly, many communication technologies seemed to be developed for government or military purposes first and only later considered for public use. Was the same the case for either radio or television? I'm trying to get a feel for how it impacted the societies in the era they were each invented, including early adoption and enthusiasm surrounding their use. 

England in 400BC was a broadly Celtic culture with Pictish remnants in the North; 1600 years later it had gained a lot of influence from Roman, German, French, and Norse invasions. Language, food, architecture, laws, and so on were much different. These are the obvious changes. Your middle age Englander transported to Iron Age England would perhaps guess he was in the land of the vikings. The Celts of the time were warlike, tribal, proud and primitive people that practiced a pagan religion, all of which would have looked barbaric in comparison to the medieval commoner. While the Celts had urban settlements and hillfort citadels, neither would come close to comparison with the vibrant self-governed towns and stone castles of the Middle Ages. Celts had a hierarchical society with nobles, commoners and slaves, but the middle ages saw more political stratification and legally stronger ties to the land. The Celt's lord would have been a king who directly controlled his land and was directly related to most of the people he ruled, whereas the Englishman's lord could have been a mere knight or baron who held the land in the name of a superior noble, ultimately traced to the king, and often was a foreigner given the manor or territory with no particular relationship to the people he ruled. The Celts had trade networks and practiced agriculture, but the average Celt would be more oriented towards cattle raising, whereas the typical Englishman would be more focused on cultivating his farm. Yet farming is farming; animals need fed and slaughtered, crops planted and harvested, and tools mended. Assuming the Englishman was a typical farmer, he could easily have slipped into a similar role in 400BC. In 1100-1200 A.D. farming technology had made some significant advances. The Englishman would have been able to improve the yield of his farm through the new 3-field rotation system, the heavy plow, and use of draught animals. He could have demonstrated cheese making to take advantage of the Celts' huge cattle herds. Crops and domesticated animals in Celtic times were less diverse and farm plots generally smaller in size. Farming practices in Celtic times also included religious practices which our Englishman would find odd. Yet he might have things to learn from the Celtic farmer. Pliny noted that the Celtic plough superior to the Roman type, and remarked at their use of chalk fertilizer. 

It may be taken for granted now that Islamic countries use both, but since they appear to be exclusively European innovations at that time of the Renaissance Islamic adoption of it must have been taken from them at some later time. Islamic art was of course prolific at that time, but I've never heard of Islamic use of canvas during the Middle Ages, for example. Also, although I am especially interested to know the answer to those questions specifically in instances outside of the European continent, in terms of spread of influence I have to wonder if the Muslim held portions of Spain during the Renaissance Era were perhaps the earliest adopters of those technologies for printing and art. Can anyone provide at least a rough guess for when those two things first appeared in the Muslim world, even if we do not know the actual earliest instances precisely? 

This is additional corroboratory evidence that the Egyptians successfully introduced their religion to their Canaanite vassals, and the Balu'a Stele is most likely evidence of that in Moab as well. As for additional reading on Chemosh, in a discussion I had with the Hebrew scholar Gershon Galil about a Moabite seal of a ruler bearing a theophoric element of Chemosh's name, through his Facebook page (possibly viewable to the public here), he told me: "For Chemosh see Müller, Hans-Peter. "Chemosh." Dictionary of deities and demons in the Bible. Edited by Karel van der Toorn, Bob Becking, and Pieter W. van der Horst. 2nd ed. Leiden: Brill, 1999, 186-189." I hope that helps. 

The transition from Bronze Age to Iron Age in Europe occurred later than the transition in the Middle East. It started in the south and gradually worked its way north. It was most certainly a period of bloodshed, but then that's been true of most of european history, hasn't it? You might imagine pitched battles of armies, one outfitted in old bronze swords facing down adversaries all wielding new iron swords thanks to their closely guarded secret iron smelting technology, the latter of whom proceed to decimate the bronze users, slicing swords in half and so on. But... this probably didn't happen. 

Today when we talk about "taxes" usually what is meant is Income Taxes. The US did not have much in the way of income taxes during your period; during the Civil War a 3% tax was introduced for incomes over $800 in the Revenue Act of 1861, and that went away after the war; 1894 saw a 2% tax, but only the richest 10% paid it, and that one got declared unconstitutional anyway. It wasn't until 1913 and the passage of the Sixteenth Amendment that income tax became something significant enough to be hated. And it was, of course. But that's post-Gilded Age. Besides income taxes there were various other kinds of taxes, many of which raised ire among some group or other. The Whiskey Rebellion was an early one in your period, due to a federal tax on whiskey - not by buyers in the form of a sales tax, but on sellers as an excise tax. Back then, farmers routinely converted excess crops to spirits, which were also used as a medium of exchange, so the excise tax hit a lot of farmers directly in the pocketbook. Excise taxes were thickly hated. A lot of the taxation during your period was in the form of import taxes and tariffs. Free market philosophies and globalization have largely eliminated tariffs for the most part, but these were a major revenue source for the US early on. Even though they were not directly levied on individuals, they did stimulate strong reactions, such as if a tariff was perceived as being too harsh on one industry over another, or if it'd affect certain states more than others. Historians argue whether or not the tariff directly or indirectly led to the American Civil War, but the Nullification Crisis, an 1828 fight over a controversial tariff that South Carolina wanted to declare null and void under the doctrine of states' rights, seems to be generally agreed on as the event that birthed the conflict. So throughout the 1800's these tariffs, and the public's acceptance or rejection of them, were huge factors in US politics and even affected foreign relations. They helped protect America's fledgling industries and provided the finances to grow the government and expand US borders, yet they aggravated issues like slavery, states rights, and western expansion into Indian territories, generating lots and lots of divisiveness in the process. 

Though the title may be vaguely broad, I have two specific things in mind I wanted to ask about. While I was recently considering the cultural and technological advancements of Europeans in the early Middle Ages, which was soon to be spread by them to the New World, I also began to consider Islamic history and cultural advancement at that same time (especially - for them - in areas of science, literature, and mathematics), and particularly in North Africa where some of the the Portuguese had contact and intermingled with Muslims through trade. So along parallel historical tracks I began to wonder at the comparative development between Renaissance Era European culture and Islamic culture at that time, and pursuant to that a few unusual questions arose in my mind. In particular I was wondering about two innovations of the Europeans of which I have never heard mention of their first use in the Islamic world (in terms of their initial adoption, though of course in the modern world there is hardly any distinction now): Firstly, use of the printing press; and secondly, the use of canvas (hemp-weaved) for painting (which first took off in Italy). In terms of technological advancement I'd say the former is more significant and utilitarian, while the argument about the "sophistication" of using canvas for art seems more subjective and preference driven (whatever its actual practical and aesthetic advantages may have been), though I still am curious about it. So to plainly state my two questions: