On the slavery issue: We are all slaves to some extent. We are slaves to our bodies needs for food and water, as well as its functions that are less desirable including excretory and aging. The fact that these are not truly volentary that does not mean that they must cause suffering. In fact a good meal and fine drink are among one of the ways we choose to reward ourselves for achievements. Toilet humor is among the most common, and often the action is pleasurable if only for the relief it provides. In addition while I am not condoning the slavery of the past many slaves had luxurious existances. Indeed there is also a subset of humanity that chooses slavery as a lifestyle and the gratification that they derive from it. On Suffering: Suffering likewise is a state of mind. If you do not have something to contrast then suffering is just normal life. What is suffering is also different among people. Masochists enjoy pain and abuse. Many people choose to deprive them selves of breathable air for pleasure. In order for a machine to suffer then it must also know joy or at least a condition that is the lack of suffering. It must be able to make a decision what is pleasureable and what is not. In order to suffer it must be able to choose to suffer. On what would be unethical: Humanity is likely to determine what the machine finds unpleasureable. We will likely have a subset among us who would exploit that. Some that would derive some perverse pleasure in causing the machine pain and suffering. This would be as unethical as torturing an animal or another human. And causing the termination of such a being for no reason would equally be unethical. Such an action would be equivilent to murder. It would also be unethical to deny an AI with the ability to distingish pain and sorry from joy and pleasure from experiencing both. This is not to say that it is your duty to inflict either. For Example, hiding a painful truth that the AI should know, even with the best of intentions, denies the AI the experience. 

Just because the Universe has a beginning does not mean that there had to be a god to create it. There could have been a cause that was not God. Perhaps there was a Universe that Predated our that no longer exists but was the roots of the creation of our universe. As we have no data upon which to evaluate this universe or any other competing or complementing universes there is no reason to think that the laws of this universe were identical or even similar to those of any previous universe. 

Well for one a being could have a non-physical existance and yet not even be in your mind. Your knowledge of that being may have no effect on it at all. Indeed even you knowledge may have no impact. Where a being that only exists in your mind relies on your mind for its existance. You have the power to completely shape and create its world. In a way you are its god. And if you do not retain a long term memory of it, or transfer that creature out of your mind in some way, then it is completely and utterly destroyed once you stop thinking about it. To the being it does not matter wether you can tell that it is real or imagined. It will either persist when you cease to think of it or it will not. This will happen wether you can tell the difference or not. Your knowledge only matters to you. 

i wouldn't equate "data" with "knowledge". there seems to be some non-animal life with something like knowledge. umbrella thorn acacia trees in Africa and interact with other acacia trees when they get nibbled on by giraffes. this interaction is transfer of information that at least one in their number is being eaten. 

i don't see Plantinga's argument the same way as LightCC does. i believe that Plantinga is a Christian apologist. most Christians believe in the concept of Heaven where there is no evil and there is good. Plantinga is instead saying, if someone's will is free then their will is truly free, no strings attached. 

how much evil would "so much" be? where is the line? when i have arguments/discussions with apologists of atheism (not presuming any position from Alex) there are two issues that they consider slam-dunks that i consider less than that. one, of course, is the Problem of Evil (the other is the God of the Gaps thingie which we can leave to a different discussion about purpose and teleology). about the Problem of Evil, the apologists of atheism are so convinced that they know the mind of God, if God existed. and then because their concept of the mind of God, that they believe they understand, is so non-sensible in human terms, that it must mean that God can't exist. i consider that position flawed. it doesn't mean that i understand the mind of God either, so much that i can dismiss the Problem of Evil. i cannot. but i don't presume that the Problem of Evil authoritatively concludes that God cannot be all of Good, All-powerful, All-knowing, and Existing. yet i acknowledge the reality of deep Evil in this world, and i assume if there are other planets in the Universe somewhere with conscious, sentient, and sapient life, that those beings will likely have virtually the same problem. BTW, Plantinga has a great response to Dawkins called The Dawkins Confusion. 

well, both religion and science question, search, and make claims about "Truth" and/or "Realtity", whatever the heck those things are. for the most part they are involved in non-intersecting domains. what Stephen Jay Gould called non-overlapping magisteria. but not always. someone might believe in a transcendent God and that such a transcendent God has interacted in the reality experienced by human beings. for example, Christians normally believe that God has acted in history in the person of Jesus. they may believe that Jesus died while being crucified and within 72 hours was resurrected. none of us were around back then which makes it pretty difficult to decisively disprove this belief, but even so this claim does not belong in a physiology textbook unless there are repeated instances of this phenomenon which might indicate something like this happening again, when we can measure and document such an event. in this manner, both religion and science are making a fact claim in an overlapping portion of their respective magisteria and the fact claims are incompatible. other religions may claim their own miracles and "science" (whatever the hell that is) has something definite to say about the miracles. if a person who is a believer and also is a scientist or dabbles in science and requires that their observations and scientific method be subjected to their religious belief and possibly the scripture of their religious belief, it is my opinion that they practice both poor science and poor religion. and, except if one's faith or belief system is materialism or physicalism, it does not seem to me to be totally schitz to hold beliefs in both realities. perhaps even for a materialist, there is plenty in our observed reality that seems contradictory to other observation of reality. we just don't know what the hell it all is about. a little bit of humility coming from the devoutly theistic or devoutly atheistic is, in my opinion, healthy. 

Death penalty is a punishment, (in theory) reserved for the most heinous of crimes. While this is often done medically it does not have to be. Firing squads, hanging(thenyc.com has a NSFW Video i am not going to link from syria of mass hanging in last month), and electric chair are still common throughout the world. That said there is no moral difference when considering commandment "Thou shalt not kill". Taking a life is still taking a life. You can justify the execution but that should not be confused with making it morally better. The commandment is not thou shalt not kill unless you deem the crime heinous. So to support one but oppose the other would seem hipocritical. Hammurabi first proposed a set of laws that tried to set punishments that were equal to the crimes committed. Currently most advanced societies have moved to a policy that have lessened the punishment for some crimes, particularly violent crimes. The policies often involve the possiblity of release from prison, and often the potential for the death penalty in certian countries. One could argue that when committing the crime the perpetrator knew the potential penalty and thus committed a form of suicide. Albiet one that will be completed by agents of the government. 

The brain develops in a fairly understood manner. At an early age children begin to reason that if they do not see it, then it does not exist. By 7 they can begin understand the concepts that object can be hidden behind each other, and by 10 should understand that the world outside of what they see and hear still goes on. But until their mind is able to comprehend that, they simply are not able to understand. I am sure that there is research into when a childs brain develops to understand the inputs of their taste buds. I would guess it is around 6 months as that is when I have observed babies begin to make faces at certian foods. But untl their brain can process the input from their taste buds, they are not going to get pleasure or pain from the taste of the milk. And Freud did not understand the actual physiological part of the development of the brain. While he had many contributions to psychology, today he would be considered worse than a quack. Today we have a much better understanding of the development of the human brain. And our memory creation at an early age is not suppressed, its just that what is memorable to a 1 or 2 year old is pretty mundane in just a few years. But young children (~6months+) do recognize people they come in contact with regularly. This shows some memory retention already. 

If it were written in a language not known by man on Earth but was easily comprehended despite not knowing or understanding the language by all. Such comprehension would be universal and the understanding of it consistant. The content should be such that it advances concepts previously unknown as any creation of an all powerful being is going to be for a purpose. Any demand that people not seek to understand or clarify would tend to steal credence for such demands are clearly signs of insecurity not of a creation of an all powerful being. 

unless you are expecting to save at least two persons from certain death (if you hadn't donated these healthy organs), i don't even seeing this as increasing utility. 

to get along with me, you need respect my religion no more nor less than i respect your irreligion. you should check out who Dawkins, et. al. are so you know what Alexander King is referring to. if we let each other bring up our kids, within societal norms, but with respect to our own world view, we'll get along. if one of us forces the other to rear the other's kids in accordance to our own world view, we won't get along. we need to respect each other's world views at least to that extent. what are those "societal norms"? they vary with societies and some societies are nasty and oppressive. but if someone's supposed religion requires or excuses some practice like human sacrifice or even adults using kids for sex, i don't give a shit about what they think about their religion, i am for the State intervening. to that extent, i do not respect their religion. in a pluralistic society, it can be sometimes hard to come to a consensus regarding what domains of activity are protected and what are not. i feel we do pretty well in the U.S., but had not always done so well. religious pacifists were not granted space to practice their pacifism until the mid 20th century (WW2). even today there are issues regarding parochial schooling and the State's interest in accreditation. there are religions, even various quasi-Christian denominations, that i do not fully respect. but i respect them enough to agree to disagree peacefully and to provide mutual dignity. 

My concept of God is that it is not meaningful to describe the omnipotent God as bound by any human constructs of logic or any other mortal rule. Just doesn't make sense to say that "God must do this or God must do that or God cannot do this other thing." I think that God chose to give people (as well as other creatures) free will and to make that will truly free. Now just because I will the current occupant of the White House to be forcibly removed and tossed out to the street, doesn't mean that my will is realized in reality. So my will is not omnipotent even if I choose that it is. God's will is omnipotent but God can choose to cede power to mortal humans whose will may be to choose differently than what is the will of God. Sometimes in Christian circles we differentiate this with semantics like "God's perfect will" and "God's permissive will.", but that is a human construct and I don't expect God to be bound by that. But that differentiation between two different attributes of God's will (attributes cooked up by mortals so they might try to wrap their brains around this thing) is useful to me when I try to grok the Problem of Evil. This response to the Problem of Evil appears to me to be compatible with Alvin Plantinga's thinking. So while mortals may act in a manner contrary to the perfect will of God (but we don't have to, we can choose to act in a manner consistent with the perfect will of God), we mortals cannot act in a manner contrary to the permissive will of God. Some evil is within the scope of God's permissive will (and some is not), but no evil is within the scope of God's perfect will.