EDIT: djohnson has already mentioned what I've said below about the away status but I'll say it anyways to re-iterate. If you don't want to set up a new account, you could set your status to being 'Away' and write "At the office" in your personal message so your friends know not to bother you during that time. Also explain to your boss that he can still message you whilst you're on Away status and you'll specifically let him know if you're going to actually be away from your messenger, in a meeting for example. Also, why do you have people on your list that you don't want to talk to anymore? You should remove these people from your list so they're not an issue for you. 

I will be applying for an open position within my company, this position is looking mostly for external candidates. Last time I applied and was interviewed for the position, the interview was understandably geared more towards external candidates. This time around I have an idea of making a Power Point presentation outlining to my boss (and possibly one of the executives if they're in the interview as well), why they should promote me into the position rather than look externally for someone. I know it's highly unorthodox to do something like that in an interview, and I feel like it would answer a lot of questions they would be asking me anyways, plus would highlight why looking externally isn't as great of an idea as they think. I also feel like it will just be geared towards external candidates again and there won't be a whole lot my boss can ask me anyways. Would a Power Point be too out there? Or should I just stick to the 'traditional' format of an interview and just answer what questions I can? 

Don't laugh. Don't try to be funny. If you don't like it, show that you don't like it. I have a long beard too and my coworkers here told me to cut it or so at first; I decided to answer with fine jokes like "well, it's not that the beard is long is my hair that changed direction" (since I am losing my hair), or, with the boss aside, last year "if I lose the job i'll be ready to do Santa Claus", or stuff like that. But with other people (especially the less important ones) I usually simply don't care. If they would harass me more (never happened in my company), I'll make them feel uncofortable, not giving explainations, staying silent, or better acting like having a displeased behaviour, for a bit of compassion that -at least- will make them even more embarassed and/or unconfortable. And if she continues and tolds you things in a "hah, I am just joking" mood, just say "I am not", explaining: "we can have jokes on many other things but don't harass me more with my beard because it is none of your business". But if you want to be "friendly" you can go on with jokes telling her like "am I your boyfriend?" or better "You don't have a boyfriend that you need to harass in this way?" or, if she continues, "Does someone pays you to be so irritating?", and so on. Try to make her feel unconfortable if she does the same to you. and remember: if someone is treating you in a disrespectful way, is also because you are allowing them to do so. Put some stakes. Is healty for relationships in general, is especially healty for professional enviorments. 

I am updating my resume, and am debating putting the fundraising run I did back in the spring on as Volunteer Experience. I had raised some money for a cause and did the run, would this be something worth adding to a resume? 

The management at my company have been doing interviews to fill a few positions, I'm curious to know how the interviews are going, is it rude to ask one of the management about this? 

As stated in the title, one of my coworkers is rarely in the office due to medical reasons. They do sometimes log on from home if they're feeling up to it, but their actual time spent in the office itself is maybe a third of the year. This coworker is also one of our support staff, and thus is somewhat important and it affects everyone else when he's absent. I can tell my manager is getting sick and tired of the situation and I know that firing this guy would be a slippery slope due to his condition. Is there potentially a reason in which this guy could be let go without it turning into a legal matter? I ask because it seems like a lot of my other coworkers are getting tired of this as well. But I realize this isn't really my business and is something my manager will have to take care of. My question is out of curiousity. 

A bit of background: I am one of the two software developers in my company and we are currently working with C++ on embedded machines. My co-worker is working with C since a lot of time and now my boss wanted to improve development using C++. After a traineeship spent in doing web applications my boss asked me to work with these machines without knowing anything of the machine itself. When i was assumed my boss knew that i only had done things in C++ at school and that i hadn't done anything more personally, but that i wanted to know more about how to develop software on embedded machines. The source of my problems: So, as i said, i started fresh like a rose developing software for machines i have never seen before. These have very complex program built in a very complex way that sometimes lacks of the capatibilies of OOP and C++ (since everything was built in C before (which i don't know and my boss knew that)) and i am having lots of difficulties understading how it works, why something was built in a certain way, what kind of idea is behind something etc. etc. etc. I can't ask the Senior since he did things in C and is not programming this new machine (or anyway he's doing it with C and doesn't want to learn C++) and he is anyway too busy. However, despite all of these problems i got a grip of the situation and at least started to know how to do some little things, and for my boss this was going ok... until now. The actual problem: Now after a month, because of company difficulties i am asked to use the functions of the Architect and not the ones i was doing on my own. He is the man behind the scenes that wrote all the OS of the machine and i cannot contact him since he left the company and can help me just when he is called for "consulence". The problem is.. that i cannot know what a function does and behave, because the function behaviour is closed into *.a files. When i asked through one of the rare mails i could sent the answer was "the name of the function and the parameters should make things clear, anyway you have lots of documentation". Actually... this documentation lacks of information (it is like 30% complete to get the idea). And anyway it explains generally what a function does assuming that i know how the OS works, what is the purpose of a certain idea or other random things that i could neither imagine. I am having a lot of issues in my mind, which one is to leave this company and look for web development (which really caught my interest), but before getting use to strange ideas i just want to ask: Is it common to work as a developer without having the possility to know vital things in the project? Actually i am understanding a little here and there. But i am really asked to solve a giant puzzle without knowing how the final figure will look like. Since this is my first job i don't really know what do, maybe this is common in the companies and i am only getting discouraged. 

I don't know how to go about doing this. About a month and a half ago we were asked what role we wanted within the company, I'm a developer and I chose Professional Services since up to this point that's basically what I've been doing is coding custom pages for clients, custom implementations, etc. I love it, it's what I went to school for, everything about coding is great (which is basically all they do over on the Research and Dev side of the company). I was also specifically told that I would still be a developer on the PS side of the company. Over the last couple of weeks I've been getting more and more support tickets coming my way as they wean one of the R & D guys off of support, I'll be the one that has to do client upgrades etc from what I've been told as well. It seems like my role is turning more from "Programmer/Analyst" to "Tier Two Support Analyst". This isn't what I want, I feel like I was sort of mislead (albeit not intentionally) or misunderstood what exactly my role would be. I was let go from my previous job, which was entirely support, because my support there was lacking, I'm really not suited to support. I don't want support to be jeopardizing my job with this company either, I am much better suited to coding. We're currently interviewing people to fill roles on both sides of the fence (R&D and PS), is there a way I can go about asking the management about them switching me over to R&D? I feel like it would disrupt some of their interview process by doing this however, what's the right way to go about this without stepping on too many toes? So to speak. 

I am Mark, a 25 y/o web developer living in Italy and i am currently working in an electronic company doing a web application for contacts management, i also give some help to marketing office creating landing pages and this kind of simple stuff. Actually this is not the job of my life since this situation is "temporary" (even if i am doing web development from when i started here 10 months ago) and i should do embedded software with C++, but i want to leave and find a place where i can really do web development with other people and have chances to learn more, since here i work alone with no help! But on job listings, one thing that i always read is that, both in Front-End and Back-End development (i am doing both here), companies always look for developers who could use web frameworks. Actually i don't need a web framework for the project i am doing and also for the projects at home, i am self-taught and i prefer to write personal clean code using basic tecnologies (html, css, js, php, mysql) and Jquery. I can't also really understand the difference between one framework and another; it kinda looks like to me that's a choice for the project manager, and there are a lot out there so that i can't really decide what to pick! So i wanted to ask: Why web companies are looking for people that can use frameworks if that's a thing that should be decided depending on the projects? Are them really important if i want to find a new job? I am stuck, since i want to apply as a junior webdev but i look like an entry-level since i don't know frameworks, but for me it makes no-sense to learn a hyped one (like Angular) randomly! I wish i could learn the framework that the company is using rather then random ones, thanks to my actual basic skills, but it's like climbing a smooth wall. ON HOLD: I didin't know where i could have asked this question. I thought in programmers, but this is not a "conceptual thing about programming". The bad thing about these reports is that it is told what "is not ok" without nothing else to improve. I will try to report this in meta. 

You can discuss it on the outset. But ultimately, you are being hired by them to work for them within their process. So you would have to work in their process at least long enough to then explain how your process would benefit them more. And you have to be ready their response to be ambivalent to negative at best. And be thrilled if they decide to follow your process so easily. You generally cannot just ride into a new job & expect the world to change. But you can expect that after 3-6 months you will be respected enough to bring new ideas to the table. 

Again, where do you assume “everyone likes doughnuts.” You are assuming some things here. Don’t buy a box of snacks unless you are sure people true want them. Otherwise you are not making a good impression. 

The only way I could see you negotiating for more would be after you're working in the job for several months to a year, but only if there's proper justification for it and assuming your probation period is done. Doing this during your probation period will likely just end with them showing you the door. For example, you approach your boss after 6-12 months of working at said job and make your case for a higher wage. This doesn't of course mean that you will get your higher wage, and very well could mean your boss says no. But when making your case bring up your work ethic, any special skills you have compared to other employees (additional programming languages you know that may help the company), something you've done for the company to save them money/make customers happier, etc. It also unfortunately depends on how your boss feels about you, if they disagree with your work ethic for example, and see you as a lazy employee they're less likely to give you a raise, or ask their boss(es) to give you one. If you have good rapport with your boss, it's more likely that they'll entertain the idea at the very least. Anything you can say that would reflect why you should get a 5k pay increase. TLDR; Ask boss about pay raise after having the job for 6-12 months, or more. 

I am a web developer for 1 year in a company, and i am undergoing a very complex work/life balance situation. To keep in short terms: i accepted this work, moving from my home town to a bigger city, in order to build my life and everything (i am 26 years old now, i was 25). But my lunch break lasts 2h, and at the very start it was ok, the major sacrifice was travelling for a total of 4h a day. But now that i am here i still not have the time to live my life because of it. Most of my colleagues go home with their cars, while i don't have a car and neither i have the money to buy one; i come here with a bike because is faster and for sure less expensive then public transportation like bus. My company isn't really in the center of the big city, but in a town smaller than my hometown; it's not hard to reach, 20min with bike, but moving near my company just for this is not an option since i will lose the main factor of living in a bigger city with all its benefits. So: i want to ask for a lunch break reduction, i need 30min to eat. I think that it last so long in order to keep as long as they can the employers in the company for some right reasons like meetings and assistance. But in this role, especially my position where i rarely speak with my colleagues such is relaxed (like, 15min a day and for things that are not even important) my phyisical presence here is useless, and it cannot happen to have an emergency where i am required at the end of the day; it never happened and it never will since i just don't have that type of responsabilities. But still, even if i know that there's no need for me to stay that long, and proven that i really need to come home earlier in order to restore some work/life balance to not get crazy (i am 26 y/o), and that i don't want to come home in the middle of the day (especially for the risk of going around without many bicicycle paths, but it's anyway tiresome) i think that this is a very unprofessional thing to ask, since "everybody's the same under the same roof". So how can i ask a lunch break reduction to my administrator (which is not the boss, but his wife)? EDIT: I ask to the administrator rather then my boss because she handles all the papers realted to hiring process and so; but she is more hard to convince then my boss. Actually when i was in the traineeship i asked for a reduction of 1h because of the long travel (4h) but when i became an official worker she said "you will be like the others, no matter what".