"Original substance" here might better capture the sense of "matter" that appears to drive this question. But, then, does matter really answer to, as your version says, the "principle of things that are"? Here, in the Greek, Aristotle speaks of "ἀρχή," which is the beginning or source from which something arises. The use of "matter" here seems to prejudge the issue, especially as Greek metaphysician can also hold the view that ether, a substance which is hardly reducible to "matter," is just this principle or source in question. Moreover, even if restricted just to "water," this idea of water as the "original substance" is hardly to say that it is necessarily restricted to the same types of things we might regard as composed of matter, for example, souls and so forth. In sticking to "originary principle" or "original substance," Russell seems to be trying to avoid imposing contemporary categories on ancient thought, surely an appropriate way of approaching such texts. 

As is typical for Derrida-related concepts, the short answer would be something like both yet neither. "Metaphysics of presence" refers to the way in which our thought privileges what is present over that which is absent. "Presence" in this sense can be a physical presence, a temporal duration, a presence in thought, a presence in speech—any mode of being-present. An example of what is meant by the "metaphysics of presence" can, perhaps, be deduced from a passage in Plato's Phaedrus (Derrida has written on this dialogue famously in his essay "Plato's Pharmacy" published in Disseminations). In the Phaedrus, we find the following exchange: 

It's hard to imagine that there's an extant English translation that renders "essentia" as anything other than "essence." Id4 is similar: 

The question of space in Heidegger is a fairly complex one. In Being and Time Heidegger devotes §§22-24 to space and spatiality. This has been explored in numerous places (especially concerning architecture, topology and geography), but it's particularly worth mentioning the work done by Jeff Malpas and Stuart Elden. Suffice to say that for Heidegger, space is not an entity in much the same way that Being is not an entity. Most importantly, to take space as an entity is to operate with a conception of space, but this conception is ultimately grounded in the experience of spatiality, which, for Heidegger is what must first be clarified. This is, in effect, the general structure of Heidegger's phenomenology: everything that is has its Being grounded in a primordial structure of experience that becomes occluded by our conception of it. The locus classicus for the discussion of entities (i.e., our primordial experience of entities) in Being and Time is §§15-18, which includes the famous discussion of tools and the difference between 'ready-to-hand' (Zuhandenheit) and 'present-at-hand' (Vorhandenheit). On this point, Graham Harman's Tool-Being could be a useful guide. 

Some supposed ordering of textual composition Sophist is the dialogue where Socrates steps aside and gives way to the stranger Deleuze's discussions of Sophist tend to link it with the Phaedrus and the Statesman. The order of these last two changes, but Sophist stands at the end of the series, and indicates the point where Platonism begins to reverse itself. 

First, a little philological note: hoi polloi οἵ πολλοί literally translates as "the many" and is often used in a derisive sense. Aristoi ἄριστοι literally translates as "the best," but is often used as a marker for the elite or the select. Hence, for example, the English word "aristocracy." That this division is common in Greek philosophy is beyond dispute, but what it means, i.e., who counts as "the best" versus "the many" is an issue that can change, and, at times, those referred to as aristoi are a bit closer to what, in contemporary English, we might call a meritocracy, i.e., those who are the best at ... Second, Heraclitus is exceptionally hard to interpret, not only because so few of his writings/sayings (around 135 fragments of various lengths but usually no longer than a few sentences, not collected in a single book, but rather quoted---often from memory---by a wide variety of authors), but even in antiquity, his work was known for its obscurity and he was nicknamed "the obscure" and "the riddler." Furthermore, some of the earliest commentators we have on his work (Plato and Aristotle in particular) had little interest in offering a "correct" interpretation---Plato often refers to him derisively and it is questionable whether Aristotle had ever read the book he is supposed to have written. What is clear, however, is that he long had a reputation as someone who saw himself as superior to other men. Thus, the ancient biographer, Diogenes Laertius (separated by at least 800 years from Heraclitus) records that 

It has therefore been assumed that one can resolve this problem not merely by claiming either that god is not morally perfect or not omnipotent, but that God may not be omniscient. For it would seem that if any of those three qualities is denied, the proof given above fails, and all three have been denied by various people endorsing various different doctrines. To get at the broader question: is there a satisfactory answer to the problem of evil? For myself, I'm inclined to invoke Protagoras: "Concerning the gods, I have no means of knowing whether they exist or not, nor of what sort they may be, because of the obscurity of the subject, and the brevity of human life." 

I'm not sure I entirely agree with John Am's translation, so I'll have my own go at this. The phrase in question is just this: 

I'm not sure that the phrasing of question makes a great deal of sense. I'll try to explain why below. When Foucault is developing the concept of biopower (most particularly in is lectures published as "Society Must Be Defended") he traces it as a transformation in the classic definition of sovereignty from "the right of life and death" (Hobbes uses this as a defining facet of sovereignty in Chapters 21 and 30 of the Leviathan). Classically, according to Foucault, this meant the sovereign has the right "to take life or let live" ("Society Must Be Defended", p. 241). This classical right, in the 19th century, comes to be "complemented by a new right which does not erase the old right but which does penetrate it, permeate it:" "the power to 'make' live and 'let' die" ("Society Must Be Defended", p. 241) It is this last which is most properly biopower. Properly speaking, therefore, biopower cannot "lie under" any of Hobbes powers of sovereignty because biopower names a form of power that, for Hobbes, has not yet been invented. That said, there is a perhaps more interesting relationship between biopower and Hobbesian power. It is important to note that the power of the sovereign you have enumerated are powers which Hobbes describes as "annexed to sovereignty" (see Chapter 18 of Leviathan). Being "annexed to sovereignty" means that they are powers belonging to the sovereign, but that they can be shown to follow from the purpose for which the sovereign was created, that is, the peace of the commonwealth. The relevant question is, however, to what are these powers annexed? What I suggest is that the core of sovereignty to which these powers are annexed is the right over life and death, which, on my reading of Hobbes, is the basic inalienable right of sovereignty, the very core of what it means to be sovereign. Thus, in Chapter 18 of Leviathan, Hobbes argues the sovereign can never cause injury to his subjects. He goes on, in Chapter 21, to use this argument to show that the liberty of the subjects must be consistent with the sovereign's right over their life and death. Moreover, he uses this argument—still in Chapter 18—to argue that the sovereign may never be justly killed nor otherwise punished. In this sense, there is a form of proto-biopower at work in Hobbes, albeit in the sense of the control of bodies, rather than the control of populations. This proto-biopower does not belong to any of the enumerated forms of the exercise of sovereign power. Rather, it forms their source, the basis on which they can be derived. Hence, whereas Hobbes argues for these other forms of power being annexed to the core of sovereignty, but he makes no argument for the sovereign having the right of life and death. The right of life and death is the most basic meaning of sovereignty. The development of biopower from out of this proto-biopower, therefore, does not represent a change in any of the powers enumerated to the sovereign nor the assignment of yet new powers to sovereignty. Rather it is, as Foucault argues, a shift in the very meaning of sovereignty itself, i.e., in the core from which all these powers are derived. Biopower, as a shift in the core of sovereignty, is exercised through all the various classical forms of power Hobbes enumerates, but because it has changed the very idea of sovereignty, it necessarily changes how those powers are exercised and even what those powers designate.