This photo is even better. 2 clutches. Moving forward pushes right against hub housing, conjugating sprocket with hub housing. Moving backwards pushes left against coaster brake pad. Pads does not rotate because of being engaged with brake arm attached to frame. Because of friction hub housing start to conjugate with brake pad. No force applied - everything disengaged. 

As @Kristian said, best option is to choose bike size that fits you at the moment. If you're afraid that your bike will become too small too fast and you don't want to spend money on second new bike, consider buying pre-owned bike now. If you really want to buy oversized bicycle, make assumptions about your future height by taking into account your (especially male) kin's height. It could be burdened with non-negligible error. 

Situations when the weight of whole bike + cargo (+ maybe a rider?) is concentrated on a small patch of kickstand's clamp and when a small dynamo clamps the same seatstay are really incomparable. In the first case it's a thousand Newtons of stress applied to a piece that was not supposed to be pressed in that direction, and for dynamo it's about five Newtons and the clamping force. I would say just clamp your dynamo mount with a reasonable torque, or, if you are really paranoid, use a torque-measuring wrench and clamp according to manufacturer specifications. If it turns out to be loose at some point, simply re-tighten it. Steel and aluminum alloy frames could sustain quite a lot of abuse of excessive clamping torque (but there is no need for it in the first place). If you make a mistake and instead of 4 N×m would crank it up to 20 N×m, it will still be OK. But I doubt that you will be able to achieve such huge torque with a typical size 3-6 mm allen key that is most likely used for the operation. If your frame is carbon fiber, then a more accurate approach is recommended, as this material is more sensitive to clamping. However, I am not sure that there are many touring carbon bikes around. 

From the photo you posted reasonable option is to drill a hole in the bit and use drill extractor, spinning it anti-clockwise. Bit is made of hardened CrV steel, so drilling it may be hard, since it should be precise and centered. If you feel unsure about your skills, give it to professionals, to locksmith or to your local bike service. It may appear cheaper, since damaging caliper housing would be much more expensive than spending some extra euros to have it fixed. 

Actual tire dimensions when installed on a given rim may differ from what's designated on it. There are a lot of reports online that a 2.6" tire actually measures closer to 2.7" or even 2.8". The same applies to non-plus tires: a 2.1" can sometimes be 2.25" when installed on a wider rim. Knobs can add to width and create problems with clearance. I recommend either playing it safe and taking a narrower "plus" or finding an online review with actual measurements of chosen tire applicable to your situation. 

Three bikes were wrapped with stretch foil, with almost no disassembly, just handlebar turned by 90 deg. One bike was totally disassembled, including derailleur removal, and put in soft bicycle-bag. No damages were observed. 

In my opinion, the most reasonable option is to comply to what "bus traffic lights". BUT, I think this junction lacks bike traffic lights. 

EDIT: safety first. Even if you are allowed to ride side by side in exact situation, be ready to pull back if there is any threat that bad driver would try to push you off the road. Have a camrecorder if possible and submit recording after all to local police. It depends on your local regulations. It would be nice if you would post here apropriate extract from swiss road regulations. In Poland, where I live, riding side by side is legal under some circumstances. 

You can remove two cogs 17, 19 and replace them with one new 18, and then add 26 to the end of the cassette. That would allow you to keep more evenly distributed gear steps in the middle. That is how certain modern 11-speed MTB cassette extenders are sold: along with the biggest 46 teeth cog they also pack something around 18 teeth. So this way two cogs go out and two go in. 

unscrew adjusting screw on the brake lever housing by 3 turns, secure it with nut. unscrew brake pads holders, push the pads towards wheel as far as possible (this will increase braking force), tighten it a bit unscrew brake cable holder on the brake arm, pull it as far as possible - pads should touch the rim. Tighten the screw. Adjust pads that they are adjacent to the rim, tighten them screw adjusting screw mentioned in pt 1 back. 

There is a good guide on existing bottom brackets standards. An excerpt from it: "The BB386 EVO cranks are compatible with almost every BB shell standard (BSA, BB30, PF30, BB86)," says Jason Miles of FSA. "We currently make bottom brackets and adaptors for BSA, BB30, and PF30 frames and are working on BB86 bottom brackets. So look for a proper adapter. It seems that this is what your are looking for. Note that you will need a bike shop's help with installing it as it requires to press away the existing BB and press in the new one. 

Another option, very simple DYI is to make a pair of clamps for each wheel, eg. metal plates (spacers?) , big enough to drill two holes: one to put axle through and one to pass cord through. Hang that cord on the hook or wherever you like. 

I came to some assumption why you should not use bolt-on axle. It is hard to screw the axle preserving fork sliders in one plane. They can get positioned ascrew, because of screwing the nuts in the opposite directions. It is not a problem in motorcycle suspension because of lack of fork brace. But here? let's say you sit in front of your front wheel and have two wrenches, one on each nut. When you tighten left-hand nut, left slider is pulled back by the nut and when at the same time you tighten the right slider, it is pulled forward. Fork brace prevent sliders from returning to initial, single-plane position. This result in suspension that does not move freely, because more tension is put on "fore-surface" of left stanchion. This "ascrewing" is easy to observe when you're mounting an old fashioned mudguard with mudguard stays mounted on the axle. I'm sure, that you are able to use bolt-on axle and screw it properly (by using proper nut and spacer and by greasing spacer - nut interspace). Keep in mind, that user/service manual has to be idiot-proof. 

If the AC/DC convert is a simple rectifying bridge plus filter and voltage stabilizer, it should work with a direct current source as well. The only question is how many batteries connected serially you will need to reach the minimum acceptable voltage. Given that specifications for your lamp say to use 6 V A/C you can go with four AA batteries or two 18650 accumulators. 

EDIT As ojs points out in the comments below, the freehub's width of 7-speed systems mismatches those of 8- to 10-speeds. This means the rear hub/wheel has to be changed as well, in addition to everything listed below. Clearly a cost of such change now would exceed the price of a half new bike. 

After a bit of thinking I filed off cogs from the outside. So far so good, hub presents good enegagement at all gears. After few weeks it still runs good. Left is "fixed", right shown for comparison. I fixed (filed) both. Be careful to make them equal shape and that sharp border is not too thin and ortogonal to the side surface 

As you can see, it leaves some field for interpretation. Some people say that you can do it only on virtually empty road and when you see any car, you have to ride in one file. Personally I don't agree. When cars does not need to slow down because of oncoming traffic and can overtake with 1m interspace, then you're ok. From my experience, it is good to know +/- exact contents of your local regulations that apply to bike traffic. Some drivers base on their own imagination of road rules and need to be "informed". On the other hand, it prevents you from breaking law unwittingly, because