I have recently been given the task to evaluate applications. Note that I am not responsible for hiring, nor do I take any active role in the decision making. Instead I am only asked to provide feedback on my judgment of the candidate based on my technical experience related to the corresponding job position(s). After having received these applications I am unsure of what the best way to proceed would be. Interestingly enough, I have seen other questions and answers around here, which simply state that a cover letter should not be included. I don't know about other countries, but at least in Germany I haven't ever seen or heard of an application without a cover letter. In these cases though, cover letters were present, but bad ones. I am torn apart in this case, because on one side it is not strictly my job to judge the cover letter as such, but the candidate as a whole, in particular technical skills. On the other hand, I have been growing up with a certain importance being placed on cover letters, and hence, would not want to omit it from my evaluation. The latter got the better of me and I did point out various deficiencies and what I inferred from them about the candidate to my superior - none of which was very positive of course. What surprised me though was that I got back opinions that I was being too elitist, so I would like to get a second opinion as a sort of reality check: 

If this were me, I would respectfully request a meeting with my supervisor and bring up the start- and end-times as the main topic. During the conversation bring up the fact that the clock you all use is inaccurate, but it is what you use, both for the start and end times of your day. Then I would ask how many hours a day you are expected to work. Let your supervisor tell you his expectations. Finally, ask your supervisor to specify your start and end times. So let's say that he says you are to work 8 hours, with lunch, so 8.5 hours. Your day should be 9 to 5:30. If he states that he expects you to work from 8:45 to 5:45, then you know his expectations. Again, if this were me, I would very respectfully state that since those are your expectations of me, that "those are the hours I will work, however please realize that you are asking me to work an extra half hour per day unpaid." Whether or not you choose to actually work the extra time, unpaid, is, in the end, up to you. You are free to quit, and he is free to fire you. Please also realize that my answer is assuming you actually work all day long and don't spend a significant amount of time on facebook, texting, or surfing the Interwebz... 

That was the wrong response. Whoever says a number first is at a disadvantage. Make them say the number first if they want you. The correct response is "I'm sure your offer will be both fair and competitive, and I look forward to reading your offer letter." 

Well, if I wanted that, I'd hire someone straight out of college. I want my industry hires to justify their higher cost by being immediately productive. 

then you answer the question truthfully. Many companies have entirely reasonable policies that employees who have signed an offer letter with a competitor are security liabilities. (Whether you have to volunteer that information depends on your agreement with your current company; read your employee handbook.) It ought to go without saying but I'll say it anyway: Be prepared to be escorted out of the building by security at any moment after you announce your intention to resign. Make sure your personal items are already cleared out or nothing you wouldn't mind leaving behind. Another thing that ought to go without saying: if your current company asks you to sign anything other than your resignation letter or your final paycheque, do not sign it. Some companies will suddenly produce a noncompete agreement on the day that you're leaving that they "forgot" to ask you to sign on your first day. They are not in a position to get you to do anything; they can't legally withhold your pay, and threatening to fire you on your last day seems ineffectual. If they pressure you to sign anything, the right response is: 

There is always something to do. It's a perfect time to take some time off, whether it be a week's vacation, or simply a day to perform all those little home tasks you've been putting off. It's a perfect opportunity to ensure you've completed all of the annual company training required, if any. Attend a free webinar offered by your software vendor. Study up on the hardware you're going to be coding for. Even it it is hardware being actually made by the team, there should be components that you can learn about. You're a coder, pick a part of the language you use that you aren't comfortable coding, and learn more about it. Practice. Write up code snippets that you might be able to use. Think like you have been given the go ahead... what might you need to go out to Google to look up how to do. Look it up now and learn it, and write snippets. Even if it ends up not being needed, you've now got it in your personal portfolio. When you do get the go ahead, you're likely going to be pushed to perform fast, since the other team caused delays (their inefficiency isn't your problem, until your boss makes it so.) Try to figure out everything you can, now, to prep for your own work when it comes. Keep busy, keep happy, make it look like you're productive. Otherwise your company may start wondering why they've got you around now, before you're needed. 

That was the correct response. An even better response would have been "I look forward to receiving your offer letter; please email it to blah@blah.com and I'll give it my prompt attention. Have a nice day, goodbye." 

That's easy; as others have said, put your coworkers who are known to be fit through the process; if the process consistently rejects them, then there's something wrong with the process. But that's not the problem you have. This is a question-and-answer site, and you've asked the wrong question. The problem you actually have is a significant fraction of candidates are plainly unfit, and this is wasting time, effort and money that could be better spent elsewhere. You have a pipeline problem, not a coding question problem. Something in your candidate pipeline is producing a large fraction of plainly unfit candidates. As is well known, a great many programming job applicants have no ability whatsoever to write even simple programs: $URL$ Ask around and see if other interviewers are having similar problems. If they are, then push back on management and recruiting to see if they can figure out what is incentivizing recruiting to keep sending you unqualified candidates.