Are you some kind of load-bearing employee, In whose absence things will fall apart? Are you being singled out often to make such a sacrifice? Were you aware of X,Y and Z and your relevance therein, prior to scheduling your day off 

Unless your current manager is realistically able to sabotage your next role or you've developed some form of Stockholm syndrome or you're afraid of your boss, a vanilla resignation that stays true to the terms contract should suffice. No games, no tactics, just turn in your average resignation. From the situation you've painted, there's no real need to pussyfoot around your resignation: 

The last two, I believe apply to you in this case. Your means of communication with your client as it is now, can be construed as unprofessional. I can't think of a situation that will afford a client the opportunity to bark requests at me; Be it email or in person. This is the situation that informal communication channels will breed. A Change request document that we'll both sign off on is mandatory, before I go back to my keyboard. It appears to me, that with your client, that ship has sailed. It appears to me that you've lost political capital with your client, and they might be less inclined to adhere to further communication guidelines set forth by yourself. You've set a precedent of being unnecessarily flexible, and now, it's haunting you In an ideal situation, there should be a Change Request Document that states exactly what the requirements are. This document will 

You're not aware of whatever approvals, preparations have already gone towards carving out your price from the budget. You can't be sure that there is room for amendment after the necessary approvals have been granted for a previous figure. I'm not sure any hiring manager will want to jump through his corporation's red tape for such an increase. What is your bargaining chip? Certainly not your experience. On what grounds are you going to ask them to up the ante? You've in essence indicated how much you think you're worth by dropping a figure. What has changed between then and now to improve your market value to the prospective employer? It's your first gig. Unless you have a couple of other offers lined up, you're taking a risk by calling their bluff on this. Unless you have a niche set of skills (a mainframe programmer perhaps), they might not have any motivation to acquiesce your request. 

Generally, you're poorly positioned to increase your asking price if you don't have a cogent reason to. Look on the bright side: in a year or two, with a good performance on the job, you can negotiate a raise or at least change jobs. The salary you've negotiated now should just be a starting bar in your career, not the final destination. 

Boring, vanilla, and dispensable in political discourse. Your interview will switch quickly to the meat of your interview: the job 

Itemise what your client expects of you Cause your client to think deeper and better about what exactly they want Cause your client to express himself better, in a structured, concise manner Cause you both to dialogue on the change request and come to an agreement before pressing forward. 

I wouldn't worry about giving correct answers, but how you approach giving an answer at all. I'd hazard a guess that they are aware of the relative impracticality of the question so they're looking out for something else: Approach. On one memorable occasion, I've been in exactly the same situation. While interviewing for a Senior Systems Architect/Integrator position, I was asked a very technical question in a technology I had been very clear was not my strong suit at the start of our session. When the question came, I told them that while I couldn't give them specific pieces of the technology that would be ideal for the problem, I offered alternatives in other technologies that I was comfortable with. I even proffered a likely solution in the tech I was weak in, based on residual memory and how I felt it should likely work. The interviewer proceeded to offer his opinion on approach and we moved on At the end of the session, my interviewer stated he was impressed with my performance, not because I had all the right API calls locked down pat; Because he could see that I was working out in my head, a path to the solution to the problem. He said something along the lines of not giving him crammed or canned answers and how he could observe that I was working on actually solving the problem rather than giving him something regurgitated from a textbook. I got the offer (and turned it down for another). While your current response is fine, you should at the minimum approach the problem with the aim of providing viable alternatives to the absolute correct answer, based on experience, residual memory whatever you have. Make reasonable and educated guesses that shows that you're firing on all cylinders and you're a ferocious problem solver. Not trying at all might not hurt you, but it really wouldn't help either You'll be fine. 

In that way, when another offer comes along, you could still decide which way to go. As long as no contract is signed, nothing is decided. Now you have given your word to a company. To refuse the position now would be detrimental to your reputation. The impact of this action will depend of 

It might not be a contractual statement, it is still your word. In the future, some reserve could be used in the same situation. 

Obviously, don't mention what she said and that you disagree with her. Don't try to prove her wrong, show her the positives and the will to progress. It's sometimes too easy to see the problems and not the good things. Good luck! 

The Impostor syndrome is quite common in Junior Developers. Sometimes, what is needed is some ego boost. Does he know you think:"He is technically very knowledgeable and skilled"? In order for talented devs to blossom, they need a safe environement and some validations. Some ideas: 

From what you are explaining, you are making the assumption he sends emails at lunch time to record the time you spend at lunch. First, it seems he didn't seems to make criticisms about it. Second, you may be fixating on this as you feel you are in a bad position (low salary, low motivation etc.) To answer the question at hand, it may well be that your boss is manipulative about those emails, but since he hasn't made pressure about your time lunch, you cannot do anything about it. Focus on more important issues (that you pointed out in your post) rather than focusing on smaller issues that you might not have notice in an healthy environement. 

It is a difficult situation but things can be done. You cannot overstep your position, so you have to convince your N+1 (your direct boss) and you need to give him the tools to convince his boss. Say, a new directive from the top to the bottom is made in place and force you to log in another webpage everyday to log your time again. You are impacted, as your fellow colleagues, but you feel this is unnecessary because this information can be found on another webpage. I would advice to gather the number of people affected by this decision (roughtly), add up the number per day/week/month/year used up. Maybe investigate quickly around with technical people to know if this information is accessible somewhere, and what would be the cost of this access. 10 000 employes x 10 seconds (time to access the page and log the number) x 52 (weeks in one year) x 5(working days per week) => 903 days used per year 903 x 5 years x 400 (average salary cost /day) = 1 805 555 $ cost to create a tool that do that automatically (multiply by 5 the number given by the technical guy): 300 000 $ Compelling number have a powerful ways with managers! Your boss will have one and a half million reason to go convince his boss. 

It seems you do not have a good view on your situation. You have to be more inform to take decision. Try to be gather information by probing: Make a very reasonnable request that has little to no impact on her. It will give you information on what you are dealing with. If you get a direct no, you are in trouble. If she says yes. come back to her some time after, thanking her about this small favour, and ask HER what you could do for her. The idea is to reopen the communication channel little by little. You are only guessing, but if you are correct and she has a grudge, the only way to make it work is to know/understand the problem. In the meantime, be patient. 

As a result of the obvious fact that you cannot just demand leadership (that's an indictment of the current "leaders"), ask for the next best thing: Time. Time to become a leader of sorts yourself. As you've stated, given a reasonable amount of time, you can accomplish the task. Therefore, a lack of leadership, while demoralizing, does not necessarily hinder your success. Lay out a professional level of effort (LOE) estimation document that details the tasks and how long you'll require to execute each one. There'll be push back on the timelines but be prepared to defend your timings professionally, for each task. Ultimately, a compromise should result. Make sure your communication regarding the estimation is on record with emails, and that all stakeholders are in the know (in case they decide to be unreasonable about the timings and the project goes pear-shaped as a result). 

I'll recommend some caution here. Are you fully aware of the level of the relationship between your current employer and the people they've brought in? I ask this because flogging your skills to them could backfire, i.e. they could possibly rat you out to your current employer. Doesn't even have to be intentional on their part. It simply could slip out in an informal setting like the one where they came to pitch to you. If you've the luxury of time, try to build your own personal, informal relationship with these guys and then pitch. Or look elsewhere 

Like the other answers state, you just need to talk to your CTO about it. I would add the following: 

While it may be a little unnerving to be put on the back burner for so long, I won't recommend you base your decision on the offer on this one incident. 

I think such an "infraction" is hardly cause for alarm or worry over the value your manager places on your vacation time. Think of it as taking one for the team. If it happens 2 -3 more times, you might put your foot down (see immediate 3 above before you do this). 

You wanted to evaluate all your options before entering another long term commitment (which isn't far from the truth) The truth, an offer was extended shortly after you left your position (which makes you look desirable) but the employer withheld vital information from you until the last minute and you had to pull back You wanted a break to catch your breath after X number of years with the last shop 

Only when you've obtained a signoff on the Change Request should you proceed. Try this article on for your next engagement. Look at a sample change request document 

You could tell him off for just the satisfaction of telling him off. That's it. It's not going to result in any real value other than you getting to (publicly) ridicule your manager. The satisfaction is very real, but it's not going to get you anything. Your coworkers might also derive some satisfaction from being able to vicariously ridicule the guy, your manager resents you even more but at the end of the day, it's not going to get anybody anything You could manage to show up at work, hobble around for a little while and sit put somewhere, declaring that you simply cannot do it. This has some advantage in that it shows effort, you'll garner some sympathy from any observers and make it obvious what an asshat your manager is. Customers might even ask to speak to the manager about the hostess that's clearly in no shape to work. Your manager still gets to look like an ass, you'll probably get sent home anyway and your manager resents you even more Write a strongly worded email to your manager, cc his manager. Roughly the same effect as (2), with a different audience. Only this time, it's official and it will be on record. It has the added bonus of opening the avenue for further complaints from your coworkers on the same jerkwad. Hopefully management agrees with everyone else that the douchebaggery has to stop. Your manager resents you even more