How the frames of cross 700c bicycle and 29er affect those three factors? I already noticed that since 700c have usually flat top tube of the frame falling from the saddle can hurt, 29er has more clearance -- so this a plus for 29er in terms of safety. I don't consider downhill, going through mud, sand, big rocks, and on the other hand only smooth asphalt. Update: example of cross 700c bike: $URL$ and 29er as well: $URL$ 

Currently I have MTB shoes and I am surprised how little freedom they provide for left-right adjustment (shift). So I wonder which cleats -- MTB vs road -- provide more adjustment freedom? Assuming such question can be answered in general (i.e. without ton of exceptions that brand X provide more than Y). Update there is more than one way to skin the cat -- by adjustment I meant fixing the cleat on the shoe with screws. Not the adjustment when on the bike and small movements which pedal+cleat allow. 

The problem is the tip (end) of that pin is entirely outside the link now, and I should break it off. But it is so well made, that I cannot do this. With bare hands -- not possible at all. With pliers 

OK, this is naive question, but I have to be 200% sure :-) If you compare the regular v-brake against parallel v-brakes as Avid Arch Rival 50: 

the one thing which is always ignored is the way you can change the distance between pads. In the regular v-brakes you change the distance with the cable, more loose means more distance between pads. But with parallel v-brake the distance is fixed, so loosening the cable does not change a thing, it just adds a dead cable section. This influences the pads and the wheel rim you can select -- more fat pads or slightly wider rim and you have a problem. The question is -- am I right with the fixed distance in such v-brakes? UPDATE: fixed means -- there is some distance, predefined, and you can narrow it, but you cannot increase it. Let's say you are on the ride and you hit something hard with wheel. The wheel needs trueing. With regular v-brakes you just loose the cable to get home. With parallel v-brakes loosening cable does not help. Photo comes from Avid Arch Rival 50 Review at GearReview 

I am asking for version without a cutout. The question is about the shell (not the padding) -- when you press with your hand in the middle of the saddle (from top to down, like you would sit on it) -- does the shell flex? Please note, I am not asking about opinion/recommendation, just data about stiffness of this particular saddle. 

Ok, I did it! :-D I took two plates of steel, drilled a little hole in one of them (for the pin), then put the chain between them (pin goes through the hole of course). This served as vice, but because it was not mechanically clamped I could control the force. Then I used pair of pliers, and without a sweat, pin snapped. I used the same chain before, but I used regular pin, after a year it came out of the chain (partially), thus this time I used reinforced one. We'll see how good it is... 

Or in other words -- how to make proper adjustment so the handlebar will be stable on flat road so I could ride with my hands off it. I don't actual ride in such position I simply want stability. Just for the record how stable handlebar looks like when riding: 

I try to insert back the fork in my bicycle. When I was removing it, after unscrewing everything the fork didn't come off by itself, I had to pry and remove aluminium ring which was the last element holding fork in place. Ok, so far so good, I am putting everything back now and the question is how to insert this ring tightly so it would hold fork in place exactly like before? 

Probably the only differences I know are the weight, price and overall look. So if you know more important differences, please let me know. Thank you in advance. 

This is GCN video which has pretty much the same elements: How To Change Your Road Bike Headset and Forks however note they slid down this ring (silver one, exactly as I set the time at) without inserting it tightly so there is space visible and the fork would fall off if not held from the bottom. Prying it off was quite easy, because I could do this in one point (gap in the ring) but now, when inserting when I try to push it down in one place the opposite side goes up. 

The videos I saw so far show that with the same lever you can brake or change gears. OK. But can you do it in the same time? For example you downshifting, lever is pressed down, can you start braking (pulling lever) without letting it go up? Or in reverse, you are braking, you pulled lever already, can you also push it down without releasing the pull (braking)? I have in mind MTB DC levers. 

Until now I used 26" rim with Schwalbe Fat Frank and Big Apple (range 2.15"-2.35"). Except for initial prying when removing tire I can perform all operations with my bare hands without a sweat. Today to my surprise I literally fought to remove WTB Resolute 42C from the rim (28") and risked breaking the tire lever when inserting back Specialized Sawtooth 42C tire. Why such difference? Is it old vs. new? Wide vs. narrow? Or is it just this particular tire against other one and there is simply no rule. 

For 26", 2.35" tire the ratio would be 1.02. Please note there is constant speed assumed. You usually go for 28" tires to get more speed, and air resistance is proportional to the square of the speed! Now, for gusts of the wind from the side: 

NOTE -- I am NOT asking about saddles with hole (cutout). Some saddles from Selle Italia have very distinctive stripe, take for example Selle Italia SL: 

The question is -- does such stripe form some kind of channel? I.e. is the area softer (here it is denoted by black) than the rest of the saddle (here in white)? Or maybe it is embedded (the surface is lower than the rest of the saddle)? 

The scaling factor is here ~ .96, this is more tighter constraint than the first one. Conclusion For above 2" width tire (my case), I can have 0.1 narrower tire in 28" to get the same feeling when riding. The effort If I want to ride comfortably I have to consider air resistance. 

Now, since we solved "too old" thing -- there is only one issue -- it is simply damaged bicycle. For example if you are looking for a frame only, broken handlebar is OK, but if there is corrosion on the frame it is no-go deal. So you have to "simply" to look at all signs of damage at those parts which are important for you. Or take a risk, and simply assume "3-years old bike cannot be damaged too much" (which does not have to be the truth). If you don't want to change your bicycle entirely, like from 26" to 29", I would fix my own one. But that's just me. 

This really makes me curious, Lezyne Stainless-20 has a separate tool -- tire lever (however I don't see clearly on pictures how it looks like). The specification of Stainless-12 does not list tire level, but judging how the chain tool looks like it seems it could be used as tire level (unofficialy). So maybe I rephrase my question to be more precise -- did anyone successfully (without breaking/bending the tool and cracking the rim, etc) use the handle of chain tool (of Stainless-12, lower brother) as tire lever? Once again: I am asking about version -12, not -20! Update: Just to avoid any misunderstanding -- Lezyne chain tool handle: 

Let's say . The ratio is 1.03 (a bit of surprise). So, there is no free lunch after all ;-) However if you forgive discomfort when hitting obstacles, you can build 28" bike faster in regard of air resistance and yet the one which rolls over with much more ease than 26". The weight Because of the difference of the radius, even the same weight is more harder to to move in case of 28". I will calculate this factor some other time. My choice If I go for 28" bike (I didn't yet decide) I will change my 26" 2.35" tires to 28" 2" -- they should be faster (~0.9 less resistance), they will go more easily over the holes, and they will be just a bit stiffer when hitting an obstacle. I thank Slovakov from BikeForum.pl for spotting the errors in equations. All still existing errors are only mine of course ;-). 

I am interested in Profile Design Tri Stryke Saddle (with cutout), however there is no specs on the website, nor the manufacter answers my e-mail. So maybe somebody has this saddle and would be so nice and tell me what is the width of this saddle? Thank you in advance. 

So, today I got both saddles, and I can answer my own question :-) Those saddles are twins, you know already about the weight difference (Targa is heavier), and the only difference I found which was not in spec is flex of the shell. Henge is very stiff (the shell, not the padding), while Targa is rather flexible. And while I am writing this, I rode Henge Test 143, it is very comfy for male organs (three of them), however because its wings don't flex down, it constantly gets in the way of moving thighs. 130 version might be the better though in this regard. 

I've read that San Marco Regale instead of having cutout implemented a relief zone (see: Regale review). So visually it is like non-cutout saddle, however something-which-works-like-a-cutout is present. I cannot find a confirmation, that San Marco Concor (non-cutout version) also has such feature, from technical presentation it is obvious there is some kind of "pocket" (for more foam, or for different kind of foam) exactly where the cutout comes in cutout (arrowhead) version. However what it is for? Could someone who had such saddle in hand (personally) could confirm or deny this? I.e. the question is -- does non-cutout (non-arrowhead) version of Concor have some kind of pocket to work as some kind of cutout (relief spot)? Usually the pocket is used as term to describe curved saddle --- but NOT here, here I use it in sense of a built-in channel, or hidden cutout. 

Those two grips are thicker than usual grips, however so far I cannot find what is the diameter (external) of them (Dual Compound version for both). Maybe we have some owners of them, who would will posting such info here. Thank you in advance. For reference: 

And the problem is, the distance between holes is slightly less (IMHO) than distance between the pins. Every hole on its own fits any pin, but so far I am unable to put the golden part onto the pins, either one holes fit, or the other -- and I cannot make them both snap at the same time. I have manual for this chain, but irony, it describes how to use silver power lock (asymmetric), not this one. So, how to mount it? Should I use tools like pliers? 

Let's say I am reading spec for 29er with suspension fork and I would like to calculate replacement parameters for rigid one. Calculation is needed because I don't want to change geometry after replacement -- so the rigid fork should feel (in sense of geometry) as locked in neutral position suspension fork. How to do the calculation, what parameters are important? Example: 

(text from Specialized Rockhopper 29). Background 1: I want to do calculations before I buy the bike to avoid situation, that I am buying popular bike but there is no rigid fork replacement (or it is very hard to get). Background 2: In reality I wanted to buy fitness bike (100% rigid, disc brakes, 700C) and mount wider tires (2"). After some query it appears that all fitness bikes (like Trek 7.2 FX, Cube Hyde, etc) have so little space that you can fit 1.75" tire max (Kross Seto). I found only single bike so far with frame for wider tires (Sulry Ogre), but it is out of reach for me (Poland). So I see no other option as do more expensive replacement -- instead of buying fixed fork bike and replacing tires, buying 29er and replacing fork. 

Sorry if my technical English is a bit imprecise. I just put on new Shimano CN-HG53 chain. I joined the ends not with regular pin, but with provided reinforced one (like one of those below). 

It is not solid solution which I asked for, but since there are no better answers at the time of writing this should fit. If you spot here an error or over-simplication let me know. I will assume tire is torus-shaped. It is not true, but it has to stay, because real shape is to computational expensive to handle. Comfort Crossing holes Like crossing the rails, here diameter matters. 

I don't count for spokes, fork, they are important factors, but it will make computations even more complex (and besides, the effect will be different for blade spokes, and for regular).