The build up of the US army from a small, backwards, underfunded, isolationist peace-time army in 1939 to a six million person world conquering colossus in 1945 is one of the under-appreciated triumphs of WWII. Much can be attributed to the cadre of professional, forward thinking officers like George Marshall the US maintained. When it comes to tanks, it was a devotion to automotive quality, focusing on a single design, and "leapfrogging" the enemy in guns and armor. Let me lay out some ground rules. This answer is in the context of 1942, later war tank developments do not apply. The US tanks will only be compared to their intended and actual opponents, Soviet tanks may be great but the M4 wasn't designed to fight them. In WWII the main purpose of tanks was not to fight other tanks, it was to support the infantry, either in the infantry support role (infantry / heavy tanks like the Matilda or early Panzer IV) or cavalry role (medium and light / cavalry / cruiser tanks like the Crusader). Good WWII tank design considered these elements. 

According to The Deceivers: Allied Military Deception in the Second World War, in June 1941 Cyprus contained about 4,000 troops which I think were elements of the 50th Infantry Division, the rest of the division was at El Alamein, plus local troops. They were designated as the fictitious 7th Division. These and other ruses, part of the "Cyprus Defense Plan", convinced the Axis they were facing up to 30,000 troops. In mid-July 1941 the rest of the 50th (Northumbrian) Infantry Division arrived. To keep up the deception, the genuine 50th Division and the fake 7th Division made up the XVIII Corps (later XXV Corps). In November 1941 the 50th was relieved by the 5th Infantry Division (India) which remained until April 1942. See Ball Of Fire, Chapter XII: Cyprus Interlude. I had to piece this together from individual division information. I'm not sure if this was the totality of troops on the island. 

This comment by the OP (since edited, still useful) is illustrative, particularly the part about having Napoleon or Hannibal in charge. Commanding an army in 1940 was not like commanding one in 1918 which was not like commanding one in the Napoleonic era which was certainly not like being a commander in Hannibal's time. While the very basics remain the same, 1940s warfare was conducted at a pace and scale that would have made Napoleon give up and crawl back into his tent. In fact, several actual early WWII commanders did just that! Hannibal, who never commanded more than 50,000 men, would have no grasp of a modern military staff nor communications; he might have made an excellent company or even division commander with training. The Allied armies in the Battle of France numbered over 3 million and spanned hundreds of miles. Prior to WWII, warfare was still centered around the Set Piece or Pitched Battle. This is a battle conducted at a time and place by two well defined units with well defined lines and commanders have a pretty clear strategic understanding of the entire battlefield. Emphasis on well defined. While not always planned, sometimes it comes out of a meeting engagement such as the Battle of Gettysburg, they have a fairly clear and limited scope. Everything from Cannae to Waterloo to the Somme has this basic shape. Napoleon, after some technological catch up, would have done well in the trenches of WWI. The Spring Offensive at the very end of WWI introduced modern large-scale maneuver warfare. While maneuver and deception has always featured prominently in warfare, primarily flanking maneuvers, it was always on a tactical level of individual battles and carefully controlled. Now this idea is applied to all levels of the battle, from individual small unit tactics to large scale maneuvers. Mechanized Maneuver Warfare Rather than destroying the enemy in a series of pitched battles, maneuver warfare seeks to keep the enemy always off balance and confused. Rather than attacking the enemy's defenses, it circumvents them and instead aims at logistical and command structures to remove the enemy's ability to fight in a coordinated fashion. The divided defenders can then be mopped up by concentrated attacks which achieve surprise and local superiority despite having overall inferior numbers. This cannot be achieved overnight. It requires sweeping reforms from top to bottom: from top commanders to sergeants to individual soldier's training and equipment. It requires extensive use of mobile radios (still not widely available in 1940) and new communication and command techniques. It requires having a significant portion of your army mechanized and concentrated to act as a fast reaction force to both exploit opportunities and plug holes. The Germans Had Experience, The Allies Did Not. While most major militaries entering WWII had their own theories of large scale maneuver warfare, Soviet Deep Battle or the British Experimental Mechanized Force, they had little operational experience and understanding of how it would work in practice. A new Allied commander showing up in 1940 or even 1939 would have scant time to adapt their existing army of 3 million in the field to conduct maneuver warfare. This was an army mostly prepared and trained to fight WWI over again. They didn't have the equipment, the men and commanders did not have the training, nor even the schools necessary to conduct the training, nor the designs and factories to produce the equipment to conduct mechanized maneuver warfare. In contrast, the Wehrmacht learned their lesson from WWI and had rebuilt their army, commanders, soldiers, and equipment around the concept of maneuver warfare. They gained experience from the Spanish Civil War, and unlike the Soviets, made the correct conclusions giving them several years to prepare. The Occupation of Austria and Occupation of Czechoslovakia, while they involved no fighting, gave the German army valuable, practical information about large scale deployment and movement of their armies. Mundane but very important issues of maintenance, supply, and communication could be worked out in reality, not just on an exercise. How do you deal with mechanical failures? Traffic jams? How do you get food and fuel and ammo to an army constantly on the move? How well do radios actually work in the field? How well do air and ground forces coordinate? By the time of the Invasion of Poland, the German army had years to prepare and two large scale real maneuvers to work things out. Even though Poland was, in some ways, a walk over it revealed more problems. Fortunately, the Allies gave Germany six months to work them all out, recover, and reorganize. The German army that invaded France was now one well tested in the field, and perhaps the only major army in the world at the time with extensive experience in mechanized maneuver warfare. While the Allies had none. The Saar Offensive, The Best Opportunity To Change History. To a WWI commander sitting behind your defenses waiting for the enemy to attack is good policy. To a WWI commander, the well-prepared defender always has the advantage: chop up the enemy as they try to bludgeon their way through your lines. To a modern commander, an army with superior numbers sitting for months behind their defenses waiting to be attacked is madness. It gives the attacker time to prepare logistically, build roads, build rail lines, build up supplies, repair, refit, and reorganize. It gives them time to gather intelligence, probe defenses, and form an accurate map of the enemy's unchanging positions. The attacker can then attack at the time and place of their own choosing. This is exactly what happened after the invasion of Poland: the Sitzkrieg or Phoney War. Six months of the Allies doing almost nothing while the Germans recovered and prepared. But it didn't have to be that way. The one place a more vigorous Allied commander could have made a difference was in the Saar Offensive. When Germany invaded Poland, it committed the overwhelming bulk of its forces; its western border with France was very thinly defended. It was another bluff that paid off. A vigorous Allied offensive in the West in September 1939 could have called that bluff and left Germany in a very awkward position suddenly fighting a two-front war. They would have had to scale back or even halt their invasion of Poland and strip units to defend against and repel a French attack. The French could have pierced the Siegfried line before Germany could bring in sufficient reinforcements, they'd be fighting on German soil behind German static defenses, exactly what they wanted to do. Meanwhile, the Poles were no slouches and could have held back a diminished German army. In reality their fate was sealed by a Soviet offensive from the east, the Soviets invaded seeing easy pickings and gaining a buffer zone against continued German expansion; even then the Soviets waited until mid-September when they had formally ended their undeclared war with Japan and felt their eastern front was secured. If the Saar Offensive actually happened, and happened quickly enough, the Soviets may have hesitated further in invading Poland waiting to see how Germany would fare. A Germany distracted by extensive war in the West was not a great threat to the Soviets, and without the German army taking apart the Poles the Soviets would actually have to fight in Poland. Italy would be unlikely to intervene, like the Soviets in Poland they only declared war on France after it was clear the battle had been won. Germany would now find itself in serious trouble with its military stretched thin, its aura of invincibility punctured, its fair-weather allies hesitating, and the long-term deficiencies of its military in conducting a prolonged war made clear. There would have been no invasion of Norway, Denmark, nor the Low Countries meaning no forward bases for the U-Boat campaign nor bombing Britain. While it's entirely possible the German army would have still defeated the invading Allied army, it would have to do so on its own soil rather than deep in French territory. It would then have to return to finishing off Poland before striking at France. Rather than victory in eight weeks, this might have turned into the longer, slower paced battle the Allies prepared for. 

Hanford, right on the Columbia River which flows through my city of Portland, OR, is probably the largest non-commercial nuclear disaster in terms of cost and scale of environmental damage. Its a former top-secret nuclear processing facility for the US military. Hanford was used for decades for nuclear processing with nine reactors and five plutonium processing plants to make the plutonium for most of the US nuclear arsenal. Their waste disposal procedures were dreadful, and because it was all top-secret they didn't have to deal with pesky regulators and inspections. Hanford left behind 53 million gallons of high level liquid nuclear waste, 25 million cubic feet of solid radioactive waste, and has contaminated the ground water for 200 square miles around. That's fully 2/3 of all the high level nuclear waste in the US. The storage tanks were leaking hundreds of gallons of waste for years. Hanford would use water from the Columbia to cool its reactors and pump it back into the river releasing long lived isotopes detectable 200 miles down river. The cleanup has been going on for 25 years. They keep finding more undocumented contaminated hazardous material. It's been a trail of mismanagement. It's estimated cleanup will cost an additional $100 billion over 30 years involving 10,000 workers on site. Beyond that, depends on what you call an accident. How about losing a nuclear bomb? How about losing several of them? These are known as Broken Arrow incidents and for the number there have been its surprising that none of them resulted in a nuclear explosion. Bomb designers know their job. Here's a few sources to read with growing horror. 

Early WWII saw faster, more accurate, and longer ranged guns and torpedoes, but still manually aimed. "Speed is armor" still won the day for a small, maneuverable ship. Battle fleets were even faster with carriers going over 30 knots. To fulfill their traditional role, destroyers' speed also had to increase. Late WWII saw the introduction of radar range finding and fire control. Gunfire was becoming more accurate and it became more difficult for destroyers to dash in and launch torpedoes at capital ships. One of the last hurrahs for the classic destroyer attack is the Battle off Samar where a handful of destroyers, escort destroyers, and escort carriers convinced a heavy Japanese capital fleet to retreat. 

Yes, though what was in them I don't know. And it wasn't a dramatically marked tin it was "eight mailbags". Given the chaos of the British operation, I doubt they were of much operational value. 

I can't find a definitive list of Pakistani artillery in 1971. This is what I've pieced together based on the better documentation I've found for the 1965 war and what they were equipped with in 1990. Both sides made heavy use of British WWII vintage equipment including... 

Orwell's "You And The Atomic Bomb" essay, written in 1945, is predicated on the idea that it's technology that wins wars and technology is expensive and exclusive to large governments. Writing in October 1945 just after a war where technology played a very important role and just after the introduction of the atomic bomb, I don't blame him. To him we seemed poised on an era of new empires controlling the world with an untouchable army of heavy tanks, heavy bombers, and atomic bombs. And that technologist view of warfare was almost immediately proven wrong. A wave of colonial revolts employed asymmetric warfare to counter the technological superiority of their overlord's armies. The nukes were useless because nobody was willing to use them, and the technology designed for conventional warfare was countered with cheaper alternatives and guerilla tactics. France, Britain, and later the US and Soviet Union, were all defeated by (or had a very, very hard time against) citizen armies. 70 years later and we're still contending with this problem. So I believe the whole premise has issues from a military history point-of-view. 

In WWI fire control was poor and ranges were short, but ship speeds suddenly increased, and the torpedo was a dangerous new equalizer, albeit very short ranged. The introduction of the modern Dreadnought style battleship and battlecruiser saw a rapid increase in the speed of capital ships from 10 to 12 knots to 20 to 25 knots. Destroyers had to keep up with the fleet to protect them from torpedo boats, and they needed the speed to catch the torpedo boats. They also needed speed and agility to quickly get close to a capital ship, typically a few thousand yards, launch their torpedoes, and run away. The very poor fire control and accuracy in those days meant a destroyer could get away with that. The idea that "speed is armor" worked for small ships. 

Then there is the problem of supply, in particular food and fuel. A successful commerce raider will be out as sea for as long as possible. Even if they fail to sink a single ship, their existence can tie up enemy naval assets hugely out of proportion. A commerce raider can resupply from friendly overseas ports, and from friendly supply units, but mainly from scavenging from the commerce they raid. The more fuel hungry warships you have in your fleet, and their very large and hungry crews to feed, the more thinly you need to spread your supplies. 

There was a recent expedition to relocate these markers and resurvey the border, the Missouri/Iowa Boundary Line Investigation. That article includes more details about the border dispute. 

I'm going to take "rapid" to mean "could an adult experience their empire rising to its peak, riding that peak, and collapsing"? About 50 years. That's very fast by historical terms. Next, let's nail down "empire". A thing doesn't have to be called an "empire" to be an empire. 

There's problems with that statement. The Munich Agreement was not agreed upon at "an old palace". In fact, Chamberlain and Hitler met at several locations prior to signing the agreement, none of which can be described as an "old palace". First, on September 15th, at Berghof, Hitler's residence in the Bavarian Alps. This was hardly an "old palace", it was a house built in 1916 and renovated just a few years before the negotiations. Smoking was allowed on the terrace. 

When looking at why the UN does (or usually does not) do things, it's important to know two things: only resolutions by the UN Security Council are binding, and all of the permanent members have veto power. The permanent members at the time were the People's Republic of China, France, Russia, UK, and the US. With the Cold War just having ended, this was a period of unusually strong international cooperation. Even so, resolutions have to be watered down so as not to go against the wishes of those five. That's the best I've got for why the UN did what it did. What I can cover is what they resolved to do and how that turned out. The UN was looking to negotiate a cease fire and bring the warring parties back to the negotiating table. While this was happening, they tried to reduce civilian casualties and war crimes. To carry this out, in Feb 1992 the UN Security Council Resolution 743 created the United Nations Protection Force (UNPROFOR) with about 40,000 personnel. In particular they make it clear that: