Orc's ARE way more powerful than humans. No doubt. But there are way fewer of them. They're so much bigger that they need more food so they keep smaller groups. Also, tremendous levels of testosterone make them very war-like, even with one another. They kill each other as much as they kill humans. And don't forget, they're not that bright. Don't tell them I said so but they couldn't come up with a plan to take over the world if humans outright surrendered to them! Plus they don't really want it. They prefer fighting over ruling. They're tough bastards for sure, but there's a lot of cons against them. 

(Please see diagrams) This is a question regarding an area of a Rocheworld scenario that I haven't found anything on. It is suggested that the OUT side of a planet that is tidally locked with another is actually exposed to the vacuum of space because the gravity has pulled the atmosphere away from that area and towards the IN side which is facing the other planet with which its locked. But that must create a narrow area (a band around the planet?) which is neither fully covered in atmosphere nor fully exposed to vacuum. On Earth the atmosphere thins out the higher we go. But on either of the Rocheworld planets the atmosphere would thin out right on the land the further you moved away from the twin planet. Potentially one could "walk" through a thinning atmosphere and right into the vacuum of space. That side of the planet, I imagine, would be like the surface of the moon (but with that planets gravity[?]). But what would we experience in that band between the full atmosphere area and the vacuum exposed area? See the diagram I drew below. (Hopefully all the other science is correct enough to understand the question.) 

This protects them from many sides depending on the shapes of the cliff and coastlines, so they only have to watch out for whats in front of them. There they could build thick walls (some walls were so thick they could withstand cannon fire), moats, and fields with spikes; As well as arrows and spears and harpoons. I wanted to come back and add these: Your wall could look like this from the outside: 

Edit: This construct is an experiment by an alien species trying to invent new habitat for beings to live in. We can assume they know what they were doing but I allow for the possibility that the construct wont be stable forever. So, is this construct possible? If not, please tell me where I’ve gone wrong and how it can be made to work. Thank you. 

(See diagram) Presupposing that a Rocheworld can even exist... I imagine that sunlight would work more or less the same in the atmosphere of any part of an Earth like planet that was tidally locked with a duplicate planet in a Rocheworld scenario. But what about in the area between them, where the planets share atmospheres? An atmosphere traps the sun's rays and that's why we get day light and heat etc. But that's also because the surface of the planet is bouncing it back too, right? But the area of shared atmosphere in Rocheworld does not have solid ground, so the light would go right through. What does that do for light, visibility, warmth, radiation, etc? For arguments sake lets say that the planets are angled somewhat so both the planets can get sun rays. 

So the appendages/"wings" are connected to the body the same way that a cats tail is connected to a cat or that lizard, can move about in many different ways, and can flap to propel the humanoid through the air of this microgravity environment. Say we hand wave the possibility of how these humanoids developed this way (extra love if you tackle that), do you think this anatomy could work to give them flight in this environment? p.s. In the drawing I made one hand webbed, and the other not, to ask if it would make difference either way, though I've kind've decided against it myself. p.s.s. I also took some inspiration from this (in terms of the wings): 

And also - Arms at the hips: This came about because I thought maybe too many arms at the shoulders was making the upper body too heavy, and the arms would kind've bump into each other, so... arms at the hips. I don't know how the pelvis inner skeleton would accommodate that, but there is enough space in the area for some changes, so I'm gonna say not IM-possible. If the arms at the hips were smaller than the regular ones, they might not be quite as strong, but they might still be very useful and they wouldn't get in the way of the upper arms. Enjoy! 

The Orcs would win. They can build tools and weapons and shelters. Your lions are smart, but you said their bodies are the same as normal lions, so they don't have opposable thumbs. Also the Orcs have the boars which takes the burden of work and travel off them. Giving your lions smarts does little to change them because they're bodies can still only do so much. Lions cant build. They'd still be pretty much lions, except they can talk. maybe they could negotiate they're way out of a pickle? Seems like you haven't given the lions enough pro's to bring them up to the Orcs level. Maybe you could give them the advantage that there are way more of them than there are Orcs(?) Otherwise the Orcs would basically kill off the Lions the same way that humans do now... use weapons and hunt them. 

Some of what I read in How could a 4D organism influence events in our world made me think in a different direction about a question I asked before. I'm trying to create a large sphere shaped field of gravity, without a physical mass at it's center, that floats in space. Inside the field would exist a habitat that humans could live in. Basically a massive ball of air held together by this force in what I imagine would be a microgravity situation. I already assume this couldn't be found in nature. I guess it would have to be some kind of super science. How could the physical mass be "elsewhere" but it's gravity be felt "here"? Could something exist in another dimension or reality but exert its effects in our reality? EDIT: From $URL$ "One leading hypothesis is that dark matter consists of exotic particles that don't interact with normal (baryonic) matter or light but that still exert a gravitational pull." Does that help with ideas? Adding onto edit 1: $URL$ From the article: “Motions of the stars tell you how much matter there is," van Dokkum said in a statement. “They don’t care what form the matter is, they just tell you that it’s there. In the Dragonfly galaxy stars move very fast. So there was a huge discrepancy: using Keck Observatory, we found many times more mass indicated by the motions of the stars, than there is mass in the stars themselves.” In other words, van Dokkum and his team found evidence of way more mass than they could actually see. OR EDIT 2: Could the use of massless particles lead to an answer? $URL$ EDIT 3: A version of String Theory known as M Theory suggests that separate "branes" interact through gravity (The central idea is that the visible, three-dimensional universe is restricted to a brane inside a higher-dimensional space, called the "bulk"). Could something along these lines be an answer? 

I posted this comment: I just can't see a massive space station suddenly stopping. Even with brakes. Just too much momentum. If it comes with brakes to slow it to a stop then surely the engineers have already accounted for what would happen so that there's minimal if any damage. As for ship or asteroid impact: shoot it down before the impact. Its messed up in the case of the ship, but the needs of the many... Which prompted the OP to object with: @Len I don't see where there wouldn't be any reason not to have some sort of breaking system. It would make complete sense to bring the ring to a stop for repairs or the works would be flung away from the station, and it would need to stop quickly if there was sudden damage that might be more dangerous to continue spinning. The idea is that the saboteur would trigger the sudden braking and disable the safety measures meant to protect the people inside. I get what you're saying. I just think there are better ways to do the same thing. Briefly... The ring wouldn't need to stop for repairs because any works on it would be going at the same speed as it is. If an astronaut goes to work on the outside of the station he wouldn't fly away once he stepped outside. He would go along with the station. Aside from say, a massive comet crashing into the space station, there could be no more dangerous thing to happen to it than stopping suddenly! Everything inside would get flattened against walls from the sheer momentum! Anything not secured would go flying and become a deadly projectile. A pen would become a bullet. Any liquid inside would get thrown around. Say you wanted to have a pretty lake in the middle of the space station, if the station suddenly stopped that lake would become a rushing mountain of water smacking you like an avalanche. Also the energy required to suddenly a stop something as large as a space station (you did say it was a large one) would be astronomical. The engines that put the space station into its spin in the first place built that energy up over a long time. its not something that happens as easily as flipping a switch and voila now we have spin. And, just before it reached its desired speed it would already start a the slow down process so it would remain at the desired speed, instead of overshoot, making it too fast. Its a very finely tuned balance with mathematical equations I wouldn't even begin to understand (I'm sure some genius here will chime in on that [and it might be good for both of us]). in other words the engines the put that station into its spin would have to go in reverse for just as long as it took for it to go forward, expending a ridiculous amount of energy for no benefit. Imagine a set of beer cans back to back suddenly crushing into one another. That would happen to the body of the station ring. The stresses would be overwhelming. And contrary to popular belief space stations will most likely be built from quite the flimsy materials. Walls of aluminum are not out of the question (with some kind've radiation shielding inside, but that would be fairly minimal too) since all it has to do is keep air inside. A balloon could do that. A braking system that stops a space station suddenly is not the good idea you think it is. Here's my suggestions for how you can achieve a sudden stop: Catastrophic damage. A huge explosion or collision. A saboteur could crash a ship into it, or smuggle an explosive aboard, or destroy a nuclear power plant that was already on board. Space is filled with lots of objects that could crash into it. A swarm of particles would do lots of damage. A rock the size of a golf ball could puncture just the right thing that does lots of damage. And even then the wreckage would still keep spinning for some time creating all sort of interesting and dangerous problems for your characters. Good luck with your story. Sounds fun. 

The wings are not feathery, but more fleshy with cartilaginous joints like those seen in these x-rays of animals. The base of a cats tail: 

Remember the metallic substance that the T-1000 was made out of in the movie T2: Judgment Day? I want to create a substance like that in a story with some modifications... So, the substance can move and take just about any shape, but it does not create more mass. For example, if there was a ton of it, it could take the shape of an elephant that weighed a ton, but not take the shape of a whale that weighs 20 tons. It cannot create something from nothing. It can come apart into smaller components. For example: If there was a ton of it, it could take the shape of two separate elephants that each weigh half a ton. It can only take the shape of something. It does not actually become that thing unless that thing is mechanical. So it could take the shape of a car but it would still need gasoline, a car battery, etc. It could mimic a person, but not down the fine microscopic details. It could withstand the vacuum of space. It could become very hard or very malleable. When its malleable it relaxes and encompasses a bit more space. It obeys commands from a computer that sends out signals to it. Without the signals it just falls into a malleable ball, but not a liquid puddle. Also, and here’s the kicker, I want it to be able to float in the air. That doesn’t necessarily have to mean “anti-gravity” though. Maybe there a magnetic wave that it works within, or something like that(?) Does anyone want to take a crack at proposing what might comprise such a thing? “Magic” not allowed. Re-edit: Michio Kaku describes what I mean here- $URL$ Re-re-edit: And yet another possibility... $URL$ 

They run blood drives, always moving from one place to another, staying ahead of the law and above suspicion. They pretend to be a medical organization but they keep the blood. 

I’ve been trying to create a water planet with certain aspects. I wanted it to have a breathable atmosphere and to be a microgravity environment. I’m developing humanoid characters that can breathe both water and air, and I wanted them to be able to swim in the water and also fly/float in the sky (but let’s focus on the environment in this question). Every possibility that exists in reality had some serious problems, so I ultimately decided to go with an artificially constructed world so as to counter any issues that would come up in nature. In other words K 2 or 3 aliens created this place (for reasons that will be dealt with in the story). And here's the rub: I was reading another question- How dense of an atmosphere do I need to "float" an ocean of liquid at 1000 ft elevation? asking about basically an ocean in the sky. Because I like fantastic environments in sci-fi (and impossible to answer questions) I decided to add that extra problem, er… element to my water planet. So here what I’ve got (see diagram): It’s an artificial construct, a shell world which is filled with air, that is covered by an ocean, that has an atmosphere; and the whole thing is small enough to be a microgravity environment but large enough to retain its ocean and atmosphere. I don’t know how big this thing is though. Me am not good with da maths. At this point I don't know how the interior would have light (artificially?) but I'm hoping that all three environments- atmosphere, ocean, and inner shell world, could be habitats that a being could travel between and live in. To that end I was thinking tunnels from the inner shell world through the ocean past the surface of the ocean and out into the sky. Maybe that could work? If you don't think so then disregard the tunnels suggestion. I'm starting to think it would actually be detrimental instead of helpful. Incredibly Strong Shell (see diagram): could a powerfully built tensegrity or geodesic sphere do the trick? 

So, I don't believe that the "angelic" type winged human can exist (y'know, the kind with the feathery wings sprouting from the back). Too many problems of anatomy, weight, etc. But I am trying to create something where the humanoid is winged, but with a more plausible anatomy. Added to which: I'm creating a microgravity habitat where humanoids have developed wings to fly there (I don't know the exact amount of microgravity as compared to the gravity of Earth but very low), with air composition and density to match Earths atmosphere. Here's a drawing of what I imagine (better art work forthcoming): 

First of all they should only teleport things, not people. People talk. Otherwise, they're in the shipping business. They should use their teleportation ability to mimic real world transportation so as to avoid any suspicion. For example If they are supposed to teleport something from A to B that it would take a month to get to B then they should still make sure the things they're are teleporting still only arrive at B in a month. So how does that make them better than say a cargo ship that takes a month to get to B? A) They could still shave off a few days, say a week in this case, to beat out the competition. "No one can beat our fast and safe service! Your items will arrive where they're supposed to be days ahead of schedule and in perfect condition!" B) They could charge a little less than other shipping services too. So they're faster, safer AND cheaper? How can you beat that?! C) They could charge a little more for their unique "Overnight" service. "If it has to be there tomorrow it will be!" D) They could also form a very exclusive partnership with the largest company in the world (Amazon?, Walmart?) and work specifically for them. "No one knows how they do what they do in that warehouse, but man their track record cant be beat!" "Yeah, as good as they are I don't care how they do their thing!" They'd have to cook up their "books" to make it look like they're spending the way ordinary shipping businesses do, but even that is only slightly shady since they are doing what they say they're doing. It's a lightly grey area business at worst. Bottom line, they're in the shipping business and they're the best at it. EDIT: I thought I'd throw this in here since it's getting so much attention in the comments below - Concerning tracking device: That's easily countered with double and triple checking the items to make sure they are NOT tracked with a tracking device. "What tracking device? We weren't aware. We're sorry you don't trust our shipping service. If you have any safety concerns please feel free to refer to our customer service department. However I would like to stress that your item(s) did arrive at their correct destination, ahead of schedule and in perfect condition. Thank you for your business." Plus, the more plausible answer than teleportation is that your tracking device malfunctioned. Thanks