There is a launch window from Earth to Mars every 800 days or so if you want to do conventional ballistic tajectories. If the orbits of the two planets were even closer, that would make the two planets more similar in habitability, and it could easily take five years or longer for the inner planet to make one orbit more than the outer. Of course the orbits can't be too close or they become instable. I haven't seen the calculations how long the average orbital period in the habitable zone of lighter or heavier stars would be, but probably different from our 365 days. Other possibility: A multi star system, where the differences are simply huge and you need swingbys with larger planets in both subsystems to make the tranfer oeconomically feasible. 

No, impossible. Firstly, the internal friction would let it collapse, because the parts at different altitude have to rotate at different speeds. Secondly, the surface tension would disintegrate the ring into droplets, which would coalesce into a smaller number of (liquid) moons. Those moons can't grow very much, however, because of the Roche limit. So they would probably split again from time to time, until they have lost so much angular momentum due to the tidal forces that they crash into the planet atmosphere. (And yes, ionic liquids have a vanishingly low gas pressure, and would be liquid in space, as long as they stay in the sun and warm enough. See my answer on How to flood the entire lunar surfaces? Also ionic liquids are totally unnatural.) 

Sci-fi setting where cargo is being shipped to colony worlds. If a spaceship has to land and take off again, that costs a lot of money, so that mode of transport is reserved for people and urgent, high-value cargo; the plan is to get bulk cargo the last lousy few hundred kilometers in drop capsules, which aerobrake, parachute, splash into the ocean and get towed to shore by boat. The maximum speed at which a capsule will hit atmosphere is 5 kilometers per second. (This is very hypersonic, but still slower than standard orbital velocity.) Their size will be on the order of a few meters, and they will be made of ordinary materials like steel and composites. What shape should the capsules be? Aerodynamic considerations suggest they should be round, perhaps ideally the quasi-teardrop shape (lens with short trailing cone) of the early space capsules. On the other hand, that's a terrible shape for efficient packing aboard a freighter. Efficient packing would much prefer rectangular boxes like today's cargo containers. But sharp corners would probably melt when the capsule hits atmosphere. Would it be viable to at least compromise on something like a cylinder shape? 

(Magnetic cooling is used in cryotechnology. Not useable here, even theoretically imo.) No, impossible. The edge of the photosphere has a density similar to where meteors appear in earth's atmosphere. Atmospheric friction alone will burn up your spacecraft. Flying into the cromosphere is similarly impossible, simply because the shadow behind your sunscreen is too small to place enough radiators in it. Enough power for a heat pump would be available, but the sun has an angular diameter of nearly 180°. You can't hide from it. In the corona, three solar radii away from the surface, it might perhaps work. Theoretically, with a lot of technology that is totally undeveloped today. It's over a million degrees hot, but the density is very low. Don't get caught in an eruption. 

You seem to think those people would have an unfair advantage over, and would use it to the detriment of others. First let me say (and I'm an atheist) that jealousy is a sin. Don't be jealous. Secondly, many people have advantages over others (money, health, education, bodily strenght, intelligence, beauty, whatever), and most people agree that the same law should apply to everyone. Thirdly, most societies have laws in place to keep people from exploiting their advantages in an unfair manner, and expect wealthy people to provide to the public welfare overproportionally. Now what should happen? Some of your nonsleepers could become very rich, so they should pay higher taxes. Same applies to other rich people. Some could become politically powerful. So are some groups of people today, and most of them haven't "earned" it. Or some of them could form a syndicate to enslave the rest of mankind, which is the moment to arrest them, and put them on trial, like you do with every other group of criminals. And yes, perhaps they should have their own sports competitions in some cases, like men and women and people with disabilites do. Nothing that the legislative should be concerned with. 

I'm trying to figure out whether spacecraft could see explosions occurring on the surface of a planet, or under what conditions they could. To be specific: Given a spacecraft equipped with a duplicate of the Keck telescope, using visible light only, watching a planet similar to Earth, at what distance could it see the explosion of one ton of TNT, occurring at sea level at night under a clear sky? 

In a futuristic setting where people are worried about enemy spacecraft doing things like dropping bombs from orbit, and are building ground-based lasers to shoot back, Given that such weapons have the disadvantage of having to shoot up through atmosphere (putting them on high ground ~2 km helps a bit, but only a bit), What is the optimum wavelength to minimize absorption and scattering by air (and preferably by clouds)? It's definitely going to be some way into the infrared, but what exact wavelength would be best? 

Sci-fi scenario with flights to a colony planet. Tech level is otherwise close to today (e.g. no androids or desktop nanofactories). Planet is quite similar to Earth, so e.g. agriculture works, you can grow wheat and raise cattle. What would be the likely/optimal ratio of passengers to cargo transported to said planet? Let's say it costs as much to transport one passenger as five tons of cargo, and available transport resources could per year bring 10,000 colonists and 50,000 tons of cargo - that would be splitting the available resources equally. At one extreme, clearly there would be no point hauling 100,000 tons of cargo and nobody to make use of it. At the other extreme, you don't want to put 20,000 colonists on another planet with nothing more than carry-on luggage; even though it's a nice habitable planet, they will still need tools and supplies. Does the above even split of one colonist per five tons of cargo make sense, or can we reasonably say each person would need more cargo, or less? The closest analogy I can think of is the colonization of the Americas. (The main difference being that in the sci-fi scenario, there are no natives.) What was the overall ratio of people to cargo transported from Europe to America during that time period? 

Impossible, unless you change the physics of your alternate world so transistors or nuclear power don't work. In a world with millions of scientists, everything gets discovered when the time is ripe. And without transistors, spaceflight is so terribly expensive that nobody would start a large-scale operation such as Project Olympus. 

Whenever you want money from your account, you have to bring in the receipt with the current balance from the last time you accessed it, in exchange for a new receipt. To commit a fraud, you'll have to forge the receipt, which is heavily punished in any (pre-)modern state. If you loose it, you have to wait until messages have been requested and come in from all dependencies about your last transaction. 

Orbits of large objects always seem to be nearly circular. It's just the way they form. So this scenario is unrealistic. Different size and orbit of a moon gives tides of different height and frequency, and tides influence the oceanic currents, strongly. If the tide heighs vary more strongly over a month than they do on earth, then, yes, that obviously also influences the oceanic currents. It could surely be predicted by simulations. 

Speaking from a linguistic point of view I'd say that, without technological aid, it is definitely impossible. Let's start with the obvious and take English as our first example. Here in Switzerland children are taught French and English from a young age on (normally starting around 9 years). However, only a small minority of adults is really able to use the language. Outside of the Indoeuropean strain it gets even worse. I have been to Mission Schools in Tansania, Japan and China. You will barely find a single adult (and I had to do with bank/insurance managers, constables and other "high-ranked" people) able to form a complete, understandable sentence in English (resp. French in parts of Tansania). All the really important daily business can be done in your local language. There is no need to resort to any other. Have a look at why languages die out: It is very often not because the native speakers stop using them but because said native speakers are dying out and their language with them. To eradicate a language and replace it with another it is necessary that important aspects of one's daily life have to be handled in that new language. Those things you normally handle within your own peer group where your native language is spoken. Our native language (which we probably already start learning in the mother's womb) is the easiest and we will always resort back to it as soon as it is possible, even in an environment where a majority is using another language (have a look at how Spanish is replacing English in the south of the US or what issues European have with the integration of foreigners - language is the main issue). Furthermore: There are also new languages emerging, just not noticed yet in many cases. Some are combinations of existing dialects, others evolutions of such. Furthermore think of this: You are used to regularly surf places where people speak English. A large number is native speakers the other large part are foreigners who mostly are well educated. How many labour class members from non-English places does this site have for instance? Many of my friends are from that milieu, they are car mechs, painters, bricklayers, etc. They do not speak English well thus they are not on fora like this one. They have their own ones where they write in their own language. Last but not least: Think of history. We have had many linguae francae in ours. There was Greek until about 800 AD, then it was Latin in Western Europe until about the 1750ies when it becane French and German in Western Europe until English took over in the 20th century. The only way I could see is in a totalitarian system which is able to control people even in the very private parts of their lives. As long as the family can get together without being heard by the authorities, they would still speak their native language. So, as a conclusion, or the tl;dr version: No, it's not going to happen. Language is a "fluid", you cannot force it into a shape. 

Definitely YES, for two reasons: Firstly because all their genetic parents will be rather on the clever side, as was already noted in the other answers. Not clear if the effect will be large. Secondly because those kids will grow up in a world without war, hunger, and poverty, much less drugs, and well educated parents, good own education, and proper health care. All kids have a good chance to live up to their potentials. 

I'd say you could easily scale the large sailing ships of 1900 by a factor two (-> 220m long or so), giving a factor eight in tonnage (-> 40 000 tons). Modern materials and technology keep the crew size in the same region, 40-50 people. Going away from full-rigged to schooner rigs or multi-mast sloop is possible with modern fabric and keeps crewsize further down. Speed of practically any kind of ship scales with the square root of lenght, so you'll get around 14 knots average, unless you have a route with just very little wind. Modern weather forcasts will help here, too. Port maneuvers are helped by an electric bow thruster powered from a towboat (pusher) that runs on batteries charged on land. Towage was a huge problem at the time, when slighly adverse wind conditions at the port could allow tugboat owners to extort the profit of the whole voyage. Definitely something you want to organise. 

On Earth in 2017, finding oil or coal deposits is a tall order. However, consider a science fiction scenario where we find a habitable planet that hasn't hosted an intelligent species in at least a hundred million years, so has fossil fuel deposits in easily accessible locations. Is there a way to find them from the air, or even better from orbit, using today's sensor technology? 

On a timescale of 1e11 years, all uranium and thorium will have decayed, but planets will still exist, orbiting red dwarf stars. Would it be possible to use lead as a nuclear fuel? In principle, the curve of binding energy says lead fission is an exothermic reaction. Is there a way to do this while getting out more energy than you put in? (Getting out more money than you put in, is of course a bigger challenge, but we are talking about a scenario where there is no competition from uranium or thorium let alone fossil fuels. I'm assuming the minimum size for a viable fusion reactor remains large compared to a few gigawatts.) 

A setting where we still have the rest of our technology, but for reasons - alien space bats, basically - there are no longer any stable orbits around Earth with an altitude higher than about 1000 km. Could we build a replacement GPS based on satellites in low orbit? I know the existing system is based on geosynchronous orbit, but is that an absolutely necessary quality of any such system, or would using LEO just make the engineering more expensive?