I don't know a lot about those two, but I hear that they are full of wisdom. Since they date farther back than buddhism, I was wondering if the Buddha ever mentioned them. What did he think of them? If he didn't mention them as such, he probably mentioned some concepts that are contained in them; Apart from obvious concepts contained in those two that also are within Buddhist thought (E.g. Karma). 

This post was submitted to reddit and I thought it might be interesting to re-post it here. I will now copy and paste the body of text the original poster submitted: "It seems like so many people who use psychedelics are drawn to the Eastern way of thought. I could probably count on one hand the amount of people in the world who took LSD and became a supporter of Hobbes' argument for the sovereign or any other western way of thought (save, perhaps, existentialism). Conversely, almost any forum for psychedelic drug users will have lots of discussions of meditation, buddhism, taoism, and so forth, especially when discussing how the drugs have changed the individual using them. What is it about psychedelics and eastern thought that causes this? Why is this correlation exist?" re: $URL$ So why is this? 

The significance of Buddhism is the same as it ever was. The modern age is nothing special unless we believe it is and belief is the problem according to the Buddha's teaching. We have beliefs, opinions, religions and assumptions that we cling to and they causes borders, wars and terrorism. Buddhism ideally teaches us the difference between our assumptions and beliefs and What is arising in one's present moment experience. Buddhists have beliefs of course but the idea is to understand the difference of what is and what is conceptual. This understanding is a big part of what will lead one to less suffering.The more we understand, the less greed, anger, ignorance and suffering we have until we are liberated. Buddhism teaches that the purest truth is found in each one's individual experience and not so much in a system of government. 

In this article $URL$ One definitely gets the impression that morality and karma are part of nature and not just some artefact we've created. 

In this article $URL$ Philosopher/Logician Graham Priest talks about some of the differences that Western logic has with Buddhist logic. Quickly said: Western/Aristotelian logic doesn't tolerate contradictions (principle of non-contradiction) and everything has to be either true or false (principle of the excluded middle), but Buddhist logic follows a system called the catuskoti which implies that statements can be true, false, true and false, or neither true nor false. Tibetan philosopher Gorampa even included the 'ineffable'. My question is this: In buddhist logic, where does "hey man, that's illogical!" fit in? I mean, it pretty much seems everything can be valid in Buddhist logic, and there's just no place for the illogical, which pretty much points to the inefficacy of that system. 

I am a layperson working in an air-conditioned office. In my experience of method 1, I can do with normal amount of breakfast and lunch. But for method 2, sometimes I need more amount of lunch, say 1.5 times of a normal lunch. Never did try method 3. I wish those who have experience can share their thought on the appropriate amount of food, and also the ways of following it. I believe Buddha had suggested to have moderate amount of food, but how much is considered as moderate? 

Didn't the Bodhisattva master the Jhanas with teachers before his remembering about Jhana states as a child while practicing extreme asceticism? What am I missing here? The Middle Way is not eating extremely well and it is not eating extremely little. The middle way is in the middle of those two extremes so the Buddha was a mild ascetic or middle way ascetic. 

That's how consciousness is, one by one the consciousness comes and goes but there is no self or body when you look this closely moment by moment. 

Is this particular karma of A considered "completed", that B will not suffer since this is just the effect of A's karma? Or does B still create new karma when killing A, and will suffer unwholesome result? 

In my understanding, there are a few ways to follow the not-eating-after-noon precept. Here are what I know of: 

Having to look at a clock every few minutes really defeats the purpose! Have you ever tried telling yourself to wake up at a certain time before you sleep? I can tell you from personal experience that it works. My meditation teacher asks us not to use any clock. She asks us to train ourselves to emerge from meditation at specified time without external help. I haven't really tried it yet (except for waking up from sleep), and the teacher will always ring the bell in our group sitting despite her advice :). After all, one of the jhana mastery is the ability to remain in jhana for exactly the pre-determined length of time. 

What is she difference between the Pali Suttas and folklore or the Indian folklore at the time? Is it possible some suttas include folklore as well as authentic words of the Buddha? 

Are you not vanishing into the vast space of existence right now? Have you ever existed? Nibbana is the ultimate renunciation...Until you let go of wanting to exist or not wanting to exist you will not abide forever without suffering. Nibbana means no more suffering but death, birth and life means the suffering continues. We cant understand this until we have practiced virtue and seeing things as they are. 

According to Wiki article on niyamas these were written 5 to 18 CE. This is way after the Buddha's death. Also, according to wiki article, these are only commentaries. The article mentions which specific texts mentions them. They are quite a few. $URL$ This article seems to refer to the niyamas as something the buddha said: $URL$ 

I have heard on various occasions that the Buddha slept very little. I was wondering if there is any theory out there that explains this. I was also looking for some specific reference in the literature that can attest to this. My question doesn't refer specifically to the buddha, it could refer to any trained person. Thanks. 

I am both Buddhist and Christian. This is all just my opinion that follows. The differences are mere interpretation. Jesus, seems to have been an acetic who spoke that he is God and the son of God and that just means he was one with God or enlightened in some way, I don't really know but it seems this way to me... based on my experience and what I know, bla,bla,bla and so forth. The reason "Faith" is a big teaching is because a teacher often teaches a student about Faith so they can just know that the path they, the disciples are on, is true without having to intellectualise the teaching away with materialistic doubts. The parables were meant as ascetic teachings not worldly teachings for the family. Jesus was against family when it crushes spiritual progress. Family often is the source of a serious truth seekers encouragement to follow the herd and not be so serious. 

Two meals per day + juice/sugar water: breakfast and lunch, juice or sugar water for dinner. Two meals per day: breakfast and lunch, nothing but plain water after noon. One meal per day: lunch only. Plain water only before and after lunch. 

I'm trying to find a story in the Pali canon (or maybe not) reportedly told by Ajahn Brahm that goes like this (copied from here): 

It is said that a person can choose to return to samsara to help others after being reborn in Pure Land. But has anyone claimed to be that particular kind of person? I am not talking about those who claimed to have visited Pure Land in meditation or dreams. But those who was a human, rebirthed in a Pure Land, instructed by Buddhas and bodhisattvas in that Pure Land, then chose to rebirth back as human on earth to help other beings. 

Lust is the number one defilement that will likely destroy an otherwise good practice. There is a practice that specifically targets lust known as The Thirty-two Parts of the Body (Dvattimsakara). One contemplates these 32 parts of the body: head-hairs, body-hairs, nails, teeth, skin, flesh, sinews, bones, marrow, kidneys, heart, liver, pleura, spleen, lungs, intestines, intestinal tract, stomach, feces, bile, phlegm, pus, blood, sweat, fat, tears, grease, saliva, nasal mucus, synovium (oil lubricating the joints), urine, and the brain. This will help free the mind of the illusion that there is something beautiful about the body. There is nothing ultimately beautiful or ugly about the body. One might turn lust into repulsion by contemplation of the body parts in a state of decay or by viewing real autopsy photos. This is a common practice for monks because they must keep the precept to be pure of any sexual activity and if they can't tame the lust they often have to go back to lay life.