are a continuation in the same vein. Human speech, unlike the barking of a dog to a crow, has meaning to humans; Benedick's words have as little meaning to her as a dog's barking. One should not too quickly jump to the conclusion that she considers Benedick's words as "annoying noise" (see Mithrandir's answer). It was perfectly possible for Elizabethans to consider the sound of barking as pleasant. Witness the following passage from Act IV, Scene 1 in A Midsummer Night's Dream, where Hyppolita talks about a hunting experience (emphasis mine): 

The Old Speech is not like other languages in the world of Earthsea. In "A Description of Earthsea", the last chapter of Tales from Earthsea (2001), Ursula Le Guin also calls it the True Speech and the Language of the Making ("with which Segoy created the islands of Earthsea at the beginning of time"). Here are a few other comments on the Old Speech from "A Description of Earthsea": 

In A Song of Ice and Fire and the television series Game of Thrones, Bronn is a low-born "sellsword" (i.e. a mercenary) who, in the first few seasons of the television series, he is coupled with the high-born Tyrion Lannister. When Tyrion Lannister flees King's Landing, Bronn starts to assist Jaime in military campaigns. Illyrio Mopatis is introduced in the first episode in the series as a wealthy man in Pentos. But long before that, according to this History and Lore video Illyrio was actually a mercenary who took Varys under his wings, who was at that time a young thief; together they started a scheme that made both of them rich. Varys later leaves Illyrio to become an adviser to Aerys Targaryen in King's Landing. So there are a few parallels (two couples; two sellswords, both of whom eventually become rich) and a few things that are inverted (Varys was in the service of former sellsword Illyrio; sellsword Bronn in the service of Tyrion Lannister). So here's my question: do George R. R. Martin's novels draw attention to such parallels and, if yes, what are they? 

A fetish in this context is like a voodoo doll in that it lets someone access magic. Unlike voodoo dolls, fetishes don't have to be doll-like. They can be plain objects or even parts of bodies (human or animal). Correspondingly, a fetish man is like a voodoo priest in that they access magic using an external object, often with an accompanying ritual. For translation, I'd suggest that you look up some translations of Tarzan novels. There are a few witch doctors in them, and some of those witch doctors use fetishes. Since the these books are pretty popular and mostly public domain in some countries, you might find good quality translations already existing in your language, which you can then rely on for familiarity for the readers. For example, from Tarzan and the Leopard Men (particularly appropriate since it was published in the same era, and also has a hyena fetish): 

It seems that Sredni Vashtar, like many of Saki's stories pitting children against adults, was inspired from his childhood. Saki had lost his parents at an early age, and was fostered by tyrannical aunts. From Reading Saki: The Fiction of H.H. Munro by Brian Gibson: 

In-universe, is it ever explained how he came to use Tarzan as the spelling of his name? The paragraph above would indicate that he would have switched to using "White Skin" as his name once he learned those words, but instead, we see that he used Tarzan. 

The metre in Macbeth is already fairly irregular but the lines spoken by the Witches or "Weird Sisters" still stand out. In Act 1, scene 3, Banquo describes the witches as follows (quoted from Open Source Shakespeare): 

The story "The Finder", also in Tales from Earthsea, is set in the years that lead up to the establishment of the school on Roke and its rules. The following quote is an example of the informal use of the term "mage": 

"Prince" here means "ruler", not "the king's son". Nevertheless, based on Bacon's condemnation of revenge, Hamlet should have devised a different way to extricate himself from Claudius's plot, and Rosencrantz's and Guildenstern's deaths are not justified. Finally, there's early 21-st century Europe, where I live. Within this framework, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern do not deserve to die for carrying a letter, the contents of which they do not know (III.iii.1-25 mention the stability of the kingdom as a reason for sending Hamlet away), or for spying on Hamlet on behalf of Claudius (which Hamlet truly hates, especially from former schoolfriends; see IV.ii). 

Old Speech is also the language of spells; none of the other languages (Hardic, Kargish and Osskili) serve for the making of spells. The Old Speech is written using True Runes (at least by humans; dragons have no writing). About lying, Le Guin write (my emphasis): 

The old money have, over decades and centuries, developed a highly indirect (hence, euphemistic) and repressed society, whereas the new money would be far more direct. No doubt they feel some irritation and impatience for the silliness and lack of forthrightness of the old money. 

Assuming the online version you read was by AINA (the Assyrian International News Agency), which indeed sits at 27 pages (and is the third result when I Googled "Epic of Gilgamesh"), note that the PDF pages are US Letter-sized. Most print books would have pages with half those dimensions (well, not quite half, but ...) or a fourth of the area, and so around 4 times the page count (100+). This edition is by N. K. Sandars, who is also the editor of the 1972 Penguin Classics edition, which has 127 pages. (The one Gallifreyan talks about would be the 2003 edition, which has 228 pages.) 

In the beginning, Macondo was a city solidly set in reality. Magical things happened, but everybody agreed they happened. However, as time passed by, gradually the hold of Macondo on reality started slipping. Things became increasingly illusory. There are several instances of this: 

I could never quite put my finger on a specific problem. Are there any internal inconsistencies in Catch 22, or was I just confused by Heller? 

People often fail miserably at accounting for their own biases even when simply observing something (so they might unconsciously ignore things) - biased observation Even for the things that they do manage to observe, people do not write down every last bit of minutiae, but only selected bits - biased reporting A summary is by definition a product of the writer's judgement on what is important and what isn't from the larger text (which has already gone through conscious and unconscious filtering), and therefore is a direct application of their biases. 

Philip Stubbes or Stubbs, writing before the start of Shakespeare's career as a dramatist, criticised this type of crossdressing in his book Anatomie of Abuses (1583). So what was the first English Renaissance play that involved women disguising as men? Update in response to various comments: 

(Highdrake was a mage whose "true name" has been lost.) The story also tells how the roles of men and women with regard to wizardry on Roke get reversed. Thirty years before Otter/Tern/Medra (the finder from the story's title) arrives on Roke, the island had been attacked by pirates. They could do this because one of the male wizards on the island had lowered the island's magic defences, so the pirates could attack it simply by force. The majority of the survivors were women, and they had little trust in men. In addition, women had always been the leaders in the league of the Hand. After Medra's arrival on the island, Roke begins to attract more people who want to learn wizardry, so more men come to the island. During discussions about the establishment of a school and how it should be run, some of the men want to exclude women from learning wizardry. Ember/Elehal tells Medra, 

Niccolò Machiavelli's Discourses on Livy, written between 1513 and 1519, are not as famous as The Prince, but possibly his best work. Its Italian title, Discorsi sopra la prima deca di Tito Livio, literally means "Discourses on the first decade/ten books of Titus Livius", i.e. the first ten books of Livy's history work Ab Urbe Condita Libri. Does this mean that one should read at least these first ten books of Livy's history of Rome? Or, if it is not absolutely necessary, what would be the specific benefits of doing this? After glancing over the introduction to an English translation of the Discourses I was none the wiser. 

Wikipedia's List of poems by Robert Frost includes it in a collection published in 1937. Robert Frost and the New England Renaissance by George Monteiro claims: 

This isn't the first instance of controversy after Carter took the reigns. A biography of Lee by Marja Mills also ran into trouble. How Unauthorized Is the New Book About Harper Lee? from Gawker (July 18, 2014): 

a quick third-person overview of a bunch of characters, flowery descriptions of the scenery, and exhortations to the reader to do something (look at, or appreciate the irony of, or take pity on, something or the other) a short length (2-3 pages at most) 

One of the characteristics of Haiku is that the poems are usually of 17 syllables (5-7-5). Exceptions exist, of course, but 17 is the norm. Why 17? How did the originators of Haiku come to settle on 17? How does it contribute to a haiku's aesthetics? 

Oddly, Burroughs calls it a "strange system of spelling", whereas it should be a strange system of pronunciation. If he did assign sounds to the various characters, and using (g - LA), (o - TU) as representative examples, he could have wrote down "Tarzan" in about as many characters, using different alphabets of course. 

Note: I'm not a professional historian, so my knowledge of the times is a bit vague and from school textbooks. The events of Estha and Rahel's childhood takes place in the 1960s. That is more than ten years since India gained Independence, and thirty years since the death of Sri Narayana Guru. Sri Narayana Guru had started a social reform movement in Kerala rejecting casteism and aiming for emancipation of the lower castes and casteless people. Mahatma Gandhi also strongly supported uplifting the untouchables, as did a number of other leaders of the Indian Independence movement. The net effect was that, officially, there was no discrimination towards them, and indeed, the government had to undertake various measures for their welfare. While there was a lot of discrimination, the lower castes were not actively prohibited from education, or even prestigious jobs. Progress was slow, but there was progress. Further, Velutha's age makes it likely that his birth or childhood coincided with Sri Narayana Guru's life, so Velutha may have been a direct beneficiary of his movement. Another factor would be the Communist movement. Kerala, the Indian state where the story takes place, was officially created in 1956, and has always alternated between Congress and Communist governments since. Kerala's first government was Communist, which started radical reforms. Lower-caste leaders of the time, like Dr. Ambedkar, had complained about the paternalistic attitude of the upper-caste people towards those beneath, so it may also be possible that Ammu's family maybe indulging in this by "letting" the untouchable get a good job. To conclude, the events of The God of Small Things takes place in a Kerala that was well on the way to social reform. 

In both editions, the poem "Frühling" is part of a section titled "Aus den Jahren 1899–1902" ("From the years 1899–1902"); in the collected works, Volker Michels dates the poem to April 1899. It is not entirely clear from the information in these editions whether the poem was part of the volume Gedichte that Hesse published in 1902. Hesse wrote around 1400 poems, 800 of which were printed in 15 collections he published during his lifetime. By the way, Hesse wrote several other poems titled "Frühling", namely in 1907 (first line: "Der laue März und der feuchte April"), another one in 1907 (first line: "Es fahren leise junge Wolken durchs Blaue"), yet another one in May 1907 (first line: "Wieder schreitet er den braunen Pfad"), one in 1909 (first line: "Seit wir, wilde Knabenhorden") and one on 25 March 1915 (first line: "Am Waldrand tränen die Knospen"). So someone who doesn't check the first lines may get the dates mixed up. The first collected edition of Hesse's poems, Gesammelte Dichtungen (in 6 volumes), was published in 1952; since this is several years after the Four Last Songs, this edition can't have been Strauss's source. The only other volume of Hesse's poems from the years 1945–1962 was Stufen, which contains a selection that Hesse made at the request of his publisher. This selection was meant to replace the much bigger volume Die Gedichte from 1924, which had gone out of print. This 1924 edition already contained a section titled "Aus den Jahren 1899–1902" (see above). Hesse also wrote three poems titled "September"; the one that Strauss set to music dates from 23 September 1927. "Beim Schlafengehen", the third of Strauss's Four Last Songs, dates from July 1911. So James McColley Eilers is definitely mistaken when he claims (emphasis added): 

Personally, my father, who would be of a similar age to Estha and Rahel, and is of a similar situation to Velutha, attended the local public school, which was considered one of the best in the district, and an engineering college, and go on to get a decent job. 

Here, it's not used in the first sense, but in the second. Frost is saying that he can't help but admit that there is great relief in being able to put these people out of their misery. However, when he comes to his senses, he considers how he would feel if someone were to offer the same for him ... which is arguably more than what he would offer to those people — a choice. 

Mr Anderson then goes on to examine the eponymous speeches where he feels peripeteia happens in the positive sense. 

What did it mean to do so? Is this a point of medieval Western tradition of hospitality that's being referenced here, or something internal to the Seven Kingdoms that's as yet unexplained? 

So, either the intention to convey a particular meaning is evident in the work, and therefore it already means that, or the work doesn't convey that intention, making it irrelevant. This itself could be a fallacy: Does the author even have intentions? - as James Downey argues: 

The epic poem gradually disappeared after the Middle Ages. Late examples include Ludovico Ariosto's Orlando furioso (1516 – 1532) and Torquato Tasso's La Gerusalemme liberata (1581). By that time, the humanists had started attacking the chivalric romance (which could be in prose or in verse). For example, in English Literature In The Sixteenth Century Excluding Drama (1954), C. S. Lewis writes (p. 29): 

In 1998, Shambhala Publications published a translation of the Tao Te Ching (in pinyin: Daodejing and Dao De Jing) by Ursula Le Guin. The Dao De Jing was written in Classical Chinese, so it takes much more than just "knowing Chinese" to undertake a translation task like this. According to the publisher, Le Guin had studied the Dao De Jing for more than forty years and 

Saint Christopher is or was the patron saint of travellers, but why is this and what made the medal recognisable? There are several legends related to Saint Christopher; one of them is part of the Golden Legend, compiled by Jacobus de Voragine. See especially the following passage: 

In the Inferno in Dante's Divine Comedy, sinners are punished by a process that either resembles or contrast with the major sin they committed. For example, the violent are submerged in a river of boiling blood: true tyrants are fully submerged; those who were less violent aren't completely submerged. Usurers crouch on the sand with heavy bags of money around their necks. Those who cause discord are punished by being cut asunder with a great sword, and the process is repeated when they are healed. Gluttons get attacked by a three-headed dog that tears off and parts of their body. In A Song of Ice and Fire, Bran Stark loves climbing but becomes paralysed after being pushed out of a high window, so he can never climb again. Ned Stark greatly values honour and loyalty but ends up getting executed on a charge to treason. Jaime Lannister self-identifies with his sword-fighting skills; after Locke chops off Jaime's "sword hand", one of Jaime's later comments is that he was that hand. At the Game of Thrones 2017 conference, Matteo Barbagello presented a paper which