Projectile weapons like bows or javelins would be incredibly difficult to use from the back of a flying creature. Not only would you need to calculate for your own speed and the speed of the enemy, you'd also need to account the much higher wind resistance, relative height of the target, and hope you don't turn the wrong way and end up staring right into the Sun. You also have a massive blind spot directly beneath you, and run the risk of accidentally shooting your mount in it's wing if you can't sync up with the flapping motion. Physics wise the creatures you talked about, eagles and pteranodons, would also be almost impossible to saddle like a horse and sit upright on, since their wings connect to the body and there'd be nowhere for your legs to go, and sitting on the neck would throw off it's center of balance. You'd have to sit on your knees to fire a bow properly, and that would reduce aerodynamics. A crossbow might work from a laying position but you'd be limited to shooting forward. If a rider could somehow overcome all this then the combat would involve trying to fly under your opponent and shoot up so they can't return fire. Another option is a light lance. Hold it forward and go for natural swooping strikes to penetrate your opponent or their mount and take them out. This works well for a sitting up or laying down position, and would be significantly easier to train soldiers and mounts to do. There's also no risk in injuring your own animal and falling to your doom. Regardless of which main weapon you pick, the secondary should probably be the net. It's very easy to use. Just fly over the enemy, loosen the net, and drop it on the enemy. If they get snagged in it they'll fall to their deaths, and if not it's not too big of a deal because you can carry several nets without incurring significant encumbrance for your mount. 

Yes, the notion that democracies are inferior is completely wrong Autocracies might be better at a short-term scientific blitz (i.e. you know exactly what you need, and you can concentrate all resources on this task). But that's about it. In the long-ish run (decade+) a democracy will prevail. There are a bunch of reasons: 

Consider a mountain pass. In short, you need a small village located on a major road. Possibly, your village is located near (on the only road leading to) a mountain pass. You mentioned the mountainous location, so it fits geographically, and such location will result in quite a bit of traffic (merchants, travellers) passing through. At the same time, the rough terrain will restrict the settlement from becoming a busy town. You might want this pass to be internal (i.e. in a heartland of the country), and away from any borders, and thus without much political/military value, and otherwise unremarkable. 

Humans did have "weapons" (and in a way still do) - the gorillas (for instance) can defend themselves quite well. With time those "weapons" became less relevant (even counter-effective at times) and gradually declined. Of course, those "weapons" are limited when compared to a carnivore (such as a lion), but that's just nature, carnivores will always be better equipped. In fact, it is believed that the fact we are not carnivores (but omnivores) was highly important to our evolution. While herbivores spend much of their day eating food, and carnivores hunt fast and then are inactive for the rest of the day (one meat meal is enough), omnivores combine the best of two worlds. They do look for food (a challenge) but also have "free" time, and are otherwise far more versatile and flexible. Some evolutionists believe (see the link above) that those factors were crucial for humanity to develop intelligence. 

Making the Humor Funny Others have done a good job explaining why things can be funny, so I'll focus on how to make your non-human humor amusing to the audience. I think the best way to go about it is to find a way to get the audience to laugh at the alien's sense of humor, rather than with. The audience most likely won't get the joke, either due to a lack of understanding of the societal relevance of it or because the joke falls outside of the person's idea of comedy. However, you can still make this scene humorous. Have a human-like character interact with the aliens and have them comically misunderstand the joke, or have them simply not get it and let the aliens poke fun at the human for not understanding what was said. The reverse also works. Drax from Guardians of the Galaxy had no understanding of human figure of speech, but his serious reactions brought about by the misunderstanding was very funny. His own attempts at being humorous, by contrast, would also be funny for the viewer because watching someone fail can also be a form of comedy. Maybe the alien gets annoyed when their attempts at humor are disregarded by their human companions, or when they fail to understand the comedy of the human's jokes. Because of our love of subversion and humor that plays on the discomfort and confusion of others even a character who doesn't understand puns and thinks a metaphor is a type of bird can still be hilarious. 

Anything above 8000 meters is called 'the Death Zone'. People can be there, but only for short periods. Altitude sickness is worst when you sleep - if you go to fall asleep that high, you'll probably die. Mt. Everest can be climbed without supplemental oxygen, but climbers sleep at a lower altitude (starting from around 7500, ascending to the top and then quickly descending back to at least 7500, probably lower). Your mountain isn't technical nor particularly hard to climb. On a good day, an explorer might start from 7500 meters, push to 10km or so, then go back down - possibly way down, lowering the risk. 

Your Empire is a federation/confederation of free democratic ethnic states**. Through the history, there were very few nation states. The majority of the people were ruled by some other ethnicity. For instance, consider the large Europian countries in 1900: one can argue that France is the only fully established nation-state. Germany & Italy are very new nation-states, United just a generation ago. While the Austro-Hungarian Empire, Russia, Ottman Empire, the UK & Spain are multinational (albeit the last two are long-standing and fairly assimilated at this point). Also, notice that there are few democracies on this list. So, your country needs to position itself as a liberator - "we do not conquer lands, we free people!". After the conquest, it should establish democratic, ethnically homogeneous, states with a high degree of autonomy (and influence on the federal government). The notion of a fully independent nation-state is unknown, and thus it will not be seen as a half-measure, but as an extremely positive development. And, if you conquer a nation-state (or a region that is stelled by the dominant ethnicity of the former country) you can always sell "democracy and the rule of the people". 

Advantages at the biological level can help alleviate disadvantages at the societal level. The wolf people could breed faster than humans with the trade off of having a shorter life expectancy. Humans produce a single child at a time while the wolves produce four or five in small litters. While the human population would have a much higher cap due to the superiority of agriculture over hunting, the wolves would be able to bounce back from major population loss much quicker than the humans could. It also means that while their population density is lower, they are able to propagate and spread across a much wider territory faster than humans can. Wolves have fur. It might not seem like much, but fur is what allows other mammals to thrive in the wilderness without need for housing. Humans are extremely vulnerable to the elements, where as the wolf people would be able to survive fairly comfortably in the wilderness even during winter. No need for buildings means their entire society is mobile, which makes hunting them down much more difficult. Humans have incredible stamina, but we sacrifice sprinting speed for it. The wolves, while not as fast as real life wolves due to sacrificing speed for bipedalism and tool use, could well be faster sprinters than humans. This would potentially make them better at hit and run tactics, rushing in to wound enemies before quickly escaping into the woods faster than humans can keep up. Wolves could also have superior tracking senses. Better smell, stronger eyes, and better hearing. All things they'd need as a hunting species, and all of which provides a strong logistical advantage when maneuvering troops. If the wolves are nocturnal they gain a significant advantage over their human adversaries at night without losing much during the day. Humans deal with nocturnal predators by shutting our doors at night, but a nocturnal predator that can open doors or windows becomes much more dangerous. All these traits lend the wolves well toward a specific type of society. Raiding Culture The main thing holding the wolves back is the inefficiency of their food production, but there is one significant food source available that grows it's own crops and has a tendency to all congregate in single areas that can be spotted from miles away. Humans. Humans make a fine food source for the wolves. So do the humans' cattle and other livestock, and it's extremely difficult to defend farming communities from a dedicated band of fast moving, nocturnal predators that can plan as well as a human can. Furthermore, it would take significant effort to hunt down the small nomadic tribes through thick forests in an attempt to find bandits that don't necessarily need to set up camp. Humans will develop technology faster, but the wolves can steal it. Wolves shouldn't have an issue stealing more advanced gear and figuring out how it works, as well as how to make their own. The human population will find it hard to expand into new territories because wolves are already present there before the humans can set up their infrastructure. The human population has a harder time growing out of control because they have intelligent natural predators keeping them from expanding, and any battle that occurs that the humans don't win 5 to 1 will end in a long term advantage for the wolves because they rebound faster. So long as the wolves avoid large scale, open field battles they should be able to survive by preying on the fringes of human society and making it all but impossible to expand deeply into their own territory with constant raiding. This lifestyle can be further enhanced with good ships and/or horses to improve mobility even further. 

On one hand, you can't burn them all, on the other hand, collaboration is a risky path - eventually, someone will betray you. You need a third way: Become God. Find a relatively large and strong tribe, preferably one that you did not burn recently. Strat helping them from time to time, convince them that you are the one and only god, creator of the world and humankind. It shouldn't be particularly complicated - you are obviously different, stronger and smarter then they are. With your help, this tribe will conquer many others, and their religion (i.e. you as a god) will spread even further. They will even give you food and other gifts. Eventually, they won't need your assistance, but your godly nature will likely remain unchallenged for centuries - you are a living proof that God exists. Moreover, the believers are quite unlikely to betray you, and will even defend you at any cost. Hopefully, if a time comes and unbelievers form a majority, the ethics will change and you will become a national symbol\heritage, or at least an equal member of society. 

A Pair of Snipers With knowledge of the two second cooldown period a pair of crossbowmen can situate themselves in good sniping positions. First crossbowman fires a bolt, which gets frozen in time. The Dark Lord, savvy to the nature of crossbow bolts and knowing they take longer than two seconds to reload, steps aside and causes the bolt to miss. But the second crossbowman, with a keen eye on the look out for the Dark Lord suddenly teleporting out of the way from his perspective, readies his own shot. The second the Dark Lord does his time skip a second shot is fired and hits it's mark before the two second period is up. It doesn't have to be crossbows of course, but the idea is the same. Two assassins. One to trigger the spell and another waiting to take the Dark Lord out once the spell ends. Trap Him Wait until the Dark Lord is smelly and in need of a nice, warm bath. Once he has submerged himself use a magical assassin to transmute his bath water into iron. It shouldn't trigger the spell because he is in no immediate danger, but it will completely immobilize him and leave him at your mercy. You can then make him your prisoner and use him as a nice yard decoration. Certainly quite the conversational piece at your next party. Just as before you don't need to use this exact plan. Simply find a way to capture him that won't cause any harm to his person and the spell shouldn't trigger. Once he's captured you can execute him at your leisure. After all, if he stops time but can't move he'll just be trapped in place until he dies of dehydration. 

Somewhat like early-modern fortifications, with some adjustments. In our world, by the time avaiation appeared, melee combat was long gone. But your world has both, and that creates a problem: The best defense vs melee is a high wall, but the best defense against an attack from the air is a bunker. The two are quite the opposite, and it is hard to build a fortification that combines both. The closest thing from out world will be early-modern fortifications, that had to defend from both cannons and partly-melee armies. So, assuming that in your world aviation and artillery are at least somewhat effective, I’d imagine the perfect fort looking like this: 

Very little, if any. Such battery requires thin wires. The metallurgy of pre-Columbian America was significantly underdeveloped even by contemporary standards. Without a huge leap forward, they wouldn't even be able to produce one. Even without this constrain, their technological level at the time was insufficient for any use of electricity other then the most sporadic ones (like lighting fire). Even Europe/East Asia (which were centuries ahead from a technological perspective) wouldn't probably affected much. In reality electricity itself isn't as interesting as the things it powers. 

Ice skates. Or more specifically, bladed boots. In aerial combat it would allow you to slash at enemies below you without compromising your flight stance while leaving your hands open to carry some sort of buckler to defend against the attacks from others. With your arms free you could double the foot blades up with heavy darts to use as a thrown projectile. Your opponents have a big frame due to their wings, and you just need to damage the wings to make them plummet, so killing power isn't necessary. You can also drop the darts from overhead before engaging with the blades. Combat would involve a lot of drops and swoops as the two fighters attempt to get on top of and behind their opponent to slash at the unarmored wings (placing armor on the wings might make them too heavy to fly). Because the blades are on your legs your wings won't be easily reached by your opponent to retaliate without them doing an awkward flip or carrying a spear that might bump into their flapping wings and make them fall, and you can answer the spear by dropping a dart on their head. It might make landing more difficult, but not impossible. You'd just have to remove them after the battle is over similar to taking off your armor. 

As a side note, I feel that your case for autocracies is somewhat biased - you seem to look at examples like Nazi Germany or 40's-50's USSR. Those are young autocracies and are extremely unrepresentative of autocracies as a whole. Take a look at established, older, autocracies like 80's USSR or better yet, absolute monarchies in Europe (France before the revolution). Thing is, with time, autocracies tend to get worse - the population is less enthusiastic about the ideology, the leaders grow distant and corrupt, the critical political & economical thinking disappears (no opposition). On the other hand, democracies get better - people gain belief in the system, stability creates democratic values (which target corruption), the opposition derives change and progress... 

This Alba Iulia, Romania. A 1735 baroque fortress. As you can see, the walls are designed to defend from both cannons and standing armies. In your world, the buildings in the middle will probably be even lower, and include a cellar\bunker, to provide better defense against aviation.