Well, a word like 'bank' that is ambiguous between 'financial institution' and 'side of a river' will often be disambiguated by context. So, the first sense is talked about near words like 'money', while the second sense is talked about near words like 'water'. An SMT model will pick up on this regularity, and when it sees something like "money....bank", it'll translate "bank" into "banco" (if we're translating into Spanish). 

I don't know of empirical diachronic data off the top of my head, but some people have investigated the evolution of color lexicons with simulations. See these papers: Loreto, Vittorio; Mukherjee, Animesh; Tria, Francesca On the origin of the hierarchy of color names (Article) PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (PNAS), 2012. Baronchelli, Andrea; Gong, Tao; Puglisi, Andrea; Loreto, Vittorio Modeling the emergence of universality in color naming patterns (Article) PROCEEDINGS OF THE NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (PNAS), 107 pp. 2403–2407, 2010. EDIT: Commenter below is right that I should say a little something about these papers. I'm just pulling key points from their abstracts: Loreto et al: 

This is essentially the lexical protolanguage hypothesis of language evolution, favored by Derek Bickerton, Ray Jackendoff, and others. You can find a nice discussion of this in Tecumseh Fitch's 2010 book The Evolution of Language. 

This is a difficult question. Semantic bleaching is a common process in grammaticalization, which it appears 'of' has undergone. But why certain changes are initiated (here, why one word undergoes a change and not another) is the so-called "actuation problem". It's an ongoing question of historical linguistics. Sorry I don't have a better answer or something more specific to say about 'of'. 

Your wish is my command: Hills, T. T., Maouene, M., Maouene, J., Sheya, A. & Smith, L. B. (2009) Categorical Structure among shared features in networks of early-learned nouns. Cognition, 112(3), 381-396. Hills, T., Maouene, M., Maouene, J. & Sheya, A., Smith L.B (2009) "Longitudinal Analysis of Early Semantic Networks: Preferential Attachment or Preferential Acquisition?" Psychological Science, 20(6), 729-739. Steyvers, M., & Tenenbaum, J. B. (2005). The large-scale structure of semantic networks: statistical analyses and a model of semantic growth. Cognitive Science, 29(1), 41–78. doi:10.1207/s15516709cog2901_3 Vitevitch, M. S., & Goldstein, R. (2014). Keywords in the mental lexicon. Journal of Memory and Language, 73, 131–147. doi:10.1016/j.jml.2014.03.005 

Nope. A thumbs up is a symbol, but is not a word or a properly linguistic unit. Consider also Rene Magritte's famous painting "The Treachery of Images". This painting makes salient the fact that a drawing of a pipe is not a pipe itself, but rather symbolic of the pipe. $URL$ 

A diphthong is one sound segment created by a smooth transition between two targets within the same syllable. As a phonetic definition, this makes no theoretical claims about which phoneme(s) represent the articulation in the mind of the speaker. This statement is a bit vague, but is, as far as I can tell, true in some situations; see below. The number and character of underlying phonemes that a diphthong corresponds to varies by language and which researcher you talk to. Different kinds of evidence for a particular interpretation of field data are evaluated differently by each specialists, and mainstream phonology has yet to produce a theoretical framework that gives one clear answer to this question for each language. In English, for example, the diphthong [e͡ɪ] could be represented underlyingly as either the single phoneme /e͡ɪ/ or a sequence of two phonemes /ej/, where /j/ is the same segment that appears in /jɛs/ "yes". The latter analysis is tempting, since it would reduce the size of the phonemic inventory (all possible underlying segments) of English, but would have to explain the phonetic differences between the /j/ in "yes" and the /j/ in "made", which is much more like an [ɪ]. Of course, the addition of a transformation rule would be standard practice when faced with this situation, but we are then left with the basic question of which is simpler (and thus, more likely to be adopted as a strategy by native speakers): fewer phonemes, or fewer rules? 

No, there is no specific term for how well an onomatopoeic word approximates the sound it refers to, because there is no way to measure how alike two sounds are. Remember that nearly every utterance made by the human vocal apparatus is a combination of several articulators sounding in unison (or phased relative to each other), making their output even more difficult to compare to any given sound in nature. 

According to Twitter's new Terms of Service (see paragraph (I)(4)(A)), you may not export any data retrieved from Twitter, whether through its public API or by scraping. So you will probably never find a readily-available corpus of tweets - and if you do, it's in violation. Twitter has already taken a lot of flak for essentially shutting down academic research into a whole new frontier of linguistic data. However, if you'd like to publish your results after analysis, you may provide a database of tweet IDs and usernames, which other researchers can cross-reference with the official Twitter archive. I'd recommend the Streaming API to start aggregating data. 

So I was researching IPA a bit and tried to map the sounds of my native language to it. What I encountered was that our typical "i" is between the "i" and "y" on this chart on Wikipedia: $URL$ or the official one: $URL$ Why is there no symbol for that sound in IPA? 

The weekdays in my native language (Bavarian) are very inconsistent and two of them apparently came to us from the Goths, who in turn have adopted them from Greek. The two days in question are "Iada" (Day of Ares; Tuesday) and "Bfinsda" (Fifth Day; Thursday). What bothers me especially about that is why one comes from the old Greek system (using god names) and one from the new system (using numbers). Quite a while ago I read that the Greeks (among others) adopted the number system because they did not want their weekday names to originate from heathen gods. Sadly I cannot find the source anymore. So my basic question is: Why did we adopt these two different styles? I am aware that this question may not have a factual answer, so here some alternative questions that could shed some light on it: 

I tried to specify what the name of the vowel "I" is in my dialect and it seems that the IPA table doesn't have it on it. Reading up on the definitions I believe that it should be called "near-close front unrounded vowel", since it is much like the "close front unrounded vowel, but the tongue and mouth are slightly more relaxed. I would say it is directly between the "near-close front unrounded vowel" and the "close-mid front unrounded vowel". It can be heard in this video: Bairisch für Einsteiger ("Des is...") So am I right to call it "near-close front unrounded vowel" or am I missing something? 

Please not that the Bavarian names vary. I took my local variant. More can be found here: www.bairische-sprache.at 

Obviously language changes, which is the reason why numbers have many different names in languages. Comparing the German "einundzwanzig" (one-and-twenty) with the English "twenty one" shows what I mean. My question is about changes that happened naturally and without influence of another language. I got curious in this because, if math is offered in a public school, then a child gets to know the numbers by the name of their language. It gets ingrained into them and thus it doesn't make sense for an adult to suddenly change the word for a number and even less sense for a school to do the same. Are there any language which has undergone such a change since the introduction of public schools? If there are indeed such languages, how could they undergo such a change? 

Yes, Basque (in the batua dialect) has ala "or (exclusive)" and edo "or (inclusive)", although ala can only be used in questions. You may also be interested in the WALS maps of languages with an Inclusive/Exclusive Distinction in Independent Pronouns and an Inclusive/Exclusive Distinction in Verbal Inflection. 

Yes, the same answer that was provided in the previous question applies here. Several Slavic languages have an animate/inanimate distinction in addition to masculine/feminine/neuter. In some languages, only certain combinations are permissible - for example, Russian only distinguishes between animate and inanimate in the masculine. It's also been hypothesized that Proto-Indo-European possessed only an animacy distinction, with masculine/feminine developing out of the animate class of nouns and the inanimates becoming neuter. This idea appears to originate from Meillet (1926), and was further developed by Gamkrelidze and Ivanov (1973, 1984). Gamkrelidze, T.V. & Ivanov, V.V. (1973). "Sprachtypologie und die Rekonstruktion der gemeinindogermanischen Verschlüsse". Phonetica 27. 150-156. Gamkrelidze, T.V. & Ivanov, V.V. (1984). "Indoevropejskij jazyk i indoevropejcy". Rekonstrukcija i istoriko-tipologicheskij analiz prajazyka i protokul'tury. Tbilisi: IzdatePstvo Tbilisskogo Universiteta Meillet, A. (1926). Linguistique Historique et Linguistique Generale. Honore Champion, Paris. 

My copy of A Course in Phonetics isn't on me at the moment, but if you're open to using software, I'd recommend Praat for its automatic formant tracking feature. 

This seems like a weak case. I'm sure there's a much more thorough rebuttal in the literature, but I'll give at least a few contrary remarks. The second point, that some words in the two languages seem to have some sounds in common, is the most frequent unscientific argument presented in linguistics circles for the existence of a language family. The problem is that between any two sufficiently large sets of data (language vocabularies have thousands of items), there will nearly always be a couple dozen pairs of words that can be extracted that are "similar enough" to be cognates. But that isn't how sound change works - to demonstrate shared ancestry, you must reconstruct words of the common ancestor language, and give a series of regular sound changes that output words in the daughter languages - Grimm's law is a model example of this. The late Basque linguist Larry Trask gave a quite readable defense against the ceaseless proposals attempting to connect Basque, a language isolate, with nearly every other language family, in "Origin and Relatives of the Basque Language" (1995), which I highly recommend for its applicability to this case. I also fail to see how a Proto-Semitic influence would have induced PIE to replace *[k] and *[t] with *[x] and *[θ] when both languages had *[k] and *[t]. Furthermore, PS doesn't even have an *[f] sound, so PIE could not have borrowed it. (You gave *[h], instead of *[x], as the reflex of PIE *[k] - this was a later development in English). Proto-Indo-European had only two tenses, present and past, on verbs in the imperfective aspect. Tense on other verbs was unmarked. The rich tense systems of its descendants are modern innovations. "Ablaut" refers to a morphological alternation already present in PIE - you're thinking of Germanic umlaut, a process which is uncontroversially understood as the product of fronting a stem vowel before a suffix containing [i] (the suffix is later dropped). A substrate influence is not needed to explain this. That being said, you're right that the loss of complexity in the case marking system and the large number of words unique to Proto-Germanic may indicate a pre-IE linguistic substrate. Unfortunately, barring a revolutionary discovery of a new trove of data, we will most likely never know.