Sources: p 289, Principles of Microeconomics (7 Ed, 2014) by N G Mankiw p 259, Modern Principles of Economics (2 ed, 2011) by Tyler Cowen, Alex Tabarrok 

Foreword: I ask NOT about the whole question; so I quote only the following part of the answer. Source: p 153, Question 7c, Principles of Microeconomics, 7 Ed, 2014, by NG Mankiw = Chapter 7, Question 6c, Principles of Microeconomics, 4 Ed, 2008, by NG Mankiw 

Please explain the last sentence (that I bolded). I don't understand the significance of the 10% and −4%. The foregoing discusses NEGATIVE interest rates, the maximum of which must be 0%. So why bound the interest rate above, with a POSITIVE number (10%)? 

As you have pointed out: where it comes from is very important. As to the Japanese situation it is quiet different from the US position from example. In fact most of the Japanese debt is owned by Japanese people (90% of the current debt). More specifically the BoJ plays a big role as a buyer, and puts pressure on Japanese yield, which makes it cheaper for the government to issue bonds ! Another interesting point that is usually left by anlysts: Japan is the biggest creditor in the world. The country holds a net amount of about 3 trillion USD (367 trillion yen) of financial assets through the world, which makes Japan the first creditor worldwide (before China !). An interesting further reading which gives other information on the Japanese debt under stress tests of the IMF (P.40): $URL$ You also might want to read this paper of Rogoff and Reinhart called "Growth in a time of debt": $URL$ . It was really criticized but is a good first glimpse... Afterwards you might want to go a little bit deeper into the debt sustainability analysis of the IMF... Edit 

On p 311, Mankiw discusses the deadweight loss (hereafter DWL) of a monopoly, which 2 above concerns. So what does 1 mean? It appears to contradict 2. DWL reduces the total market's surplus, and so the size of the economic pie. 

What have I misunderstood about 1? If male pensioners die earlier, then their pensions would be shorter, and the principal would generate less interest and fewer payments. So why ? 

I doubt 1 and 2 that feels too absolutely certain. (They're also restated, but rephrased, on pp 683 and 705.) Why must 1 and 2 be true? Abbreviate Prior Money as PM, i.e. consumers' money held 'in their pockets and bank accounts' before the price rise. Suppose that higher prices $\implies$ more money needed for each typical transaction. But even facing a higher price level, consumers may already possess enough PM to transact, and so needn't more money. Moreover, even with enough PM for their regular purchases, the price rise may cause consumers to spend less. Then money demand would DEcrease. 

Interesting question. Buying goods seems to directly increases output of those goods, while buying stocks doesn't seem to. It makes sense. Some key issues to notice: 

There are typically two ways to go about estimating causal relationships in the data: by using exogenous variation in the "right-hand-side" variable, or by using structural estimation. Unless there's an experiment or a quasi-experiment of some sort, the technique economist's apply is instrumental variable (IV) estimation. The idea is that to find the causal impact of x on y in a situation in which x is partly determined by y itself or by a third variable that also affects y, is to find a source of variation that only has a direct effect on x. Machine learning techniques are not typically used to estimate causal relationships. Instead, they are often used for forecasting. Mixing the two: machine learning and causal inference is a focus of current research, but apparently there are no solid, off-the-shelf methods to use. Intuitively, the issue is that in the example above, you will need all of x to produce the best forecast of y, but you want only the exogenous par of x to get a sense of the causal relationship between x and y. 

Because let's say that a firm makes even 1$ profit ... Then another firm can come in a sell the product for only 0.99cts profit ! And so one until the equilibrium is the marginal cost of a product ! 

I agree with @BBKing, just to put it here as an answer: if we go back to your two definitions you can find quiet easily some counter examples. Let's take a firm, which uses a machine as capital. Let's assume also that this machine can only be used by one man at a time. Do you think this machine is a non-excludable / non-rival good ? 

From the graph, I see that perfectly elastic supply $\iff$ a flat supply curve $\iff$ producer surplus := Amount received by sellers $-$ Cost to sellers $\qquad = 0$. But please help me dig deeper than the graph, which I already understand and so ask NOT about. Intuitively, why is the above true? I seek only intuition; no maths arguments or formal proofs please. 

1. How does excessive consumption in local institutions cause a $\color{darkred} { \text { downward trend in taxation } }$? Excessive consumption ought to be boost tax revenue? 2. The last sentence seems to contradict the anti-growth ideology. Please clarify? I am guessing that the anti-growth ideologues want to avoid $\color{green} { \text { greater fiscal expenditure } }$; so why do they reject a growth (or overgrowth) in consumption? 

I was wondering if anyone had an idea about the first author to have mathematically computed an isoquant or at least the first occurrence of a drawn isoquant ? My best guess would be F. Edgeworth in Mathematical Psychics: An Essay on the Application of Mathematics to the Moral Sciences (1881) but I really doubt it ! 

You have to differenciate the debt that is already existing from the one that is going to be issued: whenever the US Treasury issue a bond lets say a 10% coupon 10yrs... for a 100USD. It's still going to pay 10USD to the holders during the 10yrs. When you see the yield going up or down it's usually on the secondary market. I say usually because sometimes the government issues bond with a floating rate which can be impacted by a rate increase. As for the new debt that is going to be issued you are right to say that this going to be more costly ! 

A cynic would attribute the disparity (and the failures to gentrify) to indifference or inattention, (or worse) disdaining neglect or ignoring, by the politicians and rich of the poor in the poor areas. I exemplify with cities whose disparities I have witnessed, followed by links to the maps overlaying location with income, but I exclude downtown areas which always appear rich: New York: (Lower) Manhattan vs. The Bronx and Brooklyn (e.g. Bedford-Stuyvesant, Bushwick) <Google search: 1, 2> London (Boroughs): Hammersmith & Fulham, Kensington & Chelsea, Westminster vs. Hackney, Tower Hamlets, and the southern boroughs like Lewisham, Croydon. <Google search: 3, 4, 5> Toronto: Midtown (along Yonge St. subway line, like Lawrence Park) vs. Jane & Finch, Rexdale <Google search: 6> Vancouver: West & North Vancouver, West Side, South Vancouver vs. Downtown East Side, Surrey <Google search: the Vancouver Sun has many maps.> 

One of the original statements of this kind were Kaldor's Stylized Facts on growth, Kaldor's Facts, the most important of which are that: 

A) You are right! Its not necessarily "borrowing". People say that only as way of speaking. You could sell your foreign exchange reserves, or sell other foreign assets, or sell local assets. B) The first logic of calling it borrowing is that typically, that's what happens, a country's governments or its corporations will indeed borrow from foreign investors. C) The other logic of calling it borrowing is that typically the foreign investors don't want any asset within the CA deficit country, so they buy local assets expecting to sell them in exchange for dollars later on. In that sense, even the sale of local firm's equity, for example, looks a little bit like borrowing, because the foreign investor will sell it for dollars when he gets a chance. 

1. Are the bolded clauses true absolutely? To wit, capital loss is identically (and NOT just near) 0? 2. Why are the bolded true? 

I know that Mankiw's book is for first-timers to microeconomics, but 1 appears to oversimplify the subject of Sunk Costs. Is 2 correct? And does 2 refute 1? I do understand 2's subtlety: 2 means that Sunk Costs should motivate you to try to determine the reasons for the past decision, which may or may NOT justify resuming a past action; 2 does not mean that high Sunk Costs oblige you to resume a past action thoughtlessly and always. 

Very interesting question, I'll try to summarize some aspects and I probably won't be exhaustive ! Venezuela has long been a country relying on oil (95% of their exports). Certain experts have estimated that Venezuela holds just shy of 25% of worldwide oil reserves, but the oil extracted in Venezuela is very heavy and hard to refine and then sell to other countries, which makes it more expensive than oil coming for example from Saudi Arabia. When prices boomed, the former President Hugo Chávez, who died in 2013, used oil exports to quadruple the foreign debt. He also led a some nationalisations. The main factor for Venezuela's current crisis is therefore the counter-shock on oil prices which lowered exports. This quote comes from an FT article