(credit: $URL$ This is simply a summary and not an exhaustive step-by-step. I skipped many things that should be done as part of any proper patient assessment and treatment. Any first-time dislocations should evac because of possible complications. If it is not a first time then do a proper assessment and determine whether it's needed based on information from the patient. Again I can not emphasize enough that this is not a substitute for proper training. It's highly possible for the mechanism of injury (MOI) that caused the dislocation to have cause other injuries that need treatment, some of which could be life threatening. That's where the proper assessment is key. Sources: My own training through both NOLS WMI and ARC is the primary resource I pulled from. The links referenced outline the the same basic procedure with slight variations since my training is intended for a backcountry environment with no immediate access to primary medical care. 

The following references from a few major rope manufacturers cover rope care thoroughly. Please see the bottom of this answer for a summary. From Bluewater Ropes: 

As seen in the photos of the repair kits below, the wick is the fabric-like material which is made of fiberglass. It doesn't burn but does eventually degrade when exposed to the high heat of a stove. A simple replacement wick could potentially be fashioned out of nearly any fiberglass insulation such as that used in home construction. Furnace filters are often made of fiberglass filter media. It is also often used (usually bonded with other materials) as thermal insulation in automobiles to isolate the engine and exhaust heat from the cabin of the vehicle. If used from one of these type of sources, make sure the fiberglass itself is free of any other combustible materials or glues. These are simply a few applications where fiberglass insulation is used as it has become quite a ubiquitous material. Another possible source is the wick from a lantern. Even with different fuel types, most lanterns I've ever seen use fiberglass for the wick. However there are so many lantern types and brands out there that you'd need to research the exact type for yourself. But the main thing is to make sure that it's made of fiberglass or other fire-retardant material. This page has some good information on wick material. It mentions Kevlar and Nomex as some viable, though more costly alternatives to fiberglass. Cotton is mentioned but isn't a good material for this application as it will burn up and soot up the stove. Optimus Nova Repair Kit: 

Merino wool is self-cleaning. Carry as many pairs you need to keep your feet always dry as fungi thrives in moist and dark places. Dry your socks in direct sunlight. Do not wash them too often as wool contains lanolin (aka. wool wax) which has anti-fungal and antibacterial properties that protect the sheep's skin from infection. Of course you need to wash them sometimes but following each wash, lanolize the wool in a tub containing lanolin. Some people skip this step if using a wool wash that contains lanolin. If you feel 100% merino won't cut it, try to find some 100% merino socks with silver-based treatment. Then add the lanolin treatment and you'll have socks you don't want to part from. 

Geological map can help you to estimate in beforehand the ease of travel, potential of springs and type of vegetation. Highly useful in my book. 

For smaller trips I always take my 85L backpack, for longer trips I always take my 110L backpack. If there's extra room, I use the compression straps to make the backpack slimmer. But here's what generally affects the size required. 

The higher the temperature range is, the more you need different kinds of clothes. For example, our next trip is expected to stay in between -10째C (14째F) and 30째C (86째F) which requires both warm and cool clothing. The more days you spend out there, the more you need room for you food. For example, our next trip is about 2 weeks so I need a lot of food. So, I'm definitely going with the 110L one. 

There are 2 most common poisons in the plant world. Learn to detect them and ditch any plant you suspect containing them. Hydrogen cyanide Smells and tastes like sweet and bitter almonds or peach. Oxalic acid Tastes like rhubarb or wood sorrel. Avoid 

Without having to carry any extra items and thus extra weight, this is what you can do to dry your boots, Gore-tex or otherwise, in the field, in above-freezing temperatures: 

I've been a hammock backpacker for about three and a half years now. I love it. There's not a better way to backpack in the summer in my opinion. But despite numerous advantages to hammocking, there are some downsides (tradeoffs): 

For information on specific sections I recommend a guidebook for the particular section being hiked. There are several available. The Appalachian Trail Conservancy offers these guidebooks which are quite detailed, and may be found in many outdoors stores near the AT as well as online. Another kind with a digital version is offered here from the ALDHA. Downloads are free for ALDHA members only. It seems you'll have to pay for pretty much any type of guide, but it's worth it usually. While the primary purpose of these guidebooks is mostly to educate about the trail and the area, you could likely infer specific etiquette from that information if needed. And finally, go to a local (not a chain) outfitter/outdoors store in the area you're visiting. They will likely have good information and be up-to-date on the local trails. Also many regions have specific hiking clubs and associations that maintain websites with a good amount of information and people to contact. 

I would try these options below in order, if you haven't already done so. Repair Contact the manufacturer or a retailer that sells that brand. There is a good chance they might fix them under warranty. I've had many good experiences with getting older equipment that you think might not be covered taken care of, but each brand varies on how far they'll go. It sometimes helps to go through a retailer to get warranty service. The wide-mouth capped bladder may be compatible with a standard Nalgene-style lid, so if that's the one that only has a bad cap then try looking into that. If it is the bladder with the narrow-mouth cap, then you can again try directly contacting the manufacturer or search for compatible caps by trial and error. I don't currently have enough detail to see style it is. For the ripped bladder your options for self-repair are slim. Any glue or adhesive used would need to be safe for use with potable water and also remain flexible once cured. The cost of such adhesive would money better spent by putting it towards buying a new bladder. If the rip is due to age, then the bladder will most likely rip again in another spot soon after repairing, so it really isn't worth trying to fix it at all. Reuse If all repair options are exhausted, you could use the outer insulating sleeve. Remove the old inner bladder if possible along with any extraneous parts such as caps or hose nibs, and simply slide in a new bladder with its own cap and hose coming out through a hole in the sleeve. You may have to cut open the old bladder to accomplish this and customize the old bladder sleeve to fit the new one. If the outer sleeve has backpack straps, you could modify it be a very small daypack or cycling pack. Again this would involve some cutting and probably some sewing to achieve the end result. Recycle In any case, I would think about what is the most practical option. If you can come to no other conclusions, you can recycle them and so at least the raw material can be used again. 

Do NOT try this at home. But if your life depends on it and you can't find anything you know is edible, you can follow these instructions. Again, you may die by doing this but if the odds are you'll die anyway, you can play roulette with your life as safely as you can. 

Your feet will stay warm You retain the feel for the surface you're walking on Weights practically nothing Protects your feet from sharp rocks 

Since birds use water to clean up their feathers, it makes sense to keep the water clean at all times. But nothing to support the claims that birds prefer running water or that they'd locate water by sound. If you keep the bath full and clean at all times, it'll attract birds and they quickly learn it's the cleanest and most dependable source in the neighborhood. Once you have birds in your yard, they probably make enough sounds to attract others. Making the potential water sound a negligible factor. 

Suggestion Keep hiking with the friend of yours. It may be that you were not chosen as the host due to him. Reasoning There are active and passive host finding strategies when it comes to ticks. While active ticks run to you, the passive ones will cling on vegetation and wait for contact. In theory it may sound plausible that for the passive ones body hair would provide more to grab on but there's no scientific evidence on whether human body hair is easier for a tick to grab on or if the tick would find it easier to grab onto the skin directly. For active species, body hair probably won't make any difference. A more significant factor is the body odour 

In peak season (late spring/summer) most trail etiquette on the AT relates to thru-hikers, but not all of it, and generally is about the same on the whole trail. Thru-hikers are of course those who are continuously hiking the entirety of the Appalachian Trail, north or southbound. This information is essentially entirely based on my experience on the AT and hiking in general for many years. In short, simply be polite and respect others and the wilderness in which you find yourself. Leave things better than you find them. In more detail, general etiquette is the following: 

I'm getting ready to make a pretty big move west and I'll basically be driving across the whole US. One state I'll pass through is New Mexico, and I'm looking at heading through the mountains there. What are some hikes I could potentially do while driving through the state? Here are some criteria: 

I've been climbing off and on since I was a teenager, but one thing I've never done much of is taping my hands. As I gained more experience, it's value is now apparent. What are some good techniques for taping fingers, hands, and wrists for different types of climbing, and how does each tape job achieve it's purpose? What type of tape is recommended or not recommended? For example: I'm having intermittent wrist pain. How can I supportively tape it, yet not restrict it too much, and also not completely cover the palm. Answers may relate to injury prevention or support, or just general protection of the fingers, hands, or wrist. Please be as descriptive as possible and pictures and/or videos are preferred in any explanations. Personal experience on effectiveness and tips with these tape jobs is also welcome and preferred.