In his autobiography, Malcolm X often mentions carrying numerous cameras around, including a film movie camera. There are also plenty of photos showing him with a camera. However neither his official autobiography nor any websites I could turn up contain any of the photos made by him. Considering the potential historical importance of the photos he took, where are they stored now? Did they disappear after his death? 

I was reading Malcolm X's autobiography and what surprised in the book was the fact that he was able to visit Saudi Arabia and numerous African states without obtaining a visa in advance. Nowadays this would be largely impossible as Saudi Arabia requires most visitors to apply for a visa in advance, especially for a visit to Mecca. When did the visa system for regulating entry and exit become widespread as we know it today? E.g. until what year could an Indian/Afgani/Iranian citizen freely enter most countries in the world without pre-applying for visas? 

It is often claimed that Europe must accept refugees because the Middle East and Africa has accepted European refugees during World War 2. But are there any precise statistics to show how many refugees were accepted by sovereign countries in those regions? Obviously it has to exclude territories that were European colonies at the time since those didn't really have a say in external matters. 

The debts were clearly large enough to deter some countries from backing renewed sanctions as detailed below: 

While it's not common for a country to default on it's sovereign debt, it does happen. Did the new Iraqi government default on it's debts? Given the unique nature of it's creation, did the US assume any of the those debts? Or was there some other mechanism that allowed for their repayment? 

My reading of this is that if there were standardized weights and measures they may have varied over time and place. Second, it appears that the current archaeological record is far from complete and as a result it's hard to say when/who standardized the weights and measures. I could be wrong but I haven't been able to find any sources that indicate a fixed time/person who standardized the weights and measures. Additionally, this paper on Vitruvious might be of interest, as it appears that Vitruvious' book De Architectura is one of the Roman texts densest in measurements. 

My curiosity for this question came from Nigel Biggar's book In Defense of War where he explores whether or not containment (in the form of sanctions or otherwise) would have been effective in the long run: 

Ever since the inception of the Soviet Union, the central government continued to maintain the existence of national republics such as the Uzbek Soviet Socialist Republic. What was the reason behind that decision? Why didn't they attempt to completely assimilate the local peoples? 

For example, how did Marco Polo manage to communicate with the Chinese and the Mongolians during his travels? Did he learn Chinese? Did he manage to find a Chinese translator somehow? Was there a sort of a chain of translators from Marco Polo's language to whatever language the local people spoke? 

The British Empire was extremely successful in the 19th century, to the point where for a few decades they were the largest empire in human history. But for some reason London never really managed to squash national resistance within its own lands - territories like Scotland eventually received broad autonomy and Ireland separated in 1918. Why wasn't the UK able to maintain order and completely supress nationalistic fever in the British Isles? 

Consider this: before WWII, France controlled a vast number of colonies around the globe. They have since lost most of their territory, however their official name remains as French Republic and they're considered to be the same state as they were before. Now let's take the situation in the USSR: in 1991 the 12 Soviet Republics split up and formed independent states, with Russia becoming the successor state to the USSR. Does this mean that the USSR merely changed it's name and lost a few territories? Or did the USSR completely cease to exist, while brand new states were created in it's territory? I'm looking for a legal/historical answer, not a subjective one. 

While many cars today are phasing out the cigarette lighter (if they do have them they no longer include the lighter, just the socket), I was curious which car or car manufacturer was the first to include a cigarette lighter. The wiki doesn't contain very much information and the inventor's German wiki never says that he invented the cigarette lighter. I found an interesting conversation on reddit but unfortunately it doesn't answer my question. Anyone have any ideas? 

There are a couple books that I found that offer at least a partial explanation but more importantly offer some important caveats. William Linn Westermann's book gives the following caution: 

He goes on for another two pages but I think you get the point. This is as callous as it sounds but people viewed slaves as hetereogenous goods and thus they differed in price due geographic location, place of origin, looks, etc. 

He illustrates this point by giving the prices of slaves in different locations in the same time period and prices in subsequent years: 

Yann Le Bohec gives the following figures that might put things into perspective (it should be noted that figures like this and the ones above are often hotely contested among historians. Often there is only one or two documants that have survived and historians have to make extrapolations from these sources; this is not say that any one source is "wrong" but you might get different answers from different authors):