Isnt the desire for giving up the desires, a desire? Yes, it is. A wholesome one that ends when you reach the 'park': 

1. What are the ten courses of action & their significance? They are unwholesome and wholesome behaviors that lead people to live unhappily or happily now & in the future. Unwholesome Course Bodily Conduct 1. Killing & harming living beings. 2. Taking what is not given. 3. Sexual misconduct. Verbal Conduct 4. Lying. 5. Slandering. 6. Harsh talk. 7. Useless Idle chattering. Mental Conduct 8. Covetous thinking. 9. Hateful thinking. 10. Seeing distortedly with wrong view. Wholesome Course Bodily Conduct 1. Abandoning killing & harming living beings. 2. Abandoning taking what is not given. 3. Abandoning sexual misconduct. Verbal Conduct 4. Abandoning lying. 5. Abandoning slandering. 6. Abandoning harsh talk. 7. Abandoning useless idle chattering. Mental Conduct 8. Abandoning covetous thinking. 9. Abandoning hateful thinking. 10. Seeing undistortedly with right view. (You can find details about them in the references provided below.) 2. What are their references? You can find them in many discourses throughout the Pāḷi Canon, specially in the 10th book of the Numerical Discourses (Aṅguttara Nikāya). Two examples are: AN 10.176, Cunda (Cunda-suttaṃ) & MN 41, Brahmans of Sala (Sāleyyaka-suttaṃ). 

Lastly, here is an interesting short-text on "Peaceful and Wrathful Forms" and a link to a another question-site where a being has asked about wrathful deities. You might find some answers here too. Hope this helps. This was a very good question. I didn't know about this and have now learned a lot researching the topic. 

From a Theravada Buddhist perspective one does not have to be a vegetarian since the first precept is not broken if one is buying meat from the e.g. the supermarket or if one is passively revieving food/meat e.g. at family dinners etc. The following conditions must all be met in order for the 1st precept to be broken: 

Consciousness a not a thing. Its a knowing. The misunderstanding arises because we are forced to talk about such phenomena using the limitations of language, e.g. nouns. Consciousness exists as a taker of objects. Its the basic awareness of an object. Its divided into 6 types by way of its bases; (a) eye consciousness cognizes visual objects, light (b) ear consciousness cognizes sound waves (c) nose consciousness cognizes smell (d) tongue consciousness cognizes taste (e) body consciousness cognizes tangible sensations (f) mind consciousness cognizes mental objects such as ideas, concepts,images, abstract notions etc. The above 6-fold classification is mentioned by Ven. Bhikkhu Bodhi in his short text on "The Five Aggregates Of Clinging". 

(Disclaimer: Bear in mind that this answer is structured for the purpose of providing references. This structure is entirely my own way of putting the answer together. I'd emphasize taking the references on their -own terms- without giving too much importance to this structure.) To find a skillful teacher, one could approach the matter prudently by investigating the teacher for the following points: 

Technically, it will depend on how one translates it. Either as killing\destroying or injuring\attacking. However, if one takes into account the entire Buddha's teaching it is evident, at least for me, that it means injuring\attacking, not only killing\destroying. So I would say, yes, assault is against the first precept. However, one should always keep in mind that intention is key. One can injure a baby, for example, by extracting from his throat a swallowed toy. In such cases, I wouldn't consider it as against the first precept. 

Question falls under the Four Imponderables, namely the first Acinteyya, i.e. the range of powers of a Buddha: 

The question might fall under the Four Imponderables, namely the first acinteyya, i.e. the range of powers a Buddha develops: 

Theravada Buddhist Answer. Vipassana instructions following the tradition of the late Ven. Mahasi Sayadaw. The body is conditioned and therefore "dukkha". There will arise pain sooner or later in one form or the other. That is its nature. Pain is just pain. There is nothing inherently bad about it. It's simply an experience. In the Sallatha Sutta (SN 36.6) the Buddha compared pain and our reaction to the pain as being shot by 2 arrows. The first arrow is the pain we cannot avoid, e.g. physical pain from doing sitting meditation. The second arrow is our aversion (attachment) to the pain. This arrow we can avoid by being mindful and taking the pain as an object of meditation. In Vipassana meditation pain should be observed with mindfulness in the present moment. If aversion to the pain arises, then the aversion should be taken as an object. This allows us to see the object clearly and thereby change the reactionary behavior of the untrained mind into a behavior based on impartiality and acceptance of what is ocurring at the sense doors. 

How can you use Q&A to gain good Karma and also aid to realize liberation? By reflecting on a few principles when asking & answering: Asking & Answering Notice in what category does the question lie in: 

(Bear in mind that I have no knowledge of Dzogchen, this is only what I found through search engines.) What is Thögal? 

So it appears these two meanings can be derived from the word. I think some light can be shed by seeing the word used in another context in which there can only be one meaning due to the nature of it's context (simile): 

Where can I read original Jātaka tales online? At Sacred Texts there are 6 translated volumes that contain all of them. 

The excerpt given below provides some references but in the pages following this one, the meditation subjects are explained and many more references are given. With this in mind, I suggest going to the link provided at the end of the excerpt and read these pages to extract the additional references. 

Buddhism is about having in-body experiences not out-of-body experiences. Psychedelics distort one's experience/perspective of reality and Buddhism is about experiencing reality for what it really is. Thus psychedelic drugs are the opposite of the dharma path and not used by monks or nuns. 

I would say that our goal is to free ourselves from the notions of "life" and "non-life", from "before" and "after". "We are scared because of our notions of birth and death, increasing and decreasing, being and non-­‐being. Nirvana means extinction of all notions and ideas. If we can become free from these notions we can touch the peace of our true nature. There are eight basic concepts that serve to fuel our fear. They are the notions of birth and death, coming and going, the same and different, being and non-­‐being. These notions keep us from being happy. The teaching given to counteract these notions is called "the eight no's," which are no birth, no death, no coming, no going, not the same, not different, no being, no non-­‐being." No Death, No Fear: Comforting Wisdom for Life by Thich Nhat Hanh 2003 pg 51 – 53 

You have to practice to become a Buddha in order to reach your goal and not just a silent Buddha but a fully enlightened Buddha. A fully enlightened Buddha can know everything and anything he directs his mind at, e.g. The Four Imponderables or the black hole phenomena. 

Stress can be broken up into mental and physical phenomena such as thoughts, emotions, muscle tension, pain etc. They are just impersonal phenomena arising and ceasing on their own accord. Anxiety is a variation of the 4th Hindrance of restlessness and worry (uddhacca-kukkucca). The hindrances are barriers that block one from progressing on the Path, unless one practices to understand and overcome them. In Vipassana meditation one treats all objects the same. No object is more or less important than the previous or next object. Just note the phenomena a couple of times and return attention to the abdomen (Burmese Method).