Finally, how you wax depends somewhat on experience. The basic rules for selecting wax go out the window when you go skiing on my home trail, as it's a long uphill climb into a Rocky Mountain basin (1500-2000' elevation change), so the temperature at the top can be 10 degrees cooler than at the start of the trail. If you wax for the air temperature at the start, you aren't going to get half way up the trail until you start cursing yourself because of all the snow you're collecting on the base of your skis, which eventually turns to ice, and then you have to stop, scrape and reapply your wax again. So the trick is to wax colder, then just struggle for the first bit with slippery skis until you gain a bit of elevation. 

Use your imagination. If you can't see a small point, imagine one. When I'm sighting up a target, I don't aim for the bulls-eye, I aim for the centre of the bulls-eye. Here's your solid surface: 

I'm a +5 in the ape index, (6'2" tall, with almost a 6'7" wingspan) Buying nice fitting jackets has never been a luxury I could enjoy. My solution for a while was to buy jackets made for ice climbing, because they are designed to have your arms extended over your head, which made a perfect fit for me for normal use. My problem now is that I'm getting into ice climbing, and my sleeves just aren't long enough when I'm hanging from my tools. I fit most Medium Tall stuff pretty well, the problem is that not many brands make their nice technical gear in a Medium Tall, just the general, more affordable stuff, and they usually end up being a bit long in the body. What brands of technical wear are out there that have extra long sleeves? 

Your height is less important than your weight. When fitting for modern XC skis, the best thing to do is actually stand on the skis and test their flex. You want skis that will make contact with the ground in the kick zone while you're standing on one foot, but suspend the kick zone while distributing your weight through both feet. This provides you with maximum glide length. Factors such as how much extra weight you'll typically be carrying need to be factored as well, if you're going to be skiing with a backpack for example, then you need to consider a ski with a stronger flex. When they size you up at the shop, they actually have you stand on the skis and they slide a leaf gauge tool under the skis to check how much of the kick zone is suspended. You can do the same test with a sheet of paper at home on a hard floor, but not typicallybefore you buy a pair. If you want to order online, go to a shop first, find out what your size is, then order that size online. 

After the rope is constructed, the only way to get the core out without damaging the sheath is to pull it out as you've been doing. I have had some success pulling the kern out of longer lengths of rope by pulling out one strand of the kern at a time until there is sufficient room to pull all the remaining strands at once. The core can't easily be pulled when the rope is stretched; as the weave will tighten around the core. The most effective way to pull the core is to push the weave back, exposing the core, then pulling on one or two of the strands. It's important to do this with the rope straight and without any twists in it, or else the strands of the core will get bunched up on each other. 

You know that bleeding lung feeling you get after going out for a long run on a freezing cold night? The one where you can taste blood in the back of your jaw, and begin to wheeze and cough as fluids start forming in your lungs? Whatever the circumstances may be, if you end up "freezing" your lungs from too much activity and breathing too hard in the frozen air, what's the best way to treat them and aid recovery? 

It's all about grouping. When you're setting the sights on your bow, where you hit a target is less important than what the size of your grouping is while you're practice shooting. If you're missing the centre, but your grouping is tight, then you at least know that your shot is consistent, and that it's your sights which need to be adjusted, and not the way you shoot. Shooting at cups is a way to practice tight groupings. Using a paper cup is an easy way to prolong the life of your targets too. Some archery targets come with a replaceable centre piece, which tends to get shot up more because everyone aims for the bulls-eye. Modern archery practice targets now have multiple bulls-eyes on them, so you don't shoot up only one part of your target. Cups are an easy way to change the location of your bulls-eye. You could just draw a circle on your target, but with a cup there's no arguing whether or not you hit inside the circle. It adds another layer of enjoyment to target shooting as well, like shooting at a different kind of target, which happens to be on a target. It can be compared to silhouette shooting, it's something different to try and hit. 

The Halbmastwurfsicherung (half clove hitch) or "Munter Hitch" was one of those accidental discoveries. Someone back in the day tied a clove hitch wrong and discovered that the resulting knot had some potential application in belaying and descending. Munters are however, the WORST discovery ever made for your ropes, and should only be used in emergency situations, or as a backup. I only use munter hitches as a backup belay when I'm teaching kids how to rappel, and I never let the knot get tight unless I need to stop a fall. Never use a munter hitch for rappelling if you have some other descending device to use instead. The only time I let people rappel on munters is from a rappel tower, when I'm teaching them knots and letting them gain some experience, I've never used one outside a controlled environment, and never plan to. The best way to get the twist out of your rope after rappelling on a munter, is to let the rope hang free. I never let my rope touch the ground when rappelling off my platform, that way the rope can twist in open air while you descend, and doesn't get all knotted up at the bottom, then when you get to the ground and untie from the rope, it mostly twists back. I try to alternate my descents on the rope by tying the munter both left and right handed, so it isn't twisting the rope the same way every time. If you have two people descending on a rope, you could have one go down on a right-handed munter, and the second on a left-handed munter, this may leave you with less of a knot at the bottom. 

At least one of everything, an extra pair of undies, and as many socks as you want. You're going out into the backcountry, not staying at a Hilton. If you're going to be out on a long trip, bring a bag and some soap to wash your clothes if they get too soiled. The last thing you want on a long trip is more weight on your back. Bringing multiple pairs of anything (except undies and socks) is not necessary. The only time I pack more than one outfit is during the winter, when the necessity to get out of wet clothes and into something dry could mean the difference between life and death. So at least one of everything, and at most two of everything. 

I was thinking about this question while rappelling over an overhang this evening with my little girl and payed attention to exactly what I do: Plant your feet on the edge of the overhang, keep your legs straight, and let the rope through your descender until your body has cleared the roof. Think of the wall as flat ground, you want your body as perpendicular to the wall as you can, just make sure you don't lose control and go straight upside-down. Lower yourself to a point where you feel you can easily plant your feet on the wall under the overhang, or let yourself free-hang with out kissing the rock. You should be able to let out enough rope with your feet still planted on the overhang so when you cut your feet and go under it, your head safely clears the rock. 

Spade Hook That is very simply called an eyeless hook or a spade hook. Spade hooks are old school, but there are enough people that still say they're preferable to eyed hooks, in fly fishing at least, you tie both eyed and spade hooks basically the same. Some people pass the line almost arbitrarily through the eye on an eyed hook, but it's easier to tie them without going through the eye. 

I think that if your feet are going to harden, then they're going to harden. Chances are you just don't get out as often as you used to. I used to have massive calluses on my heels, but I simply don't put the same milage on my feet as I used to. Now I use hikers wool, it's amazing. I have massive heel spurs so heel lift has always been a problem for me. But since being introduced to hikers wool I haven't had a single blister. My wife and I call it sheep fluff, all you do is put a pinch of fluff into your sock wherever you tend to get blisters and the fibers work into the material and somehow create a frictionless layer. It's better than moleskin, easier to use, unoticeable while you hike, and you can reuse it. 

They aren't super soft, you're never going to get the control you want on the down hill with super soft boots alpine boots, you'd be better off learning how to telemark if that's what you want, some styles of modern telemark backcountry boots are essentially hiking boots that you can clip into your 75mm telemark ski bindings. Light Telemark Boots: 

It looks unconventional, but I think it's genius, best part is you can store all your ammo in it and it packs away super small! Watch this video: $URL$ You can even get a wisker cap for it and shoot arrows too: 

The nearest boulder was very close to a perfect cube with a flat top and steep vertical sides all around. The best way off was to either down climb to a lower ledge to jump off, or down climb the ladder, which was tossed over the top of the boulder and anchored to the ground or another person on the other side. 

You can't. All you can do is throughly inspect yourself or have someone check you over to see if they can find any. But there's nothing you can do to ensure there aren't anymore around, you can only hope that you've found them all on your person. When I first got married, my wife and I went for a hike along the river close to my home. We hung out on the banks in the grass for a bit, but soon discovered the patch of grass we picked was FULL of ticks. I picked 17 off of my wife, we thought we got them all, but when we got home I found a couple more crawling in her hair while we were on the couch watching a movie. A couple days later, we found another tick on my wife, and we hadn't even even been in the bush since the first tick incident. We couldn't figure out where the stray tick came from until we got in our truck again and found another one on the seat inside. We apparently didn't do a good enough job checking each other over the first time, and carried some ticks into the truck where a couple disembarked and hung out in the cab until we got back in again. Thorough checks are the only way you can verify you're tick free. it's not enough to just check on the outside of your clothes, ticks will climb inside you clothes as well, and you need to do these checks before you go anywhere the ticks can jump off and hide; like in your tent, your sleeping bag, your vehicle, your home, etc. 

One thing you can do if there isn't too much friction in your rope, is lock off the short side of the rope, and continue to descend on the long side. With the short end locked off, you can lower yourself on the other end as if you have yourself on top-rope. Do this until the short end is touching the ground, then you can continue to descend as normal. This method only works effectively if you're descending off of a rap ring, it's not guaranteed to work in all situations.