If you by "effective training" mean run faster, then I would concentrate on interval training based on Jack Daniels work (also on Wikipedia). You can find a page that will help you with all the relevant numbers here. E.g. if you run 7:15 per mile, then you should consider training intervals where you run 400m in 1:55 then jog 1 minutes and repeat this 4-6 times. That should improve your running speed pretty drastically over 4-6 weeks. EDIT: For the last couple of months I have also use 10-20-30 two times a week with really good results - I have cut 10-15 seconds on my km-time! The concept is very easy and can be used by everybody - and contrary to Jack Daniels method, you don't need to look up target speeds before you start... And it is just two times 30 minutes per week. After which I'm soaked... From the article from the University of Copenhagen: 

Apart from the advice from @friz also consider changing your "sitting" habits. E.g. get a table that allows you to stand up for a couple of hours each day, and use a Energetics Stability Ball (or similar) for the rest of the day. For the first couple of weeks, you will likely be very tired in your back, but it will very likely help. And never use you laptop in the sofa or anywhere else where you're not able to sit up strait! That is a death sin and one of the major reasons even very young people are beginning to get back trouble... 

I assume you are doing this to avoid strain on your wrists rather than to toughen up your hands for bare-knuckle boxing? One option is to use push up "bars" or "handles" instead of your knuckles. This would have the additional benefit of getting you another 4" or so off the floor and increasing your possible range of motion. You can probably get a pair for $20 or so (cheaper than a manicure). Alternatively, you could try holding something in each hand which is roughly the size of a bar, e.g., a magic marker, to get your nails out of your palm. Gloves are another option. 

Congratulations on your accomplishments so far! I agree with @Alex that you probably need a professional (or pseudo-professional) to take the next step. It sounds like you have the basics covered. Going further will take tweaking routines or regimens you probably don't even know you have. If I would add one thing is that you might want to consult either your physician or a nutritionist. Losing weight is largely about diet. It sounds like your current diet is fairly lean. If you make any additional changes, you want to make sure you don't undershoot on important nutrients and compromise your health. 

From your comments, I'd say that I am a more experienced gym bunny than you, having been in and around the weights for about 12 years. Over the last couple of years, I found my waist increasing and my general muscle definition declining. This was due to slightly overeating regularly and losing the regularity of my training. About two months ago, I decided to change the decline and seek to regain my formerly fit physique. To lose a little weight, sure. But most importantly to reduce my bodyfat level. Check out the website I have been updating to track my progress: www.simple-steps.co.uk I'm on Day 40 of 90 at the moment - though I lag the site by about 5 days to allow me to arrange the photos and collate my data. That said... let me try to answer the question more directly. I think you've made great physical gains in size, based on the limited info you gave us. You are training at a high regularity. But you're not happy with the shape of your physique - and that's the most important thing as it's YOUR body. So I would say that you should introduce some cardio - HIIT is most efficient for fat loss. More importantly though, I'd be militant with your nutrition tracking for a month and see how much you really are eating, and of what. This is my motivation. I don't eat 100% clean, not even 80% clean, but at least everything that goes in my mouth is a conscious decision. That's why you have a 33-inch waist, not just from eggs and weight lifting. Nutrition. Add some cardio. Keep lifting heavy. It's worth losing a little muscle mass to lose a lot of fat. And the new V shape might actually make you look MORE muscular. Best of luck. 

I am wondering how effectively a stationary bicycle can be used at building lower-body strength vis-a-vis weight-based exercises like squats and lunges. For instance, if I put a stationary bicycle on a resistance setting of "15" (just a number, I understand that scales on different brands and models are different), I can't pedal it faster than 40 or 45 rpms or for longer than 3 or 4 minutes. When I am done, I can barely stand. Can I substitute this routine for a traditional set of squats? 

There is almost nothing better you can do for yourself than to quit drinking soda. A number of recent studies have shown that the rise of obesity in less-developed countries is almost entirely due to soda! Just the availability of soda, without any other changes to the diet, is enough to significantly tip the epidemiology of a population. Anyways, if you cannot bring yourself to forgo soda completely, you should at the very least try to have it side-by-side with high-fiber and/or high-protein food that will buffer the absorption of sugar into your bloodstream. If you want a can of soda, have an apple or a turkey sandwich at the same time. Other than the taste, the thing you are addicted to is the instant blood sugar spike you are getting from unbuffered high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS). And if you can't or don't want to cut out the sugar in soda, try to cut out the sugar elsewhere. Good luck! 

One suggestion could be to swap to another form of cardio following the treadmill. I do 30 minutes on a rowing machine at the start of my workout and 30 minutes on the treadmill at the end of the session. If you were to alternate between two machines, doing your 15-20 minutes on each, would that be enough to stave off the boredom? Also, I listen to podcasts or music which stops me clock-watching too much. The time passes quickly listening to spoken word podcasts, more slowly with music I find. 

Check out this site: $URL$ A weightlifting doctor tried different types of Intermittent Fasting, using himself as a guinea pig. No better evidence in my humble opinion. FYI, I tried variations myself. Settled on not eating on Saturdays each week. Lost weight initially then gained it back over a total 8 week period. Eating better generally is much more effective, though I would suggest missing one day per month of eating. Humans are animals after all and it's good to remind the body of real hunger. A worthwhile experiment may be: Eat intentionally clean, have a (reasonable) cheat day once per week and fast for one day per month. I can see that being a long-term strategy. 

An exercise regimen that targets muscle-building (i.e., anaerobic activity, intense muscle breakdown and rebuild, and a heavy diet) is fundamentally different than one that targets weight-loss (i.e., aerobic activity, lighter muscle breakdown and rebuild, and a lighter diet). I can see why taking a week off from muscle-building will help the former—you are giving your muscles additional time to rebuild. But a weight-loss routine doesn't emphasize muscle rebuild—so that particular benefit is reduced. At the same time, you could lose a tiny bit of aerobic conditioning that you had built up. However, if you need a mental break from exercise—and who doesn't?—by all means take a week off and come back re-charged and re-dedicated. Just take it easy on the cupcakes! 

You also have the 132 lbs. of your body available to you although it is easier to use it to exercise some muscles (e.g., chest and triceps via push ups) than others. Given that you are a beginner, you can start with a program that uses body weight plus the small weights you have. By the time you max that resource out, other options could become available or you can jury rig something like @Stormtroopr suggested.