While Indian traditions have certainly influenced Gandhi very much, one mustn't neglect the large influence that Western (broadly construed) thought had on him. For instance, he was very influenced by Tolstoy. I am quoting the review of a new book that compares Gandhi to the Stoics: 

This guy was appointed consul in the Eastern Roman Empire in 491 when he was 10 (ten) years old. As far as I know this was a rather irregular proceeding - I don't recall other cases where children were appointed consuls (the only thing that comes to mind is a certain horse but he didn't get the job in the end). Presumably this was done because the boy belonged to an important family of the military aristocracy and the emperor wanted to show a token of appreciation for their support. But the question still remains - why in this particular way? It has a very un-Roman feel about it. It would have made more sense to make the boy's father consul, wouldn't it? But perhaps the emperor didn't want to raise this man too high so he gave the plum title to his son instead? And of course, I looked up the date - 491. It's just when Zeno died and Anastasius succedded him, so there is a good chance the weird proceedings had something to do with the change of regime - but how exactly? Or, perhaps I am wrong, and it was a Late Roman custom after all to appoint children to the position of consul? 

Actually, you can generate any number of examples by looking for cases when a prince or a young king had an experienced general as second-in-command, as some sort of chaperon. Two examples that spring to mind: Alexander and Parmenio. Don Juan of Austria and Doria. 

Pompey never attained the supreme power that Caesar (briefly, before he was murdered, did). Although he at times (such as when he was fighting the pirates or when he was consul sine collegio in the late 50s BCE) had great imperium, he was always either reluctant or unable to arrogate to himself the fount of this power. Therefore, he was always either a member of a power-sharing arrangement or the champion of the conservative/reactionary party. So he can't be really counted as a ruler. Having said that, I must say that some scholars do espouse the view that you suggested - that Pompey can be viewed as the first princeps. Not being a professional, I don't have a ready reference for that right now, but some googling led me to a corroboration of this statement (p. 240 there): 

The other answers pointed out very correctly that Algiers was legally considered a part of France. What must be added is that there was a very large body of French colonists in Algiers, which was not the case with the other French possessions, whatever their legal status. 

Source: Frank Egleston Robbins, The Cost to Athens of Her Second Empire, Classical Philology, Vol. 13, No. 4 (Oct., 1918), pp. 361-388. Newer authors (relying, as far as I can tell from a very cursory examination, upon basically the same literary sources as Robbins and his authorities) seem to stay in the same ballpark. An attic talent was equal to 6000 drachmas and since wiki tells us that, "According to wage rates from 377 BC, a talent was the value of nine man-years of skilled work.", this tallies quite well with the answer given by @Pieter Geerkens. 

(2) George, Duke of Clarence almost fits - but maybe not quite. He sure switched sides twice but he was not given a military command upon re-defection - perhaps because there was no war going on. Had there been one, I presume he would have commanded part of Edward's army. (3) Vladimir Gil (Rodionov). He was a lieutenant colonel in the Red Army. Early in the German invasion of the Soviet Union he was captured by the Wehrmacht and joined the German side. He quickly rose in prominence in the German service and was able to create his own SS "eastern legion"-type unit, which was eventually known as the 1-я русская национальная бригада СС «Дружина» (1st Russian National SS Brigade Druzhina). Then, in August 1943, after some clandestine negotiation with the partisans he had been fighting so far, Gil defected back to the Soviet side with his entire unit (killing the German officers attached to it in the process), which was now promptly renamed as «1-я Антифашистская партизанская бригада» (1st Antifascist Partisan Brigade). Gil remained in command, retained his rank, and was even awarded the Order of the Red Banner. He died of wounds sustained in action in 1944, so we cannot tell how his fate would have played out post-war but I doubt he would have been able to weasel his way out of a court-martial and possible execution. As long as the war lasted, though, he was useful to the Soviet command. 

Another ship I was able to find in wiki is USS Mount Vernon. Finally, a master's thesis by Major Robert Dziak of the Czech army tells us that: 

This guy, Count Montgaillard, seems to have switched allegiances as often as he used to breath - he was an aristocrat and en emigre who then served the Republic, the Bourbon princes, again the Diectory, Napoleon, and again the Bourbons. (And to be sure he was not a tecnhocrat but rather a political adviser, a profession that does not usually enable one to change employers in such a way). However, all things come to an end ans wikipedia informs us that: 

Is my memory correct? If yes, can you supply a reference? If yes, is it known when this rule was rescinded? 

As is well-known, Mussolini was very fond of ancient Rome. I am wondering whether he got the idea for the March on Rome from ancient examples. Indeed, marching on Rome to drive home a political point was a custom with a venerable tradition, among whose adherents we find such diverse men as Sulla, Marius, Caesar, and Alaric. So, do we know whether (from memoirs or propaganda literature) whether Mussolini was consciously and explicitly emulating the aforesaid ancient examples? 

While couched in mild language, their view is compatible with the standard thesis. As for the dates, 1643 is the year of the battle of Rocroi which not only wiped out a veteran Spanish army but also Spain's enduring reputation for having the finest military tradition in Europe. 1659 is the year of the Peace of the Pyrenees which showed up Spain's great weakness relative to its chief opponent of the time, France. Now to the possible causes. First of all, your teacher had two good points. I'll try to expound on them and also on what I think are other possible causes of Spanish decline. One must bear in mind, however, that no one cause can be singled out as the cardinal reason for decline; rather, it was a combination, often mutually reinforcing, of these causes that brought Spain down. The list below is my own and I take full responsibility for its errors and misconceptions: 

So, I looked up Chlorus and apparently he started calling himself Flavius when he was appointed Caesar in 293 (wiki again): 

The wiki entry on Mahmud Barzanji is very poorly written and very far from neutral. I turned to the Russian entry which is at least well-written and contains many interesting facts - some of them perhaps too interesting to be true, I am afraid. As there are no sources cited at all in the Russian entry it's hard to tell truth from fiction. One striking fact mentioned there is that when Barzanji proclaimed himself King for the second time in 1922 he was supposedly recognized by the British and even received a congratulatory telegram sent in the name of the British Monarch. This seems very suspicious to me, both on logical grounds and because there is no hint of anything like this in an academic paper which details the stormy relations between Barzanji and the British during 1922-1924. So, what is the truth of the matter? Did the British really recognize Barzanji as King? UPDT: Just bumping this... 

The emperor Frederick II was, among other things, a very learned man who wrote a highly regarded book on falconry. Presumably, he would have had a sizeable library. Is there some mention of his library in the sources? And, going further, do we have some idea of what happened to it after his death?