What does exist however is change. Can you travel in change? No, because you yourself are change, part of change. See it as a guitar - string that has been plucked and resonates or an echo chamber. But with the only difference that the echo or sound does not get muted but stays the same power, but only changes frequency and the echo chamber changing shape as a response to the frequency. Could you go back in time then to a place where there was a certain mixture of frequencies and a certain shape of the echo chamber? Theoretically yes. All you'd need was a substantially good sound-system and some means of measuring the actual and desired sound and shape characteristics inside the echo chamber without having the sound system and yourself inside the chamber to begin with, otherwise it probably would not be the same, unless you could cloak yourself or make yourself and the system acoustically transparent. The final thing you'd need would be some computer or device that could compute the necessary output frequency mixtures (properly positioned in dimensional space, no less), to get to where you want to be. Of course this needs to be transparent or non existent as well. Really simple when you think about it. Just use some non existing equipment and change history. :P 

Is there a way to objectively determine which is better? Kill injure person and damage a car and a tree or kill several people. After reading this story about people preferring to save 10 people, but only if it is not themselves in the car. $URL$ Essentially it makes sense to me to not want to sacrifice yourself by default. What if there are no pedestrians but the car runs into the tree or other car anyway? I know this situation is very hypothetical and I guess that's the problem with this question. Hypothetically it makes sense to favor the many over the few. But not in every situation. Is there a simple logical way to deduce this though? 

All of the above happen regularly. For example, it is common for a new study to provide a highly qualified statement in statistical terms which is then taken up in the media as a "possible" effect which is then repeated as a cause-and-effect which then goes a million directions using the above fallacies and will live on as a misunderstanding for decades. Then when the next study finds overlapping statistical data, the opposite gets said and confusion begins. There are also the legitimate "reversals" of scientific consensus which is merely an update to our understanding of things. People who don't understand the most basic concepts of science don't understand the concept of updating understanding and can only see things in the black and white dichotomy of true or false (hey, there's another one - false dichotomy). 

Holes (as the word is commonly understood) are almost always filled with something else, so a filled hole can, in at least some cases, still be considered a hole. The most obvious example is a hole dug in the ground. It is filled to the brim with air (which are particles with mass just the same as filling it with sand would be). In many cases, it is also filled with electromagnetic waves of all sorts (light, magnetic field of the earth, UV light, infrared, microwaves, radio waves, etc.) Common knowledge and understanding that not all matter and energy that fills volume can be seen should suffice for documentation. 

The only way something can be wrong is if to dosn't work this way. Example: You are doing this wrong. It's not going to work this way. But if it works and produces results then it cannot be wrong. It may be suboptimal but not wrong. 

You can validate Induction by creating a (climate) model and run it. The only problem I see with induction is that the person doing the induction is part of the thing it induces. So this is like the observer effect. You are affecting the system as you are measuring or inducing it. That's why we are supposed to live in the now. For that is what only exists. The past and the future and the now we are talking about while we are talking about don't really exist. While you talk about the now it has already passed. You cannot talk about the now. You can only be in the now. Or in other words you are the now. Now that means now is you and you is now. You would induce yourself which would mean you are no longer you and in the now but creating a simulation of yourself which is born out of you but not identical with you. So my summary is: Any induction is by definition talking about a smaller group of relations than the relations it tries to describe because it is a new relation itself. Thus it is always imperfect. 

Argument from Silence decribes making conclusions from the absence of evidence and the Association Fallacy may be the closest thing to describing why people write off science in general when they hear a reversal of consensus. More generally, it sounds like your frustration is primarily causes by people's ignorance which is not something you will find easy to fix or describe to them. In flipping through Wikipedia's list of informal fallacies, I have found the following helpful in describing the plethora of ways people misunderstand, misinterpret, and miscommunicate scientific ideas: 

The most approachable resource I've found is: $URL$ It's not 100% rigorously correct in all cases, but it provides a simple place to start learning. For more detail, you can always read through wikipedia which is maintained well and is well referenced for more detail: $URL$ 

The CPT Symmetry theory in quantum mechanics might answer your question. It states that if you flip the charge of every particle (C), invert the parity (P) of the universe (reflect the physical coordinates of space (x,y,z) becomes (-x,-y,-z)), and reverse time (T), then the new universe would be indistinguishable from the current universe. 

There are three reasons for the capital punishment: punishment, deterrence, and removal from society. Punishment is questionable. Is it worse to be in prison for 60 years or to die quickly? Is this a martyr case where the offender will actually see death as a reward? For most people, it is a punishment, but it's case-by-case and definitely not certain. Deterrence is commonly cited throughout history and even today. The argument is that loss of life is highly motivating. Without experiencing it, many would think that loss of life is worse than life in prison (maybe those that have experience prison would not agree). If you are in prison, there is always a chance you might be let out, so there is hope in that. Even in a life term case, most societies have pathways for release (executive pardon, for example). Removal from society is really unique for capital punishment. Life in prison requires that the victimized society pay to sustain the murderer, certain people still have to interact with that person, and there is a possibility for release or escape. If he gets out, he may re-offend. If you look at modern society, the cost of keeping someone in prison for 60 years is small relative to all the other things we spend money on, so it doesn't seem like a big negative. However, this question is not relative to a particular culture, so you could imagine a small village that would be greatly burdened by providing room and board to a non-working person. From the perspective of the other people, they want him permanently removed from them and their options are kill him or keep him around, pay for him, and interact with him. So, there's the ethical complication of the survivor's mental and emotional health (which could go either way). Note that there are practical issues to consider outside of the question such as wrongful convictions (OP assumed guilt) and lengthy appeals process that may actually cost more than indefinite incarceration (in some times and places). 

All I can say to this: All is fair in love. All is fair in business. All is fair in war. All is fair in politics. Love = War = Business. War = Violence --> Business = Violence There are economic and price wars. There are hostile take overs. There are different levels of violence. Economic, psychological, physical. Just because there are no bombs being thrown does not mean that there are no weapons of financial mass desctruction.. 

Pars pro toto essentially means a part stands for the whole wikipedia Grounded logic essentially means tangible or connected. wikipedia grounded terms Part for a whole = the same as god or made up of parts of god, or Grounded in God following his logic or thinking or based on him, depended on him. 

Gift "Middle English: from Old Norse gipt; related to give." So a "Gift" is something that you have giveth. Or you gave to some person, without receiving anything directly in return. Since the purpose of Gifts are usually to strengthen social bonds there is no "free" gift. Depending on society the receiver will be obligated towards the giver/gifter in some way. If only subconsciously. 

I guess you first need to ask for the justification for a justification. Why do you need one in the first place? I'd stipulate because you have to justify yourself in front of other people. And then it becomes a matter of if you do that then I can do that also. 

I will make a brief argument against pirating as a form of demo. Business owners make business plans based on the expectation that certain rules will be followed. Prices reflect the amount that consummers are willing to pay for the item, but they also cover things like low manufacturing yields, high risk experimental products, and losses from shoplifters and pirates. In order for a business to be sucessful they must get this balance right. The only reason they offer a product or service is because they are expecting a certain return on their investment. If they thought they could not get enough return they would repurpose that capital into something else. A person could argue that the return on investment is unreasonable and greedy and therefore not unethical to dip a tiny bit out of it, but what is reasonable is relative to the provider. Some are non-profit, some make small margins, and some make hefty margins, but they all are going into it expecting what they are planning to get. When that balance falls away from the expectation they may increase prices or stop offering the product. Demos are available because the business has made a decision that providing the opportunity to test a product will ultimately bring the expected returns. Products that do not offer a demo are restricting that testing because they feel it will not bring the expected returns. That is why one-time-use products do not offer demos (at least not full demos) and products with a long life are more likely to offer demos. Some people will say that they are bringing value to the company if they pirate once and then become a long-time customer (and thus are doing it ethically). That may be true for the individual in some cases, but in other cases they will try and never buy. All of these points have been general enough to be independent of legal issues. If the law were suddenly changed to allow for pirating then companies would adjust their business model based on the expected relationship between company and consumer, and they would continue under the new model. There is an implied understanding between companies and potential consumers (consumers as a group) that both sides only have a relationship because of the expected norms of the environment. Pirating is unethical because it violates that understanding. If that doesn't sway you, you can also consider that as pirating becomes more commonplace companies will compensate by increasing the cost of their products. This is fine for the pirates but unethically harms a large group of other people. 

Is the soul not eternal? Can the soul change? If it does then yes it moves. If it does not then it is static and motion-less. 

Ethics is just a formalization of the tit for that model. An eye for an eye. If it was to be objective it would need to have objective information about the situation to be judged. 

According to karma you get what you give. Karma = cause and action (Wikipedia) Now if you gain/retain you somehow get more than you give. So there is an imbalance between the receiving and the giving part. Eventually the gap/difference between the giving potential and the actual giving could become to great. But what you get must not be of the same form as what you give. So that means you can offset your gain in one currency by providing or giving in another currency. For example leadership. So you could be a leader that gives leadership and receives sustenance and power in return. If you keep on giving good leadership then the universe or karma or people or your subconscious will help you in getting compensated accordingly. So instead of asking, can you gain without loosing I'd ask. Can you loose without gaining? The answer is of course yes. Every possession is a burden. If you loose a possession like an amulet or watch or anything ornamentally. You have lost an item but gained space to replace the item with another one. In essence you have regained freedom. 

The multiverse theory explains your question directly. It states that the universe was created when "nothing", which is in an unstable state, sprang into equal amounts of matter and anti-matter, energy and anti-energy. When this happened, the sum of these is still equal to "nothing", so it is allowed by physics (or at least not disallowed by our current understanding of physics). This happens an infinite amount of times and thus there are an infinite number of universes - the multiverse. Stephen Hawking, world renowned theoretical physicist, authored "A Brief History of Time" and other books which explain these concepts in detail in a way that non-physicists can understand (i.e. lots of words, few numbers and equations). 

I'll take an out-of-the-box view of this question to hopefully provide an interesting perspective to the question. There is actually a great example of this in modern life here on Earth in the theory of a multiverse (as opposed to a single universe). The question, "How did the universe begin?" has been one justification of a divine being for all of recorded history. It didn't start itself, and everything has a beginning, so there must be someone outside of the universe (God) who started it in motion. Modern physics cannot disprove this theory. Even the Big Bang has the question "what caused it?" "God did it" is an untestable explanation that is enough to confirm belief for many people. However, this is a problem for people who do not believe in a divine being. People have thought up a wide range of ideas to this solution, but few hold up under investigation. Enter the multiverse. The multiverse is a relatively recent astrophysics theory that states that there are an infinite number of universes in every possible state (only some are capable of sustaining life and each can have different laws of physics). Each spontaneously pops into existence by creating equal amounts of matter and anti-matter and energy and anti-energy. Each universe is totally separate from the others, so no one in one can observe the others. The multiverse theory (and the existence of universes that cannot support life and are not observed - only believed in) allows some people to see meaning in existence by providing an alternate hypothesis to the existence of a divine being. So in this case, a universe as described above does have "meaning."