There should be a serial number on the bike somewhere, not sure where Jamis stamped there's but it is generally on the bottom bracket when the crank is. On a total guess i would say mid 90s but again that is a guess based on looking at similar models and comparing decals and head badges. The 80's models had a metal head badge rather than these which looks to be a decal. The top and bottom tube decals were also more understated on the 80's models. Pricing we don't really do on this website but i can tell you they were never super expensive bikes. If you can properly date it and find out what components are original it may fetch more. You may be able to contact Jamis with the serial number and find out more about it. Jamis does however still make the Boss and the brand new models carry an MSRP of $399, i would imagine these two would sell for considerably less than that though as they are not exactly a collectors item that i am aware of like some 90s bikes. You may find this page of interest, this is for a '99. Bicycle Blue Book 1999 Jamis Boss Cruiser 

While it is likely they are solely an OEM rim, they look an awful lot like Mavic A119's which are spec'd without decals on a lot of entry road and endurance bikes as stock equipment. Profile looks the same, they have eyelets, and the wear indicator groove, they also appear to be pinned at the seam as are the entry level A119. There is probably no way to know for sure but that would be my guess. If this is the case the rest of the specs can be found here 

I would be willing to guess if ridden correctly equal amounts of exercise could be made from standing up versus sitting down. However.... BOOM problem solved. 

You have a couple of options, lowering the seat and changing the stem, or some combination of both. One other option would be to find someone that has a similar quality bicycle that is slightly small for them and trade! Local co-ops or bike clubs would be a place to start for this. As for changing the components you may consider an adjustable stem so that you can do the fine tuning your self, rather than buying a 70mm reach stem and realizing it didn't really help. You will have to decide what needs to change based on what part of your body is uncomfortable. If you feel stretched out like your reaching to far forward a shorter stem will bring your handlebars in a little. If you legs are being over extended drop the seat post a little and see how it feels. One other option would be to show up at your local bike shop with a 12 pack and ask for advice. They will charge for a proper fit, but with beer they should be fine with giving some advice and options free of charge. If they are not, find a new shop. This site has some good information to explain it to beginners. As does REI 

You can easily see the difference in thickness between these two. The concave isn't as obvious due to the angles but you can see how the curve downward toward the center of the pedal creating a bit of a dish effect. While the Origin8 pedals in red are rather flat in comparison. Lastly, what type of riding your doing will also have somewhat of an impact, generally dirt jumping riders prefer a stiffer axle so that the pedal doesn't spin when they are air born with their feet off the pedals. General MTB riding this is not the case and not as important. 

In my humble personal opinion, I don't see it being an issue unless you are in an extreme situation such as downhill or freeride stuff, it which case it could result in a crash. Even then I feel like a good lock on grip is just fine and when tightened I have never spun one. According to WTB is can be dangerous though as their newest line of grips is aimed at stopping exactly that. 

There are many, i can't recommend one because that is not what the site is for.. However look for one with micro knobby center and more aggressive shoulder knobs. Something that when going straight on pavement will offer low rolling resistance but has plenty of bite in the corners. Many brands make them. One other approach would be to decide which is more important or more frequent for you and lean more towards that style of tire. For example if you are more concerned with riding trails and not so much with the extra effort they will require on pavement then go for something knobby but densely spaced such as something like this: 

Your best bet would be to get a proper fit at a bike shop, that way they can tell exactly where you are stretched that you shouldn't be. It could be a simple fix or a more complex one. The confusing part of your question is, if you moved the seat back further wouldn't you then need to be bent over further to reach the bars? Maybe the solution is moving the seat forward on the rails if your too folded up.. Or look into a lay back or offset seat post or stem size/angle adjustments. 

There are a wide variety of kickstands available, my guess is you would likely be able to find one that would fit. If the frame doesn't have a crossbar and hole behind the bottom bracket for a center mount kickstand, you could likely use an adjustable rear mount, they make some that are compatible with disc brakes and this is likely what you would need. Here is an image of one that is adjustable in length and made to be compatible with disc brakes. This particular one attaches to both the chain stay and the seat stay bars and has a curve in the mounts which is intended to clear the disc brake caliper. The leg also extends to work with several different wheel sizes. 

I personally like to live dangerously, i ride Mavic UST wheels with UST Maxxis tires and no sealant, no tubes, but i do carry a spare tube in my pack. So far i have yet to flat and I've been riding like that for over a year, 99% all packed trail miles though. So not a big thorn factor on the hard pack. 

Generally this occurs in old bearings that have been heavily used, but a hard impact could have helped it on the way, and now your bearings are settling in the indentation causing the resistance you are describing. If this is indeed the case, replacing the headset, or at very least the bearings and races, should remedy the situation. 

For your points system, decide on what things you would like to judge , using my list as an example you could give each a 20 point value, 5 topics totaling 100 points maximum - Highest score wins 

Source There is also a form of lubrication used when the tire are initially molded that remains on the surface of the tire for a period of time until worn off, this lubricant makes little difference to asphalt or dirt but as you can imagine on ice or snow it can make things a bit more slippery as it further reduces the friction coefficient. 

What is this in the image? Cause it kinda looks like it could be a built in hanger... if that is the case, get a direct mount derailleur and your wheel will be much easier to align. I added this in addition to my other answer because this has become two different questions essentially. 

I personally have no experience with them though, Nor have i heard much about them, that is just how i interpreted it. 

Those are not sizes, they are both the same size. The K050 and K124 are Kenda's designation for tread pattern. K124: 

I'm going to say that you have the axle washer on the wrong side, should be inside the dropout rather than on the outside, doing so can stress the disc brake as it was aligned with it (the washer) on the other side, or your simply pushing the frame into the rotational surface so much that it can't move due to the pressure on the entire surface rather than just the axle. Basing my answer on experience and reading through this 

These are the 3 i am most familiar with, however I'm sure there are many more. There are a couple dedicated websites as well but most are bicycle specific such as vintage BMX, or only Muscle bikes, or Schwinn's. As much as i hate to say it google with be your best friend for this but the CABE is a good forum to start on, it will likely lead you to other resources as well. Hope this helps. 

Some things i would consider, some could possibly be grouped together. Perhaps others can add on with more answers. Custom Class 

Yes... and no.. technically they are. While MIPS uses a slip plane, it is not going to roll around all willy nilly with every head movement. It takes a lot of force to get it to move, as it is suppose to. Nor should you ride while making bobble-head like movements anyway :P Many new helmets come with a either built in or removable camera/light mount that have MIPS technology... The Giro Montaro for example is a MIPS helmet that boasts full accessory compatibility as well as many other that do. However.. The kicker is - Having a camera or light mounted may prevent the MIPS from doing what it is suppose to. 

MY personal opinion, based solely off experience and guesstimations is that they do to a degree but not to the extent that a new rotor and pad combination would. My reasoning is that one of the main components in brake pad bedding in is heat. The heat build up helps to evenly distribute pad material to the rotor surface. One of the reasons many people say you should not come to an abrupt halt while bedding in new pads/rotors is it can make an uneven distribution of material where the pads come to a stop. The tiny particles that are transferred, spread and disperse more evenly when heated and become harder to remove once cooled which accounts for the poor performance when the disc pad comes in contact with a non level surface resulting in micro vibrations and horrible noises. While a full bed in procedure is not necessary, the surface of the rotor has taken on a slight change and will require a few passes of the pad to essentially resurface the rotor on a microscopic level. While the rotor feels clean to the touch and looks shiny and new, microscopic sediment is still left behind where the alcohol has carried it and then evaporated. Therefor a decrease in braking power occurs until that sediment has found its new home in the microscopic nooks and crannies of the rotor and or pads. This however does not require the same about of heat as bedding in an all new rotor does though as the majority of the surface has already been heated, cooled and smoothed down by the general use of the brake, but there has been a microscopic change to the surface. So while i don't think it is necessary to go through the entire bedding in process, i would just air on the side of caution and use your best judgement for the first couple of miles/stops ridden/performed after cleaning. 

If that is correct it may just need tightening, also if the BB shell hasn't been damaged you can just get replacement bearings from you LBS if just the bearings are bad. Either option is relatively inexpensive. Tool wise if it is this style of BB you should be able to dissemble it with basic home tools for the most part, spanner wrench, allen wrenches, etc but it will more than likely require a crank puller to remove the arms from the axle. YouTube will be your best friend for this sort of repair, its pretty basic but any bottom bracket work can turn into a pain if you haven't done it before. You can google American to square taper bottom bracket installation and i'm sure you will find a plethora of information regarding the repair. Although your best option would probably be to take it to a shop. Should be a reasonably easy repair for them unless anything else has been damaged by the loose part. Anyone that knows more feel free to correct me if I'm wrong, but that's what it appears to be to me at first glance.