By asking yourself what is your goal? When you know what is your goal, what do you want, a view will be formed that will help you achieve that goal. 

When asking yourself these questions, meditation will come naturally as this is the only way to correctly answer such questions. You'll start looking at your mind. Dissecting the inner workings of your mind. Analyzing every little nuance of your mind. You'll go deeper and deeper. New questions will arise: 

Dhamma is truth. Dhamma is wisdom. Dhamma is the path to liberation of suffering. Dhamma is the teaching about truth to attain wisdom. 

Since it's obvious the universe is not self, and since universe and mind and body are the same thing, it follows that body and mind are not self, just like the universe is not self. 

Source: $URL$ 2a. Is strong acceptance of rebirth in the above scenario, a result of nihilistic ("non existence") and/or eternalists ("existence") views? Why? Eternalists views. Because it's a view about never ending existence. 3a. Is strong acceptance of rebirth in the above scenario, a result of a view regarding self ("I have a self" and/or "I have no self")? Why? Yes. In question 1a we already concluded that a strong acceptance of rebirth is a result of craving. Whenever there is craving, there is also becoming: 

This is all very good. Your concept has driven you to the truth. Now you need to experience it yourself. Why not just close your eyes and perceive. Whatever you perceive, that which you perceive is not you. Why it's not you? Because it's perceived! If it can be perceived, it CANNOT BE you. Then why not just open your eyes and perceive. Whatever you perceive, that which you perceive is not you. Why it's not you? Because it's perceived! If it can be perceived, it CANNOT BE you. This experience is worth more than all the concepts put together. Once you experience it ... once you know with experience what is not self ... you'll be ready to investigate not self and experience how from not self comes 'becoming'. Once you experience it ... once you know with experience how and why there is becoming ... Nirvana will follow. 

When you look at at the sun, you know with certainty the sun is there. Or when you think about something in your mind, you know with certainty the thought is in your mind. This is the feeling of certainty. To get this feeling I'm talking about you must get insights through shamatha and vipassana, then you need to ask yourself questions and the answers will logically come if you gained enough insight from meditation. 

It will be like you're searching for the bottom of an infinitely deep ocean. Then, one day, when you'll search long enough and ask yourself the right question, you'll find the bottom: ignorance. You'll realize dependent origination $URL$ . You'll go beyond your superpowers and you'll become fully realized. See, with your superpowers you can't become realized. But you can use them to motivate you to start exploring your mind. This is the way of becoming realized with the help of superpowers. The proper way, preached by the Buddha, is to let go of the superpowers and ignore them. What are you going to do? Can you let go of your superpowers and ignore them? If so, then do it and go into meditation with the right questions to explore your mind. If you can't, then you can follow the way I described. Once you explore every corner of your superpowers, meditation with the right questions will come naturally and the rest will follow. 

Friend, what is interpreted as evil by the mind? Any experience which causes suffering. And what is interpreted as good by the mind? Any experience which does not cause suffering. The more ignorance in the mind, the more evil is experienced by the mind. The less ignorance in the mind, the more good is experienced by the mind. Now, there are cases when a spiritual novice, with ignorance in the mind, does a trifling evil deed. This very same trifling evil deed, done by this very same spiritual novice, causes a lot of suffering to him. Why is that so? The more this very same spiritual novice is ignorant, undeveloped in understanding suffering, its cause and its ending, the more suffering arises in him. He dwells in suffering for a long time, he beats his heart with it for a long time, he cries for a long time, he laments for a long time, he's angry for a long time, he's afraid for a long time, he's in stress for a long time ... That's why a trifling evil deed done by a spiritual novice can take him to hell. Now, there are cases when a spiritually advanced person, with less ignorance in the mind, does this very same trifling evil deed. This very same trifling evil deed, done by this very same spiritually advanced person, causes less suffering to him. Why is that so? The more this very same spiritually advanced person is free from ignorance, developed in understanding suffering, its cause and its ending, the less suffering arises in him. He dwells in suffering barely for a moment, he beats his heart with it barely for a moment, he cries barely for a moment, he laments barely for a moment, he's angry barely for a moment, he's afraid barely for a moment, he's in stress barely for a moment ... That's why a trifling evil deed done by a spiritually advanced person does not take him to hell. Now, there are cases when a liberated person, with no ignorance in the mind, does this very same trifling evil deed. This very same trifling evil deed, done by this very same liberated person, causes no suffering to him. Why is that so? When a person is free from ignorance, developed in understanding suffering, its cause and its ending, he fully discerns between evil deeds, neutral deeds and good deeds. What to a spiritual novice or spiritually advanced person seems like an evil deed, it is really a neutral deed or even a good deed. What to a spiritual novice or spiritually advanced person is a lie, it is really the truth. Just like a blind person who has never seen colors cannot discern black from white, in the same way a mind who has never fully understood suffering cannot discern suffering from non suffering, good from evil ... That's why a good deed, seen by a spiritual novice and a spiritually advanced person as an evil deed, takes the liberated person to heaven. So, friend, know the truth. Know evil, good and neutral deeds. As only by knowing, only good and neutral deeds are done. Only by knowing one is liberated. 

When ignorance is present, dependent on feeling, craving/aversion arises, pleasant/unpleasant feeling always leads to craving/aversion, without exceptions. When ignorance is not present, dependent on feeling, craving/aversion does not arise, pleasant/unpleasant feeling does not lead to craving/aversion, pleasant/unpleasant feeling leads to feeling, without exceptions. Craving/aversion arises from feeling. Feeling arises from our 6 senses. 6 senses arise from our body. Our body arises from our birth. Our birth arises from our ignorance. If we end our ignorance in this body, the chain of dependent origination is broken. Craving/aversion ceases, but the rest remains until our body dies. When our body dies, no birth will follow because craving/aversion ceased. Without birth, no body will arise, no 6 senses will arise and no feeling will arise. What will arise? Our true nature will arise. What is our true nature? Eternal bliss. 

Kamma is intention. When intention arises, kamma is accumulated. When intention ceases, kamma is not accumulated. Due to the nature of things, kamma is extinguishing. The nature of things is that all things are impermanent. Thus, the natural process of your kamma is that kamma is naturally extinguishing. If while your kamma is extinguishing, no intention arises in you, then your kamma will not accumulate and will be extinguished. Once kamma is extinguished, Nibanna is entered. 

Correct, cetana are responsible for Right Speech, Right Action, and Right Thought. Cetana is responsible for all actions, wholesome, unwholesome or neutral. Any action creates new kamma. A liberated being, until he enters Nibanna, creates only wholesome and/or neutral kamma. 

OCD is a lack of self control. Why? You already know why -> because you can't stop when you want to stop. There are two schools for helping you stop when YOU want to stop: that of psychology and that of spirituality. You can get rid of OCD by visiting a psychologist specialized in treating OCD or by visiting a wise spiritual teacher. Since wise spiritual teachers are very hard to find, I would advise you to go to a psychologist specialized in treating OCD. 

There are many reasons why would an unwise and attached person desire to guide others. But what is the core, what is the reason, what is the cause an unwise and attached person would desire to guide others? It is craving. When there is craving, there is becoming. That which becomes, is considered as "I". What is considered as "I" is self. Suppose this self lacks self-esteem, feelings of importance, lacks joy, happiness, sense of achievement, purpose in life, etc. This all creates suffering for that self. When self suffers, there is only one medicine that cures the cause of the disease of suffering: REALIZATION OF ANATTA. When anatta cannot be realized due to strong hindrances (panca), there remain only two medicines to alleviate the symptoms of the disease of suffering: 

Maybe someone is not yet ready to hear the Dhamma, so what else can you do other then to let them go their path on their own? You can't help if somebody does not want to be helped or if he/she does not need help. 

When in meditation observe fabrications that arise in your mind. If you see that no matter what fabrication you observe, the observed fabrication is not you nor it's yours, that is the experience of anatta. You said that during your meditation mind itself can be seen. Do it again and ask yourself if this mind you see is you and is it yours? If you clearly see that it is not you nor it's yours, that is the experience of anatta. Next, experience anatta by observing as much fabrications as possible in your mind. Next, experience anatta by observing as much fabrications as possible outside your mind, in the world/universe. No matter where you'll observe, inside or outside, you'll experience anatta. Na matter where you'll search, you'll experience anatta. If at the end of your search for self (atta), you experience anatta and just anatta (no self), then you'll know anatta: all is not self. All is empty of self. This is knowing anatta by experience. Once anatta is known in the way I described, then the realization of the dhamma is not far away. 

Correct. Here you are explaining the concept of the soul existing and travelling from body to a new body after death. 

does not exist but it exists for other beings in samsara? does not exist, and neither it exists for the other beings in samsara, because Nibanna is unconditioned, so there is no samsara, and consequently there are no beings? 

Enhancing your self-control is good karma. Enhancing your self control with the aid of martial arts, is good karma too. Just make sure it stays as "an aid to enhancing self-control". Martial arts, under a proper master's supervision, can be very good for the attainment of cleanliness and calmness of the mind. 

Like the sun rises and sets over and over again, in the same way the man rises, builds his house, thinking, over and over again: "This time I'll make it last in eternity!" Then, time passes ... old age comes ... the man dies ... the house crashes ... and the man, because of his past volitional activities, inexperienced, unwise, not knowing, ignorant: "This time I'll make it better!" ... travels in eternity ... searching the permanent in the impermanent ... the unconditioned in the conditioned ... over and over again. In volitional activities, wanting "This time I'll make it better!", Sankhara arises and its entire mess of suffering. And what is right view in this case? 

2nd link (Activities, fabrications) Activities, fabrications (Samkhara 2nd link) is exactly what you've done above, while exploring the 3rd link and the other links. To isolate the 2nd link do this: Close your eyes. Completely empty your mind, until you reach the point of total cessation, a state where there is neither perception nor non-perception and this same state and any other state cease. In your mind very very slowlyyyyy think about a static image of any object you desire. The very moment when you start doing this "thinking", this is activity, fabrication (Samkhara). Then, if you observe carefully, you'll also notice the following: The very moment when you start doing this "thinking", this is Rebirth-Consciousness (Patisandhi Vinnana 3th link). The very moment when you start doing this "thinking", perception of "thinking" will arise - this is Mind and Matter (Nama-Rupa 4th link), the sense mind (Salayatana 5th link) and Contact (Phassa 6th link). The very moment when you start doing this "thinking", a pleasant feeling will arise, or an unpleasant or a neutral feeling - this is Feeling (Vedana). The very moment when you start doing this "thinking", craving (Tanha 8th link) and clinging (Upadana 9th link) can arise. The very moment that craving (Tanha 8th link) and clinging (Upadana 9th link) arise, the above process becomes fueled by them. This means that after the above process ceases, you will make it arise again. This is Action of Becoming (Bhava 10th link). Etc. 

The ultimate truth is that there is no suffering, absolutely for all, for ever. Everything is already Nibanna. However, the mundane truth is that there is suffering, absolutely for all, for ever. Everything is Samsara. Can you change Samsara to Nibanna? That would be impossible. How can you change Samsara to Nibanna, if Samsara is already Nibanna? It's impossible. Can you change Nibanna to Samsara? That would be impossible. How can you change Nibanna to Samsara, if Nibanna is already Samsara? It's impossible. An instructed mind, very well versed in the Dhamma, knows: this is change, this is its cessation, and this is its end. Knowing change in this way, he let's go of change. His craving ceases and right discernment arises: From ignorance as a condition comes craving. From craving as a condition comes change. From change as a condition comes suffering. Thus knowing, an instructed mind, very well versed in the Dhamma, gives up change. Giving up change, suffering ceases, absolutely for all, for ever. 

Knowing judgment, a mindful practitioner knows judgment as being a mere fabrication ... not truth. Knowing this, he uses his judgment only as a vehicle which other beings can use to advance on their paths towards realizing the truth. How does he use his judgment? Every judgment he makes, is based on visible facts ... not truths, which to beings not yet liberated, look like truths. Without knowing these facts, he does not judge until he knows these facts. Once the facts are known, they are presented in such a way as if a vehicle was given by which one can advance on the path towards the realization of the truth. 

With the above realization you'll realize that your mind plays the most important role in accessing your superpowers. From this realization, you'll naturally want to explore your mind and you'll start to ask yourself the right questions: 

Kill the wounded self by rejecting its existence (altruism) ("self does not exist") Make the wounded self grandiose by decorating it (narcissism) ("self exists") 

Yes, if their poor mental health is not an obstacle to calming the mind. Otherwise, the more the poor mental health is making the mind wonder, the harder to realize the goals of meditation. 

Firstly, when reading this sutta you should understand what the writer of the sutta had in mind while writing it. Read it again and notice the bolded text that I added so you can understand what the writer had in mind (this becomes obvious when you read the first 3 paragraphs and the last paragraph):