I see no reason why not. I have no idea whether climbing is an optimal way to loose wight or not but an form or exercise which you enjoy and actually do is definitely better than one you don't. Equally what you don't want to do is try too hard and injure yourself. Having said that climbing a fairly easy route if probably a lot more fun than running a few km. You might even find that after a few months and losing a few pounds you have better technique than gym bunnies who just drag themselves up with their arms. 

For ease of access a knife with a pocket clip can be a convenient solution. This can either go in your pocket or clip through a convenient loop or strap on your pack or belt. For small, easy to lose items like knives, compasses and torches it is not a bad idea to fit them with a loop of cord or good quality split ring which can be clipped into a lanyard so it is at least still attached to you if you drop it. If you use a small karibiner you can unclip it to use if the lanyard is inconvenient. There is an argument that small items which are particularly vital in an emergency situation, of which a knife would be high on the list. Are best kept separate from your pack so you still have them if you get separated from it due to a fall or river crossing etc. Most larger civilian packs don't really allow for wearing separate belt pouches but alternative options include a bandolier type arrangement worn under your pack straps or finding a pouch which will hang below your waist belt or a wallet in a trouser pocket, this is at least more comfortable than having lots of loose items in your pockets and reduces the chance of losing them. The neck wallets used for holding ID cards etc can also be useful for small items. 

I'm planning an overnight hiking trip and want to try cooking fish. We will be camping at an established backcountry site on the trail, which has a spot for a tent near a fire ring. However, this is in an area with black bears. I know to hang all my food and other scented items in a bear bag, and not to eat in the tent. Beyond that, what additional precautions should I take for smelly foods? Typically I just bring less smelly things like trail mix and energy bars, and nothing has ever bothered my site or bear bag (as far as I know!), but I'm worried that fish scent would be way more attractive. For instance: 

I got a fairly bad cut on my leg, not quite bad enough for stitches but will probably leave a scar. I have a camping trip planned this weekend at a lake where we will go swimming and kayaking. I expect the cut to be partially healed by then, but not to the point where I feel safe leaving it exposed. (I'm also a little nervous given a couple recent news reports about "flesh-eating bacteria", even though I know it's rare, and the incidents didn't happen near where we'll be!). At home I have been wearing a fabric bandage, which allows air flow but only keeps it safe from "dry" contaminants. I did read How should you treat an open wound in the backcountry?, but it's about immediate first aid treatment for when the wound happens in the wild, and doesn't discuss what to do about water. What precautions should I take to protect the wound before, during, and after going into lake water? What first-aid items should I pack? Of course, simply not swimming and kayaking is an option for this situation (although it would be a bummer), but this could also be a concern if you got a cut on a canoeing trip or a hike with water crossings. 

There is a fair argument that the general experience of hiking is part of the religious experience of a pilgrimage , for example, solitude, relaxtion , physical exercise and exploring the natural world. So it would seem unreasonable for anybody to take offense that you want to experience those things from a secular rather than religious perspective. The only possible exception is if a particular route is so congested that you are competing with people who have a specific religious reason to do it although in his case it probable isn't that attractive to you anyway. There may also be certain religious sites or calendar festivals which are restricted to adherents of a particular religion more or less formally. The Haag pilgrimage to Mecca is an obvious example but most religions are fairly welcoming to other denominations or non religions people who are generally respectful (as any hiker should be anyway). Also if you are travelling in a strongly religious area is is basic politeness to pay at least basic respect to the local customs within the scope of your own conscience. So you may want to research exactly what that might entail and whether it would involve condoning practices that you are uncomfortable with. Similarly some religiously conservative communities may not be tolerant of certain races, religions, nationalities or sexualities etc so do your research and make your own decision there. Having said all of that Norway is one of the most secular and liberal countries on earth so as long as you observe basic courtesy to others and respect the local laws there is no way you will encounter any problems. 

Something like this is probably more likely to be marketed as a 'pouch' than a 'mini-backpack'. A search for 'belt pouch' or 'utility pouch' on ebay will get you what you want. 

Generally there are no known health side effects to eating mostly or only freeze-dried food. Freeze-dried food tends to hold more nutrients, and hold them longer, than most other shelf-life extending approaches. Freeze-dried fruits hold nearly the same amount of vitamins and antioxidants as their fresh equivalent. Freeze-dried food also does not need to have preservatives which have debatable negative effects (depending on type and quantity). Additionally, food preserved by freeze-drying stays nutritious for longer than any other approach (much longer than some). Many commercial makers of freeze-dried food add a ton of sodium, but that is not part of the freeze-drying process. Some manufacturers are better than others. Unfortunately for those concerned about the environment, the process of freeze-drying is much more energy intensive than other preservation methods. Sources: American Institute for Cancer Research article on antioxidants NASA PDF document that describes 98% nutritional equivalent at 20% of the weight 

As for the Potomac, it can be complicated because you have a large freshwater river with tributaries in multiple states that opens to the ocean. If you plan to saltwater fish you can find license information here. If you are staying in the fresh water portions you can find the license you need here. Depending on where you are along the Potomac things can be a little different. As for other water sources in the Fairfax area the key is who owns the land. If it's a private lake you need to speak to whoever owns the lake. If you are on a public lake or river a typical VA fishing license will cover you. As for "best places" I would focus on the various tributaries of the Potomac on the VA side, just pick one close to where you are or can get and you're set. 

The EPA recommends boiling for one minute for most people, and three minutes for anyone above one mile in elevation. reference - $URL$ That is what I have always done when backpacking. I don't boil for 10-20 minutes because it will kill my fuel supply and waste too much of the water. If I were camping and had plenty of fuel I might boil longer to be safe.