If you ride a lot in wet weather, you'll need to do this more frequently. Frequency, not quantity of oil is key in this situation. The most common mistake people make is over oiling their chains. The excess oil accumulates dirt and gets gunky making cleaning a hastle. Every single time you oil your chain, wipe it with a rag like this. Do this frequently enough and you'll always have a nice clean drive train. If your chain oil always comes of black (blacker than whatever lubricant your using which is rarely black), just do this process frequently until things start looking nice. 

Replace all quick release fixtures with tooled fixtures. This is generally a small investment. Take a black marker to all component markings, making all those Deore XT's look at first glance like no-name-brand cheapo components. Either give your bike a crappy paint job -- spray paint some garish, noticeable color. Dont' bother making it beautiful, but make sure any brand markings or indication of quality of bike disappear. An easy alternative here is to wrap the frame in packing tape, which will make your bike look like a beater, but preserve the original finish if you ever want to resell it. Use a good lock, but it should look old and beat up, not like you take your bike too seriously. 

Best solution is going to be to replace the hangar and the rear Derailer. However, you can take the hangar off and use a vise to get it flat. Clean it and the frame around that area to keep dirt from interfering with the attachment. Use blue loctite (formula 242) on the fasteners and a light coating of grease on the flat areas to keep dirt out. For the final alignment, what you want it is the rear derailer jockey pulleys to be perfectly parallel to the cassette/freewheel's cogs. The whole purpose of the rest of the derailer is to keep those jockey pulleys parallel as they move. Same is true for the rear derailer itself, but it is going to be more fragile than the frame hangar--you can try to straighten the RD, but it looks fairly cheap, and the metal used my be significantly work-hardened by all this bending, so it may break during the straightening attempts.... a replacement shouldn't be more than $10-$15 anyway. The LBS may have a 'pull' or used rear derailer that they can let go for a significant discount that'd still be an upgrade too. (If they don't, they don't... some shops don't allow this sort of sale...) Also, the jockey pulley brackets (that attach it to the parallelogram of the RD) may need to be straightened to be parallel to the RD body... but the majority of re-bending of the RD should be done close to the attachment point of the RD to the hangar, as it should be 'designed' to be adjusted there. Good luck! 

A common problem. I ran into 180lb weight limits on both wheels AND pedals when putting together my last bike. That seems to be the typical number, so those of us that are bigger than that need to be careful and just expect more frequent failures. Seems like everything bike related is designed for short skinny people. :-) 

I believe it's unnecessary except for rare circumstances (some racers may find it necessary). Front and rear do not wear at the same rate, getting a similar performing (or even the same exact model tire) is easy. It's become a best practice for cars because by the time you need new tires, they don't make the same model anymore. Mismatched tread patterns and grip levels (different rubber compound or even aged vs. new rubber) can make rain/snow handling a little squirrelly, so it's just safer to replace them all. Also, if you rotate them, they should wear at about the same rate anyways. 

The specific swap you describe may work just fine since nearly all SRAM chainrings and cogsets use the same spacings as Shimano. So, mechanically, the SRAM cogs and Shimano cogs are interchangeable under whatever FD/RD you have.(Campagnolo, not so much!) This assumes you are using a briter/shifter set that is compatible with your FD+RD combo. (e.g. early D.A. or something else wacky won't work) That's the real potential issue. There are also concerns matching brake lever pull (range/ratio) if you use brifters too. Those aren't even guaranteed to match across the same MFG line anymore... (e.g. Shimano's ultegra recently had a change to the brake pull setup... they'll still 'work' with mismatched components--old&new ultegra, just not as shimano intended--Brakes are one of the few dedicated safety systems on a bike, so make sure you're extra careful with mixing MFG/Lines there.) In the end, it is all just simple ratios and lengths. $URL$ may help explain some of this more in depth. (as the question is a little vague for a really short answer.. e.g. would need mfg part#'s for chanrings, cogs, and shift-levers--which are not provided) So, generally, for indexing to work, which I think is your concern... the gears really don't matter as long as the levers match them and the levers have a proper pull for the FD/RD. (e.g. worry more about the lever compatiblity than the RD/FD) However... After the swap, the bike will shift differently. The big-three all sound slightly different when they change gears, so don't be surprised if the bike feels/sounds a little different after the swap. A (new) chain that matches the rear cluster can help, but YMMV... your old chain may do just fine too! 

Let me contradict some of the other answers here. Weight is not going to make a lot of difference to your speed or endurance, so just ignore it. If you don't believe me, try the following experiment: Pack a 500g weight (about a pound) somewhere that you can comforetably carry it (e.g. in a backpack, or around your waist). Go on a few rides and measure your speed. The compare your speed without the weight. You'll have to do a few experiments to get good experimental data. The fact is your body weight fluctuates from day to day more than you're likely to be able to shave off your bike. (remember F=ma applies to whole thing you're moving -- including your body weight, backpack, water, etc.) On the other, ride geometry, aerodynamics, and power-efficiency can make a huge difference. Here are some important factors: 

In short, no. Bad idea. But if you get lucky a couple of times, yes, it could work like you want. 8spd freewheels cost about the same as 7spds, so not much risk in 'going for it' and failing. Realistically, stick to 7 spd and upgrade the RD for the extra capacity to deal with the big cog if you must... but I'd try it out first, they usually ship long cage derailers on those bikes, so you are most likely fine as-is. I liked the megarange gear selections when I swapped to it. Potential problems: -There is a chance that your old 7spd and the new 8spd do not index the same... 4.8 vs 5 mm -You may need to re-dish your rear wheel to deal with the extra room for the extra cog. Again, you'll have to fit the 8spd freewheel to see if this is the case, but I'd say there is likely a problem here... and that may mean new spokes and a wheel re-build. (or forking out $11 for a 7spd freewheel) -Freewheel stackup is different between the 7spd and 8spd.. the 8spd is longer... This can cause problems like your RD getting into the spokes to hit that last gear... so even if it fits, you may have to use the smallest 7 and not the largest 7 to keep your RD out of the spokes.. The issue isn't so much the O.L.D. (135mm) it is the stack-height of the 8spd freewheel and where the 'extra' height of the 8spd vs your 7spd goes in relation to the spokes (e.g. that 8th gear is closer to the spokes) Back when 8spd was new I did see a lot of these conversions work just like you want this one too... some were super picky and the RD would need near constant adjustments due to temperature changes throwing off the indexing (5mm vs 4.8mm gear center-to-center) A lot of pain when you could just pay $23 for a 8spd right-only shifter that would index properly... But the gears have to fit and the RD has to stay out of the spokes! Good luck! 

clipless pedals : buck for buck experience tells me this is your biggest win. It makes a big difference in power transfer. frame stiffness: while bike weight (unless your talking >1kg) isn't going to make much difference, a stiff frame which allows for efficient power transfer will. Changing your bike doesn't seem to be an option for you, but adjusting your seating position and height so you get most effective oomph from your pedalling is worth trying. Aerodynamics makes a big difference for a strong headwind, or at higher speeds. So drop bars, a longer stem, or possibly bar ends could help you out here. Rolling resistance can be a big factor too, and this is a cheap one to improve -- get kevlar bead, high pressure tires with a slick surface (if your current tires have a degree of knobbyness to them, you'll notice a big difference here). Light tires make a much bigger difference than frame weight because of rotational momentum. 

I've not had any luck consistently finding used parts online. For used commuter/entry-level stuff the best source I've found is local garage sales. For used nicer stuff try your local racing clubs. They tend to discard nice stuff, for cheap, on a regular basis as they always need the latest greatest to go the fastest. Surprisingly the local touring bike clubs have not been a great source as those people seem to hold onto stuff forever. :-) 

Interesting problem on the only triple chainring bike I've ever owned (I've never run into this problem on a double chainring ever). It has a 9-speed cassette. In the middle chainring, the middle 3 rear gears hunt around. Example, when in 5th sometimes it'll randomly jump up or down a gear. 6th, sometimes it'll jump down 1. 4th, sometimes it'll jump up 1. It'll stay in the gear you put it for the majority of riding, but occasionally it'll suddenly just hunt around a little within that specific subset of gears and then settle down again. It's been like that since brand new (2006, Cannondale with Shimano components, most notably the Flightdeck shifters). My wife just lived with it (it was her bike originally). When she crashed it (and gave up cycling), I inherited it and I also just lived with it for awhile. Finally the last couple of years I've re-calibrated the shifting a few times in an attempt to solve this issue. I can get everything spot on except for that pesky hunting right in the middle gears! Tips/tricks specifically for adjusting shifting on these triple chainring bikes? 

Check your headset as part of your efforts. A loose headset can cause shudders, even with rim brakes. Also, check the general adjustments of all the 'front parts'... Hub bearings, spokes, stem, rotor bolt torque, Caliper bolts, and check the fork for damage as well. (damage isn't likely, IMHO). Also, make sure the QR is tight if present, and if not, check the front wheel bolt torque. If that doesn't address your problem, I'd suggest doing a run-out measurement on the rotor and compare to your manufacturer's requirements. Also, clean the disk, trash/oil on it can cause problems too. The pads can do a wonderful job on this, but sometimes they need help... especially w.r.t. oil/grease. What really occurs during bedding-in is not important, nor is how you do it... what is important is that the rotor is cleaned and the caliper+pads get a final micro-alignment to the rotor (via the initial wearing of the pads). Once this micro-alignment happens, the braking should be very consistent... which is why some shops may want to 'bed your pads' for you. Any material 'deposited' on the rotors will be quickly removed as dust by the pads anyway.