People are different to one another, so there are four different ways samatha and vipassana is developed in us. In the first type… A person first develops Samatha, and after having established himself in subsequently contemplates the five groups of grasping etc. develops Vipassana. So that is Samatha followed by vipassana - after which the path is born in him/her. The second type is Vipassana followed by samatha - after which the path is born in him/her. Yuganaddha Sutta (Anguttara Nikaya Sutta 4.170) explains the third type. That is these two develops in Tandem. Ven. Ananda describes the paths to arahantship by which insight (vipassana) and tranquillity (samatha) work hand-in-hand in this sutta. So that is Samatha and vipassana together, simultaneously - after which the path is born in him/her, and lastly in another type of people the mind stands fixed internally (i.e. on the cognizant consciousness or 'self') until it become one-pointed- after which the path is born in him/her. 

For those who are scared of growing old and death, what would be a well thought out response be? My first thoughts on it would be, if you learn to meditate, you are going to enjoy your old age, and you will never fear death. But that is not an answer that will go down well with many people. So this is a question that cries out for a mature, seasoned response? 

In this book on learning the art of sketching, Franck tells us how to get in touch with this collective unconscious – our intuition – and how to be in oneness with ones subject in a state of Samadhi. The Tea Ceremony, and it’s environs, are an example of architecture that fosters this quality of Samadhi. I would say that such places are spiritual. These places help one to dwell in the eternal timeless present and live the truth that one understands, immediately. Truth is never in the past. Truth is a living thing, and not within the field of time. Sacredness is not found in the past, in memory. For the Japanese, space is experiential and sensuous unlike that of the west, where space is more objectively conditioned by shape and measurement. The Japanese tea ceremony, which has had a far-reaching influence on all forms of art, is a good example of this experiential approach to space. It was the Japanese tea master Sen no Rikyu who further improved the tea ceremony, though it existed long before as a way of entertaining the visitors who come to a Zen Monastery. He created a distinct space that was later accepted throughout Japan, called wabi-sukiya space – a designated space separated from the outside world, for the purpose of drinking tea. Originally a pastime of the upper classes, this was widely adapted by the common people by the sixteenth century. The tea ceremony (Cha-no-yu) brings together four spiritual elements: harmony, wa; reverence, kei; purity, sei; and tranquillity, jaku. These four elements join in making this ceremony a success. All participants of the tea ceremony must be in harmony with each other. In the days of the samurai, to participate in the tea ceremony, the samurai had to remove the sword that symbolised his social rank. Within the room all are considered the same irrespective of their cast, creed, race or religion. The participants would talk with reverence to each other on subjects of mutual interest. The tea ceremony incorporated in it the aesthetic appreciation of poverty that emerged by the end of the medieval period. Rikyu’s art of tea is called wabi sabi, meaning poverty of simplicity. In Buddhism the word sabi is understood as a state of absolute nothingness, a state of void, that is every Buddhist’s ideal. The simplicity of the teahouse, sukiya, is derived from the ceremony of purification where the participants strip themselves of all but the simplest and most basic characteristics. Suki-ya, which literary means gap-space, was used for the teahouse as it is separated from the main dwelling. This implies that suki-ya/teahouse has been derived by the concepts of void-space, that Lao-Tzu considered as dynamic. Thus, Taoist emptiness and Buddhist impermanence dictated the distinct spatial idea of the teahouse. The teahouse, both within it, and without, characterises the impermanence of all things, that life is an ever-changing phenomenon. The teahouse consists of a tea-room that can accommodate a maximum of five persons, an anteroom or mizuya, where the tea utensils are washed and kept ready to be brought in, a waiting room or machiai, where one has to wait till the ceremony begins, and the garden, roji, which connects the tea-room and the waiting room. The waiting room protects the visitor from the weather while reminding the person of the ever-changing nature. Two other elements that imply impermanence are the primitive lavatory near the teahouse, and the gate. The simple privy symbolises the incessant changes that process the human body. The gate to the teahouse signifies the constant passing in and out of visitors. The roji, garden, helps break the connection with the outside world, and is in itself the first stage of meditation. Generally the garden is planned in the kaishyu or stroll style. 

The Buddhists suttas describe thirty-one distinct "planes" or "realms" of existence into which beings can be reborn during this long wandering through samsara life cycle. Check The Thirty-one Planes of Existence. Also THIS, and THIS, and THIS They consist of four planes of the Immaterial (formless) Brahma Realm (arupa-loka); sixteen planes of the Fine Material Brahma Realm(rupa-loka); and eleven planes of the Sensuous Realm(kama-loka). A rough rule is that the bodies are dense in the lower realms and lighter and fine in the higher realms In the Rupa Brahma Realm they have only three sense faculties of eyes, ears, and the mind (only two physical senses of eyes and ears). The fine bodies of the “rupa brahmas have no hands. Their bodies are much less dense than even those of the devas. And even devas are unable to see the fine bodies of the “rupa brahmas“, i.e., those brahmas in the rupa lokas. The inhabitants of Immaterial (formless) Brahma realms are possessed entirely of mind. Having no physical body, they are unable to hear Dhamma teachings. Those of the arupa loka, the “arupa brahmas” who have only the mind do not even have a desire for sights and sounds. Mind pleasures are enough for them, and the presence of matter is minimal in the arupa loka. 

Arthur A. Jacomelli.. I felt that there is an inherent error in your question or approach. I do hope that you would see this from this little note that I will write. The goal of meditation in Buddha Dhamma is Nibbana, and nothing less than that. When writing a summary of Buddhism, Samatha & Vipassana, the most important point that should be stressed is that the thirty seven (37) requisites of Enlightenment (Bodhipakkhiya dhamma) comprise the entire Doctrine of the Buddha and all these dhamma pertaining to Enlightenment could be realized through contemplating on breathing. Only other summery is the discourse addressed by the Tathagatha to a hermit named Bahiya Daruchiriya (Bahiya of the Bark-cloth). The Buddha had the exceptional quality of being able to direct his discourse in the most appropriate manner like an arrow that meets its target. The Blessed One said to Bahiya, 

Alexander identified certain examples of architecture that fosters this quality. These places help one to dwell in the eternal timeless present and live the truth that one understands, immediately. Truth is never in the past. Truth is a living thing, and not within the field of time. Sacredness is not found in the past, in memory. The question for you and is, how could we bring this quality to our practice of Dhamma. Now in seeing through Dhamma eye, ‘in-the-flow-of-things’ can have a positive or a negative connection, depending on the intention. With intensions of generosity you create a positive connection, a connection where good things can flow back and forth. Being ‘in-the-flow-of-things’ and immersing yourself in the breath in the present moment creates positive results as discribed in Limitless Thoughts: 

The Sutta Pitaka contains five collections, or Nikayas. The first of the five - Digha Nikaya (long discourses) consists of 34 suttas in 3 books. These range in length from 5 to 47 pages. Many suttas are readily accessible to a newcomer and many are quite deep and detailed. After the council Arahat Ananda Thera and his followers were entrusted with the responsibility for Digha Nikaya. The followers of Arahat Sariputta Thera were entrusted with Majjima Nikaya. Sanyutta Nikaya, was entrusted to Arahat Maha Kassapa Thera and, Arahat Anuruddha Thera and his followers were entrusted with Anguttara Nikaya. All the Theras were made responsible for the Kuddaka Nikaya which was completed at the third council. Vinaya Pitaka was entrusted to Arahat Upali Thera and his followers. There’s a passage in the very first sutta in the Digha Nikaya, the Brahmajala Sutta, listing all the different kinds of wrong views that people can develop. Of the 62 grounds for wrong views, not every wrong view comes from people simply thinking things out without having practiced meditation. A lot of wrong views come from people who meditate and gain some insights or intuitive knowledge, but the knowledge isn’t as complete as they thought it was. So they jump to the wrong conclusions. Digha Nikaya, as much as the other four Nikayas, gives us the teaching of the Four Noble Truths which is the core of the Dhamma realized by the Tathagata. The Buddha, in the Maha Parinibbana Sutta of the Digha Nikaya, announced that it is because of the ignorance of the Four Noble Truths that we have had to continue so long, wandering on this weary path of Samsara. Sadly, in the present day, in translating from Pali to English, even Professors like Rhys Davids make mistakes. In translating from Pali to English one must be equally proficient in both, and should have attained the path. No one who has not attained the path, can assume to be right about the Dhamma. Understanding is Panna - it is the third stage, after seeing (Dassana, yatha bhutha nana, seeing things as they actually are), and path entry. The characteristic of the Dhamma is that it is leading onwards (Opanayiko). Thus, full understanding (Parinna) is by the arahat. Unfortunately, that is beyond a householder, or a lay person, in this life. In Samyutta Nikaya Sutta 38.16, it is said that even after persons renounce and become monks, it is difficult to find one who practises in accordance with the Dhamma. But Digha Nikaya Sutta 16 says that if monks were to live the holy life perfectly according to Dhamma-Vinaya, the world would not lack for Arahants. Now to practise the Dhamma perfectly, one has to be perfectly knowledgeable about the Supreme Buddha's instructions in the Suttas. The Suttas of the Digha-Nikaya are a valuable source for life in ancient India in general. Several of its Suttas also provide information on the biography of the Buddha that is not found elsewhere in the canon. For example in Digha Nikáya Sutta 14 & DN 32, the Supreme Buddha stated that six Supreme Buddhas appeared over 91 world-cycles. The seven Buddhas, including "our" Supreme Buddha, mentioned in DN 14 & DN 32: Vipassi, Sikhi, Vessabhu, Kakusandha, Konagamana, Kassapa, and Gotama. Then in the Sakkapanha Sutta in Digha Nikaya we get to know that Sakra, the Lord of the Deva world of the Thirty Three had reached fruition of the Path. Such information is not found in the other suttas. In a Digha Nikaya sutta called the Janavasabha [DN. II. 216 f.], Brahma Sanankumara addresses the devas of the Tavatimsa world and tell them of the seven contributory factors as ‘well proclaimed by the Buddha which lead to the establishment of samma-samadhi. They are referred to as satta samadhi-parikkhara. Professor Rhys Davids in his translation has misunderstood the word pahoti. He takes it to mean suffices to. He writes… Right intention suffices to maintain right views for Samma-ditthissa samma-samkappo pahoti. Maurice Walshe gets it correct as "From right view arises right thought". 

There is the cyclical nature of life in Samsara. The doctrine of Paticcasamuppāda (Pāli) states that when certain conditions are present, they give rise to subsequent conditions, which in turn give rise to other conditions. This is the cyclical nature of life in Samsara. If you read the Mā Puñña Bhāyī Sutta – It.22 it can be said that even time is cyclical. Buddha had the ability to see the past up to infinite time such as many Sanvatta Kalpa, Vivatta Kalpa, and Sanvatta Vivatta Kalpa. Sanvatta kalpa means the time that takes the world to be destroyed after countless years. Vivatta kalpa means, time of the beginning of the world. In the Mā Puñña Bhāyī Sutta – It.22, Buddha says that: 

A wisdom excluded from the Dhamma-discipline is not a perfect wisdom. Therefore, there is no liberation where the Dhamma and Discipline are absent. It is in the Supreme Buddha’s Dhamma that the perfect concentration is described. It is that Dhamma that the contemplations are described as this is the first contemplation (Dhyāna), this is the second contemplation, this is the third contemplation, and this is the fourth contemplation. If one develops wisdom, it has to be a wisdom that is being developed praising the Dhamma and the Discipline. This is wisdom in vipassana meditation. In order to come to this Wisdom, one needs to sever and totally obliterate the three bonds of Nichcha (thinking that one can maintain a permanent state of mind), Sukha (believing that which is happiness/good can be maintained), aththa (thinking that this is a stable, fulfilled state of mind). If “atta” is “in control” or “has essence”, and the opposite of that is the anatta in Tilakkkhana: “one is helpless in this rebirth process”. 

Did anyone advice you to focus on the five and the eight precepts once you end the retreat? Following the precepts is an important part of any meditation. When you are fully grounded in the precepts your intentions are skillful, as you can break a precept only intentionally. It gives you the inner resolve as you will do no harm to any being by killing, stealing, engaging in illicit sex, lying, or by taking intoxicants. Such a person is always mindful and alert. Then you can continue to practice the meditations that you’ve learnt like staying with the breath without any ill effects. Meditation retreats are rather regimented. By that I mean very strictly organized or controlled. As a result, a lot gets left out in that approach. So it is not so healthy. That is why I asked you whether anyone adviced you to focus on the five and the eight precepts. A retreat does not help in the whole mind training and being heedful. That is why you are going through all these emotional ups and downs as you have not developed the strengths to overcome such emotions. You should have developed the ability to say NO to such negative states of mind. A sense of hiri-ottappa (a sense of shame – but NOT in a negative way) accompanied by mindfulness helps you to overcome such. I do not think that at the retreat any emphasis was given to the five Sekha strengths. One who has the ability to develop and live in association with the five Sekha strengths and does not abandon them, have the ability overcome such situations. The five Sekha strengths are a must for everyone in this path. They are… Saddha (Confidence), Hiri (shame), Ottappa (fear), Viriya (energy) and Panna (wisdom). These strengths helps you to weather any emotional waves you go through. ‘Sankhāra’ means intention (volitional effort). So as I said at the outset, your intentions needs to be skillful. An intention occurs according to what we perceive - about a figure that is recognized. Likewise, intentions occur about sounds, smells, tastes, and contacts that are recognized. When a mind’s thoughts are perceived, intentions occur according to those thoughts. All these intentions that are formed in various ways are Sanskhāra Upādānaskandha. So you are correct in identifying with sankhara. 

If you have an interest in learning the Dhamma, start with the Majjhima Nikaya. Reading Faithfully Building a relationship with the suttas tells you why. If you are interested in building a Sutta Library go to this link. It gives a list of Cannonical Collections, Sutta Anthologies, and Sources. Use this list to build a basic collection of the discourses of Gotama Buddha that is readable, accurate, and nearly complete. Use this list to build a basic collection of the discourses of Buddha. 

Try to read the "Cakkavatti Sihanada Sutta" - D26. It is the Discourse on the Lion-roar of the Wheel-turner. The Supreme Buddha once explained... sometimes a person is born to the world with 32 bodily characteristics that a Buddha has. That person is known as a Sakviti Raja (a universal monarch). Even though the universal ruler also has the great 32 bodily characteristics, he could be a Prutakjana (one who has not come into Dhamma) person who has the propensity to be born in low-level worlds. Once he became the universal monarch, he rules the world or the Chakkavatti Rājjyaya (ChakkavattiKingdom) with great moral qualities. As a result of this, he gained great merits and will be reborn in heaven. However, if he is still in the Prutakjana state, he can get a birth in one of the four low-level worlds at the end of his lifetime in heaven. On the other hand, a noble disciple of Tathāgata (the Supreme Buddha) even with many difficulties in his life as a human will overcome the Prutakjana state. This results in his rebirth in same divine worlds as the Universal King was born. Thus, he overcomes the birth in these low-level worlds after his lifetime as that poor person. This example clearly shows us how the possibility of a normal being to be born in Hell, Animal, Preta, or Asura worlds.