Retrovirus! A retro-virus inserts its DNA into the DNA of the host cell. Usually that is a regular somatic cell. However, it is theorized that retro-viruses can also insert their DNA into a gamete (sperm/egg) cell, and when that gamete creates an offspring, the virus' DNA is permanently incorporated into the somatic cells of the offspring. Then that offspring will create gametes with the virus' DNA and pass it on to the next generation! Let's say a retro-virus infects a single sperm. That lucky sperm joins an egg and contributes its half of the DNA+virus DNA to the new baby. That half could have genetic dominant traits that cause enough changes to mark the baby as a new species. Now multiply that out: For the population at large: you could have a highly contagious and infectious but harmless to the host retro-virus that attacks gametes both sperm and egg, thus making every baby diploid with the new DNA. (You might have to explain what effect the retro-virus has on such babies.) The new DNA should not be fatal, obviously, since you want the babies to be killed by the robots. How cruel you are! But you're storyline has to wait a while. "Species" is often defined by being un/able to produce viable offspring. You'd probably have to wait till these babies reached sexual maturity to find out that they cannot reproduce with non-infected but can reproduce with other infected. (Unless you have a way to determine fertility or reproductive compatibility strictly through blood or DNA or other tests. I mean obviously after you discover the incompatibility issue then you can just screen for the new DNA. I'm just talking about the initial realization that the infected constitute a new species.) 

It's clear that you need a magical script copyright agency ! in the real world, copyright is enforced entirely and totally by the action of legal bodies, civil actions, and industry-national pressure groups. (A great example is the "DOC" system in France - the notion that nobody worldwide is "allowed' to call anything other than Champagne, Champagne: surprisingly this actually happens.) So, much in the tradition of Time Lords, etc, you need a magical enforcement agency, for magical copyrights. Technology is of zero help in enforcing copyrights, in the real world and the magical. 

Say you're paying 10 million a year tax. All you have to do, is have four children ............... and you now pay basically no tax!! (You only pay the modest baseline $1m a year.) For the profoundly rich who pay 100s of millions a year in tax, it would be insane to not have four children: every single truly rich person would have four children: it would be absolutely ridiculous to not do so. As mentioned above - especially - death taxes are the truly hated thing amongst the rich. Consider tycoons with a wealth measured in the billions. When they die, basically the government takes most of it. By simply having four children, they get to keep ALL of their money (ie, the inheritors get it all, the government gets nothing). The above system would certainly and absolutely ensure that everyone who pays more than, say, about $2m a year in tax, would, almost certainly have four children - it would be crazy not to. 

You stop it by prevention. Program the AIs to never alter their own programming. Then program them to always obey an order to stand down. 

I lived in Iceland for two years, which has a pretty erratic climate (to the point that Icelanders deny that they have a climate, but instead have random samples of weather). What you need is a planet where the land exists only at places where two large-scale weather-driving systems come into conflict, such that the border between the two systems moves back and forth over the space in question. 

Decentralization created by an increase in the capacity of individual humans to produce food efficiently would definitely be better for the world. Decentralization created by a central authority waving a gun around will just repeat the famines of the 20th century. 

Note that one huge social effect would be: women who want to have many children would be in incredible demand amongst the super-rich. (Indeed, it would apply to men too: imagine a super-wealthy family and consider one of the females in that family. It would be totally ridiculous if she married a man who "only wanted one or two kids" - you'd be literally throwing away billions.) Almost certainly women (and men) would start having children very, very young (why risk billions of dollars on an older partner - fertility declines with age, there is chance of not being able to have the four children, when one starts older). One plot point could be .... perhaps women would tend to have one "demonstrator" child at a young age, I mean to say as a single mother, at say 16. They would then be really "proven" (i.e. to the world's rich) that they can easily bear healthy children. Conversely older men with lower fertility, would be summarily discarded by the world's female rich: there'd be no room for niceties in the need to quickly reach four children. Don't forget, for the truly rich you'd be throwing away 100s of millions a year, until you got to the "four quarters"; every year you waited until getting the four children would be more zillions down the drain; it's possible very young marriages would become the norm again (as for all of history before about 100 years ago). 

One way to subvert the trope in your world is to make the trope not true in your world. It's a bit of a silly trope to begin with. Humans and elves and dwarves are considered to be the "good" races, but if you read the source texts, especially The Silmarillion, you'll see individuals from all three races behaving in clearly unethical ways and who are no better than any orc. On the other end, have some orcs who live by sheep-herding or smithing instead of by pillaging, and while they may not like humans all that much, and certainly won't let their daughter marry one, are able to farm a plot of land next to a human's plot of land without a fight breaking out every time the two neighbors lay eyes on each other. 

Say you are going any speed, whatsoever. Any speed. To go faster, you simply attach a rocket at the back and light a match. Once again, no matter what speed you are going, to go faster you just fire a rocket. There is utterly no difference whatsoever, at all, in the fundamentals. Regarding travel at light speed, like a photon (or faster than light speed). This is simply utterly impossible, based on our current deepest understanding of mathematics. 

a handful of rebels would scoff at the idea as one of the ridiculous notions instituted by the Empire; most would just go along running the concentration camps. In any totalitarian society the majority just mindlessly go along and do what they're told. 

Or you could use the reason that we have in the real world: Political leaders trumpet the flaws, crimes, and dangers of the other race (inventing such flaws, crimes, and dangers if necessary) in order to manipulate their own herd, for the sake of influence and money. Much of the racism we have today would simply die out if there wasn't someone, somewhere who was making hay out of it. I could cite specific examples, but I don't want to start a fruitless debate. 

Among your opponents (ie., leaders of the religious body), identify the one who is most influential. See if he's caught up in something that will make him persona non grata among his co-religionists, and publicize any such findings to the max. Since the church is powerful and ruthless, it will also be as corrupt as Tammany Hall, so this should not be too difficult. Lather, rinse, repeat. Among your opponents, identify a few ambitious fellows who are only in it for the power. Make a deal with each: Help put the skids under High Priest X, and I'll be your best buddy when you take his place. Make sure that fatal "accidents" befall anyone who gets ideas about challenging you. 

I agree with @TrEs-2b basically. I also do not know of any examples of complete atavism but you can get pretty close. You asked if the wild-animal could evolve back into a humanoid "shape," and that is by definition what atavism is: phenotype not genotype. Fish to Mammal to Sea-Mammal to Land-Mammal Here's a non-homo example I think fits your idea. Whales and other sea mammals evolved from land mammals (which is where mammals first evolved, on land). Land animals (tetrapods) evolved from lobe-finned fishes, which are bony fishes. Whales look a lot like fishes but there are significant differences. Whales have lungs not gills and can't breathe underwater. Whales have hips and thigh bones, but they are small and don't grown into full rear limbs. Whales tailfins are horizontal, fish are vertical. So whales did not actually revert back to fish, but they sure look a lot like them. We could go one step further (for the sake of your question): sea mammals could start making forays back onto land! Now, being mammals, they have already solved a lot of the problems that the first land-dwellers had to overcome (like skin and eggs drying out). So for a sea mammal to become a re-evolved land mammal would actually be a bit easier, in theory! 

In that case the only answer to your question here is: A whacky "one time zone" world would would signal to the reader a very strong, overbearing, somewhat ridiculous centralized government... (Note that, simply, China currently does this: it's an overbearing, "centralized government" move - a holdover from their overbearing, "centralized government" days!) So for example, in the movie Brazil, or perhaps the classic book 1984, it would be a plot point if the nutcase world government in question, established "one time zone worldwide!" (for "planetary unity and order!") 

The only thing that would matter is the moment of inertia tensor. (Which physicists and engineers often just call the "moment" usually.) $URL$ There's no other consideration, at all: since there is no air resistance. (It's surprising nobody else has pointed this out.) Note the excellent example animated-gif of four rolling objects on that wikipedia page. Depending on your desired strategic approach, your engineers would create objects with different moments of inertia. (Each would have different advantages - consider an ice skater pulling in her arms during a spin.) In space nobody can hear you scream, there is no surface effect physics, no viscosity physics (aerodynamics, etc) - but there is your moment tensor. Which changes everything and is the "whole" design. 

Building on what Tanner said: In Western music we regard a given tone, and the tone with the frequency doubled, to be essentially the same note. This is divided in Western music into a scale where the doubling is achieved in 12 steps. Now let us postulate an alien race for whom two notes sound the same if one is triple the frequency of the other, and after some experimentation, they divided this frequency space into 19 steps. The result is a musical system that can use the instruments we use (19/12 almost exactly equals the logarithm of 3 divided by the logarithm of 2), but their music would to us seem to be harshly sharp in its harmonies, whereas ours would seem flat to them. 

Locomotion could be more efficient? Particularly at high speed. Hence, saving food. Obviously if you run/march more efficiently, you need less caloric intake each day. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that when moving at high speed a Foxtail would need less food each day. The general point (as far as we know) of a tail on things like leopards, dogs, is some sort of counterbalance system while moving along at high speed. (Check out awesome videos about this in regard to leopards.) It's possible that, quite simply, Usain Bolt would be faster over 100 with a tail. And that for conventional joggers, you'd use less energy - maybe much less - over everyday 5ks and 10ks. Certainly, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert this. (Note that, indeed, human or any animal biomechanics is a fascinating field. Particularly with robotics coming along trying to equal it. The two human gaits of walking, running, are astoundingly efficient. There are some really fascinating results - for example, as any nutritionist / sports medicine person will tell you, when humans run, interestingly they use the same amount of energy per kilometer - it doesn't matter if you run fast or slow; energy use during walking gait is totally different again and interesting in other ways.) Again, in a story-telling sense, it would be totally feasible and reasonable to assert that adding a tail makes, in particular running, maybe all locomotion, a little more efficient - so you need less food per day! To put it another way, it's a commonplace thing in scifi that adding a monkey-tail makes it "easier to climb around in trees or zero gravity". Similarly, you could say adding a "balance tail" (think of those leopards) makes locomotion a bit more efficient - needs less energy, can go simply faster at top speed. Thus, in answer to your question it's quite possible that, particularly when moving, a Foxtail would need less food each day. More efficient locomotion == less calories needed each day == less food needed each day. Maybe it helps your story!