The amount of milage your run every week is dependant on your age, fitness level, trail vs road, goals and finally the definition of "Run vs Jog". The hard part is that as humans we are all different and our bodies all react differently to training. Some people can run 60k or less and successfully "Run" an ultra. The other variable is how many races you have done and what distances. For example if you have only trained for a Marathon and you have completed the Marathon in 3 hours it stand to reason that you could RUN a 50k in 3:38 (Using this calculator $URL$ If you are already running a 3 hour marathon then you already know the effort it takes to get to that level. Finally, almost all 50k races are done on the trail. You should expect a much slower pace on trails as well as much different elevation changes. You can't really judge a pace on your trail races compared to a road race. 

A lot of times it's because you're using more weight than you are capable of handling and those other muscles are taking over to compensate for weaknesses in your back musculature. If you're starting out, it's going to get some taking used to and developing the cues you need to hit those desired muscle groups properly. One big cue for rows is to pull with your elbows. Imagine a hook at your elbow joint pulling the weight. Back straight and chest out because if you're hunched over your arms and rear delts will definitely get involved. For each of those exercises, look up proper form videos on youtube (I would recommend John Meadows, Athelean-X, Alan Thrall and Omar Isuf). Go light till you get the form down and can feel the right muscle groups going. In the meanwhile, I would suggest you get a feel for what your lats and traps firing feel like by doing pull ups on the assisted pull up machine for lats with your core braced and chest puffed up and out. Go slow and feel the lat contractions. Also look up lat pull downs for further lat activation. When you get those down, try yates rows where there definitely is an element of cheating but worth it. For traps, do shrugs, farmer carries. Josh Bryant has great vids on trap workouts that I would suggest you look up on youtube. 

Many runners try to adopt this running style simply because it does take stress off your knee. The craze around Vibrams was a good example of how you were forced to change your running style. I would start with a neutral running shoe. Something with little or no heel to toe drop. The large the heel the more chance you will have to do a heel strike. Second, you should concentrate on a mid-foot plant rather than a ball of foot plant. This will give you the advantage of not stressing your knee while also easing up on your calfs and achilles. Finally, start slow and short. You could even try a pair of Vibrams ($URL$ but I will stress that you need to go slow and not run too far in the beginning. Calf raises every day will help as well as stretching. You should start by running no more that 400 meters, then gradually increase your distance and pace. Your calfs will naturally be sore and tight but don't over do it. There are people who complete marathons in barefeet but they have years of experience in running that way 

Dark Hippo has a great answer! It's awesome you are up for some intense training over your 10 day vacation period. Here's how I would approach this 10 day period that you have coming up. 

Standing desks if you can. Otherwise, every fifteen minutes (or a gap of time under 30-45 min), get up, walk around (if you want), then flex your glutes, brace your core and straighten your back. Then sit down. Keep your monitor in a position where you aren't bending your neck down that much and it's at a neutral position. 

Green tea doesn't have a lot of caffeine (compared to say coffee or black tea) but I suppose if you're drinking a lot you could get your heart rate up. There are definitely positive effects on health: 

My own thoughts: I would integrate both but 10x10 seems like a lot. So probably 5 or 6 sets.Those various exercises target different parts of the body so if my goal was bodybuilding for an aesthetically pleasing wide back, I would definitely hit at least 3 sets of a lot of those exercises (my favorites would be the pull over, face pull and dumbbell row). A lot of the exercises on your list also work stabilizers which are important for a healthy back. If you're relatively new to lifting, whatever you do, assuming progressive overload, you'll gain size. I personally think if we just focus on that question of yours alone (I don't like it because there's too many variables like experience, caloric intake, how heavy, form etc.), those 10 exercises with a solid 10 reps for one set each would give you more size (again, assuming progressive overload). Everyone has a different body. Try both and see what works for you. The pleasure in life is experimenting and seeing the fruits of those experiments. 

I have had Plantar Fasciitis and it certainly is hard to resolve. I have also been bald for more than 30 years and I am embrace the fact that I don't have to do my hair in the morning. EVER! (Be bald and be proud ;) There are a number of exercises that you can do to help. Perhaps there are to many to list here but these have helped me. 1) Towel scrunches - In your bare feet ball a towel under your feet. 2) Make sure you stretch your feet in the morning before you get out of bed. I use a large band or even a sock to pull your toes towards you. 3) Calf raises and stretches These three are listed here $URL$ In addition I have worn a boot at night. This helps to keep your foot in a 90 degree position and will help heal your plantar. I wear (wore) Danskos. ($URL$ The solid bottom help support my foot while I walked during the day. I wear very thick running shoes (I wear and LOVE Hoka's) The fact that it lets your foot bend less keeps you arch from collapsing while you are running. $URL$ I recommend the Bondi4 for a great shoe to start. 

It's a fallacy to think that bad form results in no muscle development in ALL cases. I'm not saying put on 3 plates on your squat and quarter rep it or try curling 135 lbs by thrusting your pelvic in and jerk the bar into your chest but you should no you have to lift heavy (or progressively so) to further scar muscle tissue and hypertrophy. That being said, people who've been doing it a while probably know the drill on doing it with perfect form but probably start off their workout with something like a cross body curl with heavy weight to get some cheat curls, and stimulate lots of different fibers. When you cross curl vs regular hammer curl you're hitting different parts of your body (try it out, it's harder in some cases because it's like a standing concentration curl). Experiment on yourself to see how it feels. Try combining cheat curling and strict form curls. Try both hammer and cross body. 

There are a lot of factors that go into choosing a pair of running shoes. Running in "Low" shoes means you will not have any support. This means if you heal plant you will most likely get injured at some point. The longer you run the more you will find how you run. Running on hard surfaces also will play a factor, if you run on grass it will be easier on your feet then running on concrete. As you run longer you will also become more tired and more apt to heal plant. If you don't heal plant you will be running on the balls of your feet and the longer you run the more prone you will be to shin and achilles injuries. You can go to any good running store and they will evaluate your running gait. From this you will find out if you pronate or supinate. If you run on your heal, toes or balls of your feet. From there you can decide if you can run in the shoes that you show in your picture. So, to summarize: 1) Have someone at a running store evaluate your gait 2) Don't start with two many miles. Ease into it so you don't get injured 3) Remember to take days off 4) If you really like running you will discover you want to get a pair of running shoes for running. 

For hypertrophy go for higher number of reps. Low reps high weight definitely build strength and some size, but if you're aiming for size, you'll want to lower the weight a bit, and hit higher reps. Also, are you doing anything else for legs? Romanian deadlifts (absolutely killer for hamstrings), deadlifts, leg press, extensions, reverse hypers etc. All those stimulate different muscles and adjusting rep ranges towards 8+ will definitely result in size. For measurements, you'll want to measure every week or two, in the same areas around the same time. Water intake, time of the day etc. can all affect measurements. Either way, if you're gaining strength, keep at it. It's not like you'll see a lot of progress in one week. It's a marathon. Experiment with the rep ranges and have fun. It's like experimenting on your own body!