Depending on how you setup your Postfix you may be able to use an alias to forward all mail. edit Also you can setup a redirect that will do it for you easily. In /etc/postfix/main.cf add this: 

I use Bacula, its free and open and works on Windows and Linux, and has extensive documentation on the linux and windows ports. As for Duplicati, I have never used it so I cant really tell you what do on that, but you that is an alternative. 

What does show? Once you get the kernel names you can just Just make sure you do not purge your current kernel. The results can be unexpected. 

I'm using an asterisk VOIP server, and I'm able to make called though with my SIP client. The problem I get is one-way voice. I can hear the incoming voice but the caller can not hear me. I have no problems when using the X-Lite3 windows SIP client. I VOIP provider is broadvoice. Could it be something in the firewall rules that I need to fix? 

There is a way to disable the firefox internal DNS cache: I am uncertain about which version there is a cache and if the following will work for all versions, but you might want to give it a try. I had a similiar issue in that Firefox was caching a long time for me which was not helping me debug an issue. Howto: In the you have to create 2 new (or change the ones already existing). The Preferencename should be and Both have to get the value of . Restart your firefox and test again. This was basically taken from $URL$ though i remember it was mentioned on other sites in the context of Firefox DNS Cache disabling as well. 

There seems to be a somhow possibly related BUG from Mr Oetiker on github for rrdcache: $URL$ This actually could be my issue (concurrent writes) but it does not explain the cronjob to not fail. In the asumption i actually have 2 concurrent writes would return exit code 1 (per man page ,confirmed in testing) As i do not get an email with the output either and the observation that the cronjob do actually run fine all the other time i am somehow lost. Example output: 

Is there a way I can convert an MBR partition setup to a GPT partitions with out having to destroy all my data? Thanks 

Time servers take a couple of samples to make sure they are reading the upstream servers properly and to set their own stratum correctly. It sometimes takes a while. Usually less then 10 minutes. When you get an error like that you should first check the stratum your NTP server is reporting. There is a limit on how low windows will go to set its time from a NTP server, but I dont recall off the top of my head. 

The issue is displayed in your netstat output. Mysql is bound to the loopback address. Check your /etc/mysql/my.cnf (if you are running Debian, or ubuntu) and change the bind-address from bind-address = 127.0.0.1 to bind-address = 10.10.10.99 Also I would make sure you have proper security and firewall rules setup to protect your mysql server. 

This sounds like a Harddrive issue. Does this happen on all the laptops or just a few? Have you checked the Eventlog to see if there have been harddrive or hardware errors. One easy way to check and see if it's a hard drive issue would be to load up a Live-Linux CD and check for badblocks. Also I forgot to ask what type of hardware do you have for these laptops. That could be another factor to look at. 

I have an ancient xen 4.0 host system with LVM and only one Volume Group Inside the VG there are a few logical volumes. The Logical Volume i am talking about (slave) is a snapshot of another logical volume (origin master). I did extend The "Slave" logical volume for a few hundred GB, however the guest is unable to see this increase.. fdisk still shows the same guest partition shema as before the increase. The Guests (slave and therefor master) has 3 partitions on the Logical volume.. How would i increase the guest virtual harddrive when i can confirm the logical volume is larger.. (normally with 1 logical volume = 1 partition you would just resize the fs..) But how do i resize the partition table of the guest HDD when it is just the snapshot which i did increase? I can extend or resize master or slave however i want, but i cannot create a new master or make the slave not beeing a snapshot anymore (due to size limitations) 

This has happened to me in the past. It Have you tried Different ports on the switch and a different Ethernet Cable. I've seen where a bad cable will give you link but not show you have a good enough connection to the pins to keep the signal of proper quality for higher then 10/Half. 

This is what I think the best option would be. First Connect the ASA5550's in a HA pair. Connect HA1 Inside/DMZ interface to Switch1. Connect HA2 Inside/DMZ to Switch two. Have the Failover monitor ALL interfaces that are active. Between Switch one and Switch two setup a 3 or 4 port LACP. Now this is also assuming that your ISP has given you two distinct connections that are in the same IP address space. Also you didnt say what version of ASAOS you are running. The Release notes for 8.4(1) stats they did introduce EtherChannel. They may be worth looking in to as well. 

I'm running a couple of iSCSI Targets with OCFS2. I had to reboot my iSCSI Target (the physical iSCSI Target) due to some hardware changes and it caused all the initiators to reboot. I want to prevent that or at least make them wait a lot longer before they reboot. Is there some sysctl variables I can use to modify the targets? I have multiple iSCSI Targets on my main system, due to need to share them out with multiple systems I'm running OCFS2 as the Filesystems on the Initiators 

The NAT functionality is (from my knowledge of kernel building) part of the kernel, so unless you are able to rebuild the kernel modules and/or can switch the kernel you most likely will be out of luck. 

You could use a service script yourself (good) or include it in the mysql script (temp. workarround, ugly, wont work after updates.) something like /etc/init.d/mysql should exist. then you would search for and before mysql is actually started you would add your part of the script. (might differ a bit with newer versions though) on one of my hosts this would look like it: 

What i did already figure out (or believe to have figured out) The commands and are not important to the issue. While reading about 20 bugreports and lot of documentations, a few linked some did suggest to disable NCQ, which i did . First for one device, after waiting 1 day to check if the error repeats it happend again and i disabled it for all 4 devices 

I have been using Raid1 on linux with write's way over 15M/S. Those log messages are indicative of either a hardware issue with the drive, a bad Sata cable, or a bad connection on the motherboard. Does SMART reporting show any errors with the drive. I would check that and the SATA cable. Easy cheap solutions if it is a hard drive issue. 

It sounds like SNI is not enabled. That would explain why they all go to the same page. If you are running Debian Lenny or Debian Squeeze I believe that it will work. Check out this page It describes how to enable SNI on your hosts. Note this is used with NameBased Virtual hosts. From your configuration it looks as though you are using Named virtual hosts. 

That line right there tells you the issue. Check your DMESG and see if it's detecting your other disk, also with software Raid I run smartmon on all my drives to make sure they are ok. You could have had your second disk go bad, and you didnt know it. Now to fix this you just need to run this command, assuming your second drive of your array is sdb. 

STA seems to be short for Station in the broadcom sense. I might however read it wrong. The not that high reliable source but it was the best i could find with a small search: Source: Openwrt Qoute: b43 This is the open source driver built by the community based on reverse engineered specifications of the proprietary Broadcom driver. This is the driver that is included in the current OpenWrt builds. It is also in the mainline Linux kernel. This driver supports most of the current available Broadcom WiFi cores. It has support for station (STA), AP, AdHoc, Mesh and other modes, but it just supports 802.11g rates and does not support 802.11g operating in the 5GHz band. 

Do they have to change the lease time after getting the ip or is it ok to get it first? You can change the lease time per dhcp range. see the manpage. $URL$ Search for Lease To give you a hint how one could solve this: Personally i would go for a short lease on first connect, detect which user/device you give the ip too, and the renewal lease is the lease with the correct lease time. Though this depending on the amount of devices might have issues when you reload the configuration often (to have the new lease time read and send out) 

Official Support for the Debian distribution is not provided by Dell. However I have been running Dell Servers with various Debian versions for the past several years. They have been very good about supporting the Hardware. 

I just check to see if the Currently Active slave has changed or not. Also if you are just looking to see if link is lost on one of your NIC's, you can still do that though SNMP or other standard forms of monitoring. 

You need to create a snapshot of the data and import that in to your slave before you start the replication slave. Typically that is done with mysqldump. On you master check "show Master status", and on your slave check "show slave status". That will give you any errors. And follow what quanta link you to. 

I was wondering who uses off site tape storage for their backups and their Positives and Negatives with each system. My basic requirements are secure storage, HIPPA certified, or SAS certified would be great. We rotate our tapes out every 6 months to offsite storage. I have looked briefly at Iron Mountain. 

please check if the mapping of the user table did work correctly. as i have a similiar setup (virtual user/domain with mysql) i had issues with using the correct syntax/query for the user request. for now i would check if the user has actually a folder on the server. you use uid 5000 which could mean you used some setup where the user under which all virtual users are created is named vmail. if this is the case your setup (domains/username) should contain something similiar to this: 

if its not a copy past error that your "proxy access" is via https then i suggest you check your vhost configuration for SSL. for all i know you need your mod_proxy setup in both your normal *:80 and *:443 Virtualhost Directive. so either your Virtualhost Directive does not have the entry or you should show us the *:443 Entry to try to help you more specifically. 

it seems you have the vi or vim editor as default and this was used by dpgk. You can quit the merge window with: