Part I: Humans would migrate and settle Humans are remarkably adaptable to radically different environments; most other large animals aren't. We would instinctively or even incidentally take advantage of that. Ravenous tropical/subtropical predator that relentlessly hunts humans? Nomadic populations would migrate towards the poles, settling in freezing arctic climates. Dressing themselves in thick hides and furs, and hunting lesser arctic wildlife, humans would soon adapt to an arctic way of life, while the bone-chilling cold would deter any significant incursion. Polar bears on steroids? The reverse would happen; humans would move into dense tropical jungles and arid desert areas where the creature's fur and fat that enable its survival in arctic regions would rapidly exhaust and kill it. Humans would wear minimal clothing and develop lightweight and portable shelters; in arid climates water would become a commodity. Vicious jungle beasts? As with the bears, humans would find arid climates to their liking. Storage of water and development of temporary/portable shelters would allow them to adapt, while the unavailability of water would swiftly dehydrate the (likely high metabolism) predator. The only advantage it might have here is if it discovers that humans have water skins, and swiftly tracks from settlement to settlement, tearing into their water supplies after attacking to rehydrate. Part II: Humans would kill the predator Once humans settled in a climate hostile to the predator, they would have time to start developing more advanced tools (including activities such as mining and smelting, to start producing metals)... and sooner or later their collective interests would turn towards killing the predator. I would be entirely unsurprised if unrelated settlements (which would naturally evolve into villages and then cities over the course of generations) start getting the same idea in different geographic locations, and then begin fighting back, squeezing the predator population from multiple sides until it eventually collapses. Thanks to communications skills, storytelling, and eventually the written word, humans would definitely hold a grudge against this one animal they cannot dominate or domesticate, and as technological advancements bought them more free time they would devote that time to conquering the beast. Between the human ability for strategization and group tactics, and development of specialized hunting tools and traps, sooner or later it would find itself on the losing end of the dominance order. Part IIIa: The predator would go extinct Due to the long and antagonistic relationship between humans and this super-predator, once humans developed the technology and strategy to fight back, they would likely make concentrated pushes against it, focusing on destroying nests/killing young. Initially it'd just be to reduce the thread posed, but once we securely have the upper hand there's no reason to leave it to chance, and we'd continue pushing until it posed no threat any more. At best, if we've evolved socially and technologically far enough by this point, we might keep a few specimens captive in zoos, and the beast would live on in stories told to keep little children in line. OR... Part IIIb: Humans would domesticate it Humans like to put animals to use. Whether raising them for food, transportation, or other utility -- even sport, humans have a long and rather successful history of domesticating animals. As soon as they finished with Part I, they would probably start domesticating lesser animals, and eventually some industrious humans would get the bright idea to start domesticating the super-predator. Some cultures might domesticate it for sport, pitting them against one another. Others would domesticate it for defense or war, unleashing them on the enemy to cause major casualties or at least serious distractions. Still others might train it as a hunting animal -- if it were successful enough at hunting resourceful humans, it no doubt has attributes well suited for hunting. Repurposing these hunting and tracking skills to exterminate lesser threats (wolves, coyotes, and others that interfere with domestic livestock), counter greater threats (any wild super-predators still surviving), or hunting wild prey (tracking and perhaps chasing big game) could prove very useful to advancing human civilizations. 

Humans deploy a neurotoxin insecticide. Before killing the insects, as the neurotoxin wreaks havoc on their primitive nervous systems it drives them to burrow back to where they collected the antimatter before dying, so the destabilization of their containment and the reaction (if any) does not occur on the humans' planet. The insects have effectively been neutralized without armageddon. 

You could go with high naturally-occurring levels of mercury -- possibly cinnabar (mercury (II) sulfide)? A high enough concentration of this would be lethal to outsiders, but local flora and fauna have evolved various adaptations to it, in weird and twisted ways. Perhaps some plants have developed mercury storage pods that elemental mercury is diverted to as it metabolizes the compounds from the soil, and these pods periodically burst -- perhaps in windy or rainy conditions, to disperse the mercury away from the plant -- in beautiful but very toxic displays. Maybe some other plants metabolize the mercury into methylmercury and circulate it through their leaves and stems as a toxin to thwart predation. Methylmercury poisoning symptoms include numbness in the extremities, loss of balance, blindness, muscle weakness, insanity, coma, and death. The flora and fauna of course look alien to the rest of the world as a result of their warped evolution. Anyone who lingers in the area too long will end up inhaling large amounts of atomized or gaseous mercury from the pods, and of course anyone who eats a mercury-circulating plant (or insect/animal) will quickly be poisoned as well. Some may enter for a mere day or two, and come back with lesser to moderate symptoms (weakness, blindness, etc); those who stay in the area a few days will often return insane, and/or fall comatose shortly after returning. The brave (and/or stupid) few who try to stay in or travel through the area for more than a week or so are never seen again, having rapidly accumulated mercury in their systems, falling comatose or dying while in this toxic environment. 

Lightning Ants Reading some comments and answers on here gave me another idea about how they do it -- and explains why glass ant colonies taken into captivity never seem to recreate their unique glass tunnels even in ample-sized sandboxes (pardon the pun): Lightning rods. Finding a place to call home When a new queen seeks to build a colony, she takes a couple hundred (maybe a thousand or two?) worker ants with her. They leave the nest at the first sign of precipitation; this has a threefold benefit: 

Expanding upon what @John answered, wide doors are a necessity; additionally, because their legs are to the sides of their bodies, they will need wider hallways and such as well. Until hydraulics are invented (for a slow-closing door), there would probably be few actual hinged doors, as they would be awkward to close behind oneself, and if the doors were not hung perfectly evenly, the door would try to close on their legs. For most dwellings, I would envision heavy or beaded curtains as interior doors, and sliding doors for the exterior (a primitive form would just be wood/stone/etc slabs with an indented "track" for them to slide in). Regarding general architecture, since this species is likely adept at climbing due to their physiology, their society would likely start building vertically (multiple floors etc) as soon as the stone age, where dwellings might consist simply of holes carved into a cliff face, one on top of the other. This early adoption of vertical structures would allow them to quickly learn how to build load-bearing supports, and you would likely see arches and pillars featuring prominently in the architecture, and these supports would be the place for architects and even societies in general to express and distinguish themselves. The species might tolerate lower ceilings than we generally do to conserve space and materials, since they require a greater floor space to have human-equivalent activities. A family of four of these creatures (assuming human height and proportionate leg span as per your render) eating dinner together would not be comfortable in what we'd consider a moderate-sized dining room of maybe 11x15 feet. Space could also be saved on stairwells for multiple levels, as you could just have holes between the levels with rough wall surfaces to assist climbing (consecutive holes would not be vertically aligned though, to reduce the risk of injury in case of a fall). Outdoor "climb walls" would probably be more prevalent than outdoor stairs are for us, as it would provide easy access to the upper floors of a structure from outside. There may still be indoor holes/climb walls so they don't have to go out in the elements to go between floors (as well as for security/etc), but outdoor alternatives might seem more appealing. As mentioned by @John, floor surfaces should be coarse and/or soft. Depending on the technology level, loose gravel might make an ideal floor surface for a primitive race, and this might evolve to mortared gravel to create a bumpy surface with rough spaces in between, while eliminating the issue of gravel getting pushed around/kicked up/thrown by children or miscreants. Chairs would not have backs; cheaper or more primitive chairs would simply be pedestals to rest their abdomens on, while more advanced chairs would be curved on the sides, and possibly slightly curved up toward the front to provide support to the upper abdomen and "hip" region (the part that resembles a pelvic bone). On the topic of furnishings, tables would be smaller relative to the room size than we're used to, because a large table in the middle of the room can easily prove unwieldy to navigate around. For this reason you might see tables situated against the walls more often than in the center of the room. 

Even if someone attempts to hijack the armored car as it leaves its origin point, since a monk has teleported out with the goods as soon as the car's doors are closed, the hijacker gets nothing because there's nothing in the car. Similarly, if they try to hijack the destination armored car, since the monk and goods aren't in it until the delivery point, they get nothing (in which case you advise the recipient of a delay due to an attack, but assure them that the goods are secure and will be en route shortly) If the shipper puts a tracker on the package, the tracker effectively blinks out of existence as it's loaded on the truck (shielding preventing it from transmitting anything) and since the secure facilities are shielded too, the tracker continues to fail. Once it's offloaded from the destination truck (basically as soon as the doors are opened) a tracker can communicate with the relevant satellites/cell towers/etc, but it looks like the package just "appeared" at its destination at the appropriate time. 

High-Value Secured Shipping Get an initial investment to purchase a few armored cars; make sure the backs of the cars are windowless, and have Faraday cages as well to help thwart tracking. At various points across their "shipping area", buy plots of land in out-of-the-way places and build vaults that amount to bomb shelters; be sure to build Faraday cages into their construction to continue to thwart tracking devices. Post regular guards outside the vaults, but once the vaults are built, the door should be sealed from the inside (welded, and then ~1-2 feet of concrete poured behind it). Now you have secure storage facilities. Adding in Ister's excellent suggestion, the cars would have a small "antechamber" with a normal guard -- just enough room for the guard to sit during the ride; beyond that would be a vault. You could also have bulletproof windows in this section, so the guard can be aware of the surroundings in the event of an attack. As soon as the valuable goods are loaded into the vault and the vault doors are closed, a monk would teleport into the back, and back out to the nearest secure storage facility with the goods; optionally, a second monk would teleport in a dummy package. If the goods are particularly heavy and/or need to traverse exceptional distances, the monks can "bucket brigade" them from secure facility to secure facility (i.e. monk 1 teleports from armored car to facility 1, monk 2 at facility 1 takes it and teleports to facility 2, monk 3 at facility 2 teleports to facility 3, then monk 4 at facility 3 teleports onto the destination armored car. Now the trick here is, the goods get stopped at the final secure facility for an appropriate amount of time, to simulate actual transit of a vehicle. Only when it's reasonable for a series of armored truck transfers to have made it to the destination city do you actually dispatch the delivery truck to the destination. On the receiving end, the driver would be driving an utterly empty armored car. As the car pulls up to the destination, once the recipient has been sighted and ID confirmed, a signal is broadcast to the final monk, who teleports into the vault with the goods and back out, just before the vault is opened and the goods are tendered. The vault would be secured electronically, and once the monk is safely out, they'd transmit the unlock signal so the guard in the antechamber could open the vault (so it's not inadvertently opened before/while the monk is popping in and out). With this method: 

* Individual worker ants are about 15-20mm in length, and the expedition's initial estimates suggest that the towers are comprised of 500-800 ants and the height and diameter is roughly relational to how many total ants the new queen was able to recruit. Naturally, more recruits means a taller and stronger tower, which improves the tower's chances of successfully getting hit by lightning to form their new home and thus improves the colony's chances of survival. 

The coming rains will ensure the queen and her "borrowed" workers stay hydrated while they seek an adequate location for a nest. Rainfall is frequently accompanied by lightning storms... and this is how they start their new nest. Once the nest has been formed, rainfall collects in reservoirs at the bottom of the nest to provide a source of moisture as well as maintain ambient humidity in the nest. 

Offer a 100% door-to-door guarantee, too: "From the moment our truck's doors are closed at the origin to the moment they are opened at the destination, if anything happens to your shipment we will reimburse you ten times the declared value of the shipment." This way if there happens to be an attack at the origin or destination, where the item is actually exposed, it's technically not covered under the guarantee. Beyond that, the shipment isn't anywhere accessible by even the most sophisticated of thieves or crime syndicates (assuming your monks don't get compromised of course) so no one will ever be able to cash in on this guarantee. Extra layers of obfuscation and security Have false "secure facilities", with warehouses/garages. Armored trucks go in, armored trucks come out. Anyone trying to follow the truck just sees it go in, then they don't know whether the package of interest has been transferred to another truck, or what's happened. To save money, these could actually be built on top of the actual secure facilities, with the (sealed) entrances contained within, as well as the appropriate ventilation systems to ensure fresh, safe air in the vault. This also allows you to post armed guards around the facility to protect the ventilation systems, while providing a ruse that the guards are just protecting your valuable shipments. Keep dummy packages on the trucks. Put a duplicate label (from the actual deliverable) onto a dummy package, except with a small identifier that it's the dummy, and actually ship the dummy package via your armored car network. Won't would-be attackers be disappointed when they get a box of rocks! The duplicate labels can perhaps have a component printed in UV sensitive ink, so black lights in the trucks and secure facilities can help differentiate the actual packages and prevent mishaps where a dummy package ends up getting delivered instead of the real deal. Well, both labels would have a UV label, but you'd have a convention where maybe the dummy packages have a number printed in UV that ends in an odd digit, while the real packages have the same number but ending in an even digit. Have a full armed security escort on the trucks and at the dummy facilities at all times; make it look like you're using this to protect the packages; plus, if someone does attack a truck (or facility) you can put up an honest show of defending it (even if you're not actually defending the secured goods). The security folks can be mundane people -- any private security firm or internal hires of "normal" people. They'll never be inside the backs of the trucks or the actual (or dummy) secured facilities, so they'll never see what's going on. In the unfortunate event of an attack, you're not risking the loss of a valuable monk (reducing the organization's teleport capabilities), but just the usual risks associated with armed/armored transport (you have insurance for your guards right?) For maximum security, since ventilation is the only potential avenue of risk here, have massive pressurized air tanks buried adjacent to the vault (and sealed in concrete); if the air intake systems detect any contaminants (biological or chemical agents) they seal off the outside airflow and can keep a nominal supply of fresh air flowing into the vault for hours or even days via the tanks, and scrubbers can help recycle air within the vault (removing excess CO2) for even longer operational periods without outside air. Once the air is determined to be clean again, compressors can refill the storage tanks as needed. Periodically cycling air in the tanks is probably a good idea too, because stale air sucks :P Cheers to Ister who suggested the inner vault and guard in the truck, to cover things up in the event of an attack (i.e. "we saw someone go in the back of the truck but now it's empty!" -- having a guard in there and not having the monk do the teleport until the vault is sealed avoids that).