I would advise to not use your child for weight resistance training. Who will spot you? How about just play with your kid. 

Edit: Also, if you have recently lost a lot of weight, you may have extra skin. This will eventually tighten over time. However this is another reason people get plastic surgery - because they're impatient. 

If you want to make gains like a 20 year old, you'll have to have the testosterone and estrogen levels of a 20 year old. On the surface, this doesn't answer your question... but it does, please follow: Your first question is, "How much muscle/strength could I really expect to gain over age 50?" I am not sure that this is answerable. In what way would you like to measure it? The second question is, "can I make great gains?" This is also an opinion question, I believe you'll make great gains but will you believe that they're great gains? The third question is, "no gains?" This one I can answer, YOU WILL MAKE GAINS. As @rrirower pointed out, gains will be slower than you remembered but they will happen. I know bodybuilders who NEVER competed or took the sport seriously until they were eligible for the masters class - and they did well. The fourth question is, "expect to lose as I age?" If you maintain an active lifestyle, your body will be forced to maintain as well. You'll only "lose" when your body doesn't feel that it needs the muscle anymore (because you're not lifting) which it will then burn for energy, just as we burn fat and muscle for energy in a caloric deficit (diet). Therefore, you will make gains. I hope you will be patient enough to accept them as great gains. 

Added 2/27/14 I just wanted to point to the Moov - COMPANY LINK HERE, Amigo, move over! :) The Moov is awesome. 

You grow when you sleep. When I was competing I would take simplysleep to make sure that I got 9 - 10 hours of sleep a day. IMHO, sleep is only second to eating in terms of growing muscle. Ironically lifting weights is a distant 3rd, especially in terms of willpower. Anyone can lift weights. Few can get enough sleep. Fewer can stick to a diet. As much as our minds won't allow it, our bodies love a consistent routine. Eat every 2 hours, work out in a routine as scheduled (same time), and go to bed at the same time and wake at the same time - and preferably not by an alarm clock. Your body doesn't really care that it's the weekend, your mind does. 

Yoga will help with balance (coordination) and stretching. I'm almost confident that it will not "fix" muscle strength imbalances alone. However there are many benefits from yoga which would enrich your life. So, my answer is, "it won't hurt but it will not fix your concern by itself." 

For your specific task (calculating burned cals), no matter what fitness band you choose, it's still a calculation to figure out how many calories you've burnt. With any calculation, there's a level of tolerance and you need to be able to accept the tolerance. If you're just worried about the number of calories burned, you could calculate it yourself and be pretty close. With that said, a fitness band is an awesome accessory to help you reach your goals. But what are your expectations? Your question is regarding weight lifting, but your inner question is about calculating calories burned. For weight lifting, you'll find almost no benefit from the FitBit Flex or Force - but they may be helpful for overall fitness. Some of the most important metrics (IMHO) are missing in a lot of them - such as temperature and heart rate. Buying a band now instead of later may mean that you're just going to buy one later as well as you'll want the features of the newer models. I won't try to regurgitate the information in some REALLY good blog posts about the subject, so I'll link them here: 

You can really work out as many days per week and you want. Any specific recommendations on how much and often will depend on your goals. 

I rested for about 3 weeks, then started doing some cardio (on an elliptical) daily for a week. Yesterday I started working out again and things seem to be moving forward again. I just need to make sure I don't overwork my lower back muscles again. It just took some time of rest to heal. 

So many people say Saturated Fats is bad for you and you shouldn't eat too much fatty meats or dairy because they lead to high cholesterol. Everyone just takes this as fact without asking for proof. Does anyone know of any studies that show proof of this? If someone eats a number of calories that are equal to or less than their daily caloric needs, does the amount of Saturated Fat in their diet really make a difference? Additionally, body fat is saturated fat. So, if I'm burning my own fat, isn't that just like eating the same amount of calories worth of saturated fat as I have burned? What's the difference. Please post links to sources with your answers. Thanks. 

Red meats such as Steak and Salmon do contain some creatine and provide a natural source. However, much of the creatine is destroyed from the heat as a result of cooking the meat. At what temperature is the creatine destroyed? Can you cook steak medium and still have creatine, or does it need to be rare? Also, when cooking salmon, does the creatine get destroyed if you cook the internal temperature of the meat to 140F as recommended? I am pretty much wondering how practical it is to actually get a little extra creatine from eating red meats. Links to sources would be greatly appreciated. 

$URL$ I like to think of it this way: Resistance training strengthens your arms, legs, etc. and Cardio strengthens your heart; which is really more important if you think about it. If you have a low calorie diet without any exercise you will likely loose muscle mass due to your body burning protien (muscle) as well as fat. If you do at least some moderate exercise it will keep your body from feeding off muscles (which may include the heart!) 

I have read that Creatine must be taken with juice, such as Grape juice, because the sugars help it get absorbed by the body. Is this true? Also, what time is it best to take Creatine? Before or After working out? First thing in the morning? Also, what cycling interval should be used? Is 8 weeks on, 4 weeks off, ok? Or is 4 weeks on and 4 weeks off better? 

There are a few reasons that could cause your muscles to be shaky after exercising. One likely cause is Low Blood Sugar and this can be fixed by having a small snack/drink that contains a little carbohydrates. You'll likely want to try this after your spin session to give you a boost to keep you going for your resistance workout after. $URL$ 

Is it really necessary to do Creatine Loading when first starting to take it? Or, doesn't it really matter? 

Both muscles may not be of equal strength and ability. If you work them equally you may be able to even them out. This is definitely normal. 

You could work on improving overall core strength and doing different variations of pushups (standard, military, wide, decline, etc). Work at increasing strength and eventually working up to one armed pushups. Remember, you are doubling the weight that your arm must push when doing a single arm pushup as compared to a two arm pushup. That's like if you normally curl 30 lbs. at 8 reps and then suddenly start trying to curl 60 lbs; you will strugle. Increasing strength isn't the only option to making them easier, but sheding unnecessary weight (fat) will also help. I don't know what your body fat percentage is, but if you lower your body fat percentage it should make it easier for you to do pushups. 

For point #1, "Does sex lower testosterone?" For that I point to this article on Examine.com. which is far more cited and scientific than that Tiger Fitness article. It does note that men who are abstinent for three weeks see a slight increase in overall testosterone levels. It does not seem to effect the amount of testosterone that's in the blood. The overall summary states: 

Lifting weights requires energy. The better you get at weights, the more weights you have to lift. The heavier the weights gets, the more energy it requires to lift them. The more energy you need to expend, the better conditioning you need to be in order to expend it. Good conditioning helps you not get exhausted as easily which helps with recovery between sets. Cardio conditioning has also shown to help recovery between workouts. 

I addressed this in this question. I basically state that not only is cardio not killing muscle gains, but not doing cardio would possible hold you back. The things that could hurt your progress to gain muscle are: 

I am unaware of any studies that conclude genetic potential exists as any formal study would take decades to do (even then may be impossible to do properly). However, it is generally regarded that everyone has a certain performance limit they are capable of, and the closer you get to the point, the harder fitness becomes. Some people have very low genetic potential while some people have very high genetic potential. There are multiple factors that could limit performance such as (but not limited to): 

The ankle is mostly comprised of bone and tendons. There's no way to make it bigger unless you got so fat that your body stored fat at the foot and ankle. 

Think of it from a survival stand-point. To your body, working out is an environmental hazard that it has to adapt to. For example, it doesn't equate bench pressing as "a workout" or "an exercise". It just knows that, for whatever strange reason, you need to bench press a lot. It needs to adapt to this environment where you bench press a lot, so it increases its ability to bench press so that it can better handle this environment and increase your chances of survival. Normally, you would not get to dictate when you need the ability to do something. You either are capable of doing it or not. So in this bizarre reality where you're constantly bench pressing, you need to be prepared for it as soon as possible. You would (to your body) risk serious harm or death if you couldn't do something because your muscles were too sore from the previous day. Now, the reason why things hurt like crazy at first is the body doesn't necessarily want to be in this environment. It takes energy to be adapted to such things, so it wants to use that energy to adapt to the environment that it's currently in. 

Rapid increases in weight over a night is usually caused by water retention. Various things can cause the body to hold more water for longer, so the overall body weight goes up. The effect can last a few hours to a couple days depending on the cause. The most common culprit is salt because restaurants love putting salt on everything. It also makes you thirsty so you drink more. Starchy carbs like potatoes will also cause water retention. A secondary cause is you may be underestimating the portion size of the meal. Eyeballing portions is a learned skill which is why some people will actually bring mini scales. Restaurants sometimes also add oils that go unaccounted for. 

I have yet to see anyone actually use it. From what I can tell, the point is to hang weights off the sides and they swing at each rep. The idea (I guess) is to make the bar unstable. However, it seems to me that, as it pertains to strength training, using a bar like this would either have too much weight to be safe or not enough weight to be very effective. What use does this type of bar have? What would be an effective way of using it?