If a bottle gets to the point where it smells or tastes unpleasant, the steriliser/cleaner sold for home brewing works really well. IT's meant for use on a wide range of plastics. Mix with warm water, soak for a few minutes with a bit of shaking, then squirt out through the mouthpiece. Rinse well with fresh water. It works well on hydration bladders (though the instructions for the bladder may say not to; they'd like you to throw it away and buy a new one). 

Having ridden near Bristol this morning in a similar forecast gust speed, I'd say you're right to be worried, but keeping aware of the wind direction and speed can make a huge difference. For example: passing side roads on your left, if the wind is coming from the left, you may want to aim slightly towards them so that you get blown back towards the middle of your lane (swap left/right for US readers). Considering my ride this morning: I was lining up for a left turn at a T, then was suddenly closer to a right turn position as the gust coincided with me leaving the wind shadow of a house. That was probably a sudden smack of 45mph wind broadside on, I'm tall and ride a hybrid with a rear pannier, and tend to sit up tall approaching that junction to see better (also loose clothing, so close to worst case). It probably moved me 1-1.5m sideways. I was already braking and unclipped. If you're already riding in the middle of the lane you're in a good position. But don't forget that when that wind is in your face you'll be doing something like walking pace, so you have to balance your right to the road with the behaviour of drivers, and that balance is shifted both because of your reduced speed and the worse-than-normal effects of close passes. Taking the lane, but not slightly left of centre would make a big difference here. Also: 

While the sustrans website can get a little behind, they're normally pretty prompt to announce route openings. And they say it isn't yet. But you should be able to plan a route to link the sections that are open -- after all, much of it is planned to be on road anyway. Even with a signposted route it's unwise to rely on the signs, especially in urban areas. The signs are small and easily missed if you're concentrating on the traffic. I've been caught out by this on NCR4. So I suggest spending some time with maps first (cyclestreets, Google, or paper). Cyclestreets shows gaps in the route, and doesn't use all of what does exist; this is based on openstreetmap data which I would expect to be reasonably up to date on a major bike route. 

If you take the clothes in to work when you're driving anyway the tools etc. should fit in one or more of [saddle bag/triangle bag/top-tube bag] (the last of these is nice for a smartphone as well). Removing the panniers and rack will reduce drag as well as weight, and at these speeds drag is important (don't forget the 24km/h is an average including stops and slowing down for bends etc.). For commuting on "fairly smooth" stuff like most towpaths, slicks may be going too far, but tyres designed for touring may be better than what you've got (the stock tyres on hybrids vary a lot, you could tell us what yours are). If you're buying new tyres anyway, go for anti-puncture -- on most roads the average commute over a few months will be quicker because the loss of time to a puncture is so much more than to the weight/rolling resistance penalty. Without changing your bars or going for a road bike you may find a slightly more tucked position beneficial (by adjusting the stem or tilting riser bars forwards). Tucked vs. upright on my hybrid makes about 10% difference in downhill peak speed in a test I did recently, so a marginally more aerodynamic position might gain you a few minutes if you're equally efficient. As for pedals, I recently switched to SPDs for commuting. The benefit is marginal if you have a lot of stops unless you can track-stand or clip in very fast -- clipping in causes a slight delay but then you can accelerate harder. You could consider half-clips -- I wish I had. These will help stop your feet sliding around and may fit cheaply to your existing pedals. They're basically toe-clips without straps, and won't let you pull-up, but the benefit of this is still under debate. If your commute is an hour by bike and half that by car, you might find that knocking a few minutes off would mean you could happily ride twice a week, then you'd get (bike-)fitter, saving a few more minutes. Once a week is actually hard, 2-3x is good in terms of tiredness and perceived effort. 

On top of Criggie's answer there's another practical reason: camber would increase the width of road taken up while simultaneously decreasing the usable width. When towing I'm already very aware of how much road I take up (especially around potholes) and would need a quite compelling reason to increase this further. 

You might want to look into convertible backpack panniers. Mine is a little small by your standards but comes in a bigger version. It's cheap and not hard wearing so I wouldn't recommend it, but when I was looking there were proper bike luggage brands selling comparable bags with better mounting hardware. Since I posted this a year ago, the options for convertible panniers have got better. 

If you have set of identical riders, and one rider puts a slower tyre on, they will lose if no-one gets a puncture (let's simplify and assume a time trial so we can ignore effects of the peloton). Anti-puncture tyres are slower as seen in R. Chung's answer. Of course for a real race of merely very similar riders who may be having good or bad days, it's not quite as clear cut, but it undoes a lot of the marginal gains that are so popular. Punctures in races are actually quite rare. The only time an anti-puncture tyre would come into its own is if all the other riders suffer punctures. For a normal road race, that would require sabotage. Here's an old article that might be of interest.