A bit more information - total plagiarism from Q&A: what earthquake science can tell us about North Korea’s nuclear test. 

One of the issues with adding sulfur dioxide to the air is that it produces acid rain, which in the past has had a detrimental effect on forests. This was a major issue during the 1960s to 1990s and it is still an issue. One area that was badly affected, and is still dealing with the effects of acid rain is the Black Forest. 

Chlorine and fluorine oxides, produced by stratospheric photolysis (sunlight induced decomposition) of Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) also contribute to the depletion of ozone. During the southern winter, Antarctica is predominately dark due to the lack of sunshine. With no sun light photolysis of CFCs does not occur. During the southern summer when Antarctica is continuously sunlit CFCs decompose, further reducing ozone levels within the polar vortex. 

To add to Gordon's answer, Cyclone Twenty-five was also called Cyclone Raquel and it was an "off-season" cyclone, as the following reported in the news. It was the first cyclone recorded in the region during July. The synoptic weather map the region on that day was 

Just by looking at a treeless region it would be difficult to know whether it was naturally treeless or whether the lack of trees was due to human actions. The history of the region would need to be known. In Scotland, due to the extent of glaciation during the last ice age some of the ground was scoured, leaving bare rock when the ice finally melted. With soil removed there is little opportunity for trees to develop deep roots and establish forests. Loss of soil can result from natural causes and human actions. The area around Queenstown, Tasmania, in Australia is now denuded of trees due to a combination of logging and sulfuric acid rain from smelter fumes that killed the then existing trees followed by heavy rainfall washing away the soil from the steep terrain. One of the best ways to tell if an area is naturally bare is to leave it allow for at least several decades so that no humans can do anything to it. If trees naturally return to the area, that area once was capable of having a forest. If trees do not grow, the area either never had a forest or it has been so badly degraded that trees can no longer grow there. Despite the environment carnage experienced by Queenstown, Tasmania during the 19th and 20th centuries and the subsequent lack of soil, if left alone, trees will try to grow in the area. 

This is adding to Dawn's answer. If you want to check your pressure readings against those of the synoptic charts, use the equation: $P$ $=$ ${\rho}gh$ Where: 

According to Physicalgeography.net the bifurcation ratio is the ratio between the number of stream segments in one order and the number of stream segments in the next order. Horton saw that the bifurcation ratio was always around 3, this he called the Law of Stream Numbers. Apparently a bifurcation ratio of 3 also applies to plant roots, branching of woody plants, veining in leaves and the human circulatory system. I get the impression that without knowing about it, Horton was laying some ground work for fractal mathematics that came to prominence in the 1980s, with the work of Benoit Mandelbrot. With the Law of Stream Lengths, the average length of stream for each order is calculated, then cumulate lengths found before length ratios between segment orders can be calculated. Colorado State basic hydraulic page has a more mathematical approach to explaining Horton's Laws, but it's very good. It gives a worked example of how to determine the all the coefficients. Additional information is also on this site as well. 

There is no basis in logic to have to subtract a day due to a change in the prime meridian. Both the Julian & Gregorian calendars require days to be added, not subtracted. It's why we have leap years. Also, both the Julian & Gregorian calendars were established centuries before the prime meridian was set in the 19th century. The formula for adding days & creating leap years was set long before the prime meridian was even contemplated. 

Geoscience Australia has very little information about Coobina. Some more information from Geoscience World and Research Gate. 

One measure that could be used is the apparent temperature, which combines air temperature, humidity and wind speed to derive the temperature that the human body feels. It is sometimes referred to as the "feels like" temperature or the Steadman temperature, after Robert Steadman who proposed the idea in 1971. The formula used by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Agency, for calculating the apparent temperature is: 

The database with the negative longitude angles is storing longitude as eastings and westings, whereas the other database is storing everything as eastings. It appears you prefer your data as eastings and westings. Your methodology for changing eastings greater than 180 degrees to westings is correct: where the longitude angle is greater than 180 subtract 360 from it (i.e. longitude angle - 360). 

The word xenolith (from ancient Greek, meaning stranger stone or foreign rock) is used to describe stones entrapped with an igneous matrix. However, as the reference states, 

This question is more about surveying than earth science. Every country with an ocean coastline determines it's own standard for where sea level is. A mean point between the lowest tide mark and highest tide mark is generally taken to be the average sea level. A surveying datum station is place at that point and all elevations above sea level, for those countries are referenced back to the national standard datum. 

Rice production and yield, like any other agricultural crop depends on a number of factors. These include, but not limited to: 

There has only been one chromium mine in Australia - the Coobina mine, in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. It is located 80 km south east Newman (23 deg 29' 31" south, 120 deg 16' 32" east). The resource at Coobina is 1.5 Mt @ 29.4% Cr. 

Given that the length of a day on Earth has never been constant throughout its history it would be totally impossible to assign a year, month day or time of day for the commencement of the heavy bombardment period or any other event in ancient geologic history.