Rune-crosstalk While we perceive objects as being distinct from each other, with clearly defined boundaries, they are just collections of individual atoms. The inscribed runes affect the underlying mana and do not "know" the objects. Instead they affect all matter in a certain distance. Too many runes in one location and the runes of the sword starts interfering with the job of the runes on the ring, weakening both or creating new unforeseen effects. The power of the runes also extend to the wearer's body. This is usually fended off by the wearer's intrinsic mana/magic/soul, but too many runes and they start having unintended side consequences on the body. Both storywise and in RPG campaigns, you can have anything happen to a character "because too many runes". Also see: Crosstalk 

Paper citation: Consider now a hypothetical cube 12,000×12,000×12,000 km3, approximately the size of the Earth, with the same volume of water and atmosphere as found on the Earth, then we would approximately half fill each face with water and have an atmosphere approximately 100 km thick similar to what is assumed for the atmosphere on the Earth before reaching space. In this case then the corners and the edges of the cube, would be like vast mountain ranges several thousand km high, with their tips extending out into free space. It would therefore be very difficult to cross these mountain ranges and hence we would have six nearly independent habitable zones on each face. There would presumably be permanent snow on the sides of these vast mountain ranges and people would live around the edges of the oceans on each face in a fairly narrow habitable zone only about 100 km wide as the cube faces rise rapidly through the atmosphere. Unfortunately climbing the approximately 3000 km high corners does not result in an improved view because the surface is still fiat in any observed direction. However the corners, being in free space, would be very suitable for launching satellites. One would also have approximately sqrt(2) x 6000 km of downhill ski run from each corner, down to the centre of each face. In order to have a day night cycle we would also need the cube to be rotating. The sun would rise almost instantaneously over the face of a cube however, so that each face would need to be a single time zone and thus the cube as a whole would require four separate time zones, assuming the planet was rotating about the centre of an upper and lower face. The north and south faces in this case would be permanently frozen as they would receive no sunlight except that striking the oceans extending away from the surface of the cube, so there might be a permanent pool of liquid water at the two poles. Launching low orbit satellites around this cube needs special care in order to avoid certain orbital resonances that would create significant variations in the orbit. 

The mysterious builders of the robot watch from afar, unable to walk among the bees in their true form. 

Canals When you imagine a giant forest, it's not possible to do so without imagining substantial rainfall. The forest creates its own rainfall pattern, ala the rainforest but a dry-climate forest tends to burn down or the trees die. If you have a lot of rain, you will also have rivers. Whether it's a winding river like the amazon depends on the terrain, but there's going to be plenty of rivers and side-rivers. Boats will be the No. 1 mode of transport. If the humanoids have the time and resources for it, they can build canals and sluices to ferry themselves, livestock and other goods from their homes onto the main waterways. 

A detail that is relevant to world-building, is that Pluto and Charon are tidally locked. That is, they each face each other with the same side all the time, like how Earth's moon always shows the same face to us: 

About 10 metric tons or less per person (1 ton = 1000kg=2200 pounds) Several Controlled ecological life support systems have been tested on earth. NASA's BioHome system had air purification and waste treatment but no food production, so it sounds close to your specs. It served one person and was about the size of a mobile home. I've seen mobile homes being quoted at 13 metric tons, but if we make allowances for gains in efficency for larger facilities and use lightweight materials, ten metric tons seems an upper boundary. For comparision, the ISS weighs 420 metric tons and can see 10 people simultaneously at times, equalling 42 metric tons per person. You can imagine they could stock a lot more people in there if they ditched the science equipment for more air and waste purifiers. Also, the kind of space station you envision wouldn't be in low earth orbit, and so not need to boost its height regularly. There's equipment saved on that too. 

Odd-looking but Human-like robots In 2011, a civilization made first contact with a far more advanced alien species. As Samuel predicted in his answer, the contact took the form of a robot meant to mimick the denizens of the less advanced species. The robot in question was RoboBee, built by Tim Landgraf et al in a bid to learn more about the bee's language of dancing (2). Communication was one-way and only partly succesfull, yet a first-contact for the bees, in terms of communication. The experiment lends credence to the argument bowlturner makes under the above question, that aliens would mimick us to make themselves understood. In the case of bees, a bee-like body was essential to talk the "dancing language" of bees. 

Cape Le Grande - Lanzarote - Naples - England Start at Cape Le grande National Park in southern Australia. Follow the beach until you step along a beach on Lanzarote, which has a similar ocean, beach and dry reddish terrain. From the Lanzarote beach you make your way up to the fire mountains in Timanfaya national park. After a brief climb down one of the volcanoes you climb up again and find yourself descending mount vesuvius in Italy. Depending on how closely your world's Europe matches real-world Europe, your party could descend from Vesuvius to find some of the many ruins from the Roman empire. A temple, collonade, bath-house or mausoleum near Naples around AD 1000 - AD1500 will find its close likenesses anywhere from England, via France to South-East Europe. Here are some postcards from the magical party's travels: 

Interstellar trade works just like in the Stone Age: Through a lot of intermediaries for a long time Stone-age trading In Neolithic Europe, ornamental shells and amber were traded across the continent. A decorated shell made in Greece could be found buried with someone in Germany. No single individual travelled from Greece to Germany to trade goods. Instead these non-perishable goods were bartered among a host of intermediaries. The goods may have travelled across the continent in a few years, circulated back and forth over decades like coins do today or been in use for a lifetime before being reworked and traded further. Space-age trading To set up trade between say, Earth and Alpha Centauri, we have to assume that like in the Neolithic, there are many intermediaries. These would not be based on planets, but on wayward comets, generation ships, autonomous unmanned ships, etc. A precious object from Earth could be traded a dozen times over several centuries before making its way down to a planet in the Alpha Centauri system. This has several advantages: 

Peaceful scenario: 600 000. Action scenario: 12 million. Modern history shows that birth rates decline towards replacement level when things are going well. Picking a typical post-war western growth rate of 0.8 percentage per year, we get 600 000 people from a starting population of 5000. A more interesting scenario is where there is something causing people to have more children, in the face of good or at least increasing levels of health care. The population of England grew from 8.3 to 30.5 million people between 1801 and 1901, giving a growth rate of 1.3 percentage per year. That is: 8.3 * (1 + 0.01309)^100 = 30.5 If we apply the same growth rate to your scenario, we get 12 million in 600 years. 

Having secured your supply of hydrogen and oxygen, you need carbon to complete the list of three most important elements for life. You can find carbon in the atmosphere of mars and in asteroids, but it's perhaps more realistic that the carbon will come from methane (CH4) as you can extract energy by burning Methane. You can find this gas in several places, such as the top of Neptune's atmosphere, but landing on Saturn's moon Titan to collect liquid methane and ethane would perhaps be simpler 

Ok so the cities are close to each other, maybe a wall in between them, they are enemies but we're not seeing an all-out non-stop war either. Is this a reasonable scenario? Are you familiar with Jerusalem? 

Red line denotes the Israeli West Bank Barrier. Purple is Israeli settlements, yellow is palestinian areas. 

Yes maybe. There are real-world examples of commie-lite countries which are both democratic, has a state in control of a lot and where people's salaries are more equal than elsewhere. Some of the nordic countries were (and still are) what is termed "social democracies" which could be termed the democratic grandchild or cousin of communism. In the middle of the 20th century, (but no longer) you could find strong currents of "planned economy" in these countries, as opposed to market economy. This, as well as state-owned companies, is an example of the state controlling the economy. The nordic countries has also seen a smaller income disparity than e.g. the UK and the US. This would be an example of the "state dishing out in equal proportions" if only indirectly as a result of taxes, policies and industry ownership. The income disparity has been widening as the countries have embraced a more liberal market economy. The nordic countries have a low level of corruption. Meanwhile, in Latin America, you can find nominally democratic countries which at one point nationalized industries. This is also the state controlling the economy and even dictating the price of goods. But apart from recent re-distribution of wealth to the poorest of the poor in Venezuela, I don't think there's a lot of equality going around, there's plenty of corruption and dictatorship is their middle-name.