I have a Topeak "Road Morph" mini pump on my bike, and the pressure gauge on that is at best a distraction. The display is a bit of plastic sliding in a tube, so there's a lot of friction and that makes the pressure reading unreliable. It can stick anywhere, but usually it reads low, like yours does. That makes it useless for anything other than "is there air in my tyre", which I can answer more easily by squeezing the tyre. 

If your BB is this style, you might be able to cut the crank off, leaving enough of the bolt to weld on a small arm that will allow you to twist it out of the BB shaft. I would make cuts like this diagram, depending on which crank is affected - the one with the spider and chainrings is more tricky. I think you're trying for two things. First, if you can cut the weld and then cut the crank so it comes off the bike you win. If not, cutting it so you can remove the bolt then slide the crank off is also a win. Cutting into the axle means you lose, so the cuts shown try to avoid that. The middle diagram is supposed to be a sketch of a side view showing my guess as to how you'll need to cut the bolt head & weld off. Assuming you didn't just fill the whole bolt cavity with molten metal... in which case you're probably overheated the BB axle and you lose. 

Note that the nitrogen in a bicycle tube will not be in contact with the rim, so the silly motorist argument about less rim corrosion doesn't apply to bicycles at all. In compensation bicycles get a much simpler change-over: just deflate the tube, squeeze all the air out of it, then inflate it with nitrogen. No need for repeated inflate-purge cycles. But remember that the difference is only in the 20% of the molecules that you've changed from "other" to nitrogen, 80% are nitrogen in both cases. Also, due to the difference in percolation rates, over time the air in your tyres will slowly become more nitrogen-rich (the other gases percolate out faster than the nitrogen). If you get no punctures, after a few years your tyre might contain over 80% nitrogen! 

With the "wall hook" style that hang the front wheel it's less convenient, but you can put a block under the bottom bracket to push the rear wheel away from the wall and adjust the gears that way. Reaching the handlebars when the bike is hung up is only easy if you're tall, though, so it's not always an option. Many car racks can also be used this way. 

The area from above was 1290 mm², which we need to divide by 100² to get it in dm² for the volume calculations = 0.129 dm² 

It's not hard, but it helps if the welding person has a rotating jig (or a lathe) to keep things aligned while welding. If you can't do that I'd find a bit of bike tubing that slips over the steerer, then cut the steerer the middle and sleeve that tube over it, making two welded joints rather than trying to find a second, longer steerer and weld that on to the existing one. It's easier to keep it all lined up that way. 

A quick check around the interwebs ($URL$ took me to this site: $URL$ It looks very practical to use some sort of chain for what you want to do. Bike chain might work, might not, but the cog you're using doesn't look suitable for bike chain anyway. 

ideally dissolve the glue that holds the tube ends into the frame and pull the two tube ends out. if not, cut/grind/scrape them out clean up the lugs insert new tube dry and make sure the frame is exactly true in the jig pre-coat the lugs with glue coat the tube ends with glue insert new tube carefully make one last check that everything is true and correct wait :) 

Apparently they were invented by a guy called Florian Wiesmann who called his brakes "Wies-brakes", which sounds a lot like "V brakes" to an English speaker. In 1991 he made this brake: 

You might be able to get a rear rack to take the pack on one side, with the tent and everything else on the other. I've seen a Czech guy touring with that setup and he seemed to have been doing it for a while (you don't get to the middle of the South Island without riding for a while). He was in Aotearoa and did not seem to speak any English at all, but I have this photo: (via mozbike) Note that his bike also seems to be a cheap one, but he's had access to a welder to make up the pack mount/stand. 

Unsupported unicycle touring is not very common because it doesn't work very well - you really need to carry more stuff than can comfortably be carried in a backpack while unicycling, which limits the amount of time on the uni, which in turn limits how far you can go. As well, unis are slower than bikes which further limits distances. Towing a trailer kind of defeats the point of a uni, and makes the whole process very difficult. But that's what you need if you want to carry more than a days food and water. That said, people regularly manage 50-60km a day, so it is possible to tour. These two managed 3500km across Australia, and unicycle forums are where you'll find most of the details. 

(via $URL$ What I normally do these days is carry a mini tripod instead. I have tried a whole pile of different ones but eventually gave up and made one. It takes a standard, full size ball head and is almost flat - you could do the same just with a sheet of plywood and a bolt through that for the head, then three bolts down through the plywood as "legs". Mine has horizontal legs, two of which pivot so the whole thing folds into an L shape with the head poking out of the ~150mm long legs. I use ocky straps to tie that to poles or whatever when I want the camera high up, but mostly I just place it on a flat surface. It's made of a length of aluminium "square tube" about 15mm on a side and ~1.5mm wall thickness, and the centre is two bits of ~3mm plate cut to roughly T shapes. It doesn't weigh much. 

I think the photo is a bit misleading - even the 33.9mm diameter post-pump is only 580mm long. The smaller diameter ones are only 350mm long. So it's more of a compact high pressure pump than a proper floor pump. At $25 I expect it to be cheap and awful. A decent aluminium seatpost costs that much without the pump. I would be concerned that it would wear out, and parts would not be available. I have seen other types of seatpost pumps and the only one that seemed to work was a $100+ one built into the very long seatpost of a folding bike. The one I saw in a mountain bike combined the irritation of having a bike seat attached to one end of a bike pump with the poor build quality of a gimmick. From memory that one broke - and having your seatpost break is not a fun experience. They don't mention the weight - it's quite probably heavier than most combinations of seatpost plus pump. One problem with having the pump inside the seatpost is that you don't see it. So you're unlikely to maintain it, or even check it on a regular basis. One attached to the frame or in your toolkit is more visible. And unless there's a scale engraved into it, every time you pull it out you're going to have to readjust the height of your seat. I suggest looking at other sub-$25 bike pumps and thinking carefully about how cheap the pump part has to be for them to add a seatpost to the mechanism. 

I suspect you overheated the caliper so it expanded a little causing a leak. The smell was either plastic parts of the caliper or brake fluid burning off. Once it cooled a little your pumping the lever cause the self-adjusting feature of the brake to adjust to the loss of fluid. That's what makes me think it was fluid loss rather than the caliper itself being damaged. I strongly suggest you take the brake to a bike shop and have them service the brake - pull it apart, check for damage and bleed/refill the fluid. It's possible that the seals inside are damaged, and if they've become brittle from being heated they'll probably work ok for a while, before they shatter and stop working altogether. So it's worth having someone pull them out, play with them, then put them back. Or replace them, if they break from being handled. When you get the bike back do the normal brake test - squeeze the lever as hard as you can and make sure nothing gives way. It's better that it breaks now than when you're in the middle of a panic stop. I've had a similar experience with cable disks and they didn't seem to work any less well afterwards (they were poor to start with). I stopped because I wanted to know whether I could, as I could see black fluid bubbling out of my front brake caliper. When I got to the end of the ride I took them apart and they seemed ok. Since that was on a bike tour and they seemed to work I left them on the bike for another 2000-3000km, but once I got home I binned them. Thing is, if a brake fails after you took some parts out it's all your fault, even if you burned those parts out by over-heating the caliper. Perhaps especially if you did that. 

That means you have welded the threaded part of the bottom bracket axle, so that is now junk. Since you need a new bottom bracket, like Suspended User says just cut the shaft (on the red arrow below) and bin the parts. Get a new crankset and matching BB, plus the tools to install them. 

The key point, though, is that the side force is still present regardless of the shape of the section. You could have a perfectly flat plane and it would still experience the side force. And what matters to the rider is that the side force exists. Once you have that force, the above discussions of geometry applies. Where the force impacts and how that changes the balance and steering of the bike is what makes the wind hard to deal with. Whether there's a force-aft component to that force doesn't affect balance or handling. It's definitely possible that turbulence from the fork will mean that there's less lateral force on the wheel behind the fork. But the more streamlined the fork the less true that will be. For the bike you've pictured above there is no effect at all, since the "fork" is merged into the trailing edge of the wheel. Instead that bike will have the opposite effect - there will be more lateral force on the rear of the wheel because there is so much more surface area behind the pivot axis of the wheel (the head tube).