So the entire non-aryan policy can be summarized by following statement: those non-aryans who are harmless, can be integrated to future Germany if they don't take too much space from future German Reich. The thinking behind is, Hitler certainly didn't want slavic majority in the 1000 years Reich. To answer straightly your question: Bulgaria (as Hungary, Slovakia, Croatia, Finland) wasn't in the way of plan of greater Germany. The first world war's role of Hitler's allies weren't important. Just think about it: Italy, Romania, Bulgaria: they were all on the Antant side. Hitler had different idea than licking wounds, he sincerely believed he can make an agreement with UK for a long time, but it didn't happen. Hitler did politics to his own favour, he showed enough flexibility when it was neccessary to reach his goals. He even created alliance with soviets to divide Poland, gave back territories to Hungary, created puppet states where it was neccessary. 

Second picture is a Viking shield replica. There you can see an applied strap for carrying/apply on the arm, but the handle here has enough space to put a rope or strap in it, so even without the applied strap, it would be easily attachable to anywhere. 

In the Colonial Period, Europe had some ideas about the enlightenment that made slaves unpleasant to their sympathies. For that reason, despite the English having slaves in their colonies, you could become a free man by visiting Britain's shores (there were some interesting court cases related to this). More important to this era was poverty, which was a big issue in European cities. So there was no shortage of cheap labour; even with the dying out of serfdom. Serfdom lost popularity in Western Europe around the 1300s (though cases remained until the 1500s). The practice was continued in Eastern Europe for a lot longer, to try and fill the gap in the agricultural market that arose with the reduction of serfs. After the Napoleonic wars, serfdom mostly came to an end in Europe, save Russia. The place where a demand for cheap and harsh labour was in force, was in the colonies with their plantations. Recruiting people from the European homeland to farm this would've been difficult to convince them and expensive to pay them, so slaves were the economical way out. 

I wanted to comment, but an actual google search gave some sort of answer for me, maybe there will be better answers than mine, I see the practical side of the fastening problem. The handles are typically sort of "D" shaped where the straight side is the shield or some straps with two fixed points on the shield body having enough space between them for an arm or hand. The shape is ideal to apply independently from the shield any regular rope, leather strap to fasten it to your armour, or clothes and make it easily accessible. Let's see some examples: First picture is Arc d' Orange shield with handle. A strap would perfectly fit in, and could be used for fastening it to armour. 

The declaration says the king of Ur, Sumer and Akkad is de-facto word of Utu, the Sumerian Sun God, therefore it passes as a regulation of authority of the king. 

I am curious if are there any wars still going on because of anomalies of diplomacy like the following examples: 

Reportedly (from a source I cannot recall) the British had a very "interesting" guide about the Balkans. It had a sort of cheat sheet to the peoples around that area, with the stereotypical appearance, political views, and relations to other peoples in the Balkans. I saw an excerpt of this, but never managed for find a copy of this strange manual. Does anyone know any more details about it? 

Monotheism This does depend on the definition being used for monotheism, which there appears to be some confusion about. Originally monotheism implied there was only one God, and all religions were searching for that God (possibly erring in their perception of God). In this sense, Judaism is not monotheistic, as it says there is one God, but other religions are NOT searching for God, but are worshiping false gods. Judaism In the sense of the belief of there only being one God, however, the oldest recorded monotheistic religion would be Judaism and its precursors. The religion describes only one God, the mention of other deities being restricted purely to idols and to poetic script. Atenism Some have tried to say Atenism is the oldest religion, from 1350 BC to 1320 BC. The religion, however, did acknowledge other gods, but some have excused that detail for political reasons, the king being urged to admit other gods. Judaism never acknowledged any other gods, but is sometimes excused of this on the grounds the Jewish people often practiced multiple religions. No doubt there were worshipers of Aten who also believed in other gods, so I believe this point to be inadmissible. Dating Judaism and Moses You can take several possible dates for the beginning of the religion. Judaism itself is taken from Judah (יהודה), and the modern form of the religion (containing all the books of the Tanakh) would've began around 516 BC. The date of Moses formalizing the religion is commonly stated as 1250–1200 BC. The biblical record dates it as 1450 BC, which agrees with several archaeologists' findings. Several theories would push this date back to 1650 BC, contemporary with the Bronze Age Collapse of the Middle Kingdom of Egypt and the sacking of Canaan. (Source: Patterns of Evidence: Exodus) Ancient Precursors Regardless of how you date Moses, Abraham predates Atenism by centuries. There is no evidence to suggest Abraham believed there were many gods, the only accounts we have of him suggesting he believed in one God. The genealogy of the bible is a good example of this, where he and others recorded a lineage back to the first man, Adam, who himself was a monotheist as described in the religion. The fact these beliefs are contemporary back to the time of Abraham is confirmed by similar folk history, legend and religion across the world. Many people talk of a first man, of a great flood that wiped out the Earth, of eight people who survived on a boat and repopulated the world, from Polynesia to China. This would make Judaism and its precursors the most likely candidate for the first monotheistic religion. 

Gold value back in time compared to 1900's USD (backed by Gold) and then use inflation adjustment. Labour value between the two eras, first I would need to find out for example how many hours a roman peasant worked on the field in an average year and use it as base in comparasion to modern days work. property, land, etc... other methods (?) 

I decided to answer it even if briefly it is already answered by Semaphore and Pieter Geerkens The money itself not backed by any physical assets, to understand the current situation, the existing two answers contain the "Fiat money" definition, which is one big part of the story. The complete story is way bigger than it can be told in this single answer, but I will try to collect all vital, and useful information since I was interested in it for few years now. First of all, an official source: Modern Money Mechanics from Federal Reserve central bank (mostly privately owned bank), which tells us how money is created out of nothing (actually from some demand of money supply), which means unlike previous money system backed by gold or silver assets (or anything limiting factor) the money supply can be expanded theoretically to infinity (see Hyperinflation), but in reality people lose faith in currency by that time and start bartering. I would recommend lectures from documentaries like: Money Masters, or Chris Martenson's and Albert Bartlett's lectures available on youtube (the scope of theirs are broader than just money system). Also might be useful Mike Maloney's "Hidden Secrets Of Money", which contains a good part of monetary history. I wouldn't recommend Zeitgeist movie even if it contains valuable informations, it is sort of manipulative and you might get drifted far from the information which you are looking for. For summary: the standard of USD technically the faith of the people (not just US citizens, but foreigners too), which is losing rapidly in the past 10 years, for ex China started agreeing not using USD for international trades so far with 8 currencies (most recently EUR), and also there are serious debates on how to trade oil without using USD. 

Most people are familiar with the Stielhandgranate that appeared in 1915, and saw use in both world wars. The question I have, is whether it was the first of its kind, a stick-grenade? Were there no stick-grenade designs before it? This would be very surprising if it was the first of its kind, as stick-grenades seem like a simple technology (that is, an explosive attached to a long handle, for the purpose of throwing it farther). In particular, I could see it having great use to the grenadiers in the 17th century. Was it perhaps, because grenades in the earlier days of powder warfare were too heavy to make use of this design? 

I was looking up the income disparity today. What I got for America, was Food service could get as little as $18,000 annual income, while Lawyers got paid $140,000, surgeons $320,000, and Bill Gates made something between 2,600,000,000 and $11,500,000,000 annually. So Bill Gates earns over 600,000 times the income of the poorest job I could find. My question was how much of an income gap there was in medieval Europe, to compare? Were the Kings and merchant guild leaders earning 600,000 times what the day labourer was earning, in the middle ages? If you need the time narrowed down further, I was thinking from the years 1200 to 1400.