MTBR.com does a big review of lights every year; here is the one for 2015. They have a ton of useful information. 

Carbon fiber is strong. Really strong. The kinds of loads that your frame sees when you hit a pothole is far bigger than what you would get sitting on the bike. 

Your options to reduce the force on your knees are to reduce bike + rider weight or get lower gearing. If you have a standard road bike cassette, there are climbing cassettes that will reduce the gearing slightly (around 10% or so). Is it dangerous to your knees? Well, that depends on your personal physiology, how much force you are pushing, how much to you have trained for this, and how well your bike fits you. If you can do this without your knees hurting, you are probably fine. You might also consider standing up; this changes the mechanics a bit and mixes things up. When you stand up, make sure you slow down or you will spike your heart rate. Welcome to the steeps! 

Genetics Amount of training Type of training (if you train only for long periods, your ability to work hard at a high intensity will be low, for example). Recent training history (if you've trained a lot, you will have accumulated fatigue) Recent stress history Recent health or sickness Current mental state 

No. Between 2009 and 2010 the stanchion width increased by 3mm (so the spring followed), and the slider end of the 2010 spring is shaped to interface with the bottom of slider - whereas it isn't on the 2009 model. 

Stripping down the frame and regreasing the pivots won't do any harm, but certainly isn't necessary - I find it just makes getting the bearings out easier when they need replacing. Admittedly, after a wash I put a few drips of thick 3-in-1 oil inbetween each pivot - truthfully I have no idea if this does anything, but it probably stops water sitting in the bearing cavities for long periods. As for any other sealed bearing do not spray GT85, WD40, or any other water displacing fluid into them. They come pre-greased, and if the seal fails, it needs replacing. 

You seem to be forgetting the second-hand market, a grand can get you a fantastic 2-3yr old bike of any variety. If it was my money, I would much rather have a 2yr old bike that was worth £2.5K new, than a £1K new bike. Paint scratches don't affect the ride. 

I agree with the tips jimirings has stated, but if possible I would sell the Rockhopper and pick up a second hand jump bike - they're simpler bikes and park oriented ones rarely see the outdoors so tend to be in a better condition than their dirt brethren. The Rockhopper's geometry is wholly unsuitable for street/park riding, it's too tall, designed for 100mm forks, and has long chainstays; which all adds up to bike that doesn't want to bunny hop and struggles to to be 360-ed. It is designed for a completely different use and environment. And I say this with experience, I used to own one, and I also tried converting my sisters to a street style - absolute failure. 

For a given person at a given point in time, it is possible to determine what you are asking experimentally; for example, a runner can, over time, figure out their speed for different time periods. 

Well, the simple answer is that aerobars aren't very helpful unless you are riding at reasonable speed (say, >18MPH or so), but most people who ride at that speed would prefer to ride in a paceline, which gives more benefit than aerobars. Aerobars are unsafe in pacelines because riders cannot maneuver as well as being on the drop bars. 

There likely isn't much difference in performance. Some people do find that SPD cleats lead to "hot spots" (painful spots) on the balls of the feet; that's why I went to SPD-SLs. You might find a difference in platform height; IIRC the height of the SPD cleats + pedals is shorter than the SPD-SL. You'd want to adjust your seat height to deal with that. 

You can work on a pedal stroke that applies pressure for a larger portion of the rotation of the pedals. That will reduce the peak force that is causing the wheel to lift. 

The same way you would for any paint: find a swatch that matches it, or chip a bit off the bike, and then take it to a paint store and ask them to match it for you. If it's a modern bike of a decent manufacturer you could always drop them an email, and they might be able to give you the make and model of the actual paint they use. Also remember you will have to lacquer it afterwards, and that has an impact on it's final look. 

You will also need to make sure the eye-to-eye length is same as your current shock (that's the distance from the centre of the pivot hole in one end to the pivot centre in the other), and that the stroke length is the same. If either of these is wrong, it will change your bikes geometry and possibly even cause the rear tyre to bottom out against the seat tube. 

Just to add to the other answers: There are special tools, but they're just plastic wedges, so a flat blade screwdriver is fine. 

Personally I don't think there is general right or wrong answer, every situation is different. The above is just my take on what you have written. 

The short answer is "no", there are no charts or tables that can tell you this directly. There is a lot of variability that determines how hard a person can work out for a specific amount of time - a few of the factors include: 

You will not lose climbing strength if you work on your cadence; they are two different aspects of riding. My recommendation to increase cadence range is the following: 1) On a slight incline, choose a gear that is medium effort. 2) Over 30 seconds, increase your cadence until you are at your maximum smooth cadence (no bouncing). If your effort is too light, you need a higher gear; if it's too hard, you need a lower gear. 3) Hold for 30 seconds 4) Slow your cadence down for 30 seconds. Repeat three times. Do this once a week. This is primarily a neuromuscular exercise, so you don't need to do this too much. 

There are lots of different field tests approaches. I've been using the Carmichael one (two 9-minute full out TTs with a cooldown between them). 

The difference between 28 and 30 is only about 8%. If you climbed a hill at 70 RPM on a 28, you would only be riding at 75% on a 30, and your force would only go down a little bit. 

According to Boca, they are 3/16" for the front and 1/4" for the rear. I see no reason why you can't run ceramic bearings in them. 

Most MTB frame styles have roughly the same BB height, as everyone wants a better cornering bike and it's difficult to pedal over rough terrain anyway. The only exception I think of are pure downhilling frames, where a very low BB height is desired but to minimise pedal smashes, shorter crank lengths are the norm. Headangles tend to quite steep on most MTB frames even on very different styles, for example XC and dirt jump frames have similar headtube angles. Once again the notable exception are downhilling frames, which have very slack headangles; although this for improving stability when on steep descents (it's harder to go over the bars). The above is an oversimplification. In the real world the parts play off each other, and their characteristics will change as a bike moves through the rear travel (if it's got any of course). Also the above are frame characteristics; the length of stem, width of the bars, length of cranks, height of forks, etc. all play their part in the overall feel just as much as the frame does. 

Anaerobic training is without oxygen, so you are using the lactic acid energy system. This means to be going above 80% of your Max Heart Rate MHR (or above 8 on perceived exertion table (can barely talk)). If you are solely in the anaerobic region, you can only go for 2 mins (ish) at that intensity. This means you will need to be in between regions, so you are using both major energy systems (with and without oxygen) to last 7-8 mins (of last lap). If you are to use perceived exertion rather than heart rate you basically have to go hard out the whole time. You have said that you get gassed on the first lap i.e. perceived exertion is high, this could be due to an insufficient warm-up as Slovakok mentioned. This is where heart rate is helpful, it is accurate and tells you exactly what you are doing. Other wise, you could do one lap and get gassed then once you settle in start to go a bit harder to match the perceived exertion of the first lap. A good way to get into the anaerobic zone is to do interval training, maybe once a week you could do three laps with a rest in between each lap, go as hard as you can for one lap, then rest until your heart rate feels normal again, or you think you can repeat the effort (might be 5-10 mins rest), then next lap go hard again, then rest a similar time... The next week try to rest for less time and continue decreasing rest until you can do 2 laps at that intensity or something like that. Other things to try are hill sprints, plyometrics, time trials, and just training in the anaerobic zone as much as possible, also training's work differently for different people, so you need to find something which works for you. Basically you should set some goals for where you want to be in x weeks, and remember that to be able to race at anaerobic level you must train there as well. So just go hard or go home on that final lap i guess (in both training and racing). 

As someone who has given numerous dérailleurs smacks against rocks, which were light enough impacts to just be able to bend the cage back, but strong enough to split the jockey wheel - I'd say yes! 

It's pretty unlikely that anyone keeps a list of weights for all the available tyres by width. Your best idea is to download the datasheets of brands/models you consider good enough (quality wise) and then compare the weights. 

The bad news $200 won't get a new fork much better than the one you have now. The good news The second-hand market is full of a couple of year old forks that were originally twice that. Do your research Forks may look frighteningly full of tech, but they are designed to be serviced so the delicate parts are inside cartridges that can safely be removed. So if you see a fork you like on eBay for example, go to the manufacturers website and look at the servicing instructions - it will make your second-hand fork feel new again and only for the cost of new seals and some fork fluid (~$30). Play it safe 

You turn it on when riding on smooth surfaces or going up hill to improve pedal efficiency. It's hard to know if you will need it in advance because without riding the bike you won't know how well the suspension design handles pedal bob (the energy lost by the bike suspension compressing under pedal forces), try and get a test ride. 

I've run Rubino Pros for a few years. They aren't the lightest or fastest tire around, but they last very well and are pretty flat proof for my area (Seattle). 

Is the cleat tight on the shoe? If it can rotate at all, you won't be able to clip out. Are you rotating your foot outwards to unclip? When I first got my clipless I tried to rotate in, and that doesn't work too well. 

RideWithGps.com does exactly what you want; you can plot a route ahead of time and it will show you the elevation profile. 

Since it's on the inside of your thighs, it's a good bet that our seat is too wide, or not properly adjusted. A chamois crème will help, but I think the saddle change is a better idea. 

Hand-shift the bike onto a big cog on the rear by pressing on the derailleur as you spin the pedals. Tie the cable around the front cable stay on the downtube. Adjust as necessary to get the bike to hold a gear. 

I doubt you will find a way to do this; it would require a shoe with a pretty deep sole to recess the cleats into (that's what SPDs do). Note that the SPD-SLs are pretty similar to the Looks but much more walkable.