Few principles at play here. I'll keep it in simple English to make this as useful as possible. Before that, yes your muscles are rested and ready to perform better. Doing physical effort for long periods of time is good to maintain your musculature but it won't directly help your sport. It basically means that the negative effect of time you spent off from training is less. There's some other stuff going on too: CNS Firstly, related to neural adaptations. Your central nervous system (CNS) learns movements (like the shot put), i.e. it gets more efficient at it, thus increasing your performance. The more you do it the better it gets. The problem is, when you practice regularly for an extended period of time without breaks, depending on the calibre of your coaching you often (almost always) develop bad habits or inefficiencies. If you keep on practicing you will keep ingraining those bad motor patterns. You may notice technique flaws and try to make your body perform the correct movement pattern, but often it will persist in the inefficient one it is used to. But once you take an extended break (more than a few weeks, depending on the movement in question) your CNS actually forgets a lot of what it learnt. Now, the minute you get back to practicing the movement again, you no longer have a CNS longer trying to use dodgy motor patterns. However, what you do have is a CNS that is already primed from previous practice to learn this movement as quickly as possible. So you have a chance to develop a superior movement pattern and additionally this time you know what you're doing. Result: the movement feels fresh. You start feeling things differently, your muscles activate better, your body listens to you efficiently. Staleness Secondly, staleness. Your body adapts to a stress (throwing the shot put taxes your muscles in a certain way) and gets better (builds stronger muscles). Initially the adaptation happens very fast, but as you keep stressing it with a similar stressor the adaptations slow down (this is called the noob effect, super fast progress at the start then slow thereafter). The longer you spend training the same stressor/movement the more stale it gets. Often you will hit a plateau where you keep on pushing a movement but it just doesn't improve, or it does so very slowly. Now, if you take a break from that stressor for a while (can't be too long though) and come back to it, the noob effect repeats: you find very quick initial progress before slowing down again. But often (for athletes who aren't too advanced) the heightened progress is enough to blast past a plateau and get stronger than you ever were. Staleness happens physically (muscles stop getting strong) but also psychologically (you just get tired of that movement). This is one of the reasons periodization exists btw, you can't train the same quality for ever so you transition from one quality to the next through your training cycle. By the time you come back to the first quality you are fresh and progress quickly on it again. Practically This is why athletes have off seasons. Training for a particular sport constantly leads to staleness, burnout, and progress stops. If you take a few months off every year you have a chance to regain mentally and physiologically. Also it depends how elite you are at your sport. The staleness and CNS learning concepts are more pronounced for beginners than they are for advanced athletes (i.e. you can afford to take longer breaks and still have beneficial quick adaptations once you come back) References Refer to The Scientific Principles of Strength Training by Chad Wesley Smith and Mike Israetel. Lists studies and further references in there. 

Anyone can build muscle/lose fat over time, it's called recomping. It's just that this is a very fast process for beginners, and significantly slows down for more intermediate/advanced athletes. Firstly, it's not a biological process that only fires up when you're a beginner and then shuts off at some arbitrary point. Muscle building and fat burning happens along a continuum. Your body is continuously breaking down fat and building up new muscle at all times (and also storing new fat, and breaking down muscle). All training/recovery does is induce signals that adjust the rate of each of these processes. Think of them as a continual, random biological processes. Of course, the optimal conditions for muscle growth include a caloric surplus. Similarly, the optimal conditions for fat loss include a caloric deficit. But all this ("optimal") does in reality is make the signals to do either process stronger. But you can still perform both muscle building and fat loss even if it's not optimal. When you're a beginner (you don't have much muscle/you have significant fat) these equations are more favourable (for muscle growth and fat loss). As you get more advanced (approach your muscle limit) these equations reduce in magnitude of effect and you can no longer to any meaningful degree (compared to what could be achieved through dedicated cut/bulk cycles) do both at the same time. Why is it fast in beginners? Everything is faster as a beginner. Your body reacts to a stimulus very rapidly the first time it experiences it. However the reaction slows down every time the stimulus is repeated. Your body actually works to ensure the response is lesser over time. Sucks but that's life. The important bit is that this happens over a continuum and you don't suddenly switch from beginner to nonbeginner all of a sudden. Note on common perceptions of "noob gains" For marketing reasons, it's beneficial to sell consumers this idea of a "magical" beginner phase that you have to take advantage of or you will lose it. Some well known programs in fact work on this premise, twisting expectations with half-truths so that an uninformed consumer would begin to think that they have to train a certain perfect way as a beginner or they lose a huge opportunity. Of course such programs/diets/coaches will then offer you their expertise to tell you exactly how you should be training. This normally involves some sort of payment/book purchase/etc. The reality is there is no magical beginner phase, and you can't waste it. The closer you are to your genetic potential the slower progress is, the further away from it you are the faster progress is. Training is simple, ignore the hype. Why don't people just recomp all the time then? Because of how fast (or slow) it produces gains. After a certain point of advancement, even though you are still building muscle/losing fat, the rate at which it happens is just slow. In such situations people wanting maximum progress switch to bulk/cut cycles because they can overall make gains faster like that. You can try to achieve multiple contradicting goals and do each of them to a mediocre level, or you can focus on one goal at a time and master it. 

As on overweight beginner, it's very likely for a short period of time you can build muscle at the same time as losing weight. Calorie calculators are very inaccurate, and only useful as a starting point. The best tool to determine your caloric needs is a weighing scale. Weigh yourself daily, and take a weekly average. If the scale is going up you week to week are in a surplus, if it's going down you are not. Adjust calories only once every few weeks, and check the results. Don't try to control exactly what's happening, it will be frustrating and not beneficial. Just make the conditions right. 

So if I get this straight you can perform pulling movements but not pushing movements with your hand/wrist? This will be a perfect time to focus on some bodybuilding, especially back and posterior chain training. Basically all kinds of pulling movements. Deadlifts, shrugs, rows, pull ups/downs, just hit your back from all angles with high volume. Lower body shouldn't be an issue, use the leg press machine keeping tension on the quads, get some hamstring and lower back work in with deadlifts or leg curls, etc. If you can find a way to train your chest/arms/shoulders without pain then go for it. It's really a matter of trial and error when it comes to injury, see what feels good. That kind of muscular base built with higher volume will really help you out once you return to your beginner strength routines, and you won't lose strength or anything like that. You are in a great position right now and get to really build up that back (something too many novice powerlifters don't give enough importance to), so don't despair! 

Bulking on SL for you is problematic Before I answer your question, your problem is you are trying to bulk/cut on a massively sub-par program while being past your beginner phase. For bulking and cutting, up your volume and focus on hypertrophy. I'd advise you to read The Scientific Principles of Strength Training by Israetel, Hoffman and Chad Wesley Smith for more information. To be clear, Stronglifts is not a good program for most people after their initial exposure to lifting intelligently. Judging from your weight/height and cut/bulk results on strength, you likely need to up your volume and stop focusing on minimalist strength programs, whether your goal is strength or size. "But can I cut until I hit my 5RM?" To answer your question: if you start on a deficit and keep going until you hit your 5RM, you are wasting all of that time in between not making much progress (you'll get some small technique benefits, some nervous system work for strength maybe a bit of muscle but not much else). StrongLifts isn't a magical program. As mentioned if you don't up your volume you'll find it challenging to make gains at your weight and height. Frankly once you hit your 5RM on SL you'll already have cumulative fatigue from the program built up. You won't be able to just start off a small bulk and make progress again. I assume you would stall repeatedly, and even after multiple resets you would not get very far on SL after hitting your 5RM. A note on your goals From your cut and bulk cycle it seems like your body image is quite important to you. If your major goal is strength, at your height you just need to bulk right up (adding just 5kg of BW is probably not a sufficient bulk). I'd also recommend switching to a higher volume program. If your major goal is aesthetics, then your cut/bulk cycling is fine, but again you'll need to get on a program that reflects your goals. That program is not StrongLifts. 

Yes... to an extent, but even then it's very ineffective. Any work under about 15 reps will build your muscle size which will help strength. But not much, and only noticeably whilst you're a relative beginner. It will be FAR easier, faster and more effective for you to work up to using 100lbs as your maximum weight for low reps, and at that point 60lbs will be an utter walk in the park. Possible effective method: start off lifting a challenging weight for about 15 reps, then increase the weight every workout (which will force you to drop the reps) until you hit the heaviest weight you can manage a good few weeks later for 1-2 reps Note If you are training in the gym for a sport you don't want to spend your time mimicking the exact actions of your sport in the gym. That's a common mistake. Use the gym to build overall muscle and general strength in the basic movements, and this will translate to your sports practice you do outside the gym. Your sports practice is the fastest way to improve at your sport. (lots of sports science literature on this issue if you're interested) 

Is 6 days better? Yes. You can bring more energy to each workout and get the same work done to higher quality which leads to better progress. Also you have more room for variation to keep you progressing. But you need to lay out the routine correctly. There are no black and white answers. Can you give an example of the routines? Ideas for setting it up ULULUL facilitates overloading and high fatigue, is usually more effective as a muscle building approach. However it can be done as a very effective high frequency strength program. You would normally do shorter workouts compared to doing FFF. F-F-F has extra rest which would benefit a more strength oriented training approach. In general gains would be a tad slower though, three days a week is limiting your potential. As you progress workouts will have to get longer and longer, at one point the quality of work will suffer because the workouts are so long. That's when people are forced to split the work into 4/5/6 days per week. Generally the sweetspot is 4-5 days a week of training for most people. The extra rest is valuable psychologically. 

I'd recommend doing Yates rows if you can feel it in your back. Right now it sounds like your method of doing Pendlay rows is not working for you. Doing Yates rows will not affect StrongLifts negatively. People are being helpful suggesting how to fix your form to make Pendlays work for you, but frankly you need to weigh up the pros and cons of even going down that route. Pros of fixing form and doing Pendlays: you can do a slightly strength oriented movement. Not much else really. Cons: you have to spend time and effort working on form, not progressing, you may not ever "get" the correct form anyway so the time could just be wasted. If your goals are just to get bigger and stronger, don't bother with Pendlays. Just do Yates. 

Sure, you can do dead bugs or similar exercises. A tip while doing these is to ensure your lower back is pressed into the floor at all times, don't let it arch (otherwise the hip flexor takes over the movement instead of the lower abs). I like the following (called a leg drop or something): 

This will let you track your weight much better. You shouldn't assume anything about how much you weigh until you start tracking properly. 

You need to find what works for you, depending on the severity and manner of shoulder impingement. For some people a flat bench press hurts but an incline one feels strangely fine. Others find that barbell work is problematic but dumbbell work doesn't cause issues. I'd suggest some experimentation, but again this all depends on how severe your impingement is. 

Important? Not particularly, but it can be a very useful tool. It is commonly used in some capacity in basically any programme designed to get you stronger once you are past the first few years of training. You can try to incorporate it into your training and see how you like it. 

Caveat: Proportions is an indicator of how your squat form could look. Actually measuring your limb and torso lengths and trying to mathematically deduce "correct" form is rarely beneficial, and can lead to someone trying too hard with a form that simply doesn't work for them. This is partly because no one has a handle on all of the significant factors that will influence your squat form. For example, I have very long femurs and should theoretically do well with a wider stance allowing me to stay more upright and minimise back involvement. In real life however, a moderate stance allows me to generate the most power. With that out of the way, for the purpose of experimentation, I find that this article provides some solid information and general guidelines on methods of squatting depending on your body proportions: