In your quote mentioning Ideler you come close to answering your own question. The only mistake is that Ideler's guess that the year was aligned to the Winter solstice. In fact, Caesar aligned the calendar to the Spring equinox and we know this from offhand contemporaneous mentions by Cicero and Ovid. In other words, the date VIII Kalends Aprilis (25th of March) was made to fall on the Spring equinox. The beginning of the civil year in Rome was always the Kalends of January. You may hear of March as the beginning of the year, but that was the sacred year. Caesar only published new dates for use in the civil calendar. 

Ordinary soldiers did not wear emblems or colors. Units had pennants or flags. Knights might have an emblem, but that would normally be the house of the knight, not anyone else. Here is a picture illustrating a battle from the 100 Years War. As you can see they use flags and pennants: 

The modern view of ancient civilization, including that of Greece and Rome, has been heavily censored. Ancient writings on these topics have been systematically expunged or destroyed over the centuries. In general, the ancients were far more promiscuous than society is today. Pederasty was considered somewhat amoral, but was widely practiced. In Rome, forcing somebody else's kid was illegal by the Scatinian law, technically speaking. The reality was a lot of people broke the law. Using slave boys as catamites was more a convenience than a legal necessity, as you could keep the slave boy around 24-7, something that could not be done for a free-born boy. In cases where boys were foster children or had been put into the care of another family, the likelihood of abuse was high, especially if it was a military base or encampment. 

Rich people used them. I doubt your average senator would be willing to get out and walk while a vagrant took his place. Some self-indulgent snobs were known to ride all the way to Pompeii in a litter. Glad I am not one of their slaves. Such a long trip would require a LOT of rest stops. In ancient times horses were rarely used for long-distance travel because their horses were relatively small and their saddles were inferior, not even having stirrups. Modern saddles are actually very sophisticated items believe it or not. Roman saddles wore the horse down much faster. For this reason the cavalry actually walked most of the time. You only got on the horse for the battle or for a maneuver. Try riding a pony bareback or with just a blanket and see how far you can go. That will give you a sense for it. Sometimes horses were used for travel in relays between stations. This was mostly for military messenging and was VERY expensive. Also, there were some special horse-riding cultures like Mongols and Scythians of various types. These races of men used specialized saddles and specially bred horses. Also, these men tended to be light and small of stature. I assume your story does not take place in northern Asia. Another beast of burden was the ass, appropriate only for (light) women and children and only for limited amounts of time. A boy might get a ride on an ass from a stranger who had no load. Other than that, you are hoofing it. 

The premise of the question is incorrect, in that the Enigma was never "cracked". If you read "The Hut Six Story" by Gordon Welchman, you will find that Enigma messages could only be translated when operators made errors such as using the same key repeatedly or repeated use of the same base codes ("discriminants"). When the Enigma was used correctly it was unbreakable. Nevertheless, many transmissions were intercepted and decrypted due to improper operational use of the machine. The estimate of lives saved is based on the idea that the project shortened the war by "two to four" years, thus extrapolating that 2 years times 7 million deaths per year is 14 million. The origin of the "two to four" years idea I think is the 1974 book "The Ultra Secret" by Winterbotham. While cryptography operations were certainly helpful, claiming that it shortened the war by two years is an overstatement. For example, in the Battle of Atlantic, the theater in which the decryptions were supposedly most important, I doubt anyone would characterize code breaking as the decisive technology. Radar, direction finding, convoy tactics, sonar, and anti-submarine aerial patrols, especially from Iceland, were all probably more important to the outcome than code breaking. 

Drennon's answer is incorrect. Montalembert's writings had nothing to do with Tyrannicide. John Stuart Mill's reference is to two trials that took place back-to-back in England in 1858. Paraphrasing from the legal accounts: 

Shirer's book remains by far the best book on the subject and at this point it appears it will never be eclipsed; he is the Suetonius of the Third Reich. The portions involving the history prior to 1941 are more in-depth and accurate than the chapters involving 1941-1945, which tend to just follow American newspaper reports. This is because he lived in Germany and had many contacts there until he left in December of 1940. The main shortcoming of the text from a historical point of view is that being fundamentally an American he was completely unsympathetic to German attitudes and philosophies, tone deaf to sturm and drang, you might say. Therefore, any events or happenings that might reflect favorably on Nazism are ignored by him. Thus, the book tends to be a litany of faults rather than an objective assessment. Another drawback of the book is that, as mentioned, it is written from a purely American perspective, so some Germanic cultural phenomena of the times, such as the Joy Through Sex movement, are ignored not because Shirer censored them, but just because he was not aware of what was going on. A worthy counterpoise to the RAFTR is Shirer's "Berlin Diary" which records his personal experiences in Nazi Germany and gives an idea of the daily life there. Concerning things to "watch out for," the main issue is that Shirer was a left-wing journalist who was dismayed that the Communists in Germany had been defeated by the Nazis, so he was especially thorough in completely avoiding any mention of the socialist programs of the Nazis because that would have made them look good in comparison to the Communists. This particular aspect of RAFTR is very distorted because at the time the Germans were extremely proud of their socialist accomplishments and they had like 20 different programs all of which are completely ignored by Shirer as though they did not even exist. For example, he never once mentions the building of the Autobahn, a huge public works program that employed hundreds of thousands. Todt, the public works minister, a very important person in the Nazi administration is mentioned only a single time in the whole 1000-page book, and then just in passing.