Where you counter ~Thats why this proof is puplicated in a way so everyone gets it~ (stated in my own words) So this is the final knock out! given it is observable that it is infinite and all religions rely on some one that had to be first, so there cant be anything infinite excepting him self. AND given that this fact is presented in a way that everyone udnerstands in what way that affects his religion. so everyone understands why it is prooved that his religion can't be true. given this limitations. (what simply are the limitations you give in collection of OP and different comments) Then religion is simply dead. In the moment everyone knows that religion is wrong and everyone knows that everyone else knows aswell. Then religion is simply dead and there is nothing else you will get as answer for it. 

With some tinkering, this might be workable. Solar sails might be a bit impractical for a raiding ship, unless they were just using them to reach the relevant solar system. Once they get a couple light-minutes away, they stow the sails and switch to thrusters. Or, if your okay with keeping the viking motif but getting rid of the solar sails, turn them into solar panels. Its pretty low tech for space-vikings, but this seems like a scavengers-verses-Robinson_Crusoe situation, so this might be plausible. Something you may have fun with some of worldbuilding's discussions on space boarding parties. Among the possible weapons suggested for boarding a ship/space station (without venting out all the air via gunshot holes or wreking the goods the raiders wanted in the first place) are shields and melee weapons. Now you have a justification why your raiders are armed like 10th century Norsemen! I might suggest against making the space-longboats open top, but I'm sure you could justify that as really good and comfy space-suits and the need to get out of their ship on onto the hull of the others as fast as possible. Still, an almond-shaped craft with solar sails (or solar panels) would probably look enough like a longboat for readers/viewers to get the allusion. A possible problem could be that its incredibly easy to shoot down invading spacecraft in . . . uh . . . space. Just a bloke with a quality telescope and a 50 caliber sniper rifle might be able to fend off your viking raiders. An easy fix would be putting a big object (like a thick metal sheet or a rock) in front of the ships to act like a shield. A laser array would be preferable, but that a hard thing to make without some fancy computers, factories, and know-how. Lastly, asteroids around a gas giant would technically be called moons. Asteroid belts circle around the sun between the gas giants and the rocky planets near the core. The moons around a gas giant do contain sweet stuff like water, but asteroid belts have valuable metals that are a lot easier to get to. Either one would make for a good setting for this story, I just thought you might benefit from some terminology. Welcome to Worldbuilding, by the way. I sincerely hope you have a enjoyable time looking about for answers and questions. 

BONUS QUESTION: This page $URL$ says a man lived on coconuts from 1902 (and Wiki says he adopted a monodiet around 1905 or 1906) until imprisonment during WWI in Sept 1914, at which time he weighed 86 pounds. So, a while. 

Retrovirus! A retro-virus inserts its DNA into the DNA of the host cell. Usually that is a regular somatic cell. However, it is theorized that retro-viruses can also insert their DNA into a gamete (sperm/egg) cell, and when that gamete creates an offspring, the virus' DNA is permanently incorporated into the somatic cells of the offspring. Then that offspring will create gametes with the virus' DNA and pass it on to the next generation! Let's say a retro-virus infects a single sperm. That lucky sperm joins an egg and contributes its half of the DNA+virus DNA to the new baby. That half could have genetic dominant traits that cause enough changes to mark the baby as a new species. Now multiply that out: For the population at large: you could have a highly contagious and infectious but harmless to the host retro-virus that attacks gametes both sperm and egg, thus making every baby diploid with the new DNA. (You might have to explain what effect the retro-virus has on such babies.) The new DNA should not be fatal, obviously, since you want the babies to be killed by the robots. How cruel you are! But you're storyline has to wait a while. "Species" is often defined by being un/able to produce viable offspring. You'd probably have to wait till these babies reached sexual maturity to find out that they cannot reproduce with non-infected but can reproduce with other infected. (Unless you have a way to determine fertility or reproductive compatibility strictly through blood or DNA or other tests. I mean obviously after you discover the incompatibility issue then you can just screen for the new DNA. I'm just talking about the initial realization that the infected constitute a new species.) 

A lot of answers seem to involve either suicide or pre-programmed self-termination. Both of those seem like valid options for a robot to seek water, but, by itself, it doesn't explain why they would build towns by water. However, if river are known as a place where robots go to die, it would make total since for non-fatalistic robots to settle there. Think of it as a suicide prevention effort. Robots "camp" around rivers to keep depressed or recently dropped off robots from ending their lives in the water, or at least try and talk them out of it. After all, it makes sense for robots to value the lives of fellow robots enough to inconvenience themselves with seasonal floods. Other than that, a waterwheel could be used to power a blacksmith's billows, which they would probably need for performing general repairs. Still, a billows could be operated by hand if the blacksmith doesn't have to do that much work, so that might not gel with your town's level of industrialization. Personally, I think a great reason for building near rivers would be trade, specifically trade with human smugglers. For the sound of it, humans are banned from the Robot Plain. However, if the robots found or make something of value, like maybe turquoise jewelry or rare earth minerals, they could trade with humans for useful items, like rainproof clothing or replacement parts. So you have an incentive for smugglers and a black market. Cars and airplanes are easily spotted by authorities, but boats or smuggling submarines can sneak onto the Robot Plain, so permanent settlement must be build on rivers. 

I agree with @TrEs-2b basically. I also do not know of any examples of complete atavism but you can get pretty close. You asked if the wild-animal could evolve back into a humanoid "shape," and that is by definition what atavism is: phenotype not genotype. Fish to Mammal to Sea-Mammal to Land-Mammal Here's a non-homo example I think fits your idea. Whales and other sea mammals evolved from land mammals (which is where mammals first evolved, on land). Land animals (tetrapods) evolved from lobe-finned fishes, which are bony fishes. Whales look a lot like fishes but there are significant differences. Whales have lungs not gills and can't breathe underwater. Whales have hips and thigh bones, but they are small and don't grown into full rear limbs. Whales tailfins are horizontal, fish are vertical. So whales did not actually revert back to fish, but they sure look a lot like them. We could go one step further (for the sake of your question): sea mammals could start making forays back onto land! Now, being mammals, they have already solved a lot of the problems that the first land-dwellers had to overcome (like skin and eggs drying out). So for a sea mammal to become a re-evolved land mammal would actually be a bit easier, in theory! 

Well, for starters, generating heat wouldn't result in any force being generated. In this set up, its not so much the heat or fire propelling your character as much as him continually making explosions. Think achieving flight by the recoil of firearms. Right off the bat, he would have to be capable of withstanding that kind of explosive force being generated right next to his body. Using explosive power has other issues for his surroundings. Generating that much force might damage this characters surroundings, but probably not too much more than a helicopter (I'm guessing that last bit. Aerodynamics is not something I know anything about). The real problem would be the noise. Having a character achieve flight by combustion would be louder than an un-muffled motorcycle and would be sure to wake the neighbors. No way he could be able to sneak up on anyone while flying. A simpler but less ideal solution is for him to heat (and cool down if possible) air in order to manufacture updrafts. Then he can make hang-gliders that never have to touch the ground or reverse-parachutes. It's very gadget-y, but would be plausible and make your character look cleaver. 

What's Good is Good The question asks a lot, so first let me clarify my understanding of the question. The wizard wants to make a better society. But evolution works on individuals. Typically, "successful" individuals spread their traits by reproducing more than their competitors. But the question is about creating individuals who are most "comfortable" in a society, such that the society is "better." "Better" is not defined. Thomas More, Thoreau, Big Brother, and the Unabomber all have different ideas of "better." So, lots going on here. Killer Bunnies I know this is not what you are looking for, but at some point, the constituent make up of this society needs to change from what it is now, to include a significant number of these mutant individuals (let's call them "happy folk.") Either a controlling minority, or a plurality, a majority, or the entirety. In order to do this, the happy folk need to be better at reproducing themselves--whether it be Duggar-style family planning or good ol' fashioned human cloning--or, they need to be better at surviving some situation that reduces the current, non-happy population. Or both: happy folk can multiply like bunnies and also have a "negative" effect on the current population, like say, murdering them. This is not unheard of. I do not mean to offend, but some (not necessarily me) would say that the population of Israel is undergoing exactly such a change. An indigenous population is rapidly being replaced by another. What Was Good is Not Good So you see my problem with this question? By changing individuals to be happy in a society, you wind up changing the society. But I can imagine that somehow you reach an equilibrium where [almost] everyone is happy enough to no longer require further tweaking to fit into society. Although these "static societies" are often portrayed as being fundamentally flawed, that's usually because the protagonist is an outsider. For example, Logan's Run/Brave New World: people are pretty convinced that they're happy (at least so long as you are in society's good graces). Everyone is generally predisposed to accept or like their position in society, coupled with some reinforcing education and fostering. Everyone has fulfilling work and takes recreational drugs and is promiscuous. People have just enough problems to have just enough morals to basically not realize the bubble they're in. Is that what you want? Is that what anybody wants? Running In Place The factors listed in the original question are great. When navigating New York's "smellscape," one can easily see how nice it would be to control your own senses. (I think that's why people wear earbuds and dark sunglasses on the subway.) But every tweak raises potential society-ruining side-effects which might only lead to an "evolutionary war." (The classic example of evolutionary war is: prey develops poison, predator develops immunity. Prey develops stronger poison. That's how you get tiny frogs that can kill an elephant.) For example, let's say that the wizard wanted to make society more cohesive and compassionate and so he made individuals feel a closer sense of "brotherly love." Let's say happy folk identify other happy folk in the same way that animals recognize kin. Well, the obvious side effect can be that they become xenophobic. Or, the logical extreme can be that they become fascist (the thinking is that all happy folk express their true "happiness" by adopting normative behaviors, and that anyone who doesn't act happy is a traitor and a threat to society). Better How? So, to return to the spirit of your question: if you want to keep society the way it is now, but tweak some happy folk so that they can thrive in this society, you can make them not care about certain things (like eliminating ennui and existential quandries by making them pure lizard brain) or you can make them overcome their problems (like eliminating ennui by making them super-social and fun loving). But both solutions fundamentally change the society they are adopting to.