Think about how heavy you are compared to your bike, so when your braking most of the momentum is you! You have 3 contact points with the bike, the handlebars, the saddle and the pedals and the best one to put the forces generated when braking through is the pedals, if you put all the force through the bars then you'll go over them, if the saddle then your relying on friction between you and it (slippery when wet). If you put the forces through the pedals you get more traction and stop faster as you push the bike into the ground. So in order to do this you need to get out of the saddle and drop your heels, as soon as your heels are below the axle on the pedals your momentum will be driving you down into the bike and then driving the bike into the ground. Moving back slightly can also help, especially if going downhill but it's the heel position that's important. Dropped heels also helps when just riding along, if your off (or on) road heading downhill at any speed and hit an obstacle, if your heels are dropped you'll sink into the bike and the chances are roll over the obstruction. If your heels aren't dropped that same obstacle will send you flying! You pivot up around your ankle and it's 'game over'. 

If spokes on the same side are of the same length, but showing up as some are too long and some are too short - then they are laced incorrectly. Although, they could look like different lengths before you have made your first pass at truing the wheel. But after you have made at least one pass at truing, if they appear different, then they would have to be laced incorrectly. 

I am not going to offer a full answer - but I will offer what I know. In the time-frame that this bicycle was built, you had to make sure your bottom bracket set (the axle and the cups that threaded into the frame bottom bracket) matched the crankset. One mfr crankset might not match a different mfr bottom bracket. Because of this, I usually replaced both my bottom bracket AND my crankset at the same time. The angle of the taper varies, as does the length of the taper. The important things to consider were the bottom bracket (the frame) threading type, the BB axle taper length, the BB axle taper angle, and whether or not the crankset fit those measurements. Therefore, you can replace your crankset with pretty much everything available today, IF you can find a BB (bottom bracket, or axle) set that has the same threading as your frame. 

Tracking down issues with brakes can be difficult. If the brakes are spongy feeling initialy and pumping them firms them up then you probably have air in the system. if that's the case then it will be a bad bleed or the seals or possibly the brake hose but working out which is often down to luck. If they just have no power it could be contaminated pads. If it was me then I'd do the following, give the system are realy good clean and finish off with disc brake cleaner if you have some. Next I'd re-bleed the brakes (having first pushed the pistons right back) and then fit new pads. Use the brake somewhere safe and then inspect everything to see if you can spot any leaks at the levers, hoses or calipers, take the pads back out and check for contamination with brake fluid. If you do have a leak then you'll need to replace the seals and/or hoses that have failed - this can be tricky if it the caliper seals that have gone. Getting hold of spares can also be an issue. It may be easier and cheaper in the long run to replace the brakes. Shimano Deore are relatively cheap and very efective. 

Five-speed shifter is accurate. After all, you have only five gears in back, and 3 in front, right? Online searches can find you new shifters, but you'll have to know more about them to buy the right ones than you do now. But I think it most likely that your real problem is a lack of maintenance. This sounds like an older bike that has seen little use. Anything sitting in the garage for 2 years or more fits in this "older" category. Your cables and derailleurs need lube. I'm guessing they have not been cleaned and lubed - ever. And that the most likely reason for your issues is that the derailleurs are just plain sticking. If you don't have rust, a good cleaning and lubing may work wonders. 

Check that the wheels are true. Like ChrisW mentioned, angle the pad slightly to make sure the brake pad doesn't touch the wheel all at once to have more leeway in the rim. 

Cycling speeds do vary greatly, and I'd advise to remember your average long-distance speed from a day of cycling and cut away a third to take the many unknowns and saddle soreness into account. When I cycle for half a day, for example, I usually average 15-20 kilometres an hour, so I'd expect 10-15 kilometres an hour or 100 kilometres per day for longer distances. That was close to my average on the one 3-day tour I made. Make sure you match the terrain and street conditions, though. My above estimate was for hilly, towny European terrain. In the vast reaches of colonial America, you will probably be able to go faster. 

This style of bicycle was extremely common in this time period. There are no visible unique identifiers in the photo. Given that there were many manufacturers at the time, and even the major manufacturers (Columbia, Raleigh, Schwinn, etc.) or distributors (like Montgomery Ward) did not leave definitive identifying photos or descriptions of their bicycles, I am quite sure that this is an impossible task. I'm sorry, I know that is not what you want to hear, but I don't think you will get a better answer. It COULD be a Montgomery Ward bicycle, or an Elgin, or a Columbia, or a Colson, etc. It is not a Raleigh, nor is it a Schwinn. But even using the negative research method - what it is NOT - will not tell what it is. Unfortunately there were a lot of smaller manufacturers around then. For instance, look at this Colson: 1930's Colson. The top tubes and tank on the frame are similar, but note that the saddle appears different, as does the chainring. Pay special attention to the chainring when trying to identify a bike from this time period. They were made of stamped steel, and were frequently designed with a manufacturer specific cutout pattern. Examples are Raleigh's heron designs, Hercules "H", etc. A good place for some beginning research is Dave's Vintage Bicycles. However, using what you have found - that you think it might be a Hawthorn, and this page on Dave's Vintage Bicycles, we can see that the chainring cutouts match between the two photos. I think this is about as good as it gets when identifying old bikes like this! The handlebars are different, but that could have been a simple change from one year's offering to the next. 

Creaks are always difficult to track down, where the sound seems to come from is often no guide to the source. What is often the cause is the rear wheel, especially if its qr. Take the wheel out, clean the dropouts and wheel axle, a smear of grease on the dropout and reassemble. 

Your comment suggests that these punctures are caused by something (thorns, nails,...?) piercing the tyre wall so the issue probably isn't with the wheel or the rim. So the question is should you change tyres to something more puncture resistant? In my opinion it's only worth changing tyres if the tyre is obviously worn out or is to light weight/low TPI for the riding you are doing and there are lots of other factors to consider: 

There are technical differences about the lacing that the photos do not tell us. Like where the holes are placed in the rim. To my knowledge, the idea that spoke holes in a rim did not need to be regularly symmetrical geometrically was pioneered, at least in recent times, by Rolf wheels. As these wheels seemed to work well, other manufacturers responded quickly with variations on the traditional spoking systems. And continue to do so. The gains by the alternate spoking systems are always related to weight and air resistance. Some manufacturers may try to convince the buyers that they are also more reliable. If I were racing bicycles, on the road or elsewhere, I would seriously consider these alternate spoking systems. As a racer, weight, and aerodynamics, are paramount. As a tourist or a commuter, on the other hand, sturdiness and fixability are paramount. My equipment must stand up to abuse, with minimum maintenance. And it must be fixable by me. Easily. Now, I do not claim to know of these spoking systems specifically. However, I do know that traditional spoking patterns have had about a century of practical usage to work out the bugs. I know this. I can replace a spoke on a traditional spoking pattern. I can ride the bike if one spoke breaks, at least for a while, until it can be replaced. I can true a traditional spoke pattern. And I do not have to buy special spokes. And what advantage would I get from a new spoking system? A few grams of weight advantage? A tiny amount of aerodynamic improvement? Since there are many other, far simpler and more reliable, methods to affect both metrics, I would opt for traditional, tested reliability as a high priority. So, the Batavus link is, as I write this, bad. The Trek link works, but I cannot tell enough detail from the site to speak more specifically. But, in general, I would strongly distrust such innovative spoking patterns for use as a commuter. Really, as a commuter, you just want to get there. You don't want to have any issues. Your question: "What is the difference?" Specifically, I do not know. But if the difference is weight, then I can tell you to ask yourself why is this good for me as a commuter. And I can tell you that traditional spoking patterns are reliable, and strong, and durable. You can fix it if something goes wrong. With a traditional spoke pattern, you won't be asking questions - you will be riding your bike. With an innovative spoke pattern - none of these metrics are a certainty. 

Amongst the other factors, the TDF is an outdoor event and therefore subject to climate change. A few kph change in average wind speeds can cause a few kph difference in the achieved average speeds. It is known that wind speeds have been rising by 5-10% over the last quarter-century (thanks to Colin Pickard for the link), and France's climate is dominated by westerly winds from the Atlantic. Therefore, the generally faster winds on the Atlantic can be expected to cause faster winds in France and therefore more wind resistance for the cyclists, slowing an upward trend in man and material. 

The people who ignore the rules of traffic fall into two categories: Those that put reason above the law, and those that just don't care. The first group can be reached by appealing to their common sense. I belong to the first group, I regularly run certain red lights (the ones I know, where I can see for myself that there is no danger), but I never drive past a stopped train. If you want to tell me something is dangerous, do so right away - I'll listen to reason when voiced in a reasonable tone. Do not refer to law or customs, because most people do know the law and chose to ignore it because it makes no sense to them in the situation. Don't know about Toronto, but where I live (Würzburg, Germany), the majority of red lights are necessary only during the morning peak hour and can be safely treated as a yield sign, and most "one-way" streets are broad enough for a cyclist and a car to safely pass each other. However, when there is real danger, simply telling me about the danger is a good way to bring the message across: 

I could tell you more accurately if I were riding with you and could hear the noise and where it came from. But, I can tell you these things for certain: Clean and lube your pedal bearings. Do not skimp and just add some oil. Also make sure your pedals and crankarms are tightened to the correct recommended torque. Do not delay before applying these maintenance measures. I say "do not delay" because the cause could be that the crankarms are not torqued down properly. This is not likely, but it is possible, and if it is the reason? Then you can ruin the crankset within a few miles of riding. That's right - ruin - to the point of a crankarm or the crank spider cracking and eventually breaking. If it cracks you will see it happening - and it won't be sudden - so in that way it is not unsafe, ok? But it will be relatively expensive to fix. So the first thing you need to do is to make sure the moving parts involved (pedals, crankarms, bottom bracket) have proper maintenance and lubrication. Your problem is likely somewhere in there.