I would like to increase my flexibility. Not necessarily every single part of my body but I would like to hit most if not all areas. I would like a set of several exercises that I can do one day or over several days for basically the rest of my life, to constantly improve my flexibility. What is the simplest, most necessary/important/commonly used(as in the muscle's flexibility is needed commonly in real life situations, not the stretch itself is commonly used) set of stretches that I could do to increase full body flexibility? 

But what would you do if your final goal was two of them? Say you wanted to get a lot of strength as well as endurance for example. How would you proceed? Would you follow the graphs recommendations for one day or week on one goal and then the next week is for the other goal? Would you average out the variables? Would you spend several months on one and then the other? What would you do? 

So to answer your question, yes it is possible to have gained 25kg in six months however the chances of gaining 25kg of muscle is impossible. Over the course of their lifetime, maybe but not six months. The other weight can possibly be attributed to fat. If you had measured their body fat percentage before and after you would be able to see how much was fat and how much was lean mass. 

If your trying to move up in weight, try this. 15 reps at 10 lbs(This is your warm up set to get your form straight and wake up the muscles ) 10 reps at 15 lbs (This set adds a little more resistance but still light enough to maintain form) 6 reps at 25 (go all out on this one and see try and maintain form. ) If you did the last set ok, repeat the 6 reps at 25 lbs. The point of these rep ratios is to get your muscles in tune with good form. Once your muscles are warmed up you can start really lifting hard. keep adding to the reps on the last set and soon you'll be doing 25 lbs for ten reps. 

I had a similar problem with elliptical machines for cardio training. My leg muscles became very used to the movement so it became hard for me increase my heart rate. I realized that there are two points of power to make the elliptical spin: from your legs pushing on the pedals, and from your arms pushing and pulling on the handles. I was very dominant with my legs so I tried to focus more energy on pulling and pushing from the arm handles. This definitely changed the dynamics for endurance resulting in my heart rate jumping in a short amount of time which was my goal. In short, you can adjust the amount of energy you are using from your legs to your arms or vise versa to add difficulty depending on your current strengths. 

In my opinion the furthest I would go in training pre marathon is about 22 miles. And I would only do 1 of these. The rest of the long runs I would suggest should be between 18-20 miles. The reason I say this, is that running the full 26 miles takes a lot out of you, and I think would have a negative affect on the actual marathon rather than a positive. I think a 22 is okay, as it's in the last few miles that you would hit the wall(if you were going to). You definitely don't want this to happen in training. Doing a 22 will give you the confidence that you can do the distance, which is why I would suggest you do one. I can't see any reason for doing 3 x's 10 miles. Do you really have the time to do that in one day? Also, a reason for not doing 3 x 10 is that when you do the very long runs your body has to learn to use fat as fuel. If you do 3 x's 10 you wouldn't get this benefit. I hope that helps. Btw I don't understand the last bit of your question - how does this translate to race time? 

There's nothing particularly wrong with what you're planning to do, but the normal when working for endurance would be 3 sets of 12-20. Then, when you can complete the 3 sets, you increase the weight and go back to 2 sets. You would only really do so many sets if you were training for strength/power, heavy weight, few reps but lots of sets. Like Kneel-before-ZOD says, I can't think of any long term negative affects 

Break up your muscle groups up and do legs on Friday so you'll have a couple days to recover before you hit the court on Tuesday. Playing volleyball with sore quads sounds like torture. 

Some men carry fat in their lower chest as body fat goes up(this applies to myself). So I notice I lose alot of lower pec definition when I'm bulking. You might fall into the same category. I like wider grip dips to get that lower contraction. You could set up something like that at home with some chairs. 

There's a lot of weight training movements that can improve hamstring strength. I think a great one to get your legs back into condition collectively would be barbell squats and leg presses. Proper form is KEY if you want to activate your hamstrings. Make sure you keep all your weight in your heels and off your toes. 

I think the rate of muscle loss would be most affected by diet. The body would have to stay catabolic to decrease the amount of muscle loss. This is such a great question. I think to really find the answer to this, you would have to look at the cellular level of the muscle fibers and see if there are any differences between muscle composition in professional powerlifters and bodybuilders. 

Look up Pitbull from strength cartel. He competes at 160 weight class and moves unbelievable amounts of weight. He's probably just as strong as Rich Piana. If you want to get strong, You should look into power lifting routines instead. I know you mentioned Rich Piana who is a bodybuilder. His goals aren't to get strong but to get big. Calorie surplus does help ALOT too. 

Firstly I would suggest going very easy for a while, for the same reason you stopped for over a year when your gym closed for a month. You lost the habit of exercising every week. You need to get that back by having a routine even if it's not very much weight or very intense or whatever. Since your goals are purely to lose weight and you're not worried about maintaining muscle mass or strength I would recommend doing HIIT combined with a caloric deficit diet instead of a strength program like stronglifts. Even cardio would be better for your goals than lifting. 

It's the pulling exercise that I'm mainly concerned about, I'm doing dead lift as I read it somewhere but after doing it for the first time I felt like the dead lift was more of a legs exercise. Is it an appropriate exercise to fill the "pull" slot in my workout? What would be a pull exercise that I could use instead if deadlift does not meet the pull criteria? 

I believe that the below exercises are the minimum to train the most amount of muscles that also requires minimal equipment: 

I've recently started lifting at home, I have some weights, a bench press setup, a barbell and two dumbbells. I would like to include deadlifts in my workout but I feel like I'm not doing it with correct form. What can I do at home to learn how to deadlift and ensure my form is good and proper and to improve it if it is not? I realize that a personal trainer would probably be the best bet but I'd like to neither pay nor go out of my way to do it. I'd like to be able to learn to do it myself at home. 

Presuming that your goal is to eventually run the whole way I would start with a five minute fast walk. Then run for 5 minutes(if that's the most you can currently do). Then walk, then run. Use a stop watch though, and try to be strict with yourself. Start with five minutes walk, 5 minutes jog, on your next run start to reduce the time you walk do 5 minutes jog, 4 minutes walk and gradually decrease the walking time every time you go out. You may find you need to slow the pace of the run to be able to run more of it. Going too fast is a very common problem with beginners. The other reason why I think this is a better approach, is because your heart rate will be raised for more of the walk/run, and you will get fitter quicker. If possible try to walk at a reasonable pace on the walking section. This will all become much easier, the fitter you get. 

That's quite a lot of training for some one who has only been training for a month. However, you are doing well and to be running 45 minutes for 10k already is very respectable. To be able to add more quality training to your week, I would change the structure slightly. Monday easy run/shorter distance Tuesday. Hard/ intervals Wednesday longer Thursday intervals but not as hard as Tuesday - maybe progressive run day Fri. Rest or easy Sat. Intervals Sunday long run or race I would try to incorporate a rest day every 7-10 days Hope that helps 

Firstly you need to be able to do pull ups and chest dips. To train for muscle ups you will need to do lots of both of those two exercises. Pull ups and chest dips account for most of the muscle up move however the most difficult part of a muscle up is the transition. False grip training is highly recommended to improve the transition part of a muscle up. So incorporate false grip hangs and false grip pull ups. Aside from that, all you can do is the full muscle up move but with assistance, the same as when you probably first started doing pull ups; rest your legs on a stool or something to take some of the weight. Do the move quickly with a bit of a jump at the start. Go to the top of the move and then slowly go down to a hang. 

Hypertrophy means that your muscles are bigger, but does this mean that they don't perform better or worse than smaller muscles? Is it really possible for hypertrophy of the muscles to have no functional effects? Would you gain at least some strength? Are there any negative functional effects? I've heard that bigger muscles makes you less flexible, is this true? So what are the functional effects both positive and negative of hypertrophy? 

Whenever I do a pull up or a chin up my palms hurt, like where your knuckles are but on the palm side. I feel like it's being squished and stretched. After I perform a few, say 3, it's difficult to move my fingers at all for a bit, like it's very stiff in that position. Is this normal for someone just starting out? (both exercise and these particular exercises) I've recently lost a considerable amount of weight (~20kg) could this be a reason as to why my palm is hurting? I'm thinking of this because maybe the skin is looser. Is there any way I can avoid this? I've tried wearing (gardening) gloves but it didn't help, it was the same. Should I continue doing these exercises? Will it eventually become less painful? 

Apart from the strange looks you would get from other users(unless sauna is private). I can't imagine this would be overly useful. I suspect you would need to come out of the sauna long before it would be really useful for heart and lungs. I have trained for hot overseas marathons in the past. Admittedly through a Uk summer. I trained by wearing thermal top and legging. Ie overdressing My race was in Greece and it worked for me. Although I guess Marathon de Sables would be hotter. 

I think in answer to your question, it's going come down to what is your starting point? Are you new to lifting or been lifting for some time? Have you had any joint weaknesses? This article seems quite useful:- $URL$ Also, have you considered resistance bands for working out at home? There's lots of exersises you can do, and they come in different strengths. Perfect for working out, when space is limited. There are various websites that stock them but here's one $URL$ Another alternative you may consider is TRX $URL$ all you need is a door frame. Mainly, useful to make body weight exercises more challenging, but TRX, plus weighted vest could give you an awesome workout. 

It depends on your knee problems. If you are able to do squats as Larissa says then great. I know people who would be able to do squats, but would suffer for at least a week after. I would suggest slow controlled step overs, to start to build the vastus medius muscle, which will help take the pressure off of the knee. Step overs. Take a bench. Step up and over touching the free leg to the other side. Do this slowly, then return, build to 30 repeats This maybe too easy, so raise the height. If this is done in a controlled manner it will help strengthen the supporting muscles. Also, cycling may help. It just depends, the extent of the problem. Find what works for you. 

In my personal opinion, I think you get a better contraction when you arch your back and activate more back muscles. To add to this post, another big mistake is to start swinging the bar down when you go up in weight. 

This is a loaded question. First off, Everyone's body responds differently to different rep ranges. I'm going to give your a broad answer and say all rep ranges are good. The reason is because you never want to let your muscles get into a routine. Another point to be made is that heavier weight recruits more of the muscle to perform the movement. So doing 6x5 is technically better for building muscle than 4x12. I like heavier weight and lower reps on compound movements like bench press and rows, but I add more reps on isolated movements like bumbell flies for inner chest and preacher curls. 

Your optimal grip is that perfect medium between to close and too wide. You'll know it's the right grip because you'll feel a dominant chest contraction. If your grip is too close you'll feel it in your arms. If your grip is too wide you'll feel it in your front delts. Close grip bench press is great for triceps. It works well with the incline variation too. Wide grip bench press is very dangerous. It puts too much direct tension on the front delts that don't have alot of strength in the bench position. This can cause a tear in the delt or a rotator cuff injury. This is a very serious injury that you don't want to ever deal with. SO.... depending on what muscle you want to target, inter change a regular grip and close grip. You'll know when your grip is too wide when you start feeling pain in the shoulders.