Learning from the different answers and comments to this and similar posts I suggest the following answer: Etymology: Yang means sunny and yin means shady; see also the answer of virmaior. This conforms e.g., to the names of several hills. In China the south side of a hill is the sunny side indicated by yang as part of the name, while the north side is the shady side, indicated by yin as part of the name. Considered in the light of etymology the sun is yang - nearly by definition. Hence you need not to look for a yin aspect of the sun: There is none by definition! Now time went on: In later times an attempt was made to understand all phenomena by means of a classification which provides always pairs of opposite properties. In addition a second attempt was made to think in processes, notably cyclic processes. Combining both modes of thought results in the attempt to explain the phenomena by cyclic processes, which run through the whole spectrum between a property and its opposite and vice versa back to the original. The short version of this thinking states that all objects include both the property and its opposite. The long version advocates, not to restrict to a static view of things, but to consider their lifespan as a cycle which passes through opposite properties. Note that a parallel stream of thinking exists also in some early Greek speculations on nature. Applying the lifecycle paradigm to the sun and to other stars: 5 Billion years ago the sun originated from a dark (= shady, hence yin) cloud of dust. After condensation the first nucleo-synthesis started and the sun became yang, because light was released. But further 5 Billion years later the fuel is consumed and the nucleo-synthesis stops. The sun cools down and becomes shady (yin). For our sun that’s the end. But more massive stars explode as supernovae after several steps of nucleo-synthesis and generate the components for new stars. The cycle restarts with a new generation of stars. Aside: Who likes can clothe the astrophysical theory of stellar development into the Chinese metaphor of yin and yang. But what is the benefit of such clothing? 

Variational principles play a main role in todays physics under the name Lagrange principle. That is a very general principle which allows to derive the fundamental equations of the physical domain in question. Lagrange principle states that the real path of the system is distinguished from all possible paths by the fact that a certain integral is minimal. The latter fact should not be taken as a kind of teleology. Because the formulation by the integral is mathematically equivalent to a formulation by a system of differential equation (Euler equations of the Lagrange principle). And differential equations are considered a means for causally determined developement. Hence mathematics dose not discriminate between causa finalis and causa efficiens. 

Einstein stresses that our actions are determined by two diffent kinds of constraints: Exterior and interior constraints. Hence instead of - interior - free will Einstein sees interior constraints. Unfortunately, in this passage Einstein does not give any argument for his rebuff to the concept of free will. A well-known philosopher who votes for the existence of free will is Kant; notably in his works on practical philosophy. Because Kant takes free will as presupposition for any moral action. Today the issue of free will is investigated also in the field of neuroscience. Until now, neuroscience like any other natural science has no other means to operate than to employ strict causality. I expect: Further investigations from neuroscience will show, how former experience shapes our preferences, which serve as standard for the interior evaluation of possible alternatives for future action. This deterministic process of decision is shielded because it is unconscious in general. 

One has to discriminate between ideas and facts. Both live in different ontological domains. Causal relations may hold between facts, logical relations may hold between ideas or propositions. The concept of time does not apply to the latter. A causal relation like "Fact A" causes "Fact B" presumes that A is earlier than B, more general, that B is in the forward lightcone of A. 

Let's take numerals as the representations of numbers - as @possibleWord suggests. His/her description is indeed similar to the mathematical definition of natural numbers from set theory according to von Neumann: 

All people, nominalist as well as realists, can believe in: One day, I will die. Or more general, they can believe in: 

The sentence in your post is not an argument but a proposition. Because you do not make a deduction but you state a proposition. I assume that you suppose the validity of 2-valued propositional logic. Then your proposition has a truth-value, which is either true or false. With A := "The sky is blue" your proposition has the form 

I interpret your first questions after the clarification as follows: How can ideas be reduced to impressions, when the latter formed part of the stream of consciousness and have passed long ago? In Book 1, part VI, chapter 6, Hume speaks about the fundamental role of the memory, e.g. to create the idea of an identical object: 

The comment from page 2 of the link claims that a sleeping person is less conscious, but not completely unconscious. Then take a person in coma. If the thalamus is not active, then the person is unconcious but not necessarily dead. The thalamus-example shows that the argument on page 2 is not convincing. Being unconscious has no relation to being dead. And the original claim lacks proof. 

Aristotle states that asking these four questions is more powerful and prompts a more comprehensive answer than the partial aspects considered by his forerunners. In my opinion, Aristotle is right in this historical assessment. But a modern point of view criticizes that it is not meaningful to pose all questions for every object, e.g. it is not meaningful to ask for the causa finalis of inanimate objects. A second point refers to the scope of his principle. The scope, where Aristotle's principle can be usefully applied, covers only objects from our everyday life, the mesocosm. Science like physics has expanded the domain of investigation to microcosm and macrocosm. E.g. the guiding principle from particle physics is to investigate the different kinds of interaction forces. And to study the possible ways to create particles from pure (= non-material) energy and to annihilate particles into pure energy. 

You ask a series of questions, sometimes expressed separately and other times embedded in your theses. I pick up some questions which I can isolate: 

We are here on a philosophical and not a religious forum. Before we can approach the question, whether God evolves, we have to agree that God exists and we have to find consense about some of his characteristic properties. This agreement has not been established up to now. 

I consider both questions refer to different domains. The question about the existence of abstract objects refers to ontology: Which different types of objects exist? The question referring to the mind asks for an approach to solve the mind-body problem. Hence the question belongs to cognitive science or neuroscience. E.g., the question "In which sense do ideas exist?" refers to abstract objects. A representative of Platonism must not necessarily support non-physicalism concerning the mind-body problem. 

In mathematics reductio ad absurdum is a sound method of proof as long as one operates on the base of 2-valued logic with the axiom "not (A and not-A)". On this base nearly all "working" mathematicians operate - notably exceptions are mathematicians in the wake of Brouwer. What is absurd concerning the statement referring to the singular coordinates on the sphere? A sphere is a differentiable manifold and corresponding coordinate patches are free from singularities by definition. Covering the sphere by two coordinate patches - as the textbook of Wheeler et al. shows - avoids the problem of singular points. For me a statement like "nature is absurd" is not senseful. Nature, i.e. real objects and facts, just are. Only the difference between certain propositions can be absurd. E.g., the gap between the propositions valid in every-day life and the insights of quantum electrodynamics or quantum mechanics in general. Hence, please indicate a reference to Feynman's quote to learn about the context of his statement. Reductio ad absurdum is a problematic tool in philosophy. Because in general, the terms have no precise definition alike to the terms of a formalized science. But antinomies play a fundamental role in philosophical argumentation, see the four antinomies from Kant, Immanuel: Critique of Pure Reason. (B454ff) The characteristics of these antonomies are that philosophical argumentation supports the thesis as well as the antithesis. Resolving these antinomies is one of the main achievements of Kant's work. Expanded as asked by @nir: The principle of reductio ad absurdum is "A or non-A", the law of tertium non datur. Reductio ad absurdum proves "A" by refuting "non-A". An antinomy violates "non(A and non-A)", the law of noncontradiction. An antinomy proves "A" and also "non-A". Both laws are equivalent in propositional logic, which can be proved by inspecting their truth-tables. 

Determinism and randomness play a double role in Quantum Mechanics (QM): The fundamental equations of QM like Schroedinger or Dirac equation are differential equations similar to the differential equations of classical mechanics. And differential equations are the paradigms of a deterministic development. On the other hand, the differential equations of QM do not deal with observable quantites like position or velocity, but with a certain function, named the psi-function. It took some time until Born proposed to consider the psi-function a probability. Hence 

Images. Animals, plants, artificial objects. Deduction from imitations. Herefrom Aristotle later develops the method of reasoning by deduction from first axioms. Search for the beginnings. Herefrom Aristotle later develops the method to find first principles and axioms. 

I conclude that according to Hume, the memory stores simple impressions as simple ideas. Hence these ideas become persistent. Unfortunately, your second question after the clarification is still unclear to me: Which organizational capacities do you mean? Why are they reducible according to Hume? 

Concerning your question no. 1: Kant takes over the concept of the supreme good from the philosophical tradition. Aristotle was the first who examined the idea of the supreme good from a philosophical viewpoint (Nicomachean Ethics). Aristotle equated the supreme good with eudaimonia and ranked the latter the goal of human life. Kant takes up the concept in the passage from your quote. To link morality in the sense of being worth happiness on the one hand with obtaining happiness on the other hand, Kant employs a model of a rational world which is governed by a god, who provides eternal life for those who act morally. That’s my answer to question no.1. The answer is similar but not quite the same than your proposal of interpretation. My answer to your question no. 2 is “No”. The supreme good comes a posteriori while the obligation to act morally is first. The supreme good is neither a reason nor a motivation to act morally. According to Kant: Who acts in accordance with the categorical imperative to obtain eudaimonia, does not act morally. Let me add that I consider your post very interesting and challenging. I hope it was not the last time to discuss such questions. 

In the passage quoted from Marx' theses on Feuerbach the term Diesseitigkeit in pararaph 2 does not mean the capitalist thinking. Instead the term 'this-sideness [Diesseitigkeit] of his thinking' refers to action in out present world. Marx criticizes the static conception of objects. He advocates to focus on the dynamic aspect. Whether a statement or an insight concerning an object is true cannot be determined by a static contemplation - disqualified pejoratively as scholastical. Instead, to determine whether the insight is true or not, it has to stand the test of practice, i.e. to guide successfully real actions in our world. In these two paragraphs Marx deals with philosophical, not with sociological issues. 

Your question refers to the theological problem of theodicy: How to explain that God is omnipotent, omniscient, and omnigracious, but there are so many evils and pains in the world? 1) Concerning evil a well known proposal is due to Leibniz: Our world is the best possible word. From the set of all possible worlds God chooses for creation the one world with the fewest evils. See Leibniz, Gottfried: The Theodicy (1710) 2) Leibniz himself does not cover the case of pain caused by natural catastrophies. But in an appendix to The Theodicy Leibniz reviews King, William: De Origine Mali (= An Essay on the Origin of Evil) (1702). Leibniz states in section 9 of the appendix 

What is truth? According to the modern truth concept due to Tarski truth denotes a property of statements: 

The answer is taken e.g., from 2. Timothy 3,16. Circular argumentation discredits the person who tries to argue in this way. Because circular argumentation pretends to argue but does not give a valid argument. A statement can be true even if the argumentation for it is invalid. But one gets suspicious why the person in question uses an invalid argument. Does he lacks a valid one? The link you provide shows many more inconsistencies and errors from the bible. Added. The text from 2 Timothy pretends to be a letter written by Paul. 2 Timothy 3,15-16 claims that the previous writings of Paul are inspired by God (theopneustos). Hence it is suggested to the receiver that also the actual letter from Paul is theopneustos. One can discuss whether hiera grammata and pasa graphae refers to the Jewish bible or to the former letters of Paul. The reference eis soterian supports the view that it refers to Paul’s writings. For the issue in question it is irrelevant whether 2 Timothy is a genuine letter of Paul or not. 

A person which defends speciecism will argue for fighting against the ecological crisis. Considered from an ethical point of view, there is no difference between our duties to contemporaries or to future persons. We are responsible to leave to future generations conditions not worse than we found today. This ethical view has been advocated by Hans Jonas in his book The Imperative of Responsibility. A person which takes a broader stance in ethics than speciesism takes into account also duties to non-human animals. Hence the same argument of responsibility applies. Summing up: Any ethics based on responsibility calls for fighting against the ecological crisis. The relevant concept is the concept of responsibility.