For questions like these I honestly like to use the tech trees from the civilization games. Its easy to point out that Navigation, as the obvious example, will be impacted. What is harder to discern is the downstream impacts, and that is where a chain like this (albeit a simplistic one) is very useful. Here is an image of the chain. My answer presupposes one thing: The cloud cover is completely and utterly constant. There are no breaks in the clouds, or at least they are so rare that they are essentially legends that are passed from generation to generation that most never see. I suppose this could also allow for Peter's comment about mountain top monasteries. The short version, the clouds never part or it is exceedingly rare. 

All in all the changes would be drastic and the impacts to industry, transportation and personal life would be nearly as profound as say...electricity in homes in the 1900's it would simply change the way humans live and interact with the world on a very fundamental level. 

I am not sure how this would work. Humans have done a pretty good job of taking themselves out of the predator prey relationship. And if we are going with stupid walk into obvious death zombies I don't see a good way to keep a zombie/human population balanced...knowing how your zombies work would help, do they die without human flesh? Are they smart enough to plan things out, like ambushes for example? 

Basically I am making sure I point out that this is an "if humans could fly" scenario. The primary reason for creatures that can fly to create and utilize the wheel is encumbrance. Being speedy and able to fly is great but that may not facilitate the transportation of goods. Its not the only reason to consider the wheel a likely technology but it seems the most obvious. Moving Stuff Alternate World 

So...as a student of political science and international relations I have to say that the answer is...everyone. Think of all the conflicts we have today. 

I am going to offer a counter-trend answer here and say that there is little to no need for the wheel This is an alternate world theory for reference. Assumptions 

I think the most likely, or at least most efficient way for criminals to adapt, and have no doubt they will, would be for them to start with hacking. It doesn't necessarily even need to be overt control or an obvious hack that alters the day to day function of the police bots. Criminals would be best served by hacking them and gaining access to the police network. With this access criminals could stay one step ahead of the police and ensure they have a heads up when police actions are imminent. This would give them time to prepare or better yet relocate and avoid the police altogether. It would also allow them to gather data on routes and coverage to better plan their nefarious deeds, and to avoid detection and capture. Now, in the event that things get out of hand or a police operation takes place with regular old humans criminals could wait for an opportune moment and take control of the bots to throw the police into chaos and start infighting so as to cover an escape or turn the tide of a fight. Police bots seem like they may be a bad idea... 

He can absolutely achieve this goal, and do so without causing to much of a fuss (if he has the patience to not build it all right away). Medieval castles were not built overnight, so there is little need to tax the proverbial pants off of the people. Castles went through stages, perhaps a wooden palisade to start and a smaller stone keep. Over time pieces can be upgraded with stone, towers and gatehouses can be added etc. This could potentially take the lifetime of the knight, but it doesn't have to. Now, when it comes to paying for it the lord should not focus solely on taxing traders. The purpose of a castle in the middle ages was to provide fortification sure, but more importantly it gave the lord a base of operations to control the surrounding countryside. In such a location the lord is perfectly suited to develop and build a larger community around the castle, this would likely happen naturally in this instance so long as the lord kept the surrounding area safe from bandits and the like. Towns like a fresh water source and it is also important for farming. A castle likely can't support itself for long without a supporting population center anyway. Eventually it would evolve from a simple castle on an island: To a castle with a surrounding town, which would result in surrounding farmlands and commerce increasing: 

In the case of 2/3 the thermal imaging stuff already exists. For number 1 you are going to have to create your standard fantasy "big brother" scenario where the authorities can utilize all cameras everywhere to track people down. 

I am sure there are more possibilities, hopefully these get some ideas flowing for you. An additional note...if we are talking prehistoric/nomadic humans it is likely that even adults wouldn't know they are pollinating, I don't know when we figured out how pollination works but I am guessing it was only in the last couple centuries...(I could be wrong on that, complete guess) 

Determine a time period. Pick a socio-technical point in time (or create your own, medieval twitter!...ahem anyway) for your now to exist. 

If you are looking at altering the course of a war I think you have to go further back than say altering a single battle. An M1A1 Abrahms Tank is currently best in use tank tech, its armor and weaponry are second to one. A tank's power is derived from its weaponry, armor and mobility. Disable one, and the rest are useless. The "softest" target on a tank has always been its tracks. To guarantee a single tank impacts the course of an entire war it has to survive its battles. For a tank to survive I think you have to go to a time that is pre cannons. While a single cannon likely wouldn't do any significant damage to the tank, a battery of cannons could certainly disable a tank in short order, keep in mind ship based cannons as well. A few good shots that hit the tracks and a tank becomes disabled and can then be cleaned out...and thus become useless. I would put the date where a tank could potentially win a war by itself at somewhere around 1700. Cannons were used well before that date, back into the 1400's, but were large, slow, and difficult to aim for centuries. That would mean this would be the last batch of major wars a tank could win, but a guarantee in war is a proposition that is only guaranteed to fail, so again, even in these cases it may not alter them completely: 

Your primary limfac here is going to be population growth. All the other things you want to do depend upon having people to do them. 

On earth our continents move...real...real slow. This is of course a good thing for sentient life. I am trying to imagine/develop a world where...things move a bit faster...ok a lot faster, but in a regular pattern that doesn't generally result in two plates ramming into each other...the idea is that the plates would be in perpetual stable motion that is fast enough for a casual observer to see it moves during the course of a day. Think of two continents that host separate nations that are in a cyclical war. Generally their lands are separated...but every time their two plates put them next to one another they have a battle royale, then after maybe a hundred years they come back in contact and do it all over again (the time frame is flexible). I would like the plates/continents to be as large as possible while keeping the time waited between the nations coming into contact down to <250 years. 

The great thing about world building is you can choose to do that. Hell it was done in Star Trek recently and it worked for me, I am admittedly not a physics purist when it comes to movies. So in our reality...no, this is not practical without totally outlandish tech that seems contrived and impractical in its own right, just to make it work. If you want to do it, go for it knowing that it breaches physical rules. 

There have been quite a few settings that revolved around this concept. Some...much better than others. The first that comes to mind is Road Warrior, ah, Mel Gibson before he was totally crazy. I think you have a couple options or rather a time range of options. For the first few months to years (depending on depopulation levels, more depopulation the longer the gas lasts) you should be fine with cars being fairly common. The second phase would be a gradual reduction in the number of cars to the point where you hit Stage 3. Essentially there are no running vehicles left, and to add a little flavor I would just like to say that I have seen a 4 door sedan being pulled by a pair of donkey's before...that pretty much describes stage three. So if the inclusion of vehicles is important to you, have it happen sooner after the cataclysm, less cars, have it further down the road...metaphorically speaking. 

Notes. In standard fantasy humans tend to be far to impetuous for elven tastes and that can lead to conflict. Perception of the world is greatly impacted by longevity and many readers may find it hard to accept that humans and elves live together in such a Utopian way. 

Non metal armors on the other hand could potentially benefit. Gems are hard...studded leather made from gems could potentially be useful. Negatives of using gems in armor 

Premise Architecture is often a reflection of culture and as it is plain to see, architecture varies from culture to culture such that as you travel around the world you see things change from one style to the next. Some boundaries are obvious. You fly over some mountains and bam...totally different place. But more often that not its a more gradual change. Questions 

Once you have all these things locked down you can develop a myth for the culture. In many ways you can make a myth what you want it to be but you should keep the setting in mind and ensure that it doesn't contradict how a person in the situation defined would think. Examples: Here is an example. (your world...) The people are constantly on the move. Things that impair or facilitate that movement are of primary concern. Several myths can develop from this. The obvious myth is a heroic myth. The hero that came up with their floating civilization, or the hero that saved a floating city from destruction. Pick your poison here, it could be a villain myth attached or maybe a natural disaster. Cosmology would likely revolve around a sun deity, the obvious path here is that you must constantly follow him to stay alive, which is quite literally true in this case. The religion just kinda creates itself now doesn't it?! The antithesis of course would be darkness and some deification of the chasing darkness, the idea is ripe for a cult...sacrifice to @bowlturner...err the dark lord. Notes: How myths show themselves in your world is important. There can be storytellers and priests that share lore and law. Sayings that don't make sense to outsiders or that most don't know the origin for. Resources: My personal favorite resources is The Hero with a Thousand Faces. Joseph Campbell is a great read for world builders and I highly recommend it even if, academically speaking, some of his theories are arguable. 

The skin keeps out toxins, germs and really anything else that exists in our environment. Yet it is light and flexible enough that we are still pretty agile creatures. 

Education Basic - Simple, broad knowledge: arithmetic, reading, writing, basic science, history, etc We, in much of the world, already have this broken into RPG friendly levels and tiers...though studying for a history test isn't as exciting as killing rats in a basement. Advanced - Less broad categories, more specialized knowledge: This area would be the equivalent of high school and the early college years. More specific than basic information but most people will overlap in places Expert - Specific knowledge, narrow focus. This is where we specialize, late college years, and on into the workforce and post graduate years. In terms of education, the system is already in place really, nice and easy. Martial Skills Like many marital arts, you have a belt system which denotes a certain skill/mastery level. 

With all this in mind the final variable is location. Location will have a gigantic impact on survivability so here goes. 

First an important note. Neither technology nor culture develop in a linear fashion. Think back to history. There have been cultures that were very accepting (in ways) to sexuality and race and religion going back several millennia and then there have been times of great persecution. Likewise technological achievement exploded during some of the great empires and was subsequently lost when they fell, the same can be seen to be true for society. So the answer to your question is... it could be anywhere you want it to be Some things to keep in mind to help you decide. 

Is it practical? Well, practicality is situationally dependent. So you can make it practical without a doubt. Better put, it is certainly plausible As long as you allow for cranes and other items to hoist things up the wall, it could function as a port (though it will never be as efficient as more natural ports). 

The major challenge is that she can appear to be anyone or anything...in the end its not that she is hard to catch, its that she is hard to find. 

First, visibility of 200 meters is really...really dense fog, reducing things to 50 meters is almost unheard of. This is especially true over the size of landmass you are talking about. I find that the idea stretches plausibility to the breaking point if confined to 'natural causes'. That said a few things come to mind. The transportation network. 

The short answer is no. An additional note: Agriculture IS a technology set. The evolution of farming technology has allowed for the evolution of other tech...thinking about it, it felt weird that we were talking about agriculture as if it weren't part of the tech advancement world. Here's why. For non-necessary scientific advancement to take place, people must have the spare time to work on it. In the evolution of human civilization farming is the corner stone. Farming, and the improvement of farming processes allowed us to get past the most basic tribal/nomadic levels because: 

The best answer will have (at least for the first bullet) supporting political science literature. For the sake of this question fantasy aspects (magic/creatures and stuff like that) may be considered non-existent. 

There is nothing that inherently makes this impossible but it is very unlikely. 1) Organization and planning. There were no building codes in the middle ages. You would have to have an organization that manages city planning. City planning was not unheard of in the middle ages but it was never this robust. You have a good start making it a religious requirement, but you would also need the governing power to be on board. Forcing this is going to cost the powers that be to enforce and implement. Considering peasants made due with what was available to build their homes...well you are going to have to figure out how they are going to make peasants create things a certain way and whether are not they are going require standardized sizes and building materials. 2) Location is going to matter. A city on a plain could probably achieve this but in most cases in the medieval era you would not build on a wholly exposed plain. Its hard to defend. At a minimum you are probably going to need to deal with a coastline or a river. Medieval technology didn't allow city planners to alter the landscape like we can today. If you look at maps of ancient cities, Athens for example, you see that ancient cities followed the lay of the land. 3) Building round is fine. The technology required to build round is no major hindrance here. Its less efficient and more time consuming potentially but that's about all. Stone is going to be more difficult, but with wood you can set posts in place and then bend saplings in a circle. At that point the walls can be thatch or clay or mud brick or whatever, take your pick. There are plenty of examples of round dwellings from yurts to thatch. 4) Planning considerations. You should alter your city design to ensure transportation, communication, drainage and sanitation etc can be effectively managed. A spoke and wheel design allows you to be round and efficient. A design like this could serve you well. Keep in mind the further from center you get the larger the distance you have to travel to hit one of the spokes. As such you are probably going to want more than 4.