Any answer, yes or no, will answer this question, since even no, is an answer. I think this is related to the self-reference and to me seems to be related to the concept of tautology. Is this further related to this quite famous example: 

But is this really the end of the story? Isn't a brain not just another vat in which I "swim"? It reminds me on Popper's and Eccles' Dualistic Interaction Theory, that broke down the interface to certain quantum meta stable neurotransmitter quasi crystal in your brain (a little spooky to be honest and I hope he doesn't mind that I condensed his work), but I think the final version of a brain in a vat should look like this... How did dualists respond to brains in vats? 

Evil demons exist next to me I have brain swimming in a vat connected to external interfaces that feel like eyes, ears and son one. 

Thoughts, memories, information, all are stored in some kind of physical representation. You might get down to a single quantum state of a electron to store one (quantum) bit. Sir Popper tells us that products of the brain, like speech, music, math,... live in World 3, which is on top World 1, the material one. Can information be thought without a physical realisation? Or is it always connected to a certain kind of materialism? 

So I was looking for non-empty things. Abstracts things, like mathematical proofs for example. But I found that they maybe boiled down to mathematical axioms, premises so evident as to be accepted as true without controversy. So, are axioms non-empty? 

Humans are a coherent process born of noise, formed by an incoherent filter over billions of years of jitter, and millenia of social development. At one point we figured out how to speak and to write. Some humans even told stories and wrote books that told others what to think, and a few of those even replicated wildly. Over time we have discovered systems of values, in which we encode what we have learnt. If we were conscious states in an ever-forgetful beast, we may have been born indifferent of continuity. If we were all facets of a single mind, far too large to have a coherent self but at no point separate from the rest, we may not even experience a sense of self, never mind value it. Had we neither need nor want to reproduce, it seems no stretch to believe it would have no place in our moral landscape. You ask for a universal coherent narrative on which to hang your thoughts, as if the hanger by itself would make others agree, the same way you view mathematics as true and others bound by your deductions. Yet though there is no such narrative, you can still see what is true, you want people to know what is good, you value a productive society, you see others believing the same. If God handed you the truth on a plate, you would still only take what you already believe; no offer would make you butcher children, no demand would make you stop caring about your own sadness. As long as you can feel these things you feel, you have a handle to the truth. You can wait to be passed the Mythical One True Handle so you can grab it should it compare identical to your own, or you can take the one you have already and move forward now. If you care so much about truth, look it straight in the eye and do the things that would be right if only you had a God to tell you so. More generally, on a societal level it seems very strange to pin modern zeitgeists on modern atheism. The religious past was not more productive, nor did they really love thy neighbor. Many other effects are much easier targets, like how huge global networks tend to polarize and how modern economics doesn't work like it used to. But regardless of whether this is to blame or that, it is your actions that shape society, and if you think an action is good you need not lie to yourself about why in order to take it. 

I recently read Dalai Lama's "The way to a meaningful life" and after I finished the chapter about "emptiness", I tried to come up with a way how to imagine this: [A]n object is "empty" is synonymous with saying that it is dependently originated. So I tried to get rid of all dependencies. 

My two cents: I just read an article about quantum erasor. In principle what they showed there, is that the quantum interference in a double split experiment vanishes if you force the particle to show its particle property. (This is done by putting the observation screen pretty close to the double split). With a more complicated setup they argue that quantum interference patterns disappear because you take information (which-way-information) out of the system. They proved that by showing that the information, carried by photons, may be erased before it leaves the whole setup. The buzz word for that is delayed choice quatum erasers (a link to Wikipedia which I haven't yet read). By that I would conclude that particles are (intermediate) observers, because they carry information. 

But does intelligence need free will or a conscious mind. Just have a look in the news and you'll find e.g. that AlphaGo won four 4 times against Lee Sedol! Any other conscious being would be judge pretty smart doing that. But Google is not conscious yet (to my knowledge). So we have intelligence without free will(?). Albert Einstein again is a good example for free will with intelligence. So every relation between free will and intelligence seems possible, which points towards no correlation at all. What does modern philosophy say about this issue? 

If $x$ is positive rational number less than $\frac{1}{2}$, can the following logarithmic expression be equivalent to any real number , say $r$? $$\frac{\log(1-x)}{\log x} = r$$, Where $r$ is positive real number less than one, Assume first $r$ is a rational number say $n/m$, then you would get this equation, $x^n=(1-x)^m$, where solution for $x$ will be clearly algebraic - irrational number contradicting the assumption of rationality of $x$, hence $r$ cannot be rational number & must be irrational number, if so, you get this following equation, $x^r = 1-x$, the right hand side is a rational number, but the left hand side is transcendental number according to - Gel-schneider theorem, that contradicts again the assumption of irrationality of $r$, so what is that number suppose to be? I guess someone will simply say it is a transcential number given by definition, if so assume $x$ an integer power of a rational number, say $x=a^p$, where $p$ is odd prime number, then by substitution you get this simple equation which is a reduced form of FLT for rational numbers , $a^p + (a^r)^p = 1$, but we already know that $a^r = b$, where $b$ is a rational number that doesn't exist from the proof of Andrew Wiles & Taylor to Fermat's Last Theorem, thus $log(b) / log(a)$ is not Transcendental number, it is a kind of numbers that have to be redefined again & precisely 

What is the positive real number (say less than one) that is not a rational nor an irrational number? I have encountered a mathematical problem that confused me about the definition of real numbers, so I thought there may be some other set of numbers that is not well defined ! 

You have five people, and properties A, B and C. Your people respectively have properties AB, AB, BC, BC, AC. P(B|A) = 2/3 P(B|C) = 2/3 P(B|A,C) = 0 

It is not just that empiricism works, and in 300 years has brought us from semaphore lines to global high speed interconnects, or that non-empiricism is a fervent breeding ground for falsehoods and mysticism; those are true and more than justify aversion to the magical, but they don't explain why that should be the case. Rather, it is that in the modern day we come further and further to irrefutable evidence that people are empirical. I will not go into detail on the evidence, but it suffices to say that if you agree to this much you also understand that there is nothing that you can do, even in theory, that a machine cannot. There is no mental magic that lets you probe beyond the veil. There is no mystical wand to wave that lets your knowledge constitute more than a map to the territory. Even if there was such a contortion of reason it would be nothing that could not in principle be done by another appropriate arrangement of gears and lasers. There is no higher level of knowledge than empirical knowledge because that is all that can be known. No matter how smart you are, Solomonoff induction is smarter. No matter how wise you are, your mind can only be causally related to causal objects. A devotion to a "higher level of truth" leads to epistemic voids like zombies or the ontological argument, arguments that seem appealing on the outset but do nought but waste time. In contrast empirical work is why we can now talk about the consciousness of brains under fully homomorphic encryption, or the measurement problem, real problems that represent huge leaps in the boundaries of philosophical discussion. Even when talking about the mind, or issues like free will, actual progress is made through empirical study. If you want to say that empirical arguments do not stand at the same height as the rest of philosophy, I would not disagree, but it is certainly not because it is lower. Until brute philosophy can make a single step forward in its own field the way Copernicus, or Turing, or Darwin, or Everett, did upon it, I hardly see much competition. 

The higher energies we use the deeper we look into the mysteries of the universe. We started to find molecules, atoms, protons, quarks, ... All at different energy scales. Each new stage forced and forces scientists, to come up with new theories and models to describe the newly found phenomena. What would it mean if we come to the stage, when the whole energy of the entire universe is not enough the reveal the next stage? By "revealing the next stage", I mean that we find new results at higher energies that give rise to new models for the underlying physics. Doesn't this constrain the amount of information we can get out of the universe and put a final end to the depth we can investigate reality? 

The chances that all this happened at the same time are pretty small. Are there any new developments since 1961 why this all happened back then? 

Symmetry is established since "A observes B" has a symmetric partner world where "B observes A" I admit I favor the "collapse of the wave function" interpretation, but please feel free to pick your own favorite interpretation here. 

Back to the question in the title "Why is there an asymmetry in QM?", I'd like to add the following: Observing a quantum system (made up of a superposition of eigenstates), collapses the wave function to a single eigenstate of your observation operator and by that destroys superposition. More important: the observer A gathers information about the system B*. The (asymmetric) information flow from B to A drives change in the world... *: This can be shown, because the information can be erased (by so called quantum erasers) while traveling to the observer A. By that, the superposition state is not affected. 

To refute such a concept as Infinity (or many infinities) in mathematics doesn't at all require all that big efforts mainly from its own definition in mathematics. To explain this very simple fiction in human minds, just consider the natural numbers, where simply they are a continuous chain of "endless" successive integers with no existing largest integer, where this only invalidates strictly the concept of infinity since the later is not any number nor anything else (from its own definition), so how can we truly compare it with numbers? wonder! So, the so obvious fact of natural numbers being actually "endless" is much stronger term than using any meaningless concept as Infinity, where this concept is just a plain hopeless try to finite the natural numbers fact in order to justify and legalize so many theorems and well- established results in modern mathematics as an agreement and never any real true discovery Why do I add this question here, because of I found no tolerance at all to all my topics that had been added in many mathematical sections, where simply the trend is always deleting my content without being able to refute me in this very basic issue, However, many of my proven topics were including true discoveries and so many mathematical challenges that are still standing evidence where simply no one could ever bring a single counterexample (especially in Number theory and Geometry) And to give a brief idea about those many deleted topics that the reader would simply laugh at when hearing for the first time due to huge incorrect mathematical concepts that had been built and were well-established (based on so naive conclusions or merely were just plain wrong decisions, and not at all any true proved discovery) However, the science of physics was the main victim of the current and alleged modern mathematical sciences, where also the world economy and intelligent people waste may be regarded as the second victim of so much wrong modern mathematics In short, I claim (with many public published so rigorous proofs) at sci.math or Quora or at SE-(here-few still undeleted topics), The following famous fallacies: 1) Imaginary numbers were simply and WRONGLY DECIDED and never were any true discovery 2) Infinity concept is a totally fictional concept that doesn't mean anything but was just introduced or fabricated to legalize so many illegal mathematics 3) The fundamental theorem of algebra totally flawed 4) The CONVERGENCE principle is also a flawed concept since the Infinite sum never exists because basically, natural numbers are endless 5) All real numbers associated with the fictional concept of Infinity such as the non-constructible irrational numbers such as (real algebraic and transferential) numbers don't exist on the real number line (but only notations in minds), with so special story of $\pi$ 6) The impossibility of solving the general polynomials by radicals for degrees higher than fourth was so simple and so naive and beyond one's common beliefs in our modern mathematics 7) A very famous challenging example of the non-existence of many integer degrees angles of the form ($3n +/- 1$), in any existing triangle with exactly known and constructible sides, where this so obvious fact reveals strictly all the legendary real numbers in our current modern mathematics Of course, one must consider that no Journal or University would accept such closed topics nowadays, therefore It was my duty to make them publically available to keen researchers in future, where absolute facts must be raised above all common fallacies ultimately For interested philosophers or logicians in those many critical issues in mathematics nowadays, people can simply read many relevant topics in a free spoken site, where simply no professional control on the content of any topic, a reader must distinguish himself the facts from illusions, and not personalizing any self-issue, here: $URL$ Note that, if all my deleted questions or answers were recovered at SE, then it would certainly facilitate the so easy task to understand all those many fictions in our modern mathematics, sure 

Roxanne, an atheist, is grappling with the lack of intrinsic meaning to life. How can one hold objective beliefs about value without an objective source? Enter stage left, God. God: Roxanne, worry no more, for I am here to grant your request. I shall declare to you that which is unambiguous moral good. Roxanne: Bless you, Lord, my woes are no more! God: First, welfare is a virtue and suffering a sin. Second, consequentialist utilitarianism is correct. I declare these facts to be objective truths. Roxanne: Thank you profoundly! There is so much wasted time to make up for, so many lives I had neglected to save! Though if I may beg one more request... why is it so? God: Because I declared it so. Roxanne: Yes, only... why specifically that? Why not deontology, or to ask us to throw teapots around the sun in ironic tribute? God: I doubt you would be enthralled by that prospect. Roxanne: Even if it was true? God: I declare it to be true. short pause Roxanne: You're right, I'm not feeling it. God: As I tend to be. 

Lot: What an amazing day this is! How lucky I am! How jubilant! Baye: What has your spirits up so high today? Lot: You would never have guessed! I'm going to win the lottery! I just know it! Baye: (sighing) You know that's unlikely. What makes your ticket special? Lot: Oh, I don't have a ticket. (Baye headdesks) Baye: Ouch. You're not going to win the lottery. Why would you even think you were going to win the lottery? Lot: I don't need evidence! What makes you so certain anyhow? How do you know I'm not going to win the lottery? There are thousands of ways it could happen! Someone could walk in right now and hand me a winning ticket! Baye: The mere possibility of a situation is not reason to believe it! Lot: Hmph. As far as I'm concerned it will either happen or it won't. That makes it 50-50. Your certitude is no better than mine. Baye: (screaming inside) That is not how probabilities work! Lot: Well that's just, like, your opinion, man. Baye: No, it's not. The way we reason about probabilities is not an arbitrary choice out of all the ways you can assign numbers to events. Bayesian statistics is not just just a postulate, it is a mathematically ideal solution given natural assumptions. Competitive markets repeatedly demonstrate that these formal models of the world are better predictors. A 50% probability should be right 50% of the time. Some ways of looking at the world are just right, and some are just wrong.