The two movies should be Jurassic World and Inside Out. These are two of the top four grossing movies of 2015, and both were special effects heavy. They would be extremely difficult to make in 2000. You might also consider Star Wars: The Force Awakens and Avengers: Age of Ultron, but those are both in the middle of series. You wouldn't be able to sell them until closer to 2015 when the actors are old enough to appear in sequels. The other two can be released alone. I'm unconvinced that you can make significant money reverse engineering your phone. The best idea may be to sign up with someone to patent the innovations from the phone. Then you can make money as others invent the same things. It would be different if you had data on manufacturing techniques, but you just have the phone itself. They won't know how to make it in 2000. Shorting stocks before the dotcom crash can magnify your funds relatively quickly. Note that shorting is limited only by your ability to borrow. It gives you money. It's covering the short at the end that costs money. 

Even assuming that someone has to manually remove the hard drive from each computer and delete the fork bomb program, this should be fixable within a week. Note that it is standard on Windows computers to be able to boot without launching the startup programs (Safe mode). So IT personnel should be able to just manually boot each computer, delete the program, and restart. This takes something like ten to fifteen minutes and can be partially parallelized. So five computers in the same location might take thirty-five minutes to do (figure five minutes to start each computer and ten minutes to finish the last one). If there are three IT personnel, they could probably do this in two days. And all this assumes that they can't just power off all the computers and run a remote uninstall. The remote uninstall should run with higher priority than the startup programs for exactly this reason. But it is by no means impossible that this was done incorrectly in this case. After all, the sysadmin leaves open an administrator machine. 

Lack of buy-in Why does democracy work? The main reason is that it legitimizes the government. Because people believe that their votes matter, they understand that sometimes votes won't go their way. In this system, people wouldn't feel that way. If there's a close vote that involves a clear choice between high tax people and low tax people where the high tax people win, then people will be frustrated. Lack of revenue Trump pays hundreds of millions in taxes. In this system, why would he? A thousand dollars gets him nine votes. Why pay another thousand for the next vote? If you read Sanders' tax return, he paid \$27,653. But under this system that would only get him thirteen votes which he could get by paying \$16,383. So Sanders would either save \$11,270 or pay \$16,384 for his next vote. Most people would choose to round down most of the time. In the US, federal taxes are roughly 25% of GDP. Even if we assume that people would pay 25% for however many votes that gives, will they be willing to pay 12.5% of their income for one vote? That's what exponential growth of just doubling gives you. Advertising is cheaper The basic problem is that votes just aren't worth enough. People won't pay big money for votes. It's much cheaper to pay for advertising. Even if a million dollars of advertising only convinces a thousand people net to your position, that's still much cheaper than buying a thousand votes. Balance A system needs to create balance. In our current system, people who pay for services and people who use them are mostly separate. So the payers want to pay as little as possible while the recipients want as much as possible. This gives a kind of balance. Under your system, there isn't enough money to pay for any kind of welfare state. The people who want services don't have the money to pay for them. The people who have the money don't value votes enough to buy them. Compare to charity Charitable giving in the US is only 2% of GDP. Even tithers (e.g. the Mormons) generally only give 10%. This is well short of the 25% provided by taxes. Without scaling The natural fix to all this is to decrease the scaling factor. Instead of doubling, multiply by 1.5 or 1.1 instead. Let's take it down to 1. What value does Donald Trump give to voting? Unless he feels needs as many votes as he pays dollars in taxes, he'll pay less. That would only increase the budget deficit (already large). The only people likely to pay significant amounts will be those who benefit from the votes. But that means that they have to expect to benefit more than they pay. In order to beat 10% of the vote (from paying a 10% tax as charity), they'd have to buy their own 10%. So at the unrealistic rate of 10% natural giving, we can get up to 20%. Still short of 25%. There's another problem. If your 10% is going to pay for services valued by others rather than your services or charity, why pay it? But without that 10%, there's no reason for the greedy to add their 10%. So even without scaling, there just isn't enough money from selling votes to eliminate taxes. 

Panspermia is covered in other answers. I think that this is cheating though, as panspermia is planet-based life that travels through space in an inert form and then resumes life on a new planet. I don't consider it to be life in space, as it's not really alive in space. Life could develop on planets and then evolve into something that can live in space. Note that this works best if there is a lot of life somewhere that is becoming progressively more like space. It needs to be a lot of life because space kills life optimized for planets. We need enough base material to leave room for natural selection. It needs to happen over a long period of time so that new generations can build life for the new circumstances. Note that panspermia may be a stage in this. It is conceivable that life might find moments on comets or in a sufficiently soupy region of a nebula to develop in space. Maybe when we explore enough we'll find some. Note that there is Earth-based life in extreme conditions like volcanoes. Perhaps an environment like Saturn's rings could hold life. It seems like it would take a really long time to develop though. Realize that we think that what we now call one-celled life developed from even smaller life (e.g. we think that mitochondria might have started outside cells). Given how vast space is, it might be difficult for the life to encounter enough additional life to even get as far as one-celled life. It might still be stuck at the prokaryote stage or even the protocell stage. Realize that it took something like 3.5 billion years for the first animal life to develop on Earth. This route may be slower than that. 

The greatest source of instability is the King. If everyone expects all orders to come from the King, he can just start ignoring what the Queen says. And she can't contradict him, as she can't speak in public. The Queen whispers into his ear, "Agree to their terms." The King stands up and yells, "That is an insult! Behead these knavish ambassadors and send their heads back to their masters as our answer. Prepare for war!" The first king who realizes that will be the end of this system, one way or the other. The checks and balances don't work. This is especially bad considering the way that royals traditionally use marriages to cement alliances. A clever younger prince of another country may promote himself as a potential king. While he could never rule in his own country (as the younger child), he can rule this country. Beyond all that, what happens if the Queen isn't married? Perhaps the old Queen died suddenly and her eight-year-old daughter becomes Queen. Perhaps the King dies. What happens then? 

There's also an alternative version that grows kelp instead of land plants. That saves the evaporation and irrigation steps. The point of water in the Sahara would be less to produce fuel and more to increase the amount of biomass. We'd want to pull the carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and trap the carbon in plants. We wouldn't want to send it back to the atmosphere after burning it as fuel. The Sahara Forest project is an example of a plan to do this.