The gravitational pull of all the planets and the sun, and the rest of the galaxy and the universe, all play a part, but gravitational effects fall off with distance. For Earth's orbit, the Sun is far and away the single biggest influence. Jupiter perturbs our orbit slightly, but with it or without it we have a simple elliptical orbit round the sun. We can measure the perturbation in our orbit from all the planets, but the effects are minor. When it comes to gravitational effects on small bodies passing one of the planets, however, the effects can be dramatic - an asteroid passing close to Jupiter will be moved far from its original path. The same would be true when passing close to Saturn or in fact any planet - just to a lesser degree. So while you can't say that Jupiter protects Earth from anything, especially not the Oort Cloud, you also can't say that it draws objects in. Anything out in the Kuiper belt or Oort cloud will be orbiting the barycentre of the solar system (which is within the Sun) and will keep doing that unless knocked out by something like a collision with another object, or the pull of other Kuiper belt objects like Pluto, which can give a much greater tug. 

The CMB is nearly featureless, but the operative word is nearly. The tiny temperature fluctuations that we've measured should look about the same anywhere within tens to hundreds of millions of light years of Earth or so. This would allow you to get an absolute orientation relative to the CMB and thus relative to Earth. It's fairly easy to measure velocity relative to the CMB, so if you measure your velocity relative to the CMB somewhere else (within that 10-100 million lightyears of Earth, anyway) and if you know your orientation, you can compute your velocity relative to Earth. But I don't see any way to easily measure the distance from Earth except very approximately. (The CMB that you see from any point is different because it comes from a different sphere. If you move far enough from Earth, the temperature fluctuations you see are no longer the ones we see from Earth because you're sampling a different part of the 300-year-old universe.) Later: I've been thinking about the position problem and there's a solution, but it's complicated. The CMB samples the universe of 13.7 billion years ago and from any point in it see the distribution of matter in a shell that old. If we move to another point, in effect, the shell shifts also and samples different parts of the gas. The key point is that the faint ripples in the gas's temperature that we see as mottling in the CMB are three-dimensional bubbles. So if you shift a short distance in space, the CMB will shift the most in the direction of motion (both in front and behind) and the least at right angles. Furthermore, the amount of shift will depend on the angular size of the fluctuation you're looking at. Low-angular-frequency fluctuations come from physically large ripples int he gas and you need to move a long distance to move the shell you are sampling out of the bubble. High-angular-frequencies ripples come from smaller bubbles and shorter shifts in position will take the shell you observe out of one bubble and into another. Waving my hands just a tiny bit, it should be possible to use statistical methods to estimate the amount and direction of movement by comparing two detailed CMB maps. A major limitation of the method is that the finer the angular resolution, the sooner you lose all correlation between the two views fo the CMB, but the coarser the angular resolution, the coarser your measurement will be. Numbers? As long as we're not talking about jaunteing many billions of light years, we can ignore general relativistic issues. A fluctuation with an angular size of 1 degree corresponds to a CMB fluctuation which appears to us right now to be around 250 million light years across and consequently ought have a good chance to be visible for moves within roughly that distance. This suggests that the CMB method ought to be able to give you a rough position up to maybe a half-billion or even a billion light years, but will drop off rapidly in accuracy after that. Note that for shorter hops, it ought to be possible to actually recognize galaxy super-clusters and get a position that way. 

You can exclude the 'considering the distance' piece - of course Oort Cloud objects could transfer between different gravitational fields. However what is it you think will make this transfer? Without some sort of gravitational impetus why would one of these objects leave the solar system? And if you do manage to slingshot one out of the solar system at a high enough speed to exit the Sun's gravity, remember that most directions end up very far away from any other solar systems. Tl;Dr sure, but not very likely 

Our sun is a particularly average sized star on the main sequence. It is not going to ever go "supernova" but instead will slowly swell and darken towards red, eventually swallowing Mercury and Venus. 

A star is described as such whether or not it has planets. There doesn't appear to have ever been a need, and to be honest, I can't think of any need for one. When it was assumed (in historical times) that we were on the only planet, stars were not thought to have planets. The title worked then. Now, as we know most stars are likely to have planets as part of normal formation, we can still call them stars. Typically words are invented as there is a need for them. 

From the equation above we can calculate alfa and from we can calculate d. We also suppose that the speed along the radius can be calculated with the equation v = c / r, where c is constant. Therefore we can calculate the position of the two galaxies after a period of time t, and measure the distance d between them to verify if d increases (redshift) of decreases (blueshift). We can see that no matter what the fraction x is, there is always a minimum value for the angle beta, such that any galaxy within this angle will be moving away from the reference galaxy. Now assume that the universe is so big that we cannot see galaxies beyond beta. In this way, all that we can see is redshifted galaxies! This means that even for a contracting universe, depending on how far we can see, it is possible to detect only redshifted galaxies. Does not this disprove the theory of expanding universe based on redshift? 

Let’s start with a simpler representation: 1 dimension only (1D). Assume that all the galaxies move along a single line. We could represent an expanding and a contracting Universe as per the images below: 

This effect is called libration - and it is an oscillating motion of orbiting bodies relative to each other (from Wikipedia) It is down to three factors: 

Of course Earth life would be fine at first (unless it was Earth that was removed ...) but the orbits of asteroids and other bodies may be perturbed, which could lead to an influx of asteroid strikes - potentially - in the longer term. 

Unlike all other meteor showers, which originate from comets, Geminids originate from asteroid 3200 Phaethon. Seeing a large number of meteors last night, I noticed they seemed to be much more green than other meteors, but is there anything else I should expect to see different to other meteor showers? Brightness, size, length of trail etc? 

This question has two parts: Surface Temperatures A very useful diagram which shows surface temperatures, and also gives you the temperature of any star you can observe is the Herzsprung-Russell Diagram, this one from le.ac.uk. 

Your premise is incorrect: The external observer's view does not imply anything about an observer within the event horizon. The event horizon itself is just an indicator of the edge of the region where light can no longer escape. Light can head inwards as you would expect. So an observer inside the event horizon will be able to see light reaching them as normal (well, not exactly as normal, as there will be lensing effects) - there will not be an infinite amount of time visible. 

The Wikipedia article says that Spica A has 8 times the luminosity of Spica B (presumably that's at maximum.) Magnitude is -2.5*log10(I/I0). So if the combined magnitude is 0.97, the magnitude of component A is ~1.1 and the magnitude of component B is ~3.3. 

There are two issues: Would there be gravitational waves to be detected and would LIGO detect them. On the first issue, gravitational waves are quadrupolar, and a cylindrically symmetric system will not produce any. (Specifically, the second time derivative of the quadrupole moment of an isolated system's stress–energy tensor must be non-zero in order for it to emit gravitational radiation.) So a head-on collision of equally massive black holes would not produce significant gravitational waves. If the BHs were of different masses, or the collision not quite head-on, gravitational waves would be produced. On the second issue there are at least three ways LIGO might might miss them. First, they might simply be too faint. A merger through rotation is one of the best ways to produce gravitational waves, and a head-on collision is one of the worst (during a BH merger, of course). A second way it might miss is if the merger is in one of its blind spots. Each LIGO detector has blind spots and there's no rule that says a BH merger can't be in one of them. (In fact, the neutron star merger was located by use of the blind spots. The third gravitational wave (GW) detector, Virgo, in Italy, didn't pick up the neutron star merger. It was bright/loud enough that it should have, which meant that the merger was in one of Virgo's blind spots, which helped to narrow down its location. A GW detected in only one detector would be listed as a possible GW, but not as a detection, because it might simply be terrestrial interference. But another way it might miss is if LIGO had not been looking for the waveform of that kind of merger. General Relativity allows us to compute in very good detail the GW signal from any type of collision that we think likely. Because the GW signals are so faint, the first step of detection is matching computed GW waveforms to the data and looking for matches. Once a match is found, the signal is analyzed in more detail, but they have to know where to look. If no one expected the waveform and it was not strong enough to pop out of the data and yell "Here I am, dummy!" it might be missed. Since head-on collisions are expected to be very rare, it's possible that they are not in the library of waveforms that LIGO checks. 

The best way to understand what will happen is to avoid thinking too deeply about black holes being weird, and treat them as dense masses. For most purposes this will help you model galactic collisions. Have a look at this NASA simulation of the collision between the Milky Way and Andromeda: 

If you are a beginning astronomer, there is not much point worrying about all the bells and whistles you can get with a good telescope. Instead, the key points to look for are: 

Stars are much less bright than the earth in full sunlight as per your picture. So with the exposure required to give that picture of earth, no, you won't see stars. But move the camera a bit to the side, so earth is not in shot and you can see stars. The same goes for the sun - make sure sunlight is not entering the lens, and you can easily see stars. Sunlight doesn't block any light out (unless you want to see a star that is actually behind the sun) it's just so bright that you need to make sure it isn't in shot. 

What if we just can’t see far enough and the redshift actually shows the galaxies speeding up towards a gigantic black hole to where everything is converging, repeating a cycle that took place countless times “before” the big ban? Complete text in this link: $URL$ Even in a contracting Universe, there is a region around the observer where all the galaxies are moving away; the galaxies that are moving towards the observer could be too far to be seen. If we can demonstrate this, we could challenge the conclusion that the Universe is expanding, based on the redshift effect observed in the “nearby” galaxies. 

In Situation 1, we have the currently accepted model, where galaxies move away from each other, at increasing speed, which creates the redshift observed by Hubble. In Situation 2, we assume that in the contracting Universe the galaxies have a speed that is inversely proportional to the distance from the center (as in a sink flow where the particles accelerate towards the drain), galaxies 1 and 3 will display a red shift effect, because they are moving away from each other, while galaxies 4, 5 and 6 will appear with blueshift effect. However, in order to see the blue shifted galaxies it is necessary to see beyond the center of the Universe, which would be not possible either because of the distance or because of the gigantic black hole in the center traps light from galaxies 4, 5 and 6 preventing it from reaching us at galaxy 2. In fact, assuming that from galaxy 2 we cannot see beyond galaxy 1, it is impossible to distinguish between situation 1 and 2. With this we have demonstrated that for a 1D Universe it is impossible to determine if it is expanding or contracting, simple because we cannot see far enough. What about a 2D space? Consider two galaxies (1 and 2); consider that they form a angle beta, relative to the center of the universe (assuming that there is one); Consider that galaxy 1 is at the distance r from the center; consider that galaxy 2 is at a fraction of r (say xr) from the center. We can calculate the distance between galaxy 1 and 2 as follows: 

This comes from a misunderstanding of local and absolute. There is nothing to prevent a local increase in order - overall, order still decreases (or in common terminology, entropy increases) From Wikipedia: 

Even on Earth, we say that a day is 24 hours, but it isn't really, as the two sets of concepts don't match up. We haven't defined a second as a fraction of the time it takes the planet to rotate - it is defined based on physical constants. So if you were to say that Gliesa has a day that is 30 units long - it would be astonishing if those units were exactly hours! 

This question isn't really very clear or practical. You need to add quite a bit of information, eg which planet? 

While the surface of a meteor will indeed be pretty sterilised by re-entry, remember that a meteor also has an inside. If it doesn't burn up completely, then parts of the inside may remain cool enough for bacteria/viruses to survive. The range of environmental conditions life can survive in is incredibly wide, so this is not impossible. 

First of all, at that distance seeing the Moon and seeing the Earth amounts to the same thing. At its closest, Saturn is around 3000 times as far from Earth as the Moon is, so viewed from Saturn, the Moon is never more than about a minute of arc away from the Earth. If you can see Earth from the North Pole of Saturn, you can see the Moon, also. (Though it would be a lot dimmer.) But if you can See the Earth from Saturn's pole, then you can also see Saturn's pole from Earth. So your question can equally well be phrased as "Can Saturn's north pole be seen from Earth and if so, when?" If you look at pictures of Saturn from Earth, the rings are sometimes tilted so far that they cover one polar region, though it's also true at those times that polar region tilted away from Earth, anyway! Most of the time the rings are either not tilted enough to cover the poles or tilted to cover the south pole. So the answer is that during most of Saturn's orbit around the Sun, the rings would not obscure the sightline from Saturn's north pole to the Moon.