Usually lunch is a more or less informal part of an interview, the interviewer gets to know you a little better in a more relaxed environment and maybe on a more personal level. If you didn't impressed them tremendously in the formal interview, I guess you're out now. 

This looks like your boss is considering on these times, what issues are still open and then calls you to get these items off his to do list. Maybe he's on his way home and now has the time to make a few phone calls. If these calls are clearly outside your work hours, I would just ask him, if it's OK that you answer these non important questions on Monday. I assume that you see, if such a call is urgent or not. 

I would let them know that you have food allergies, thank them for their offer of lunch but demur and let them know that you will bring your own lunch as your allergies can be difficult to accommodate. They may write back and say that they're happy to order a lunch that won't cause an allergic reaction if you let them know what the allergies are or they may simply accept that you will bring your own lunch. Please, please don't eat food that will make you sick just to make a good impression. Depending on the severity of the reaction (particularly if it makes you fall asleep), you will just make your interview extremely uncomfortable for everyone involved... ending an interview with them calling an ambulance isn't great for anyone involved. And ordering a lunch and not eating it looks wasteful and people will wonder why the lunch you selected was not acceptable to you. If they understand your needs and your preference to supply your own food, that should be enough for them. It's really common for people to have both medical and non-medical (religious, diet, lifestyle) reasons for dietary restrictions and a good company will be respectful of that. 

I had an interview this morning which lasted several hours. First I met with several of the IT managers, one of whom I would presumably end up working for if I was hired. Then an hour with someone from HR. Then a half hour with the development and data architects, and another hour with several technical staffers. What is the recommended protocol for thank-you notes in this scenario? I've read you should respond mainly to the "lead" interviewer (typically the hiring manager) with a courtesy note to HR. But everyone -- in particular, all of the managers -- asked me questions ... there wasn't a clear "leader", and I'm pretty sure they're all peers. My guess is I should write a note to each of the technical managers and probably the HR representative as well. In writing to the technical managers, I should ask them to forward my thanks to their team members. 

There's no reason you can't ask for clarification. It seems like this may even be why they ask. In interviews they are attempting to understand who you are and how you work. If they give you a question that doesn't have much explanation, it could be a test to see if you'll ask for more information. As an employee, it's extremely important that you take a little time to understand the project rather than making assumptions and going in half-informed... and then find out a week later that all of your assumptions are wrong. So... ASK! Even if they're not testing you on this, there's nothing wrong with asking for clarification. 

Answer his call once and tell him again that your company didn't choose his product and that his constant calls are reflecting badly on him and his company. If this doesn't work just put his email and phone number on a ignore list. 

Depends on the culture in your company, but it won't hurt to just tell your supervisor that your colleague could need your involvement and if he's OK with it. Having a chat in the coffee break probably doesn't need your supervisor's OK, but attending meetings is a little more involvement. In my current company it is encouraged to help each other, but as we account every single minute of our worktime to a project, sometimes there are agreements needed, if the involvement takes a certain amount of your worktime. 

Talk to her. Don't ask about the weight gain. If you don't feel like you know her job well enough to do a good job when she's out, that's enough reason to ask to shadow her for a day or two, pick her brain, etc. Even if she's not pregnant or planning to be out, people do go on vacation for a week or two from time to time, get in catastrophic accidents, or have long term illnesses. My boss was suddenly diagnosed with cancer and has been out since December and will probably be out for another four months. You don't know how much I wish I'd asked to learn more about what he does before he got sick. If she's the one interacting with customers, you should be able to step in (relatively) seamlessly, so part of your job is knowing hers. Please, do yourself a favor - see if you can meet to learn what she does! 

In the end all the stuff you explained breaks down to "Can my manager order me to go on a domestic 2 day business trip important for the company, if traveling was never discussed during hiring?" From my point of view this is not an unreasonable request to a developer. Due to the described circumstances it may be possible that you can discuss yourself out of this trip, but be aware that your manager may flag you as "difficult" and that requests for 2-day business trips will occur in the future again. I'm fully aware that traveling may be a burden. I have 2 little kids and my wife works as well, so organizing around a trip is often a PITA. But I think in the field of SW engineering it's part of the job. If you are really afraid of traveling, maybe it's best to look for a new job and discuss possible travel duties in the interview. 

There are already several excellent answers. I would add not to forget non-monetary compensation. The company may offer excellent medical benefits, or excellent training / continuing educational benefits. You may be able to rearrange your schedule to a four-day work week, and/or work from home, etc. Even if the hiring manager doesn't have much leeway in terms of monetary compensation, s/he may be able to offer you additional paid time off in lieu of additional pay. But here again, you need to be prepared to negotiate ... so you need to find out what's typical in your field and in your area (given your level of experience) ... and of course you need to think about what (if anything) you would be willing to accept as a substitute for monetary compensation. I find it's good to ask about these types of things anyway, as it helps give me a sense of the organizational culture.