This is an interesting question, and is one that I always got as an instructor of such things even though 99% of things are digital these days. I think we'll always get these questions as long as office supply stores are still selling boxes of "fancy resume paper". Given the situation you describe, in which all of the following cases are true: 

There's no rule you need to show the start date and end date of your coursework on your resume, so the following is perfectly fine: 

As a hiring manager, I address diversity head-on both in job postings and in conversations with candidates -- no matter if the candidates are men or women. I strive to build diverse teams in terms of gender, experience level, skills, etc, and point it out when we achieve it, and talk about deficiencies when we don't. That is not the case with every company. If diversity is important to a candidate, it is completely reasonable for the candidate to ask about the diversity of the team you may be joining, especially if it is not apparent in the interview or your interactions with potential teammates. If diversity in terms of gender is important to a woman, and all she sees are men in the interview (or vice versa), it is completely reasonable to ask if there are women on the team (or men, on the flip side). Similarly... 

If your notice of termination wasn't from HR, then cc'ing HR on this mail alerts them to the situation. 

If an interviewer does not clearly state their preference for the source of the adjectives, use whatever you want, but clearly identify the source yourself. For example, if the question is literally the one you quoted, e.g. "Can you state 5 Adjectives that are used to describe yourself?" you could say "The first adjectives that come to my mind are A, B, C, but interestingly enough my managers always describe me as D and E." However, when I've encountered that question either as an interviewer or a candidate, it is almost always with the preferred source named, such as "How would you describe yourself?" and "How would your manager describe you?" and "How would your direct reports describe you?" Whatever you end up saying, be prepared to back it up/explain why the adjective fits or does not -- especially when it's something someone else would say about you. For instance, as an interviewer, if you tell me your manager thinks you are focused and hardworking (for example), I'm going to latch on to that and ask you to say more, such as "Can you give me an example of something you did that would lead your manager to describe you in those terms?" 

People leave jobs for all sorts of reasons. The situation you described -- which is essentially "The position ended up not being a match. If I had known I was going to do X, when I was told explicitly that I would only do Y and not X, I wouldn't have taken the job" -- is a reasonable thing to say when your new interviewers ask you "why were you at your last position for such a short period of time" (which they absolutely will). If I was sitting on the other side of the table, and you said the job wasn't a match and here's why (insert short and impersonal description here), it wouldn't necessarily raise a red flag. I might press you on some examples, such as the ways in which you expressed your dissatisfaction with a perceived bait-and-switch, how you and the company attempted (or didn't) to fix the situation, etc. The answers would help me learn about you as a person and whether or not this is something about you or really just wasn't a good fit overall (which is common, and why there are typically 90-day "probation" periods). When you are interviewing again, just be as clear as possible about your job/environment requirements and duties, and perhaps ask more questions than you did previously (for everything is a learning experience) to try to uncover the "truth" of the situation. In this case, you might ask how often employees are asked to deviate from their written job descriptions--is it common, occasional, etc--and what communication paths are available in the company to settle differences (e.g. is there an active and useful HR department or not). 

I think you see where I'm going -- on the surface, given what you have said in the question, this might appear as a situation to avoid entirely. But with a few well-placed questions in the interview stage, you can begin to see if what you see on the surface is in fact a bit distorted. And then you can make your own decision, as you progress through the process -- maybe even before the hiring manger makes one! 

This is the tricky one, isn't it? The first question to ask is can you last long at a job? It's unclear the reasons you didn't last in your positions -- if you were fired, then that's something to own up to and learn from, because as you said, if a reference is checked the truth is going to come out. Just state the reasons when you're asked about it, and not before, and then take the opportunity to explain how you are taking steps to correct your behavior/attitude/skills (whatever got you fired in the first place). If you didn't get fired -- if a contract ended, or a company downsized generally, and so on -- then those reasons which are beyond your control shouldn't negatively impact you. When asked, discuss the positive things you did when you were there. As to your three bullet points, I would offer this advice (as someone who hires people): 

If you don't have time to spend on something extra, don't. If you look at the first line of the NY Times article to which you linked, it says "Engineers are encouraged to take 20 percent of their time to work on something company-related that interests them personally." Emphasis mine. Encouraged. Not forced. "20% time" is not about "mandatory fun" or "extra work beyond your actual assignment". It is voluntary, and it's about discovering and encouraging motivation in the workplace. It's worth noting that it's not something that Google invented -- the sticky note came about in the early 1970s because a 3M employee used his "15% time" to dream it up. Daniel Pink, author of Drive: The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us focuses discussion about employee motivation on three factors: the need for autonomy (desire to direct our own lives), mastery (the desire to get better at something that matters), and many examples of "20% time" or Atlassian's FedEx Days, which are 1.5 day events meant to foster creativity, scratch itches, get traction for radical ideas and (in the end) have fun, have at their core the desire to make happier, more motivated, and engaged employees with the understanding that the investment will pay off in better work during the other 80% of the time, if those are the things that work for you. Back to the original question of "how does a company do this"? I return to my answer of "carefully", but would also add "with gusto!" 

If you did not actually own a company (a legal entity and all that it entails) and were for all intents and purposes self-employed as a freelancer, then I agree wholeheartedly that the advice you were once given that listing "owner" is inappropriate. As a hiring manager, if I see "owner" I expect to be interviewing someone with at least moderate skills in business, resource, and personnel management -- and not just your own books and your own time. Listing "owner" when you can't particularly show those skills would be a no-no to me -- if you couldn't walk in the door to a small business and run it, don't make it look like you could (and that's what "owner" or "president" or whatever says to me). Now, if I see "freelance writer/illustrator" on a resume, it's very clear to me what you did -- especially if you bullet-point the things you said, e.g.: 

As a hiring manager in the technology field, for me the answer to when does your college "matter less" is "when your work can speak for itself". Truth be told, your college never matters to me, unless your degree is from a not-accredited or for-profit institution. But that's just me and my own prejudice. It is absolutely true that many people in many different industries (including my own) will sort applicants for internships and entry-level and junior positions purely by school and GPA. I understand the motivation to do so -- think "thousands of applicants for coveted accounting and finance internships at the Big Four companies" -- but that's not how I run my job searches nor is it how everyone runs theirs. Looking at your situation, you say you've been employed since college and you've done well. If that's the case, as a hiring manager, I honestly wouldn't care if you went to Hamilton College (I just picked a random small college in New England) or the flagship university of your new state. What would stand out (and matter) to me is that you've already had a job and did well in it. If you didn't have that experience, and all you had was your degree and experience at your institution, and people looking at you weren't familiar with your institution, then at worse it wouldn't help you (which is what "name" institutions do) but it is unlikely to actively hurt you. But it should stop being a factor for the most part once you have experience, which you do. It's also something entirely out of your control, and my advice would be not to dwell on it at all. If someone actually asks you about your college experiences, talk about the quality of the projects and the work that you did, and leave it at that. People will judge it however they're going to judge it, and not according to some industry standard that allows us to give you a single correct answer.