The dollar bill trick is good for getting home, but eventually the linen fibers will wear out. You can make your own tire boots by scrounging a tubular tire. Cut out a 7cm by 3cm rounded rectangle, and peal off the tread if you can. I found one in the trash at a local bike store three decades ago and I've only used a small portion of it. To glue it in place, find some contact cement that has the word FLAMABLE on it, because then you know that it has solvents that will soften the surface rubber. 

There have been designs, but cyclists tend to be picky about increases in weight or losses in efficiency. Bicycles do not have the problems of large spinning masses or rough clutching at low speed, and we seem to do OK with discrete steps in the gear ratio. 

And when it comes to the rest of extras, my opinion is that the only extra worth looking at is extra gears. It may point to a groupset which is newer (those tend to have more speeds as time progresses). If it is a "granny gear" and you are not into climbing, then it is not worth getting. 

Preparation Take some basic tools with you, such as tools necessary to replace and/or patch a tube and a chain breaker. Taking some basic medicine to fix sores is also a good idea. 

This is very good question as it touches one of the most common safety issue which most cyclists ignore. If you are on the road without bike lanes, you must stay after the car, just like another ca would do, not the right/left side of a car. The reason is the safety. If you stand on the right side (or left if you are in left-sided country), the car which is on the side of you may or may not notice you and may decide to turn right/left. This is dangerous as you can be easily hit this way. Also, even if a driver notices you, the car usually moves cautiously until you are not aligned with it anymore, which slows down the whole traffic. 

There are many things that make biking more difficult in the cold. By far the largest factor is air resistance. At normal temperatures, the air drag grows as the square of the speed, and becomes greater than the sum of all other losses at speeds over 12km/h. A 30C drop in temperature makes the air about 10% denser, and drag is proportional to air density. The second factor working against you is clothing. If you are wearing bulkier clothing it increases your air drag because your area from the front increases. Winter clothing also has the effect somewhat constricting your movement at the knees hips and shoulders. Finally you have the thermal problem with winter clothing were you start out cold and then get hot when going uphill and then quickly get cold at stop lights. The discomfort works against your perception of efficiency. Even with properly inflated tires, the tire drag increases as the cold rubber suffers greater viscous loses. This effect increases rolling resistance by about 40%. The temperature also makes the lubricants in the hubs and chain thicken. Since you were only losing a few percent of your efficiency to hub loses, it will be a small part of the overall picture, but it doesn't help any. 

If the bike is older and not been used very much...get a full service done. You could be losing a huge amount of power simply overcoming gunked up bearings and binding pedals etc. Many people still ride old bikes very successfully, and an expensive bike then should still be very functional now. 

I can't currently afford to pay someone to give my bike a complete strip and rebuild (I need a wheel rebuild, which is essential, so I am paying for that this month!) So, given I have a hybrid, disc brakes, shimano crankset, I think all bearings are cartridge...what are the ESSENTIAL tools I need to do the job myself. I already have: Full set allen keys, Screwdrivers of various sizes, Mole wrench (adjustable/lockable), Pedal spanner, General spanners/all-in-one cycle spanner, Grease and oil, Pliers. I don't have: Bottom bracket removal tool, Work stand. I am not a bike mechanic (hence not having many tools) but willing to give each part of the strip down a go - one at a time...so headset one weekend, front hub next etc. 

The frame size is just the length of the seat tube. It will tell you some crucial details such as being able to stand over the frame and how well you can pedal, but doesn't tell you how well your bike fits your upper body. Two people the same height can have different proportions. I'm 6'2 and have a 31 inch inseam, so you are a lot leggier than me. If your legs seem to be fitting OK you can reduce the forward reach by switching stems or switching handlebars, particularly if your current bike has drop bars, you can look into getting flat bars, although that will be expensive due to brake lever changes. You could make up a bit of distance by moving the seat forwards on its rails. If your legs are just barely reaching, you should switch bikes! I would also like to recommend Sheldon Brown's article about frame sizing. 

I'm riding a hybrid with 48/36/26 chain ring and 9 speed 11-32 cassette. When I change up OR down at a specific point the shift is slow and doesn't always engage. On the 48 this is between the 21 and 19 cogs and on the 36 this is between the 24 and 21 cogs. Note that this is rear change only and both up AND down shifts. Every other change is clean and quick. Any ideas gratefully investigated as these changes are right in the "daily range" I use for commuting! 

Apologies if this is a dumb question!: I am teaching myself some bike maintenance skills and was removing my crank and BB. However, the ParkTools videos I've been following show BOTH ends of the BB cartridge having a cup to remove. When I tried the same on mine, I could remove the non-chainring side, and then remove the entire cartridge through the chainring side. I don't know if the cup should be removable, or do some have them built in. This is all the info I can find on the cartridge and I couldn't find any writing on the cartridge itself: Bottom Bracket - VP square taper, 73mm shell, english thread 

Move the tension adjustor on the brake lever to the lowest (original) position. The tension adjustor is that little screw next to the brake lever. Unscrew the screw which locks the cable on the brakes. Press the brakes (the brakes, no the lever) using your hands to the rims and keep them in this position while... While still pressing the brakes tighten the screw. Do not overtighten. Release brakes. Check if the problem is gone. 

Often thinking about this phrase while braking and can never agree with it. Without any doubt using both brakes provides more efficient braking, even when braking down the mountain. I can confirm it empirically every time when braking by one hand, when, say, right hand is busy eating a banana. Braking by both hands is faster and gives more control over the bicycle, it feels like you have more threshold to balance until brakes block the wheel. Sorry for not having any more scientific explanation, but empirical proof is enough, I think. Most modern brake sets will give less power to the back by design and there's little danger to block back when braking with both brakes. 

A simple change might be to get your bike properly serviced. Re-greasing, realigning, re-cabling etc. can all make a significant improvement when combined. You'll change gear more smoothly, brake better and more predictably, the freewheel will spin more cleanly and without brakes intermittently grabbing because of an untrue wheel, pedals will spin more freely, tyres will be the correct pressure...etc. etc. As mentioned above, also look to get the seat and bars to the best height for you. Finally, look at changing tyres to something with a flat centre strip, but grips on the sides. Ideal for road commuting because you get most of the benefits of a smooth tyre when going straight, but grip when you corner. Something like this perhaps $URL$ 

I have a hybrid bike and under description for Spokes it says "Stainless PG"...but when I look for spokes there are a multitude of sizes, thicknesses, butted, double-butted, etc.! How do I know what to get for my bike to replace a broken spoke? 

With some customization the partial change is possible. Get a rear sprocket cassette which mounts on Shimano freewheel but is designed for Campagnolo - they are available. So, you can use your old wheels. Crankset, chain, derailleurs must be changed completely, cross-compatibility with Shimano (with chains in particular) there happens but is neither flawless neither recommended. Be careful with cranksets - your Campagnolo crankset may be incompatible with bottom bracket in the frame, therefore it would need to be replaced. Levers - it is technically possible to use Shimano ones, but don't. Just for one simple reason - Campagnolo levers are more comfortable and replacing levers is not such a difficult task technically. Brakes - these will work whatever they are, Shimano or Campa. 

I use two bicycles daily: one with all cables internal, including those on the handlebar and one where only top tube cable is inside, other cables are outside. While riding it makes zero difference. While cleaning the bicycle I find the internal routing handier, because the surface is featureless, thus easier to clean. When changing the cables, I finish the bike with outer cables in less than a hour, while the bike with the internal routing takes several hours and sometimes massive amount of PITA with things like accidental cables lost in the tube. To summarize: cable routing makes no difference for riding, internal routing is slightly better when cleaning the bike, external is way easier to maintain. 

Standing up is also great for increasing your range of vision. I often stand coming up to junctions so I can see over cars, fences, hedges etc. and it means the cars can see you too. 

I am currently using Wahoo to track my cycling (daily commute) mainly because it can upload automatically to Nike+/Fuel so it keeps all my running etc. in the same place. I've tried googling, but can't find another app that offers this feature, without having to export/import. Does anyone know of a better alternative to Wahoo that also allows uploads direct to Nike+? [iPhone] 

As a rule of thumb for road bikes...watch the pro's on a grand tour mountain climb. They VERY rarely stand on the pedals, even when making a break off the front. Often the reason you see them standing is when they are losing momentum and don't want to shift gear...but they sit back down at the earliest opportunity. You might see one stand for a short burst, but watch those around them...mostly they will still be seated.