Wikipedia offers a pretty good list for this: $URL$ Football was added 1900. Rugby sevens will be added 2016. A list of team sports can be found in the list on wikipedia. Team sports in 2012 olympics were volleyball, football, badminton, basketball and handball. Cricket was in the olympics in 1900 only and there is no info when it will be added again. IOC decides. 

It must be possible to use the scoring tables for beginners, juniors and top athletes as well. There will be a special scoring table for men and another table for women. All the new versions of the scoring tables should be based on the statistical data for the combined events by paying due regard to the statistical data for performances by single event athletes. The new tables should be applicable now and for the future. It is desirable without creating other problems, that the total scores using the new tables for the top world class athletes should remain approximately the same. That is about 8500 points for the decathlon and about 6500 points for the heptathlon. As far as possible the new tables must insure that a specialist in one event cannot overcome performances in the other events. 

When a player is offsides in ice hockey, they can tag up by skating back to the blue line and having at least one skate in contact with the blue line, and then return back into the zone to continue play without off sides being called (assuming the league they are in allows delayed offsides). At least, this is how I've always played it in the leagues I've been in. However, in reading up on some of the off-sides refereeing scenarios on USAHockey, I came across this description of what constitutes the zone (1st scenario on the page): 

Obviously this isn't all that useful in a skate park or on a hockey rink, but if you are primarily street/sidewalk skating, one of the safest options is to find a surface that will a) slow you down b) not give you road rash if you have to bail. When skating fast on sidewalks, you need to account for pedestrians, pets, obstacles and the issues that your surface is quite narrow meaning you're going to have to depend much more on stopping and controlling your speed as you just don't have the space to turn and maneuver. At slow-to-moderate speeds you can typically roll off the pavement right into the grass and glide to a fairly quick stop. When doing so, put one foot out in front of you to counter-act the quick change in surface speed (your body will be thrown a bit forward as your feet suddenly become slower). At high speed, do the same, but be prepared to do a bit of running to slow your momentum down. Worst case, where you're simply going way to fast, be prepared to tuck and roll. Tucking and rolling on grass always beats doing the same on concrete or running into someone or something. 

In the iaaf document about the scoring tables they just state the basic rules which they tried to meet with the system from 1983 (p.18): 

In the Rugby Union laws I find no rule specifying the hooker is the only one that can throw in at lineouts. The wikipedia article on lineouts does not say anything about such a law either. So I think anyone can throw at a lineout if they want to. The wikipedia article on Rugby Union positions gives an overview on the positions and states the general physical features that those players should have to be successful in the tasks generally assigned to that position. So since every position has specific tasks it is reasonable to assume that those player train them specifically in addition the general task they all share. Since throwing at a lineout seems to involve a lot of training (different throws an tactics on call) it should be done by the players trained for it which are generally the hookers. 

Inner side of the boot: the most classic shot with the inner side of your boot. Here's a video explaining this type of shot. Pros: typically best accuracy, most control on the ball thus best chance to "place" the ball. This type of shot is also easier to fake and continue with a dribble. "Knuckle" shot: name is pretty self explanatory really. Here's a long video showing examples and some explanation as to how to shoot like that. The advantage is that the ball path is really difficult for the goalkeeper to judge, and the drawback is that it's hard to "get it right". Usually you need a good and controlled run up to the ball, thus this type of shot harder to pull off in the heat of the game. I have personally tried it out and I can see a definite improvement of my shot even tho I am not quite there yet.. Lace shot: This would be the footballs equivalent of a "smash". I would call it a typical, old-school English shot with Steven Gerrard and Frank Lampard being two kings of this type of shot. Here's a video comparing those two players (the first 2 mins is relatively irrelevant fan stuff). Pros; full power on the shot, practically the entire motion of the leg is transferred to the ball. Cons; hard to control the accuracy, also ball path is usually pretty much straight Outside shot: This is actually pretty much the opposite of #1. Outside of the boot, very little control (usually) and you get the reverse curve on the ball. Good example of such shot would be to look at Quaresma, here's a small collection of goals he scored. This type of shot is unpredictable and hard to save for the goalie and it typically generates a counter-intuitive path. However it's also extremely hard to get it effective and outside of the boot is typically not the best part of the foot for control. For instance I was told on multiple occasions to keep my outside-foot dribbles/shots/passes to an absolute minimum. Chip: You use the front part of your boot and go under the ball, to lift the ball quickly. This type of shot is used to "chip" the ball over the goalkeeper, either because the goalkeeper is far off the goal (in comparison to where the ball is) or that goalkeeper is charging to sweep the ball. Here are some examples. 

I can't say I follow any of those particular sports too intently. I can't say if those are the longest careers in each one, just that they appear to be notable player with notably long runs. 

To paraphrase, the blue line is part of the neutral zone until the puck crosses into the attacking zone, at which point the blue line is now part of the attacking zone. That seems to contradict the 'tag up' rule which, to me, should require the user to get at least one skate beyond the blue line since that is now technically what constitutes the edge of the neutral zone. Am I misunderstanding the tag-up requirements, or is this simply a slight contradiction in the logic of off sides rules and simply "is what it is"? 

The only mention of doping in professional football I am aware of is that together with the cyclists in the Fuentes doping network evidence against around 150 other athletes was found including "high profile football players". Since there is a lot of money and a lot of players involved in international football and there are several relevant aspects that can be improved by performance enhancing drugs I would expect at least some cases of illegal doping in football. So the question is are there prominent doping cases in professional football and if not is it because of lack of tests or can football generally be considered as clean? 

It also says that it was created in a meeting with "several statisticians". Wikipedia says for Decathlon scoring (which it seems uses the same factors) the 1934 scoring system was based on exponential functions fitted for 0 Points based on the results of untrained children to 1000 Points closely to the world records with a limit at 1150 Points per event. Since all newer systems seem to have evolved from this one I guess the procedure was the same with changes to the functions used (throwing events changed from progressive to regressive) and the data used for fitting. That was all I could find so no data or statistics but if you google you find several papers by statistician that propose different scoring methods to replace the old one. 

This too is a very bold statement; not only it's a bold statement but also a very subjective one. I am not a big fan of hockey and thus I do not utter a word about whether or not the game is better without the offside rule, but even if it did make the game more entertaining there are two logical pitfalls to your statement: 

I'm considering whether or not it's worth the time or the money to invest in getting parts and put together a racket for a hobby/casual player. I am not horrible in the sport but it's pretty obvious I'll never compete in a respectable tournament. :) So my question is all the fuss about equipment, how much of it would be useful for a player like myself and how much is marketing mumbo-jumbo? Of course it's impossible to give a quantitative measure to it, but I was wondering if there are other casual players who did end up buying better equipment (~100+ euros) and whether or not there was a difference to their overall gameplay. Any feedback is welcome! 

The challenge is defining 'sport'. The more physical the sport, the more likely for it to be considered a sport, but the longer careers would naturally be in the sports that require less stamina and strength. These also tend to be where some would not call them a sport. 

I'm not an expert, so can only offer a theory here, but contrary to the other answers, which talk mainly about the physical toll (which is valid, but not necessarily in comparison to other sports with equal physical tolls), I would argue it's purely business. The NFL is very good at what they do as a business. They are ranked as the #1 most lucrative sports league on the planet. As such, one could say the reason the season is shorter compared to other sports is because it's already long enough to keep the league ranked #1 in valuation. The supply apparently meets demand just right the way it is. Why fix something that ain't broken? 

I have always been confused by the stats system that is used to rate table tennis rackets. Some companies use a three dimensional scale as: "speed", "control", "spin"; while other companies use other stats as well such as "stiffness", "hardness" and "consistency". What's more confusing is that while the higher number is usually "better" cheaper rackets could be pretty much in the same range as the extremely expensive rackets. Is it so that the rackets are rated in price categories or how does the rating system work really? 

I could not find an explicit description of this situation in the NBA rulebook, particularly Rule #8 which governs out-of-bounds and throw-ins. However, it is clearly stated that the ball is out-of-bounds if it's in contact with a player who's out-of-bounds, which the thrower has to be. Thus the ball is not in play until the thrower releases the ball, thus a "sneak-steal" should presumably not be allowed.