To maintain separate countries even with a barrier, you'd need the magic to be militarily equivalent to the technology. This isn't traditionally the case, against a low tech society magic is normally dominant. The wider distribution of technology would later make the high tech society dominant. Don't forget armies with elephants have been marched over mountain barriers, people will cross back and forth, no matter how hard. Add magical supply lines and crossing the mountains isn't so hard, two thousand years later and the bombers make light work of the same mountains. You could say that the magic interferes with the technology and vice versa. Too much magic and your experiments come out wrong, technology can't develop. Too much electromagnetic noise from technology and you can't focus on the magic. Since the two cultures went in different directions from the start they now can't switch over. High availability of magic tends to make technological development redundant anyway, why develop a machine when you can wave a hand. Technology for us is also driven by the needs and wants of the middle classes, a feudal society wouldn't have that drive. Why develop the microwave when you have serfs and servants? 

The point of the domestic military industrial complex is to create jobs and maintain your own nation's technological lead. If your nation doesn't have the technology, you try to acquire it. If your nation doesn't have the industrial base, you build it. Maintaining the military industrial system may appear to be money down the drain, but it's money down the drain within your domestic economy, it stays within the domestic economy for some time and, directly and indirectly, employs a lot of people. It's tax money that goes straight back to the population. You buy the raw materials from your own mines, even if someone else is cheaper. You contract your own factories, your own shipyards. Keep the money in the country and keep it moving around entirely within the domestic economy as much as possible. One may buy in complete weapons systems, often aircraft, but one very rarely funds someone else to develop it, as that's paying for someone else to have a technological lead over you. 

This allows the stand your ground laws to result in a street duel. You have to be careful though, if one party is found not to be armed or not to be a threat, significantly "underarmed" when compared to the other, the "winner" may be subject to a murder charge. Each combatant must bring a second, a witness, to state that the other person was equivalently armed to their champion. Formalities must be followed. This letter of the law obedience, in becoming regular practice, verbal challenge to a duel with a time and location, pro-gun lobby preventing the laws behind it being changed, eventually becomes a legal formality to prevent bystander injuries as a result of gunfire. The city provides a controlled environment rather than the high street, and a fee is paid for use of the facility and official witnesses to declare that the letter of the law was followed. 

Opportunity, Risk, Profit, Cost You're looking for things that would boost one technology over another. Certainly we developed spaceflight before the internet and social media but could we have developed efficient spaceflight before the internet and why would that happen? Opportunity Everyone on the original home world (you haven't specified which this is) would have grown up looking up at the sky at another world. Not just a dry barren planet like our moon, but a world with trees and plants and seas. Something that would have drawn them up and away from their known world to this wonderful new unexplored world full of adventures (and profit). Risk Theirs is a world at war. The internet is a known concept but nobody would risk attaching their system to the outside world as it would be attacked. Even basic dumb communications terminals are attacked. Telephones, where they must be installed, are in isolated soundproof chambers so there's no risk of it being used to overhear conversations. Loose lips sink ships. Point to point lines and messengers are the messaging systems of choice and even then no confidential information is transmitted. There's no way they'd move into our casually open, share everything mentality that social media requires. Profit and Cost One world is dry, the other wet. This means there's always money to be made moving water. But water is heavy and inefficient to move from place to place. To make money moving water you need to massively improve your ability to lift out of a gravity well. This led on to a gravitic drive (if you like) that also allowed cheap interstellar travel. Back to that war The factions have fought themselves to a standstill, resources are limited but then they looked upwards. There's another world there, full of resources if only they could get their hands on them. So begins the space race, not just about getting there, but getting established and moving bulk back and forth. It's a habitable world, just saying "we got here first" isn't good enough, it's about taking control and exploiting that control to best effect. 

Mismanagement of the land on a massive scale. This takes a number of years before it really comes into effect, but not all that many years. You would have time to avert it if noticed in time, but the political environment that would allow it to happen in the first place is unlikely to be able to stop it in time. This is known as desertification and comes with a map of vulnerable areas 

I'm assuming you don't much care about condition of bodywork or emissions standards. Cars in dry places will last longer, cars near the coast affected by saltwater will probably be gone by the time you find them. Target vehicle: Any 1980s diesel. Why? These things blow smoke like a Russian aircraft carrier but once running they ignite on compression so it doesn't matter if there are no electrics at all. Also they're rough old engines and will run on used chip fat if you sieve out the crunchy bits. Some of the old mercs were famous for running on vegetable oil the only downside was the car smelling like a chippy. Also security: Most of the cars of this period had keys you could buy off the shelf, entire model ranges (Vauxhall Cavalier) were famous for effectively using the same key. Here's a video of Jeremy Clarkson showing how to start a car of the period without even bothering with the key 

We live in cities, this is a problem. Day to day we just couldn't care about the majority of people we're forced to deal with. The one thing that could make the biggest difference to our society is to massively increase Dunbar's Number. This would mean that people could and would care more about many of the people they dealt with day to day and were capable of caring about far more people than they can at the moment, ideally leading to a decrease in anti-social behaviour and better directed action towards the common good by the average person. A change to people allowing them to care more about others makes a better society. 

It'll mostly transition to mental health Not all of medical care is covered by sickness, accident and emergency. There are other sectors still required. The three primary remaining services that come to mind are 

You're going to start with a very serious case of the bends. I suspect you're looking for something resembling explosive decompression, but using the example of deep sea fish brought to the surface, while they die, they remain physically intact. 

Shipworms They're real: $URL$ and they'll eat through the hull of your wooden ship in a matter of weeks. Make them a little bigger, a little hungrier, and long crossings will be impossible. Even until quite recently a lot of ships were lost at sea, never seen or heard from again. The Titanic is unusual, not because she was lost, but because we know where and when and because there were actually survivors. Normally, even at that point, a ship lost at sea would set sail and just never turn up again. Your ships will go to sea and the shipworms will start eating. The hull will be gone before they see land again and long crossings become impossible, but as requested, later technology makes the crossings possible (though later than suggested): 

What is the difference between a god of murder and a god of war? Is it scale, or just semantics*? You could say that one is the god of murder and the other is the god of mass murder. Murder has very negative connotations, but war, war is glorious. Your god of murder needs an image change, something to make the concept more acceptable. Perhaps he's the god of assassins, though this is probably a side line of the god of death. The sailors get a lot of gods of the sea, the sea is a very dangerous place to be. There are also gods of fertility and farming for the more landbound peasantry. There are gods of just about every trade and assassination is as dangerous a trade as any. There are endless gods of death, everybody has one (or more), after all, everybody dies. It's just a matter of encouraging said god to take the person sooner rather than later. Maybe a god of vengeance, Adrestia (also known as Nemesis) was known to accompany her father Ares to war. Remember that Ares was himself the god of bloody violence in war: 

For their primary day to day use of computers, GUIs just don't work, CLI is what you want and the GUI is going to get in the way and slow things down. Until the navigation software is at a point where there you're just clicking a destination on a screen from a limited number of available destinations, then CLI is fundamentally the way to go. You're suggesting dumb terminals, but why not? There's only really a need for a single (distributed) shipboard computer. It runs everything and has access terminals around the vessel as required. 

The key to this is that you don't need to tell the difference until later. If you can't identify which condition your patient has from symptoms alone, the easiest way to deal with it is to treat from quickest and most likely to rarest or most complex. Since you're in a highly occult environment, basic precautions should be taken. 

Though haemorrhage symptoms are not the ones you're going to get. You'll be looking at anaemia / CO poisoning symptoms. From NHS choices: CO poisoning 

If it's possible, someone will do it. You wouldn't have time for a new world order, you might just have enough time to run and hide. 

The Wormhole Missile This is the most conventional weapon in this list. It barely even needs a warhead, just a suitably large displacement. I target your capital(ship) and let it go. A partial hit is fine as it just transports half your capital(ship) to my location where it can be finished off. Any actual warhead in the missile can finish the job at the other end. This drive is the ultimate toy for pirates The same applies to your valuable cargo. I target the cargo ship, then use a drone or my last captured ship with a souped up drive and just dump it on your cargo carrier. Your cargo is now in my controlled space and you're too busy dealing with whatever entertainments I've put on the ship I sent. To prevent this sort of thing you need some way to detect and prevent the wormholes from forming. See Schlock Mercenary and the Terraport Area Denial which is the prevention option for a very similar drive technology. A few more thoughts on (ab)using this drive technology. What happens if the field is shut off halfway through a transport? If half the ship goes then it leads to far more interesting options. Most of these are based on the fact that the drive has to transport a defined volume of space and anything in it rather than specifically anything in contact with it. If you enforce the latter option you'll be leaving behind anyone who jumped at the wrong moment, or gyroscopes held in magnetic fields for example Most of these can be happily planet based as they're not transporting the drive so you can use planetary grade power supplies. The pod launcher The drive runs for long enough to transport a cargo pod but the drive doesn't transport itself. The pod exchanger Similar to the pod launcher but actually swaps the pod with one left at a specific location at the other end. The Come Hither or Pirate's Friend A drive with a hacked field generator that transports an empty space rather than the ship. It simply transports a volume of empty space, gas cloud or otherwise and returns whatever was in the location it was transported to. This leads to The Kidnapper A much harder device to work with, but based on the pirate's friend it's able to extract the command staff off a ship by transporting a volume of air to their location and returning the person. 

The difficulty here is keeping the technology in a trading city away from the general populace, and the traders, and therefore the neighbouring cities. The nature of a trading city is such that large numbers of people and goods are coming and going, and therefore knowledge, information and technology will come and go, even just the statement that something has been seen to be possible will cause other people to try it. There's also the matter of the traders knowing what has been bought and sold in the city which gives a good clue as to what is required to build these machines. You'll need to take precautions like; have a trading enclave (outside the city walls) where people can come and go but aren't allowed into the city proper, only allow the upper classes "access to technology", have a separate class of technopriests also with high status to maintain and operate the machines. The downside of this is that the machines developed will be largely immobile for the sake of improving quality of life for the wealthy rather than mobile and military. While there may be some heavy military grade kit in there, moving it out of the city will be nigh-on impossible, so while the city can perfectly adequately defend itself, they're not able to use that technological advantage prosecuting distant wars.