There are many other tools for discovering proofs, but they tend to be more specialized, depending on the branch of mathematics in which we are trying to find a proof. For example, in real analysis, we may try to show that a property P(x) holds for every x on the real number line. To do this, we may show instead that the set of values x such that P(x) holds, {x : P(x)}, is both open and closed. Then, from another theorem in topology, we can conclude that P(x) holds for every real number. Your next question is: if there are all these techniques for creating proofs, then where does creativity come in? Well, creativity is used in fitting all the pieces together in a way that makes sense. Moreover, it is used when all the techniques are just not enough to complete a proof, which happens remarkably often. This is when new techniques are invented, and they may become very common or just limited to a few special cases. Finally, is this sort of imagination different from using a computer to just try every possible road in a proof to see if we can find what we want? Well, one could perhaps say that we are just using the same techniques over and over, and that this could be programmed into a computer. However, this would likely take enormous amounts of computation time, longer than the lifespan of the universe. The difference is that when we create our rigorous proofs, we often have a dim outline of how we want to proceed, and the rigor comes afterwards. The creativity is in coming up with and idea of how we want to move forward in a proof: the intuition behind why something is true. This requires imagination and insight. 

Value is the word here with 'fuzzy logic' behind it's definition. The Absolute, i.e. absolute Truth, exists, regardless of whatever BS you, or I, or another entity or individual thinks, says, writes, rules, and/or does, to infer differently. To seek absolute truth regarding an issue arrayed before you for analysis and review, is the only way to fully comprehend Kant's 'categorical imperative'. In summary, absolute truth exists, an individual must seek their absolute truth, and when that is accomplished, all of the absolute truth, i.e. the Whole Truth, becomes accessible to that individual. Whether the individual accesses and understands the Truth arrayed before them is entirely up to the individual's free will ability to choose to utilize the 'genius, and more', capabilities of the intelligence they received at the moment of their creation. 

What everyone needs to understand about philosophical positionings, of any caliber, is that living the philosophy is a journey, not a destination. Therefore there is no ''Do as I say, not as I do''. It is more realistically; ''Do as I am endeavoring to do, not as I am attempting to tell you to do.'' The ''do as I say, not as I do'' axiom, is preschooleresque in its conceptualization, and below the contempt of individuals with more high-schooleresque intelligence. 

No. First consider what we mean by free will. One sense of free will is that with enough information it is possible to predict every choice the machine, let's call it Mike, makes. There are two major problems predicting what Mike will choose, chaos and quantum physics. If the universe were perfectly deterministic, then we could theoretically build a machine to predict Mike's choices. Chaos theory introduces the problem of initial conditions, that we have to have infinite information to predict Mike's choice. Quantum physics introduces Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle, that it's not even possible to know everything about Mike's state at any point in time. From this one might gather that free will is therefore true, but this is incorrect. Just because it is impossible to know the exact state of Mike at any point in time does not mean that there is not an exact state of Mike at any point in time. However you want to see mike, as a quantum system, a chaotic system, or a classical system, his choices are a product of events in that system. To claim free will is to say that somehow Mike is able to transcend that system. That being said, Mike is a decision making machine, just like us humans. Because at some level the decision making process is opaque to all observers within the system, Mike is like a black box. Because of this fact, what is the practical difference between Mike and a machine that actually has free will? Claiming free will exists is the same as claiming souls exist, because they are both outside the realm of physics. However, you could claim that Mike does have free will, or a soul, and no one would be able to disprove you. The only way to "build" a machine with true free will would be to do so outside of the boundaries of science. 

When an individual 'acts' philosophical, they are pretty much completely without a clue as to what 'philosophy is all about. Ersatz philosophical positionings are just that, false and/or incomplete philosophies as to how an individual lives this one life which they know is theirs to live. 

Perception by an individual's senses is accurate. The storage of those perceptions in the subconscious mind is accurate. The retrieval of that accurate perception is perspectivized as it is brought before your reasoning and logic faculties for analysis and review. Your 'perspectivized view' is the illusion of which you speak. Most people rely on their 'perspectivized view' to use in the formulation of decisions for which they anticipate 'stellar' outcomes. Unfortunately, those decisions usually have less-than-stellar outcomes, precisely because a 'perspectivized view' is a view which does not contain as much Truth as an individual's perception provides to the analysis and review process. Consequently, it is never a desired positioning to take philosophically. In summary, the accuracy of your perception of an issue is considerably more truthful than the accuracy of your 'perspectivized view' of the selfsame issue, therefore any 'philosopher' worth the moniker would never desire to accept a humanly conceptualized illusion over the reality of their perception.