The tensioner spring is designed to keep the entire chain under tension, even after it passes the crank. So, the symptom of a too-weak tensioner is slack in the chain between the crank and tensioner. It sounds like the distance between chain links is not quite the same as the distance between valleys in your sprockets. This is not unusual if you replaced a very worn chain (because the sprockets would have worn to match the old chain). It's also not impossible that the sprockets are worn not quite enough to match the old, worn out chain, yet still worn too much to match the brand new chain. You may need to replace the rest of the sprockets in the cassette. 

I'm not a lawyer, I'm certainly not your lawyer and I don't know the laws in your city. That said, my advice is that you shouldn't try to hop on the curb/sidewalk at high speed. In my city there is an ordinance against riding recklessly on sidewalks. Whether or not "doing tricks" while commuting is actually reckless, I believe that a police officer could plausibly cite you if your city has a similar ordinance. If that happened, you would, at the minimum, waste a day of your time in court (and possibly pay a fine if you can't convince the judge that you were riding responsibly). So, from a purely legal perspective, it seems like a bad risk. Curb hopping also seems like a bad idea from a safety standpoint. There's always a chance you could miss and crash, hurting yourself and others. Also, pedestrians aren't always visible from the road, so you risk running over someone when you ride fast onto the sidewalk. Additionally, most automobile drivers don't watch the sidewalk and are not expecting a bicycle to transition to the road at 15 to 20 mph, so you risk colliding with an auto. One of the most common types of collisions is where a motorist makes a right-turn into a cyclist who is riding through a crosswalk or across a driveway. Most state's vehicle codes allow bicycles to use the roadway in a similar manner as if you were driving a (slow) farm implement. Doing so is probably the safest way to ride for you and those around you. Remember to stop at red lights and obey the speed limit (probably not a problem unless you have a nice long, steep hill with good pavement). If your jurisdiction allows cycles to "take the lane," don't be afraid to use it when appropriate[1]: it's safer for everyone when drivers don't try to squeeze through a substandard lane without changing lanes. [1] Where I live, for example, cyclists can take the lane when it is less than a certain width and where there is no designated bike lane. There are certain stipulations, however, like pulling over to let cars pass when there is only one lane and more than a certain number are following. 

It seems likely, since that is exactly NCN 4 - however, I haven't found any references to people riding the length of route 4, and the CTC route database isn't giving me anything either. For reference, I plugged Charing Cross to Fishguard into cyclestreets and it reckons a shade under 300 miles (for the balanced route). Whether that means three consecutive 100-mile days, or five 60-mile days will depend on you. I'd take the cyclestreets routes with a grain of salt, or at least study them carefully (and compare with the sustrans route description and mapping linked above). Oh, and I see about 2km of total ascent on that route, with what look like some steepish sections once you're into Wales. 

Summary: yes, cycling-specific ones do exist. Searching turns up some discussion, blogs, forums and user reviews in online cycling shops. However, this is all anecdotal, and it isn't clear: 

You can't make your front wheel sit lower without replacing the fork, and even if you switch to longer-drop brakes (I assume they're dual-pivot calipers if it's a racing-style bike), you can't easily move the mounting bolt. The only options I can think of are: 

It's normal for a new wheel that was under-tensioned, unevenly tensioned, inadequately stress-relieved or whose spokes are twisted. Either that or it's being abused - ie. if you're really throwing it around, or are carrying heavy loads on the 24-hole version. The repeated re-truing may end up with a decent wheel, since you're just performing the stress-relieving step while riding instead of in the workshop. It may equally damage the wheel before you get there, and you really shouldn't have to pay to fix a bad build. 

The chainrings you want to use are only 7% to 10% bigger [1] than the ones you currently have. You may be able to simply swap your current chainrings with the ones you want, leaving everything else the same [2]. You would need to raise the front derailler clamp (the part which holds the front derailler to the seat tube) by about 2 cm [3]. You would also need to readjust the front derailler cable after you raise the derailler, since it would be 2 cm closer to or farther from the shifter depending on whether you currently have bottom or top pull. [1] 30/28 ~= 1.07 and 53/48 ~= 1.1 [2] This assumes that the old and new rings both use the same bolt-circle diameter, sometimes abbreviated BCD. If they don't, you'd need new cranks as well, and possibly a new bottom bracket if you can't find similar cranks. [3] Bicycle chains use a 1 inch pitch (distance between the centers of two adjacent link pins), so a chainring with x teeth is x inches in diameter. (53 inches / (2pi) - 48 inches / (2pi)) = 2cm, so the new ring will have a radius 2 cm greater than the old one. 

Bicycle helmets are all certified to the same standard, so I would be sceptical of claims that one is safer than another. With bicycle helmets, a higher price usually gets you helmet that: 

My experience with the GSC10 (though with an Edge 305 not a 500) has been that the batteries last 6 to 12 months, or roughly 2500 to 5000 miles of riding. That works out to something like 125 to 250 hours of operation. That is considerably less than what is stated in the manual, but in the ballpark of what the other two answerers experienced. The symptom you described (losing connection with the Edge 500) is consistent with a dieing battery. However, another cause could be poor alignment between the magnets and the sensor. I've found that the cadence magnet, in particular, will not be sensed if it shifts by a centimeter, or so. Since the Edge 500 can compute speed from GPS data, it's sometimes difficult to tell whether the GSC10 is really not sending data or simply not sensing the cadence magnet. Make sure the cadence magnet is aligned with the embossed groove on the side of the GSC facing your crank arm. 

Best bet is to look at them - if you can't do it in person, look for reviews with pictures of the beam and illumination. For example, road.cc have a comparison tool. I couldn't immediately see anything putting 35 lux in the centre, where I assume yours is measured. The Topeak Whitelite HP Beamer (who names these things?) is closeish at about 30 lux, so maybe see if that looks similar to yours. 

I've heard good things about Atomic 22, and they have a quill stem fastener. I haven't used them myself though, so don't take this as a recommendation, and ask around! The only other vendor I recall hearing about is Pitlock, but like Pinhead I don't think they have a quill product. Otherwise, the ball-bearing + wax or solder method is probably easiest. 

The Quoc Pham shoes are nice: they do recessed-cleat "touring" ones, but also plain leather shoes with thin, fairly rigid soles, suitable for flat pedals or toe clips & straps. They seem to have a US distributor, Mission Workshop. I've seen the Dromarti ones advertised as well, but don't know about their distribution. These Exustar ones are apparently useable if you just leave the cleat cover in place. Finally, Vittoria have the 1976, and seem to have a few US distributors, so they might be worth a look. 

Firstly, I do agree with some of the other answers that riding better can help - my main hazard is glass, and I simply got fewer punctures as I got better at spotting and avoiding it. Knowing how to avoid or handle bumps and potholes is similarly useful. 

I'm sure the driver's insurance can. Get an assessment from a bike shop, and a quote for any repairs possible, or the cost of a like-for-like replacement. Get the driver to pay for that. 

As for the Hovding helmet specifically, it looks like the main selling point is that it sits around your neck while you are not actively colliding with something. Some people seem to think that conventional helmets look dorky and all helmets seem to give you "helmet hair" to one degree or another. So, I would say that this is again a case where you are paying to get a helmet that gives you more of categories 2 and 3 above. 

As others have noted, your brakes probably aren't set up correctly if you can squeeze the lever so far that it touches the bar while the bike is stationary. That said, squeezing the brake levers while the bike is on a stand won't cause any more wear than normal braking would [1]. If you want to determine how hard to squeeze the brakes while on the stand, a good test is this: ride at a moderate speed in a safe environment and then try to rapidly stop. Your brake levers should not touch the bars, and (obviously) nothing should break loose. A properly adjusted rear brake should be able to skid the rear wheel (but it is considered poor braking technique to skid the rear wheel). A properly adjusted front brake should should be able to lift the rear wheel off the ground (you don't want to actually lift it, so use care). Try to get a feel for how much pressure you apply to the levers when you practice a panic stop and then apply a little more when the bike is on a stand. Please note that it is unsafe to suddenly fully-apply the brakes (suddenly squeeze both levers as hard as you can) while traveling at speed. If your brakes are properly adjusted, you should be able to easily lock either wheel by pulling hard on the brake lever. For the rear wheel this is less of a problem: You will simply skid the wheel, wearing down the tire. If you do this enough, or at a high enough speed or with a thin road tire, you risk wearing down the rubber to the innertube. If that happens, the tire will rapidly deflate and you will be riding on the rim (this is bad). Locking the front wheel is a bigger problem: the front wheel will NOT skid. If you lock the front wheel, you will go over the bars and hurt yourself. [1] Within reason, of course. If you're some sort of Olympic weightlifter, it's possible that you might squeeze hard enough to damage something. Also, if the brakes are "looser" after you squeeze really hard (ie, if you have to pull the lever farther, not harder, to make the brake pads touch the rim) then you are either squeezing too hard, or you need to readjust the cable and tighten the cable clamp on the brake. 

As already pointed out, you're asking about mounting TT levers on bullhorn bars, like so. It's pretty popular (I keep meaning to replace the crosstop levers on my own bullhorns with these). It's worth checking whether a set of levers are for internally- or externally-routed cables: bullhorns aren't likely to be fitted for internal cable routing, so unless you're happy drilling them yourself, external cables are a better bet. 

One fringe benefit of having more active cyclists may be better provision of bike stands, more bike shops, etc. Of course there may also be the fringe detriment of more bike thieves if there's a larger second-hand market. This is based on my commuting in London btw, so YMMV. 

Since the question never actually specified which part of the bike was to be oiled, I'll point out that linseed oil (specifically boiled linseed oil) is often used as spoke prep. In this case, it's used to lubricate the spoke threads during wheel assembly, and the fact that it dries afterwards is desirable as it acts like a threadlock to resist the nipple unscrewing. 

If the back wheel is locked, skidding it should still have some braking effect, so I'm inclined to view this as evidence for poor traction. 

If you mean the steerer tube, then the headtube itself is also bent. You probably need to bin the entire frame & fork (although you can rescue other components) and claim on the driver's insurance. If you mean the fork blades, or the crown where they meet the steerer - you might be able to keep the rest of the frame. Check the top and down tubes for creases near the head tube though. 

Hills: Pushing a light bike up a hill is obviously easier than a heavier bike. Everyone likes to brag about that HC climb he did the other day. Without resorting to lying about actually climbing the hill, the easiest way for a cyclist to make his life easier is to carry less mass up the hill. Nobody will say, "That didn't count because you rode a 3kg bike," and you get no extra points for lugging a 40 kg dutch commuter bike to the summit. Technical Competence: Bicycle manufacturer have tried over the years to reduce bicycle weight, to the extent that weight (or lightness) has become a proxy measurement of the manufacturer's technical competence. Anyone can build a heavy bike, but it takes real engineering skill to build one that is light. 

I have been searching for a generator or 'dynamo' (preferably one built into the hub) to run lights for night riding, but it seems that most are rated for only about 3W (presumably to meet German bicycle standards). I currently have a DiNotte 400R tail light that serves me well, running from a battery. I'd like to add a high-lumen headlight (at least 800 Lumens) and run the whole thing from a generator. I've measured the average power consumption of the 400R on one of the blink modes to be about 2W. A reasonable ballpark estimate for LEDs is about 100 Lumens per Watt, so I'd need a generator that can source an average power of at least 10 Watts for the head and tail light combined. I have some experience with electronics so an unregulated output in the range of, say, 5-30 Volts is acceptable. Storing energy to supply the power surge when the tail light is 'active' is something I'm confident I can handle. A typical cruising speed would be something like 20 mph (30 km/h). So: Generator (preferably in the hub) that can output 10 W at a reasonable voltage at 20 mph. Does anyone know of such a thing?