I was watching two movies (Selma and The Help). Both are set in the USA South, in the 1960s. I noticed the whites sometimes said "nigra" (rather than the more familiar "nigger"). Did people in the South actually say "nigra"? If so, was it just in the South? When was this word used (I don't think it's used any more anywhere)? And was it simply a slightly less derogatory version version of "nigger"? (In both movies, the word "nigger" was also used occasionally, so it doesn't seem like "nigra" was merely the production studios' way of avoiding the word "nigger".) 

The effective dates are not mentioned in either of the two laws. Usually the state's statute books or constitution would provide for when a law becomes effective, if it is not explicitly stated in the law itself. But for Delaware and Nevada I have not been able to find such information. (Pending the establishment of Law.SE, I thought History.SE was the next best place to ask this. Please let me know if there is a more appropriate SE for this question.) 

The answers are, respectively, June 11, 1968 and July 1, 1967. The source for my answer for Delaware is this Supreme Court of Delaware decision. For Nevada, the present law is that the default effective date is October 1 (NRS 218D.330.). However, as the legislative history of that law states, it was amended in 1925, 1989, and 2011. The 1989 amendment changed the default effective date from July 1 to October 1. Thus, the default effective date of Nevada laws between 1926 and 1988 would have been July 1. For these answers I must credit Comintern's comment for the initial clues. 

I think asking why the Swiss referendum succeeded specifically in 1971 is a bit like asking why regarding gay marriage in the US, Obergefell v. Hodges "succeeded" specifically in 2015. Or why there was a crossover point in support for gay marriage in 2011: 

This was followed by the Jones Law (1916) and the Philippine Independence Act (1934) (a.k.a. Tydings-McDuffie Act). Of course, one could argue that Quezon was a capable leader. But just like later leaders of independence movements in the British and French colonies, the timetable for Filipino independence would probably not have been very different, even if Quezon had never existed. 

The Philippines had already been scheduled to become fully independent on July 4th, 1945. But this was interrupted by WW2. As a result of which, independence was delayed by one year (July 4th, 1946). Details: 

The French Code électoral specifies that ties be broken by giving the oldest candidate the win. (At least in certain elections. See for example L126, L262, L338, LO512.) What is the historical origin of this rule? Did it begin in the French Revolution, or before or after that? What was the rationale (or was it just a somewhat-arbitrary tie-breaking mechanism that seemed as good as any other)? Bonus question: Is this rule peculiar only to France? I have not come across a similar rule anywhere else. Edit: Briefly searching on Google Books, I find this idea mentioned in 1789 here and here. And I also find here a 1789 suggestion that the ties be broken by (1) who's married (or was ever-married); (2) who has the most children; then (3) who's the oldest. So it almost seems as if they were brainstorming how ties should be broken. Hopefully someone who knows (much) more French and French history than I do can figure this out. 

Are the above assertions correct? Were merchants "hardly men" and "on the very bottom rung" of the social hierarchy? Were they "kept at the bottom and suppressed by deliberate government policy"? Did they live "at the very margin of subsistence"? How was the scholar-farmer-artisan-merchant ordering manifested economically, socially, and politically? For example, were merchants generally much poorer, much more ostracized, and much more politically repressed than farmers? How so? 

Under the metric system (and later SI), units of weight can be related to each other based on multiples of ten (e.g. 1 metric tonne = 1,000 kg = 1,000 × 1,000 g). Likewise with length (e.g. 1 kilometre = 1,000m = 1,000 × 100cm). The French Revolution introduced these decimal based units of weight and length. It also introduced decimal time, dividing the day into ten hours, each hour into 100 decimal minutes, and each minute into 100 decimal seconds. But while the decimal units of weight and length proved successful and are now used almost everywhere around the world, decimal time is not. Why did decimal time fail? Some Wikipedia references: Metric System History, Decimal time. 

One reason (and there are many other reasons, as pointed out by the other answers here) is that the same name can be pronounced differently in different languages, so what look like different names (e.g. Roma/Rome, Wien/Vienna) are really just different ways of pronouncing the same name. To illustrate with a different set of examples, consider Korea, Japan, and Viet Nam, where Chinese characters were (or still are) used. Most place names, when written in Chinese characters, are the same across these four countries. However, when spoken, they could sound entirely different. Example: In both Viet Nam and China, the country of Viet Nam is called the same thing in written Chinese characters (越南), whether in Viet Nam or China. However, when spoken, the country of 越南 is pronounced as Viet Nam (in Viet Nam) and as Yue Nan (in Mandarin-speaking China). Hence, now that Viet Nam has entirely abandoned the Chinese writing system, it may seem to outsiders that people in China bizarrely call Viet Nam by an entirely different name (viz. Yue Nan). But this is not at all the case. People in both China and Viet Nam are still referring to Viet Nam by the exact same name. 

I was wondering if the above claim is true. Would the eventual collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 have been a huge surprise to Western intellectuals and politicians in, say, 1985 (before Gorbachev)? 

The phrase scholar-farmer-artisan-merchant (士農工商, shi-nong-gong-shang) is well-known in China and other Confucian countries. These were the four broad classes of people in ancient/medieval China. The ordering of the phrase is popularly taken to mean that the four classes were ranked in the following order: 

A 2017-12-30 NYRB article mentions "blue chickens sold in state grocery stores". An anecdote about life in the Soviet Union also mentions that "[b]lue chickens would sometimes be sold outside" the "regular small 'grocery stores.'" Why would chickens be blue? Was it due to some sort of chemical treatment? 

I agree with TylerDurden, but just to elaborate a little on the politics of the matter. One, most European countries are vibrant democracies. Thus, nimby-ists, sentimentalists, incumbent property owners, environmentalists, and the like have greater opportunity to veto any new developments. So, like TylerDurden says, these guys don't really have much of a say. Two, Europe has a much greater share of nimby-ists, sentimentalists, incumbent property owners, environmentalists, and the like. So for example, even if China were a vibrant democracy, there are far fewer sentimentalists who would protest against the construction of a skyscraper next to say the Forbidden Palace. Also, for obvious reasons, there are also far fewer incumbent property owners who have an interest in blocking the increase in the supply of office/housing space. Three, even compared to the US, Europe has a much stronger anti-capitalist/sentimentalist spirit. And in Asia the pro-capitalist/pragmatist spirit is probably even stronger than in the US. If a tall building means everyone will be richer, people in Asia will support it, while Europeans will think of all sorts of reasons to oppose it. Based on the above arguments, it is perhaps not surprising that the European city with the most skyscrapers is Moscow (31). (Wikipedia) Second is Istanbul (28). A distant third is Paris (18) and fourth is London (15) where property prices are ridiculously high and, if run by Chinese/Singaporean technocrats or HK free-marketeers, would have far more skyscrapers. 

But its only citation is this 1988 NYT article that mentions "famine fears". A 2002 Economist article states that 

One might then ask, "Why are (male) legislators more inclined than the general male population to give women the vote?" Thinking selfishly and ignoring the moral element, if you are a man on the street, giving women the right to vote simply means your voting power is halved. This is purely a bad thing. But if you are a legislator, it is unclear whether women voting is necessarily a bad thing. Indeed with women voting, this might be a good thing for some legislators, who can now get a bigger proportion of votes. 

*Actually, not quite "full" independence, because the US retained military bases and other privileges. (As for why the Philippines had, even before WW2, already been scheduled to become fully independent, that is probably a separate question. I'm also not so sure about the premise that "the US ended up being dragged into WWII [because] Japan wanted their colonies in the Pacific".) 

Quezon didn't "convince" the US to release the Philippines. Instead, the US had always intended to grant the Philippines independence, once they were deemed fit for self-rule. The Americans viewed themselves as taking on the noble role of giving the Filipinos the education and experience necessary for independence. (Personally, I wouldn't compare the American colonization of the Philippines to the British and French Empires.) Of course, many a rapacious conqueror in history has claimed similarly-benign intentions. But the subsequent and fairly-brief history of the Americans in the Philippines suggests that they were largely sincere and followed through with their promises: 

All things considered and with perfect hindsight, did the Allies benefit, by having Italy fight on Germany's side rather than remain neutral? I was inspired to ask this question after reading Paul Kennedy's rather amazing claims in The Rise and Fall of the Great Powers (1988). On p. 298: 

For the benefit of those who think that by "blue" chickens they're referring to chickens with a few feathers that might at a stretch be considered blue, here is the fuller quote from the NYRB article: 

What exactly were these legislative efforts to turn tipping "into a punishable misdemeanor"? I'm especially interested in those efforts that were successful (and when and how any such laws were later repealed). 

Hine notes that there were state-owned and privately-owned serfs, the latter being "somewhat less than half of the total number of serfs". His discussion is mainly directed at the privately-owned serfs and he concedes the state-owned serfs were better off. 

So did Viet Nam suffer from a famine any time during the 1980s? And if not, how close did it come to famine? 

In several accounts, it is claimed that conditions of men being recruited by the Chinese army were comparable to those in Nazi death camps. Are such accounts hyperbolic or largely accurate? Thunder out of China by White and Jacoby (1947): 

I think it was less "something special or dramatic happened circa 1971" than "gradual evolution of social attitudes" (not unlike what we see in various countries today with gay marriage). Here's the timeline suggesting just such a gradual evolution: 

I am looking for the 1959 STAC report. This 1977 Atlantic article stated that the report was, at that time, still being withheld by the UK government, probably out of embarrassment. I think this UK Gov webpage might be it, but unfortunately it says "This record has not been digitised and cannot be downloaded." Does anyone know what the status of this report is? Is it now publicly available — and if so, where might I find it? Thanks. 

The most comprehensive source for historical GDP per capita data is the Angus Maddison database. Here is the latest (Jan 2013) update: Excel file link. I extract from this Maddison database 1930-1950 GDP per capita data for the major combatants: Google spreadsheet. I include only France, Germany, Italy, the UK, the USSR, the USA, China, and Japan. No data for China, 1939-1949 and the USSR, 1941-1945. Chart below: