I have a desk job and I notice quite a bit of stiffness around the upper spine. I remember hearing in an episode of Barbell Shrugged that the number one reason people end up in nursing homes is loss of thoracic spine mobility (because they can no longer clean up after using the restroom). Of course I'd like to avoid that, but I'd also like to increase the mobility and strength in that area, and hopefully combat the stiffness. For mobility, I do upper-spine foam rolling for stretching, and also some spinal rotation stretches, but I imagine having stronger surrounding musculature would improve the situation. For strength training, I do deadlifts occasionally, and squats and cleans frequently, but I'm not sure if there's something else I could add to my routine to improve on the thoracic area of the spine. Any recommendations? 

To eat the things you like and still maintain a healthy weight, you should look to count calories, rather than eat specific things. Firstly, you should find out how many calories you should be eating. There are plenty of estimators online such as this one. That will give you an idea of how many calories you may need to eat per day. Start by eating about 200 calories less than that number and observing your weight. You should use a tool to measure your bodyfat such as skinfold calipers. Try to get about one gram of protein per pound of weight (or about .5g/kg) in your diet. This will help you maintain lean body mass and lose bodyfat. If you find you aren't losing weight at 200 calories below maintenance, reduce your intake by another 200 calories. Counting your calories is the tried and true method to control your weight. After doing this for a while, it becomes pretty natural. Personally I don't strictly count anymore, but I still have a pretty good idea of how many calories I eat each day, and whether or not I've hit my daily limit. 

It makes for better marketing. A diet high in animal proteins likely already has more creatine than can be utilized by the body. According to this article: 

I think everyone who has gone to the gym understands your situation, since we all were beginners at one time. Trying to figure out what a machine does can be kind of humiliating; what if you're using it wrong? For that reason I recommend talking to a personal trainer just to get a primer on the equipment. In any case, here are some basic things I think everyone should know about using the gym, and how to be respectful of the establishment and other patrons: 

Use a calorie expenditure calculator like this one to find your target estimate for intake. Count your calories and hit that estimate every day. After one or two weeks, if your weight has not decreased, reduce your caloric intake by 100-500 calories per day. If you eat more calories than you burn, you get fatter. It's that simple. 

If you don't know exactly how many calories you're eating, there's no point. Estimation isn't enough. You must count calories for every meal, every day. For all you know, your cereal breakfast might even contain more calories than your bread and nutella. If you're gaining weight, it's because you're eating more calories than you burn. It's that simple. Set a daily calorie goal (base it on TDEE if you like). Meet that goal every day for a week or two. If you don't lose weight, drop the goal by 300-500 calories and try again. Keep reducing your calorie goal until it works. 

Some people can train the same muscle group three times a day, every day, for months on end and see significant hypertrophy. Yet others may train a muscle group with such intensity that days are needed for recovery. As Dave says, it's very subjective. That said, I'd say it's incredibly unlikely you're overtraining, especially with your simple 6-day bodybuilding split. I wouldn't be wary of overtraining markers at all, I would just be physically measuring your muscle circumferences and body fat (weekly) to ensure you're still making progress. If anything you'll probably have to up the volume eventually. 

Vince Gironda was famous for training people like Arnold and Lou Ferrigno and operating Vince's Gym. He was one of the OGs of professional bodybuilding. There's a story I've heard more than once about a man doing crunches at Vince's gym. Apparently, Vince refunded his money, told him to get his stuff, and kicked him out of his gym, saying something like, "nobody does crunches in my gym!" Why would Vince be so anti-crunch? Is there any merit to this belief? Are crunches an effective ab exercise for bodybuilding? 

Lately I've been hearing a lot about hormonal cycles and how they change throughout the day. From what I've heard, testosterone seems to be lowest in the afternoon and highest in the morning and evening. I would think hormones like insulin, growth hormone, and cortisol could have some effects as well. For the purpose of gaining strength and muscle, what is the optimal time of day to lift weights and why? Edit: not sure why this is getting downvotes. Any feedback? 

You could just do burpees, pushups, situps, air squats, etc. with various rep schemes (e.g., 5 rounds of 10 pushups, 25 situps, 30 airsquats for time, or as many rounds as possible in 20 minutes of 20 burpees, 100 unders with a jump-rope, 15 v-ups). Here's a great guide for no-equipment HIIT workouts: $URL$ 

One can logically presume that, given the residual effect window, you should be able to progressively overload (and thus build strength and muscle). However, due to the limited training volume and stimulus you can receive in a single day of training, your progress would obviously be slower than a more rigorous routine. 

Yes. Generally speaking, anything that utilizes your ATP/Creatine Phosphate system will increase both size and strength. The threshold for that system begins at around 70% of your one-rep max. That said, if strength is your only goal, you would train at rep ranges that purely utilize this system, rather than ranges that also utilize the glycolytic system: 

The catch is an upwards thrust with your front rack. You are catching the weight on your front rack. Your hands really don't need to be there at all for the catch -- indeed, some people with poor wrist flexibility or injuries leave their hands out of the catch altogether. For example, see Kelly Starrett here: 

In all the videos of him lifting, he can be seen using this staggered stance. We've heard from DPTs that torque is generated from the hips, so the feet should be as straight as possible in squat movements to help induce more rotational torque. For Klokov, this apparently has not worked best for him. As a top tier athlete, I'm sure he has access to some of the best trainers in the world. Wouldn't this be something they would try to condition out of him? 

It sounds like the unpleasantness of pushing yourself harder is what's limiting you. You don't mention the type of conditioning you're doing, but I suggest trying new exercises to experience different feedback loops. I assure you, unless you're already running sub-five minute miles, you will be able to exceed 140 bpm. For example, try setting a timer and performing two dumbbell thrusters the first minute, four the second minute, six the third minute, and so on, until you can't go on. Record the time at which you gave up, then beat that time next time. Or try as many bear complexes as possible in five minutes, then attempt to beat that number for two or three consecutive sets. Then do it again in couple of days, promising to yourself that you will beat your numbers from last time. Keep doing this until you can't beat your numbers. Find a hill and sprint up and down it with 30 seconds of rest between sprints. Switch up your modalities. Utilize some muscle complexes you aren't used to exerting at high intensity. You'll get there. 

The brain says "contract!" through the neural pathway to the muscle The axon terminal releases a chemical signal to the myocyte The myocyte releases some chemicals to: (1) tell the myosin to bind to filaments inside the sarcomere (so they can start "running", like in the above video -- normally they are not bound), and (2) tell the sarcoplasmic reticulum to manufacture some ATP to invigorate the myosin The result is that the muscle contracts 

On days like today, when I've only had 5 or 6 hours of sleep, I often wonder if it would be healthier (in terms of recovery, performance, and so on) to skip my lunchtime workout and take an hour nap instead. Is it better to skip my workout when I'm sleep deprived and nap instead? If not, should I make any alterations to my routine (such as focus more on strength movements, reduce the amount of cardio, etc)? 

If you don't have a machine, you can use free weights to perform these exercises. For instance, a neck harness may be used: 

Now, interestingly, despite a significant increase in energy expenditure during the summer, I tend to gain at least 10 lbs of weight, but drop bodyfat. In winter I generally hover around 190lbs and 12% BF -- summer I generally end up around 200lbs and 10% BF. In the winter, I sort of watch what I eat. I'll try to get around 2500-3000 calories a day (by daily rough-estimate calorie counting). In the summer, I eat A LOT more and don't count calories (an estimate would be 5000-6000 calories per day). I'm hungry constantly and fill up with a lot more food each time I eat. I also include sports drinks in my diet, and am not particular about omitting any types of simple carbs. Protein levels remain at least 1g/lb of lean body mass year-round. After gaining the summer weight, I tend to look bulkier and leaner. I think the gain in weight can be attributed to more than just sarcoplasmic hypertrophy, but I'm not too scientifically versed on the matter. I imagine my body has to store more glycogen for the rigorous cardio of trail riding, perhaps increase water storage for the prolonged sweating (is this possible?), and I suppose my GI tract may have more food in at any given point. To answer your questions: 

I think you touched on your problem in your notes. A common problem with beginners is that they tend to lose torque when starting the pull. I've seen this many times: a beginner will set up behind the bar, get into a great position, load up, then start the pull. Immediately their butt will shoot up, their spine will over-arch in one direction or another and the weight is basically lifted with very little hip involvement at all. Low back is obviously compromised because the movement has become more of a good-morning/SLDL than a deadlift. The deadlift is a hip exercise. It's true that the erectors (spinal and abdominal) are utilized to an enormous degree, but the trophy goes to the glutes. Kelly Starrett does a great job of explaining the mechanics in this video. Personally, when then mechanics of the movement clicked for me, I was able to add 50lbs onto my deadlift immediately, stomping my personal record. Already having a pretty good deadlift, you can imagine my surprise. The exercise suddenly seemed much easier and more natural. My progress after that point really accelerated because I realized what muscles I was supposed to be utilizing. So, a couple of cues and pointers to remember: 

Dmitry Klokov, olympic medalist and renowned heavyweight lifter, does something very unusual with his feet in both the snatch and the clean and jerk. In the below picture, he can be seen with his left foot opened slightly outward compared to his right foot, as well as positioned slightly forward. 

For squats, push your knees out as wide as you can at the bottom. Always keep pushing your knees out throughout the movement. Keep your feet pointing as straight as possible. Keep your chest up. Keep your heels on the ground. Drop your butt right between your feet. We are trying to keep the pelvis as level as possible and those cues will help. A professional ballet dancer told me once (referring to the pelvis almost as a bowl of water): "don't let it spill out." You'll find that to maintain this, you'll need to keep the abdominals as tight as possible. This form will keep the torque and tension in your posterior chain. Personally I've found that squeezing my butt as hard as I can at the top of each squat (or deadlift for that matter) also helps me keep the muscle in mind. 2. Poor stimulation for muscle growth Stairmasters, yoga, air squats, running, etc. won't put size on your butt. In fact, they'll probably take size off of your butt. You want to build muscle. Nothing builds muscle better than five sets of 10 difficult reps. We can do air squats until the cows come home, but there's just not enough stimulation for muscle growth. Pick up a barbell, learn to squat, and do five sets of 10 reps three times a week. Put more weight on the bar as often as possible. You should be nearing failure on your 10th rep every set. You will have a huge butt in 12 weeks. I guarantee it: