This can be calculated using a property called cryoscopic constant Kf which links the concentration of a solved substance to the freezing point depression Td: Td = m * Kf where m is the molality which is the amount of mols of solved substance per kg of solvent (here water). For water Kf is 1.86K*kg/mol and the molar mass of sugar (sucrose) is 342g/mol. So to calculate the freezing point depression do: Td = 1.86 / 342 * mass of sugar in g / mass of water in kg Some examples for grams of sugar added to 1 liter water: 

I can totally see your point of view as your coming from forestry or generally working outdoors, but this is fairly straight forward from a hiking point of view: Hiking is walking, meaning work for your legs. I never had cold legs while walking, but the fairly idle arms get cold much faster. Furthermore, open armpits are an easy entry for rain to your core, which is well prevented by coats with arms. Whether or not to use waterproof trousers depends on two factors: The first is the one you already mentioned: Is there a possibility to get dry at the end of the day? Second issue is with conditions: In (near) freezing conditions or any situation, where short term inactivity (no more heating your legs) can already be critical (or simple highly uncomfortable). Why not always use water-proof trousers: Increased sweating, increased cost when trashing them (I kill trousers quickly) and weight. 

Snowshoes are available in the UK, but generally you have to go to more specialist mountaineering shops. I doubt any of the high street chains stock them, instead look at the smaller independent shops. Especially those shops located close to mountainous areas, where snowshoes could be more useful. eg 

Books Check charity shops, you can often get books for £1, or sometimes 4 for £1. Or any books you have read, and don't want to keep. You can pick relevant books, ie anything about the outdoors, or children's books for a family friendly cache, or something specific to the local area or theme of the cache. You do have to be selective as to what books will actually fit in a cache. But there some reasonably large caches that will fit a standard paperback. It is worth putting the book in a ziplock bag, in case the cache gets wet inside. You can register the books on BookCrossing, which allows people to log them, and you can track them if they are released again. I have left a number of BookCrossing books in caches - most are never logged again. But a few are moved on to other caches, or left in the wild elsewhere, sometimes travelling great distances, and being read by many different people. 

On a nice day there's lots of people around, so very likely you won't be secluded and come upon other hikers frequently. And generally, you don't really need to worry about this. Obviously I can't guarantee anything, but solo hiking is common in Switzerland, admittedly more males, but that's from my perspective more an ego/accomplishment thing than security. Ah yeah and a tangential note just because they exist: All that doesn't count for Apres-Ski-Bars, there the normally quite high alcohol-level comes with the usual problems, but it's not like you need to go there ;) Also while (we) Swiss people are generally pretty reserved, they are still nice (I know this is cliched, but it applies often :P ): If you would like to join with a group for the hike, just approach any group starting hiking asking whether you can join. If you speak English only, look for young or English speakers - if they don't speak English well (or just think they don't), they may get on the defense due to that. Safety wise that's not a problem either: If you get injured it is as mentioned likely to have people around to help. If not you can get help by cell phone. And generally these are groomed trails, so for a young person to injure yourself you need to be quite unlucky. Avalanches are not a problem either on official trails, they are only opened when safe. Generally you can't compare official posted trails in a ski resort in Switzerland with "going into the mountains". In comparison this is a very well controlled environment for the general public which normally has no/very little awareness of safety principles in mountains. That's not to say it's impossible for anything to happen, but it's unlikely. 

The best way to identify bats in flight is to use a bat detector. This is a device with a microphone that listens to the bats high frequency calls, and plays them back at a lower frequency. Bats use echolocation calls to find out what is around them. For most UK bats, these are typically between 30KHz and 80KHz. So they are not audible to humans. Different species of bats call at different frequencies, and they sound different, often 'clicking' or 'flapping' noises. Using a bat detector, you can hear what frequencies they are calling at, and figure out what species it is. Pipistrelle bats are the most common in the UK, though note there are actually several different species of pipistrelle. Common pipistrelle and Soprano pipistrelle are very similar, the easiest way to distinguish them is the Soprano has a higher frequency call. You can buy a bat detector for about £50 or so. A popular model is the Magenta Bat 4 or Bat 5, these are simple to use and reliable. Or there are cheaper options using electronic kits, though they may require some work to solder and put it together. 

I've used OS 1:25k and 1:50k extensively in the UK. I also have a little experience of using 1:40k Harveys maps (Lake district, for mountain marathons). I have been impressed with the Harveys: in detail as well as scale they sit nicely in between the two OS scales. So you get very detailed contours (nearly as much as the OS 1:25k), but less of the clutter on the 1:25k OS maps - they don't attempt to map every fence post and small rock. I personally find that a lot of the fine detail in the 1:25k is not very helpful for navigation, but I do like to have more detailed contours than the 1:50k offers. Another (small) advantage with the Harveys is that they seem to have more sensible coverage. For example, in the Lake District I recently had to take four OS maps where one of the Harveys maps would have covered it. But that just depends on where you want to walk. 

Personally I would go with poles and one ice-axe as long as possible. As soon as there are have prolonged steep slopes (defined by having to ascend with front points of crampons) I would take two axes. I originally wrote the paragraph below assuming it was mountaineering (in May - silly me). It is still relevant and applicable, but it assumes that a pole is an additional item. As you have one (two) anyway for skiing, the threshold is much lower for exchanging one ice-axe with a whippet. As I have no experience at all with whippets, I am not really knowledgeable to advice on its usage. I will delete this when more complete answer comes up. If you go with the worst case of your requirements, it is clearly two ice-axes. In hard frozen snow or ice in a 60deg slope you will be ascending using the front points of the crampons and both ice axes with picks in the snow and hands on the shaft. In snow that allows to create good steps, you can ascend upright zigzagging in slopes up to 60deg. So really it is a judgment call, so you should go with what local guides recommend. 

Firstly, if possible, wait a while. Find somewhere to shelter out of the rain, and wait to see if the rain stops. For typical UK summer weather, most heavy rain is only short showers. So it will probably stop raining (or at least ease off) in 10 minutes or so. If its not going to stop raining, you can unpack your tent while under shelter. Then sort out which bits you need first, maybe join parts of it together. This can make it a lot faster to erect when you have to go out into the rain. 

4 - In Scotland, you have a general right of access under the Scottish Outdoor Access Code. This applies to just about all land and inland waters, and allows non-motorised recreation and passage. So this includes kayaking and canoeing on rivers, lochs and canals. These rights are dependent on being responsible, eg avoid disturbing other people or damaging the environment. The Scottish Canoe Association have produced a Paddler's Access Code which summarises these rights and responsibilities. Most canals in Scotland are managed by Scottish Canals. You do not need a licence to paddle on these. If paddling on the Caledonian Canal - which is part of the Great Glen Canoe Trail - then Scottish Canals recommend registering with them in advance. This ensures you have understood all of the safety information, and lets you be informed of any works which could affect your trip.