Look at it from this perspective: what would you do about this if you were not about to leave? The way you frame this, it seems like your report wants to grow professionally, which is good, but has serious obstacles in her personality. This sounds like something you as a manager should address. At the bare minimum, you should explain to her what is holding her back and assess together with her whether she wants to work on these problems or not. If yes, then you should help her as much as is reasonably possible. If not, it would make sense to point out to her that she likely won't advance in her career aspirations. That may well be a trade-off she is willing to make. And then at least she knows what is holding her back. (Of course, she may simply refuse to listen.) Now, that's what you should be doing as a manager if you stay on. What changes about this now that you are about to leave? I'd say that little changes. You still need to do your day-to-day job. You will still manage right up to the day you leave. This would argue that you should hold at least the first part of this conversation with her. And then hand this over to your successor, along with everything else you will hand over. Now, of course this is not going to be a comfortable discussion. But it's still part of your job. If you don't do this now, then your successor will need to do it - just like everything else you might decide not to do now and leave piling up for your successor. When you handed in your notice, did anyone tell you that you could now stop doing the unpleasant parts of your job for the last two weeks? An exception might make sense if you already know who your successor is going to be and if you think that he or she will do a better job about this than you could - for instance, if that successor already has a good relationship with your problematic report. 

If the bonus is a reward for a milestone reached, no. If it is an incentive to stick around, yes. If the fine print says it "will be paid upon completion of this milestone, conditional on being in an unterminated position" (emphasis added), yes. Look at that fancy certificate and talk to your lawyer. You at least have something in writing, so you may be able to use this in a settlement, even if does not have contractual power (and it may even do so). 

So I would suggest that if you decide to continue working on this project, make sure you can point to a specific contribution of yours that stands out in a positive way, so you can answer instead: 

If you have worked at this place for multiple years, some colleagues of yours probably have left before you. What did they do? Let yourself be guided by the traditions that have grown up at this particular place. If nobody left on good terms before you did, you could simply ask someone with longer tenure than you. And donuts are probably always appreciated. 

I'm not going to comment on the ethical side of things, although this is certainly problematic, too. I would say that JIRA and other issue tracking systems exist for a reason. If you don't set up your requirements and tasks and track how you will address and resolve these, but instead plan on building an entire application without any codified project management tools whatsoever (regardless of the reason for this!), you will run into all the same issues that other people run into that want to run a project in this manner for other reasons: mismatch between requirements and actual functionalities you build, poor to no resource planning, and later lots of blame, name-calling and "he said, she said" discussions going around. Recommending that you don't do this is the easy way out for us here at Workplace.SE. However, I would certainly bring these issues up with your management, and tell them that you should at least be using some management tools for the good of the project. Whether the end customer needs to be told what exactly you are doing should be a separate discussion. 

Having questions prepared is the important part. Where you store them is somewhat secondary. I'd agree that your device may be a conversation starter. However, recall Murphy's Law. I recommend that you also bring along a hardcopy printout in case your Moto 360 chooses exactly this moment to shut down. It may be more important to think about how you will take notes. (You did plan on taking notes, right?) No matter what fancy gadget you plan on using, also take along an old style paper notepad and two pens (see above). Then simply stick your sheet with your questions into that notepad. Be Prepared. It always makes a good impression. 

You will likely mess up relations even more by wiggling out of a social convention like an exit interview (if this is commonplace at your employer). You don't want your ex-boss, when asked for a reference of you, to think of you straight away as "the guy that wiggled out of the exit interview". This may be the last possibility of leaving a positive impression. It's certainly worth it to bend over a little and do this right. After all, if you are willing to invest effort into getting out of the interview, you could just as well invest effort into doing a professional and polite interview and leave on good terms. Prepare beforehand. Think of a couple of good things about your current employer, as well as a few minor things that could be improved. Have a professional reason for leaving, like wanting to see new ways of doing things, or working in a different environment. 

A short (!) email would definitely be appropriate and appreciated, especially if you can provide contact details (cell phone?) where you would be available for any last-minute things that come up. 

Overall, everything may be easier on you from a bureaucracy point of view if you can just get "loaned" ("entsandt") by your current employer, but I don't really see any dealbreakers. It may be helpful if you could understand better what exactly the "strategic reasons" are that make this more attractive to your employer. Is it a headcount issue for your manager or department? (If so, you might even have a problem coming back, if the headcount does not plan ahead.) 

Unfortunately, companies you apply to will want to know that you know what you know. If you don't have a degree, you will need to prove it in some other way. I assume you are trying to get into software development. I would suggest you prove that you know something about software development by 

If you ever find you are in the same city as they are, just contact them, introduce yourself and how you know them ("I work in XXX, read your blog and am impressed."). Then ask them out for lunch to pick their brains. The worst they can do is decline, but even so, they will be flattered and may offer an alternative way of getting into contact. No, this of course won't always work - the gurus will usually have enough to do and full calendars. But again, what is the worst that could happen? 

You already note the main point: asking for a Zwischenzeugnis will notify your manager that you are looking for a new job. You can try to sugarcoat it by explaining that your last Arbeitszeugnis is five years old, and you like to have your documents reasonably up to date, but this won't deflect attention, especially if you haven't asked for a Zwischenzeugnis in a long time (see below). If your manager suspects that you are actively job hunting, then you may of course climb a few rungs on his "not indispensable" list, which may hurt your internal prospects: 

There are already a couple of excellent answers. I'd like to elaborate a bit on the "organisation" aspect. 

After all, you may be the one subject matter expert or person to work closely with the new hire, so your opinion may be indispensable during the interview process. Just make sure to be open about this up front. 

That done, address the wider issue. You write that he "has been led to believe" something. Nobody but his manager should be "leading employees to believe" something. Explain this to whoever did the leading-to-believing and ask them nicely to refrain from doing so. If (as seems possible) HR promised x conference visits to everyone regardless of performance during hiring or as an employee retention policy, have a chat with HR. Explain to them that they should not be making promises that you with a tight budget cannot deliver on. 

Continue working and hoping for a paycheck Drop everything and walk off Ask for equity and continue working 

I don't see any possible ethical concern. Both companies want to retain your services only part of the week, and you note that you will be able to balance the load. Both companies obviously know that you will be doing something else on the days you are not working for them. They won't care whether you will be studying, loafing or working another internship. There might be an issue if both employers are direct competitors, but even then, they will likely not care in the case of a lowly intern (sorry!). Compare the case of someone who works part-time jobs in different restaurants on different days of the week. If you really want to be sure, you can raise the point with your potential employers. I would not expect them to have an issue or rescind your offer just for asking. The "worst" they might do would be to condition their offer on your declining the other opportunity. But I would say that an employer who insists on your exclusive service but only employs you part-time is an employer to avoid. 

This is your first contact. You should definitely conform to their standards at this point in time. Some cultures would consider bringing a present at the first visit extremely strange indeed. Don't start off by making a strange impression. It may be appropriate to bring some food (bagels, cake, ...) for a little breakfast with your colleagues, e.g., on your first Friday in the office. Ask your colleagues what is appropriate - especially since you come from a different culture, people will happily help you navigate local customs. For your particular question, it might be helpful if you could indicate the office's location in the world. Later on, by all means follow your own cultural customs (and explain them, so people understand what you are doing). For now, tread softly. 

Store pencils with the point up. This way you will know which ones are nice and pointy, and which ones need sharpening. (And be careful with the pointy ones, so you don't poke yourself.) 

Is it ethical or even legal for a company to revoke a promised, signed bonus when the specified conditions have been met? 

You don't want to quit before you have something new lined up. And you don't want to start only when this is announced officially, given that the likelihood that the change happens seems to be high. Taking sick leave if the only thing wrong is that you can't deal with your manager is unprofessional. Right now, you may be able to get good references from your current line manager and his higher-up. If you react in an unprofessional way, even good references can turn sour. Anyway, this is not a long-term solution. I don't know how much power a union has in your geography and industry, but I'd expect that if any good could come out of this, the two subordinates of the problem boss would already have gone this route. Besides, see point 2 above: people who call in the union may get a reputation as a troublemaker. 

In the long term, it may be useful to train your manager to break his mental association between "requesting a Zwischenzeugnis" and "is job hunting". Request a Zwischenzeugnis every year. Explain to your manager that you simply want your documents up to date. If this happens three years in a row and you don't quit, then your manager won't associate your next request with your actively looking for a new job. 

You already identified one potential drawback - if you later apply to another job that pays less, people will wonder just why you would leave a highly paid position, unless there is an obvious reason (like your spouse getting a job somewhere far away and you needing to take what is offered there). High paying jobs usually come with high requirements and expectations. If expectations are higher than for a low-paying job, you can more easily disappoint the people that pay you really well. Next, when a manager needs to trim x% from his payroll, he might be more tempted to fire one expensive employee than two cheaper ones, so your high paying job may be less secure than a low paying one. One other thing, of course, is that you can easily get used to the high salary, either in terms of lifestyle inflation (if you spend a lot) or in terms of peace of mind (if you save a lot). Either one can restrict the possible jobs you could accept later on. However, this really is a kind of first world problem. "Help, my current job pays so well that I can't find a competitive open position elsewhere!" Lots of people would love to have this kind of problem.