It should go without saying: consult your doctor and physical therapist. That being said, you should make a point to avoid high-impact activities which aggravate your knee. These can vary depending on your injury, but are typically exercises like running, stairs, squats, deep lunges, and box jumps. For doing cardio you want to keep it low-impact, and to stop immediately if you feel discomfort or pain. The most recommended low-impact cardio exercises for your situation are: 

Do not wear them except while climbing; the rubber grips at the bottom soak up the dirt and gravel, reducing their effectiveness and long-term durability. Replace the soles of the shoes on an as-needed basis. Use a damp rag or cloth to collect the dirt on the inside of the shoe. Brush the outside of the shoe with a moderately coarse brush to get rid of the grime. Not so coarse that you scrape off the rubber, but not so light that you aren't cleaning out the packed in dirt. Use anti-fungal deodorizing powders and/or sprays. Gold Bond and Desenex are two examples. (I believe gyms typically spray a Lysol-like disinfectant) Wear thin socks instead of going barefoot. Always allow the shoe to dry naturally, but not in direct heat since it can melt or deform the rubber. 

No, this is not possible. While this depends on what you define as "natural daily activity" and also what your goals are (muscle, tone, strength, fat loss, health/wellness/longevity). Overall, there is absolutely no comparing daily activity with working out. Why not? 

Do you mean every day you will be doing cardio AND lifting weights? If so, that is a major red flag for overworking your body. Rest is just as important as the workout itself! Without rest you're just a hamster on a wheel; sure you're exercising, but you're going nowhere. Consider doing A/B/A splits where A is your cardio day and B is your strength training day. By separating these elements apart, you are giving your body enough time to recover before you train those muscles again (and recovery is when the muscle growth actually occurs). If you're like me and you have a tense body, you may also want to have a dedicated stretch day every week where you just do a full hour of yoga or similar stretching. So a two week workout would be something like: A/B/C/A/B--A/B/C/A/B. Or, if your schedule is flexible enough, keep the original A/B split, and do stretching on Sat/Sun. 

The topic of strength training and nutrition (with respect to fitness) is undeniably complex. As a result of the topic's complexity, there have been many bad books and resources produced over the years. This problem is further compounded by the fact that strength training and fitness is a huge potential market, and subsequently is littered with all sorts of 'get-fit-quick' type scams and misinformation. As a newcomer to the field of strength training, it has been quite difficult for me to assimilate all of the information out there, and even more difficult for me to weed through all of the bad and contradictory information that is out there. What are the definitive books and resources on strength-training / nutrition that a person should read if they want to gain a more fundamental understanding of the subject? 

Don't worry about that. Your body knows itself better than you do, and it is very good at what it does. If it needs to burn fat for energy, it won't deprive an area of essential fats when it could go across the street to an area with an abundance of fat. That's probably a bad analogy, but regardless: don't worry about where your body will take the fat from. If you get on a proper cardio/diet routine, eventually the fat from the belly will come off. 

Give them rewards for attendance. Find a way to reward people for participating in the fitness events. A simple approach would be taking a tally of people attending and randomly awarding a prize every day/week/month. The more you attend, the better your chances. This could be a gift card, company swag, whatever. Give them rewards for being healthy outside of work. For example, offer a weekly / monthly subsidy for people who walk to work, have a gym membership, do weight watchers, etc.. Take a "grassroots" approach. Make it a collaborative event and get managers and supervisors to actively encourage participation. Diversify the type of activities. By changing or adding new activities you broaden the appeal and bring in new participants. Perhaps men are too embarassed to do yoga, but would love to participate in basketball/soccer/etc.. Educate employees. Many people have a hard time understanding the tangible benefits of fitness aside from "it makes me less fat." Put up flyers or hold seminars about the dangers of inactivity or the benefits of being active. Hold competitions. Have competitions on who can lose the most amount of body-fat, or maybe gain the most strength / muscle. Perhaps do group-based as well as solo, so you can have employees getting together and working as support-groups for each other. Again, have some sort of reward like gift cards for winning. 

I prefer the standing Gastroc and Soleus Stretches. Both stretches have you standing facing a wall in essentially the same position, with the only difference being the soleus stretch has the back leg bent whereas the gastroc stretch has the back leg straight. For each stretch I recommend doing two or three reps of 30 seconds for each leg (2x30sec for left, 2x30sec for right). If you were looking for something more intense I recommend a standing unilateral heel raise; it is essentially a calf / heel raise while you balance on one foot (you will definitely feel it in your calves). I'd do one or two sets per leg at 25 reps each. 

We know that being active has all sorts of awesome benefits that we want, whether it be longevity, health, strength, fitness, or better appearance; the problem is winning out over our emotional predisposition to short-term pleasures like TV, games, etc.. There are several popular ways you can approach this problem and "trick" your brain into choosing exercise. Make Exercise a Game. Since we are predisposed to doing immediate pleasures, find forms of activity that you actually enjoy doing (in your case trail hiking) and do them a lot. This is most commonly sports like basketball or soccer, but can vary wildly depending on the individual. An alternate but similar approach to the gaming aspect is using something like the fitness site Fitocracy. They make fitness into a social game, where you compete against your friends, receive immediate rewards (in the form of achievements/badges), and being held accountable to your actions by showing them to the public (see next point). Hold Yourself Accountable. If you hold yourself accountable and treat exercise as an actual requirement (as opposed to something that is "nice to do"), you are far more likely to follow through with your commitment. Put your workouts on your calendar, punish yourself when you miss workouts (no tv for a day), and make your goals known to the public. If you tell your friends that you are working out, ditching on your goals now has the added burden of looking like a quitter to your friends. Get a workout buddy who holds you accountable, the kind who would drag you out of bed in the morning for a run. Reduce the "Short-Term Cost". The lower the burden exercise places on you, the less likely you are to put it off. Start small, build big. Do a handful of pushups here or there throughout the day, and make that your thing. As time goes on, add more reps / sets. As more time goes on, add new exercises to the routine. Before you know it, you are doing actual workouts. Realize Short-Term Goals. Since we are so bad at seeing long term goals, you need to start looking at exercise from the short-term perspective. Set daily goals (do one more pushup than yesterday). Look at yourself in the mirror before/after working out. Watch motivational videos to reinforce your long-term goals and keep you motivated. Basically, if you find yourself about to skip a workout, do everything you can to convince yourself to stick with it. 

Having little Timmy at age 3 doing curls is not the same as having big Bobby at age 17 doing curls, so for the purpose of this answer I will assume the base age of 6 as an appropriate minimum for being defined as a youth / child. In the scientific community, it is pretty widely accepted that resistance training is a safe and appropriate activity for children to participate in. As far as health risks go, they are really no different than that of any other sport or physical activity; it all boils down to using proper form in a safe and supervised environment. By supervision I am not referring to some nanny making sure they aren't rough-housing, but rather an experienced and knowledgeable personal trainer who can ensure they use proper form, spot the weights, and build a safe and age appropriate training program for the child. Keep in mind that there are also psychological benefits and risks associated with sports and resistance training. While the activity may be very beneficial for the child physically, if they treat it with the wrong mentality then it can be dangerous to them psychologically (think sports breeding hyper-competitiveness). By introducing weight lifting at an early age you risk the child becoming hyper-narcissistic (among other things) if you approach it with the wrong mentality. 

After reading about this I decided to give the challenge a try, and can say it was surprisingly difficult. Maintaining strength for 4 minutes requires a ton of endurance and training. That being said, I was able to do very well because I have done a ton of training similar to this and it left me incredibly well prepared. To be specific, I was able to succeed for three reasons: 

Bodyweight exercises are often unable to be supplemented with added weights, so you must rely on added reps to progressively overload the body to gain strength. When gauging your ability, doing reps to failure is a good measurement to use. For instance, I am doing three sets of 5 squats at 200 pounds. The first two sets I complete 5 reps easily. During the final set I go to failure and reach 15 reps. This is a cue that I am using a submaximal weight for my workout, and I may need to add a lot more weight. 

Since your goal here is to do pull ups, I'm going to focus more on that then just upper back strengthening as the title requests. There are three major factors that you should focus on improving: weight, strength, and technique. 

Tennis is a very demanding sport, and as such requires a multi-pronged approach to training. As @Dave suggested, it is always a good idea to build up a baseline of strength before you start getting into the sports-specific exercises that an intermediate or advanced athlete would focus on. The Starting Strength program would be ideal in this case, because of its focus on strength and power which translate very well into the needs of tennis. As you said, there are different rep ranges for training hypertrophy, strength, and endurance (as well as power, which you omitted). Following the Starting Strength program will help you build power by doing explosive lifts with heavy weights and low reps. Once you have established a baseline of strength through the program, you are ready to start fine-tuning your body for the demands of tennis. Areas to focus on include: 

In other words, if you want to see optimal strength and muscle gains, you should be eating at 500 calories above your daily caloric maintenance level. 

The primary thing you should focus on is contracting (tightening) your abdominals as you bring your chest to your knees. 

Yes. Ask anyone in the world and chances are most people will only know of the sit-up and crunch. But instead ask any intermediate or advanced bodybuilder, and they are likely to tell you that they haven't done crunches in years. Why the disparity? Because there are hundreds of exercises at peoples disposal for doing abdominal work that are both safer and more efficient than crunches, but chances are the novice will only know of the crunch. 

The Real Bill touched on some very important points, but I felt the need to add some clarification and supplementary information that simply wouldn't fit in a comment. Measuring success You will want to track your body fat as it is the most effective means to measure your fat loss. I use the Navy method which works best for me. With it you only need to measure your height, waist, and neck, then put those figures into a calculator (I made a spreadsheet in Google Docs to handle this). You can still measure weight and use it as a goal metric; the body fat % simply adds context to weight so you can better understand it. For instance, a 150kg person may have 10% body fat and a massive amount of muscle, whereas another 150kg person may have 25% body fat and no muscle at all; in this example you can clearly see the futility in measuring weight alone and not having the BF% to give you context. Strength training vs cardio The Real Bill mentions that muscle burn calories, and as a result strength training is a good opportunity for weight loss. I do not agree, and believe that the purported calories muscles burn are grossly overstated. The problem is that many studies were done on this, but they measured the calories burning directly after the workout, not during a sedentary time. Because of the incorrect approach taken in measuring calorie burn, the studies ended up with exaggerated results somewhere around 40-60 cal burned per pound of muscle. The studies I've seen done that measure correctly are really closer to 4-7 cal/lb. You've seen first-hand how strength training makes you larger. This is because you need to consume a large amount of calories to stimulate muscle growth, and whatever excess calories consumed goes straight to your fat cells for storage. Conflicting goals As you can see, strength training is at odds with weight (or rather, fat) loss. If you want to lose fat, you'll end up with sub-optimal strength gains, and if you want to gain strength, you will end up with sub-optimal fat loss. My recommendation is to do periods of only strength training, then follow that up with a period of only cardio (commonly called "cutting"). The length of the period is up to you, but it should be something substantial, at least in the 3-6 week range. This allows you to get maximal results in each one and not have your body constantly struggling against mixed signals of what you want it to do. Realistic goals Most experts in the industry agree that a safe amount of fat loss per week is in the 1-2 pound range. This means that in your 3 week period you are safe to lose 3-6 pounds of fat, which is well below the 15 pounds you were hoping to achieve. It is important to set realistic goals for yourself based off of industry standards, which exist for a reason. This is not only important because of safety, but also for your long-term success. If you set your goals unrealistically high, and you keep consistently failing them due to their unattainable nature, you are far more likely to abandon your exercise routine because you don't feel like you are succeeding. This rule applies to all aspects of fitness, so make sure you have clear expectations and reasonable goals defined before you begin your fitness program. Know what your target BF% and weight are. Know how strong you want to be (200kg squat, 350kg deadlift, etc). Target goals are key, as are incremental goals to guide your progress (i.e. week one:lose 1 pound, week 10:lose 10 pounds, week 20:lose 30 pounds). In summary