Which means it is a very good calorie level (specially in the morning and post workout) , very low in fat and very high in protein 

It IS healthy IF the juice is made of real, natural veggies and not commercial products in general. If you blend the veggie yourself, while keeping the veggie skin(since it contains most of vitamins,nutritents and fibre) then the juice will have the same effect as eating the raw veggies. 

6 years ago i gained huge amounts of fat and then i went back to gym and diet to lose them. I had to lose around 60 pounds to get back in shape. Most of the fat i had was belly fat. While my dieting and gym techniques were very efficient, i noticed that i was loosing fat from everywhere except my belly (very little from the belly). 

A good starting point will be Dumbbell Bench Press (generally gets better range of motion than barbell), Dips, Barbell Rows, and Flies and/or Pec Deck if you have one. For some depending on your mechanics Dumbbell Bench Press could be done on a slight incline for better activation. Another exercise you might want to consider though isn't as common anymore is Pullovers which can be done laying using a dumbbell, ez-curl bar, or cable pulley system set to a somewhat low position. With any of these exercises chest width is going to be when you can feel it in the outer portion of your chest a bit and lats. Wide grip bench press for example. Deep full range of motion benching with barbell or dumbbells, incline bench with a nice deep bottom, flyes that you really let sink in the outer part, etc... If you do everything with a regular/narrow grip and stop at or above your chest then you're going to put a lot more emphasis on chest thickness and triceps then on width. Combine this with eating excess calories of course. You can't gain size anywhere if you're not eating some level of excess. 

I am a programmer too, and since your more into cereal than meat in the morning, what worked for me is one of these two meals: 

that's about it in a nutshell, of course with time you will see what your body needs( if you need to eat a bit more/less). CUTTING PHASE: Here it is similar to bulking up with some important modifications (in brief at first): 

The short answer is: You don't need to be a full time athlete, and being a web developer won't prevent you from reaching what you want to reach. I (and many of my friends) are software engineers/programmers and we are all in good shape and so you can be. What you need to know: 

This is how you start using fat from ur body to compensate, and to loose 1 pound of fat per week u need a deficit of 3500 calories per week ( which is 500 calories deficit per day. it is not recommended to have more than 700 cal deficit per day for health purpose). 

Then you'd start over. I've done 3 week "waves", 4 week "waves", even 7 week "waves." Just come up with a goal for that week and hit it. Remember to use a percentage of your 90%. So say it is 100kg then 90% is 90kg so week 1 is 45kg. At the end of the Wave you start over with an increase of 10 to 20 lbs for deadlift (bench most likely would require smaller jumps). Don't worry about testing your 1RM again for a good half a year at least. I haven't tested my Squat or Deadlift maxes currently for about 7 months and I'm 12 weeks out from my next competition. You're not even planning on training for a competition so you should never worry about a 1RM besides adjusting your numbers once or twice a year. 

So you start burning fat when actually the calories that you consume are less than the energy you expand during the day. It means, that for example if your body at Rest requires let's say 2000 calories per day , and u do the following (an example): 

100% true ! there is a lot of contradicting info and as u said 'get-fit-quick' type scams and misinformation. I could help you out with the BEST nutrition book: nutrition's best book that has scientific information, is written by actual doctors and that is NOT trying to sell you stuff or make you consume more is The navy seal nutrition guide. Read this book from A to Z and u'll learn the real stuff (It actually makes sense that this book is professional and accurate, since it was written in the 1990's and it targeted military special forces, it wasn't aiming at reaching the consumer market) As for strength training, i am not sure what level of strength training your aiming at, but i recommend mark lauren's You are your own gym as a bodyweight strength training bible, it is very well written , has lot of good info, and has around 101 variation of bodyweight training. I heard good feedback about a book called Practical Programming for Strength Training but i didn't personally read it, but you might check it out and see. 

Why are you thinking in terms relative to your body weight? Think in terms of more than you were able to previously do. Deadlift is very taxing on the lower back. If your goal is strength as you say then I would focus on reducing the total volume and focus on increasing the weight. Figure out an approximate 1 rep max. Let's say currently its 100 kg. Then take 90% of that number and then program around that number with a weekly progression. Just as an example it might be something like: 

That's just a back pump. Unless its a sharp, acute pain then its nothing to worry about for Deadlifting or Squat. Its your lower back muscles growing for possibly the first time. If its a sharp, acute pain that might even travel down your legs its most likely a pinched nerve from using incorrect form form though could be something more severe like a herniated disc. A dull pain is just wonderful, get use to it. 

They will be absorbed for sure. How much will be absorbed depends on how much your body needs at that time. 

In the article you mentioned, the trainer is dealing with models and actresses, and thus it may be that he doesn't want any smallest detail of definition on their bodies. But between that and bulk there is a huge difference. 

Those are not related to calories. In general, nutrition labels should have a percentage daily value on the right side, which for these vitamins tells you how much percent of the required daily value that you need, does your food contain. The vitamin/mineral daily requirements depend on your age and gender and is about how much (grams,mg,mcg.etc..) of each is required per day. You can check Health CANADA's website, they have a lot of info. 

Image from: Romanian Deadlift vs. Stiff Legged Deadlift Another subtle distinction that often occurs is that SLDL the bar is generally a bit more forward where RDL's it will be right against your legs, sometimes even use Dumbbells by the side of your legs. Can see that too in the above depiction where the bar is above her toes on the SLDL but closer to her ankle in the RDL. Personally, I never ever do Stiff Legged Deadlifts. Romanians however are my go-to hamstring and glute exercise. 

If you're goal is strength than in between sets you should rest. Catch your breath. Have some water. Nibble on some sort of calories. Load more weight on the bar. Then go again. Not sure why you're waiting 3 to 5 minutes between sets as a beginner unless its training with partner / partners that are going in that time. In which case help them load their weight, watch what they're doing, and relax. 

I've been training for several years, stopped for a while then started back but kept working out regularly (4-6 days a week) for the past 2 years. I lift heavy weight, do bodyweight training, skip rope, explosive workout (burpees for example) and eat quality food with a controlled diet. However lately i just don't feel any pain, sore muscles, or any kind of challenge while working out. What do you peeps do when you reach this phase, in order to keep improving (shredding more fat, adding more muscles)? I know that adding more weight usually helps and that's what i do , but what could possibly be done other than that?(change of diet, resting for few weeks, new workouts..etc..) 

6'2, 200 pounds and 28 years old ==>Your BMR is: 2061 calories, eat 2061 +700 = 2761 calories to eat per day. Eat real non processed food, with the following (my personal recommendations): 

Main difference is how deep you go. Stiff Leg Deadlift you allow your back to round a bit at the bottom, might even stand on a platform to really emphasize this. Romanian Deadlift is more of a hamstring exercise where you're emphasis is keeping your back straight and forcing your butt backwards. Ideally SLDL is completely straight though not locked out - never lock out that would just cause injury. RDL the knee bends to allow your butt to go backwards. 

The front kick is going to make use of Quad, Glutes and Hamstrings more than back. Deadlift can help with this and with size but shouldn't be your only focus then. I'd probably suggest doing a day of: Deadlift, Front Squats and some sort of Plyometric like box jump. If you have the ability to pull and squat against Chains or Bands would be great too for this goal. Remember to use an even lighter % if you do as its very, very taxing. It'll help develop your speed and power much more effectively though. 

which means, MRI, a very accurate technique, found that fat loss is overall from the body and not targeted (spots). PERSONAL experience: Beside scientific researches, it is always good to share personal experience about a topic (sometimes it is more efficient than a research). 

By "affect" do you mean make you look like a male bodybuilder? if yes, then the answer is "surely no". There is a misconception about women and weight lifting, a lot of women think that if they do some weight training they will grow huge muscles like male bodybuilders. While increasing weight will make you build a bit more muscles of course, but there is a big difference in the physiology of men vs women, of which : Men have more muscles, have more testosterone (which helps build muscles),etc.. My personal recommendation if you want to "tone" your body, all you need to do is "body-weight" training. It will make you build the necessary nice looking muscles, strength, endurance, and will give you a much better looking shape than machines and body building. body weight training might not be suitable for someone joining a body building competition, but it is the BEST for someone who want to tone their body and have good shape. (I assume that's what you are aiming at)