I know you can't overtrain youself too easy but I want to ask if this is ok to do.I do on each muscle group 4 exercises 4 sets of 12 reps and I was thinking that after every set to reduce the weights and do more reps. For example: I start doing bench presses with 90 kg,and I do like 10-12 reps after I am exhausted and immediately when I am done I take off some weights and start doing 12 more reps with 40 kg. To make it more clear I don't do 2 sets with 90 and 2 sets with 40 to be 4 sets,no.I do 4 sets with 90 and 4 sets with 40,just to be clear. My question is,is it worth it?My main goal is to build muscle and have well defined muscles. 

My problem is with my forearms ,they hurt badly when I start doing barbell curls but not while I am training but when I am done with each set of 15. Is this a problem with how I am holding my arms?Am I using the wrong barbell maybe?Or my forearms just cant handle this much weight? EDIT: I realized I have this type of pain :$URL$ Do you consider his tips viable to help with my problem? 

Well I see nobody wants to answer this so I will give it a try: 1.No.It is not normal to feel back pain no matter what exercise you do.(And I experienced people saying they had the same pain you had during the same exercise but after placing their hands right they had no problems at all) 2.Your back is unsteady because I presume you are holding your hands under your butt not under your back.Try putting your hands under your sacrum bone. 3.Why do you think it would? 4.Look at (2). 

Though I'm keeping my legs straight, maybe I should bend them slightly? My goal is to get past 90 degrees, but I don't want to compromise strength or explosive power, particularly for jumps and sprints. Given this, my reading says to do an exercise that reaches peak extension of the hamstring whilst subjecting the muscle to a substantial force. I'm home-gymming with a very basic setup at the moment, so the less equipment required, the better. What exercise(s) should I do? I've tried the exercise shown above with rubber cords and some gradual movement, though my arms don't provide enough resistive force for my hamstrings. 

I've recently realised that I have very tight hamstrings - when lying flat on the ground, I can only lift each leg around 75 degrees off the floor when doing this: 

Backstroke covers certain muscles a lot better than freestyle, and Gym can't perfectly replicate backstroke swim time. If you're going to swim as much as you do, you may as well get comfortable with a second stroke. 

At pools where I swim, there's usually an clock somewhere in sight. If I know my starting time and my pace, a quick head glance during a breath when needed keeps me on track. 

If it must be at home, then it really depends on the architecture and furnishings of your house. My friend's place has a floating beam in the living room, which is not bad for doing pull ups on. I don't have such a beam - not everyone is going to have something at home that's satisfactory for pull ups. So that's when you need to check out places outside of home. Playgrounds, alleyways, forests - get creative and you'll figure something out. Though be prepared to look a little silly! Edit/update: I've just bought myself a pull up/dip tower, and it's been a brilliant investment. I've done more pull ups in the past few weeks than I have in years. As nice as it is to not spend money, you ought to invest if you're serious about exercise. 

My question is,is this something true?And if not what training should I do to get defined and what training to get bulked? 

Saturday Observation Saturday I train the muscle I consider it is behind and must get more attention The problem with my program is that I cannot make use of the 48 hour recovery time that my body gives me. I want to point out that I do every exercise slow and with low weights 4 seconds down 2 seconds up and fully extend them(no cheating). Edit Another thing I forgot to say before each training session I do 20 minutes of HIIT on the threadmill 

What exercises are good to train the external oblique and serratus anterior muscles from beginner to advanced exercises?I am interested mostly in isolated exercises. 

I started training at 87 kg with a 21% Body Fat Percentage I now have 83kg with a 10% Body Fat Percentage I would like to get to 90kg with a 5-6% body fat percentage.Would this program help me?(My dream? big arms rounded shoulders and well defined muscles everywhere on my body) Monday Back training 

You have a better mood because when you work out especially in the morning when you can accelerate the recovery from lethargy caused by sleep (most of the times you won't even need your morning coffee ) because you release endorphins that lead to an effect known as a "runner's high" that give you a feeling of good mood. Sources: 

The main factor for muscle hypertrophy is volume. It doesn't matter which order you use in your workouts while training as long as your muscles are getting sufficient stimulus for growth. As @mjb in comments as said, you there is no method which is 'better' here. I'd like to repeat the same thing. However, the option 2 is the better split for someone who wants to optimize their workout since it will allow the muscle to relax a bit before you pound it with another exercise after your first one. The issue, however with the option 2 is that you will not get a big pump, but as long as the volume remains the same, it won't matter. 

You haven't mentioned how long have you been doing your endurance running, though. Weight loss is a long-term process. Depending on how extra body fat you have, it might take a long long time for you to reach your goal weight. Any sort of physical exercise is not necessary for the weight loss. Again, it's calorie in vs calorie out. However, if you lie in your bed or simply sit on a chair for the whole day, your BMR will be very low. You don't want that. This is because, with low BMR, your calorie needs per day will also be low. Eating less food will make keep you hungry for a longer time. 

It's not really necessary to do intermittent fasting to lose weight. If you are comfortable with it, it's fine. Just keep in mind that in the initial days, you'll feel hungry, a lot. Your body will adjust with time. 

But,sometimes I am in a hurry and I must hurry up the pace and I do them combined,for example I do a 15xLeg press I wait 20 seconds and I do 15xDumbell military press then I wait 1:30 minutes and again Leg press,20 seconds pause, Dumbell press,1:30 minutes pause a.s.o. Am I stressing my body too hard when I do this?Should I train only 1 body part when I really am in a hurry? 

Why most trainers recommend you to train your abs every day? Why are they not respecting the 24-48 hour training window? 

What each of them is? What each of them is good at?(muscle building ,strength building,resistance building,etc.) Why should we include them in our training program? What are the downsides of each of them?What about upsides? Give a real life example on how to do each of them reported to ones 1RM at an exercise on choice(bench-press for example). How to correctly execute each of them. 

Lower weights,more reps(like 15-20 reps) and slower+controlled movement to get defined High weights,lesser reps(like 5-6 reps) and controlling only when you are under tension(the lift can be helped by another friend) to get bulked 

I was taught once by my trainer (he is 75 yrs old) how to train to get defined and how to train to get bulked. 

I just found about isometric training and wanted to try it out but from what I see you have to do bench presses,squats and deadlifts. My question is: Is isometric training made for any exercise or muscle group or only for those above? And how does isometric training help us? 

I found huge improvements from taking on gyming while swimming - specifically muscular strength and endurance. That is, until I overtrained and heavily damaged my back. Be wise and know your limits! How often? I think two to three swim sessions to one gym session is a good ratio. If you're a sprinter, maybe more towards two to one swim sessions to one gym session. How many sessions a week that ends up being depends on how into the sport you are! A competitive swimmer may be doing 7-10 swim sessions a week, coupled with 3-4 gym sessions would be a nice mix. Make sure you give enough time for your muscles to recover. Throwing gym into the mix puts a much higher demand on your muscles. Sets and Reps I did freestyle mid-distance events, 200 m up to 800 m, so my focus was more on endurance reps. For standard workouts, I would do 3 sets of 20, and gradually increased weights accordingly. I did them at a similar speed to swimming stroke rate, except for legs of course. I frequently did circuit training - 30 seconds on, 30 seconds off, go to the next exercise, around 70% of my max or greater. This was the money, I loved these workouts! One stupid set I frequently did was pyramid sets on quads until muscle strain. 20 reps, climb weight until you injure your muscles, then climb back down. I actually didn't realise that I was straining my muscles, the 5+ days for my quads to recover despite my well conditioned muscles should have been an obvious clue! Routines Think through what muscles hold you back the most, and focus on them. 

That's pretty much the reason for the asymmetry in your body. In fact, most people have these kinds of issues when they train. Simply because our dominant hand tries to compensate for the weaker hand. You can fix this by balancing the amount of work according to how much the difference there is between your muscles. For e.g., in the bench press, use dumbbells instead of barbells and end your session with a few sets (1-2) with your weaker side. Repeat this until you feel symmetry in your body. 

This is because you are not eating in a sustained calorie deficit. It's the only thing you need to lose weight. Calorie in vs Calorie out. This means you can eat fried chicken at your local KFC every day and still lose weight. That is of course if you are in a calorie deficit. Of course, this is not a healthy approach to losing weight since you'll not fill the nutritional needs your body has in regards to the macro and micro-nutrients. 

You can't. Spot reduction of fat from any area of your body is not possible. You can, however, lose your overall body fat and that will surely slim down your thighs. 

As I mentioned above, the best approach for you is to sustain a calorie deficit in your diet for a prolonged period to see any substantial results. Track your calories for a few weeks. Use a calorie tracking app called MyFitnessPal which is available in the Play Store and iTunes. Also, you don't need to track calories all your life. Do it for a few weeks and then you can just eyeball the quantities of food you need. In terms of visuals, you won't see much change in your body in just a few weeks. Also, if you want to prolong your healthy lifestyle, don't obsess over the food. Once in a while, you should eat something that is considered traditionally 'unhealthy'. Take pictures, and track your body weight. If you are extremely serious, you should ideally also track the inches in your waist and whatever body part you are most conscious about. 

Perhaps just the max height for a single box jump/vertical jump (if you don't want technique to be a factor for improvement). I'm hoping/expecting that your setup allows you to increase height. I have a friend who was box jump training for a bit, he gained a few inches over maybe 2-3 months of intensive training. But I think doubling your box jump height is a lot harder than doubling your squat weight! 

Cable flys - these were my favourite! Go for pulling from full extension, this is great for having a powerful pull at maximum reach. Slight bend in the elbow, just like your initial underwater pull. Biceps curls - pretty boring, but important Triceps - use free weights, extend from half to full. Heaps of ways to do this and they're all pretty similar. Shoulders - free weights, extend to horizontal on your side and front Rows - your traps are helpful in the pull sequence, but more so it's just good to work the opposite muscles so you keep your muscle development equal. Bench press - covers the above muscles quite well. Pull ups/machine pull downs - real important Abs with weights - whether it be sit ups with plates or pulling on a cable, it's all good - gives your off the wall dolphin kicks more grunt Back extensions with weights - just as important as the abs 

One factor to consider is that if you've set yourself a high calorie & protein intake, one which challenges your normal appetite, a recovery shake immediately plus a meal some hours afterwards may be easier for hitting your intake goal than just one larger meal hours afterwards.