I am planning a party in the wilderness, where there is no firewood. I decided to carry some firewood there, to make it more fun. It's planned for a specific day in the winter (e.g. birthday party), so there are a few months of "preparation", during which I'll visit that place a few times. How can I keep the stashed firewood dry? It's dry season now, but there will be many rainy days (however, I don't expect rain for several days in a row). There will be about 50 kg of wood. 

When I coil my thin (8 mm) ropes, I place the coils in one hand, which is barely enough for 40 m of rope (I toss the rest separately) - any longer or thicker, and you would need to hold the coils in some other manner (on the arm or on the lap? Or maybe you have bigger hands than me? YMMV). When making the individual coils, you should twist each one in such a way that it produces no kinks in the yet-uncoiled part of the rope. It's usually pretty easy - you do exactly the same 360° twist of the rope in each coil. All the coils should look as round and as identical as possible - it's fine if they look more like "D" than "O", but if they look like "8" - you are doing it wrong. In addition (also important), try to place the coils into your hand in a consistent manner, so they could separate easily when tossed. Like this (your hand viewed from the side; "o" is the rope in cross-section): 

Take a good map and possibly a GPS for backup. Actually, I'd probably never go climbing an unknown route at night (YMMV), but this is much less of a problem if you have already been there. Also, make sure the weather is going to be good. Any clouds will ruin your full moon. Also (depending on the season) the wall may be icy at night if it was wet during the day! For unforeseen circumstances (stuck on the wall? Stuck at the summit?), take an emergency blanket, extra food and adequate water. Finally, make sure everything you do is legal. Authorities don't like nonstandard hours. 

Just found an example GPS log of a hike, where I went up and down such slopes with average angle of 15-40° (average 30°). I had light flexible boots, which, I imagine, improved traction - so this may be close to the most favorable combination. 

We were abseiling into a cave (about 15 metres height) using a rope hanged by its middle from an anchor: 

I have experience in climbing limestone and sandstone. These rocks feel rough - you get much traction (especially with sandstone) and can use it to your advantage when climbing. I think the feeling of artificial holds is the same - they are roughened on purpose to match natural rock. However, I heard that granite is different (I have no experience in technical granite climbing) - the holds feel slippery and require adjustment in technique. Are there dedicated climbing holds for simulating the feeling of granite? Do climbing gyms (bouldering/roped) use holds whose texture matches local rocks? 

(Update: I have now realized you were talking about belaying the leader, and not the second climber. I am updating my answer to take this into account.) What does "belay from the body" mean? According to your remark on the direction of the pool, I guess it means the rope doesn't pass through the anchor at all. This type of belaying seems not safe, regardless of which belay device you are using. If the climber you are belaying falls, he will pull you down (or to the side, if it was a traverse), and you will find yourself hanging on your self-belay in a very uncomfortable position, possibly letting go of the belay rope! I also heard that harnesses are designed to be weaker when pulled downward, but I don't know whether this is true. It's very easy to fix this arrangement: just pass your rope through the anchor (most likely by adding a dedicated carabiner to the anchor, and passing the rope through it). I could think about just a few reasons not to pass the rope through the anchor: 

My experience on abseiling is mostly from climbing, where I descend on both strands. But my friend said that one should do it on one strand (it's understandable because it was a very stiff static rope). So we made a knot on the rope. Then she connected to one strand, leaving the other completely free, and descended. 

This form is good for carrying, but not for tossing. You mention "lap-coiled", so probably you already know that, but it's worth mentioning (for the likes of me who used it many times with consistently poor results). 

Later, someone else told me that one should connect the descending device to one strand, and the prusik to the other. So, my question is: should one connect the prusik to the same or the other strand, and why? Also: if using two different strands, should one also tie a knot on the rope? (side note: we used the setup with one free strand to practice building a hauling system. It was very easy to retrieve the free strand for that purpose. Is this a significant consideration when deciding how to connect the prusik?) 

I am used to abseiling with a prusik cord, which gives me protection for the case I lose control of the descent speed. However, I have heard that in canyoning, in some situations, using the prusik is considered undesirable. So people descend on ropes with just a braking device, and without a prusik. Is it really the case? If yes, what makes it a valid technique specifically in canyoning, and not in e.g. rock climbing? 

Just do it more. You say that you climb "almost all indoors" and "have taken a few falls" - I sense a contradiction there. Make a rule that for every route you climb, you fall off at the end. This way you will be doing 10 scary falls every day, and maybe after some time you will get used to them. Hum some slow soothing music in your head (e.g. the Moonlight Sonata) while you are climbing. It may be difficult in gyms, where someone else chooses songs for you. It's good outdoors though. Have your partner shout encouraging stuff for you, like "Climb on!" or "Go with your left hand!" or "I am catching you!" or just a bunch of swearwords... Make a video of yourself falling. Maybe the different viewpoint will help you rationalize your fear. In addition, when the camera is looking at you, you might be more willing to push yourself, even just to make some cool shots (this one depends a lot on your personality).