xkcd also shows an approximation of what it would look like if you tried to take a picture of an average desk from orbit. It is just a smear of colors, devoid of any discernible detail. I tried attaching the pictures here, but SE doesn't like the png files for some reason and I don't have time to do the file conversion. Just check out the first link to see what it looks like, plus a more detailed explanation of why. 

If you're like me and you just want lots of interesting facts about space without all of the academic level of complexity, you may enjoy watching the Crash Course Astronomy series. There are a lot of other good resources on YouTube, such as Deep Sky Videos or Deep Astronomy. If you want something more fun and interactive, may I suggest playing Kerbal Space Program. I've learned a lot about how orbital mechanics, aerodynamics, and engineering just from playing this game. There is a question on the Space Exporation Stack Exchange that does a good job of covering how much can be learned from playing. 

xkcd worked this out! It was part of a related question: what if you pointed an infinite power laser in random directions, how much damage would happen? I'll try to summarize the parts of his analysis relevant to this question. If you choose a truly random direction, you'd have about a 50% chance of hitting the Earth. For the times you don't hit Earth, 89,999 times out of 90,000 your beam will pass out of the Milky Way without hitting anything. The objects you have the highest chance of hitting are the Sun or Moon, but the odds of hitting either of them is about 1 in 180,000. He goes on to show that your odds of hitting one of Jupiter's moons is about 1 in 1 trillion. Hitting a star is even harder, "even if you aim for the core [of the Milky Way]." He doesn't seem to have worked it out to the level of individual photons hitting individual hydrogen atoms, but given that space is mostly empty anyway the angular size method he uses should be a reasonable approximation. 

The Earth and Moon are rather better thought of as a two planetoid system both orbiting the Sun, than a planet and a satellite (the Moon does indeed orbit the Sun as well as the Earth). The Moon orbits Earth at a point where Earth's gravitational pull is of the same order as the Sun's. We also believe that the Moon was formed as a result of a catastrophic event involving the proto-Earth - ie one planet split into two. As such it is not a surprise that it has an orbit close to the plane of the ecliptic. Other planets' satellites are not the same - the gas giants dominate their satellites and in Mars's case it seems likely that Phobos and Demos are captured planetoids from the asteroid belt rather than anything much to do with Mars as such. 

The Earth and Moon have been "together" billions of years and so even realitively weak forces such as gravitation have had a chance to cause profound effects. One of those is the Moon's tidal lock. The Earth too is being driven towards tidal lock - ie at a point in the future only one face of the Earth will face the Moon, but as the Moon's tidal drag on the Earth is relatively lower (compared to the energy contained in the Earth's spin) than Earth's on the Moon, this is not going to happen for very many millions of years. 

There is an accepted answer already, but there is a couple known cases of a star we know has gone supernova, and yet we can still see it. This source describes one such unique circumstance. The star that exploded happened to be in a galaxy that was behind another massive one from our point of view. The alignment was just right such that the light formed an Einstein Cross. The light from each point on the cross takes a different path to get here, and each of those paths are different lengths. Thus, the different points on the cross show the star at 4 different times in its final years. The Space.com article I linked was written in 2015. Scientists first noticed the supernova in 2014, and each image of the supernova arrived within a year of when it was first noticed. If I'm understanding that article correctly, as of now (2017) all of the images of that supernova show the supernova aftermath, and not the star beforehand. However, there was a period of time where we could see the star both pre and post-supernova at the same time. You imply in your question that you are focusing on stars within our own galaxy. I don't know of any such situations of Einstein Cross events closer to home that let us do this. 

Yes, the orbits change massively over time. For example, Earth's eccentricity (how close to a circle the orbit is), its axial tilt (what causes seasons), and precession (which direction the Earth's spin axis points) change on these huge cycles, tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of years long. They are caused by the pull of the other planets, mainly Jupiter and Saturn (since they are so huge), as well as the physics of inertial reference frames. These are known as the Milankovitch cycles. Here is a neat video explaining what each of the cycles are in detail. That video is about Earth, but the same concepts apply to all the other planets too, just on different amounts and timescales. An asteroid hitting a planet would technically change its orbit, however how much is questionable. An asteroid a couple km across would barely nudge the Earth since the Earth is bigger by many orders of magnitude. It would also destroy everything on the planet, but thats another story. Way back in the solar system's formation, when Thea hit Earth (theoretically) it was much closer in size than the Earth, so no doubt that it caused a much more significant shift in orbit. 

This is not a simple question to answer. Outside the influence of the earth's magnetic field then "space" is actually filled with the solar wind, which has a high nominal temperature but low energy density - in other words the particles in the solar wind are moving very fast but there are not that many of them. If you mean what temperature a black body in constant sunlight would reach then probably not that dis-similar from the temperature of the Earth, but you are not measuring the temperature of space then, but rather the intensity of solar radiation. 

You have to set your equatorial axis to tilt to match your latitude eg if you were at 5 degrees North then the axis needs to tilt to 5 degrees. Then you need to find an object of known RA and declination (at my latitude I always used Polaris as it didn't move) and then set the setting circles (the dials) to those, then direct the telescope to the RA and declination you seek. 

Here's the how: very energetic charged particles interact with the Earth's magnetic field, and when they do so they emit electromagnetic radiation. If the energy of this radiation was high enough then when it reached wires/conductors at the Earth's surface the opposite effect would take place: ie the EM radiation would result in the flow of charged particles (a current). Such currents, if strong enough, could damage very many electronic and electric devices. As to the possibility: it seems unlikely that such a high energy event would take place (ie to destroy all/nearly all electronic equipment), but it could be possible. We don't have sufficient data. 

xkcd already did the math on this one! Like Gauti's answer, xkcd also links to this question on Hubble's website. Hubble moves too fast for its minimum exposure time to be able to focus on anything on the surface. He goes one step further, linking to this article on Bad Astronomy that points out that Hubble frequently points at the sunlight side of Earth to help calibrate its WFPC2 camera. 

I'd use a visual here - just tape some Lego people to a basketball, then explain that down is to the center of the basketball, and it only looks to him that there is a "universal down" because he too is standing on a much larger basketball. For someone that young, and for people of any age, a demonstration like that will make more sense than any explanation. 

An answer to your question is not known at this time. From the Internal Structure section of Jupiter's Wikipedia page, 

(Emphasis mine) The idea that the core is "rocky" or composed of metallic hydrogen is still unknown. Determining more about this is one of the objectives of the Juno mission currently in orbit. We may obtain better models of Jupiter's internal structure in the coming years, but at this point we just don't know. 

I'm far from an expert in this, but I have a reasonable guess at an answer. The White Dwarf page on Wikipedia describes what would probably happen. It seems that the WD would consume mass from the companion star until it can either sustain fusion, or fuse so much so quickly that it explodes into a Type 1a supernova. 

Antimatter is present on Earth and is being naturally created all the time (by Beta decay) as well as being created as product of cosmic ray collisions and in particle accelerators. However the universe appears to be principally made of matter and so the antimatter thus created is annihilated: and although the production of antimatter through nuclear decay is essentially continuous, it is not of a high volume so the energy created in this way is not significant in the normal course of events. The real question is why is matter so much more abundant than antimatter: which is an open question though various theories have been proposed about why we might live in such a universe. 

The Big Bang happened everywhere and the recombination of electrons with nuclei - the thing that causes the CMB - also happened everywhere. So in every direction you look you can see the radiation from that recombination. But that recombination also happened a long time ago and so, given light has a constant velocity, the places where we can see the recombination take place are also a long way away. And, as a result of the expansion of space-time, that radiation is very red-shifted, so instead of the recombination looking like it is happening at roughly 4000 degrees Kelvin, it looks like something happening at 3 degrees Kelvin. That expansion is also what makes it look like the distant galaxies are all moving away from us and the further away the faster they seem to be moving. 

It does appear to depend on the mass of the companion, and whether they actually collide or merely pass close. If they didn't form together, it is unlikely that they will be captured in each other's orbit later on, so the WD might just pass through the system, disrupting planets as it goes but leaving the other star unharmed. There doesn't appear to be a one-size-fits-all answer here. 

I think you're overestimating how quickly stars appear to move as viewed from Earth. Once a telescope like Kepler identifies a solar system around a star, we know where that star is. Stars have coordinates associated with them that astronomers can use to know where to point their telescopes to see it. For example, look at the star Betelgeuse. Look in the info box on the right, the right ascension and declination are the coordinates to find it. On the timescale of one Earth year, or even a few hundred Earth years, the stars are mostly fixed, and that coordinate to find them still works. Sure they move slightly, but not enough to lose track of it, or even enough to dramatically change how the constellations appear to us. Even if one does somehow move dramatically, it would take decades to centuries, and astronomers would be tracking it and updating the coordinate information. Think about it this way. The constellations used in the sky today are named after many ancient Greek and Roman mythological characters. This isn't something we decided recently, they were named hundreds or thousands of years ago and they're still recognizable in the same form they were then. If stars moved across our sky as quickly as you appear to think, those constellations would all have to be renamed. You need timescales of tens of thousands of years to make the sky unrecognizable, and even then it would have more to do with the precession of the equinoxes.