"identity" means "sameness." Two say of two things x and y that they are identical is just to say that the name "x" and the name "y" are two different names for the same object. Mark Twain is identical to Samuel Clemens because "Mark Twain" and "Samuel Clemens" are just different names for the same guy. "The only even prime" and "the second square" are just two different names for the same number, viz. 2. Note that in our definition above we said, "two things x and y" and NOT "two distinct things x and y". This is because difference, or distinctness is the opposite of sameness/identity. If x and y are distinct, then they are not identical by definition. Here are two logical principles that seem to many philosophers to be an intuitive part of what our concept of sameness amounts to. 

The number 8 is necessarily even. The number of the planets is 8. Therefore the number of the planets is necessarily even. 

I'm not an expert on modal logic, so take my answer with a grain of salt. I don't recall reading any discussion of a formal system where a quantified modal formula was an axiom of the system. (There may be some that I haven't come across, of course.) The point of adding quantification, and other devices that belong to first-order modal logical such as the property abstraction operator, is to increase the expressive power of the modal logic in order to use modal logic to formalize a broader range of natural language arguments that turn upon possibility and necessity. Consider, for instance, the following "argument": 

Most introductory philosophy of mind courses at the undergraduate level focus on the issue of the relationship between mind and body. Descartes tends to make it into intro Philosophy of Mind classes because his position, (the modern form of) substance dualism, is the foil against which other positions, like the various kinds of physicalism, dual aspect theories, anomalous monism, etc. are contrasted. Kant's contributions to philosophy of mind are more tenuously related to this central issue. (Kant does sometimes get discussed in "Free will" classes, although usually not in a very flattering light.) At the graduate level, however, Kant (or more likely, contemporary defenders of positions like his) does get more air time. One place in contemporary analytic philosophy where 19th century debates between Kantians and Hegelians show up is in the philosophy of perception. John McDowell's Mind and World is an example that springs immediately to mind. Note, however, that this is kind of advanced stuff that wouldn't ordinarily show up in a survey course intended for undergrads, at least not at my institution. 

Seems like the "straw man" to me. It's attacking a position that nobody is actually defending. Edit: In response to a comment below. It's worth noting that what S is encouraging his or her listeners to do is to commit a use-mention error. 

What you want to look at is the social psychology of group decision making. The pioneer in the field is Irving Janis, a psychologist at yale. Groupthink is poor decision making that results from individuals self-censoring because of social pressures because of high cohesion among the group. Everybody thinks the same, i'll be branded as an outsider if I voice my opinion that this decision is really bad, so I don't speak up and we make a bad decision. Interestingly, too low a degree of cohesion among the individuals also leads to very similar effects. People who are all different just don't trust each other and so they self-censor for fear of starting huge, unproductive arguments about points of fundamental disagreement. Look at the wikipedia page on groupthink for more info. 

It's actually more convenient [at least in extensional first-order logic] to think of properties mathematically as sets and the objects that have that property as elements of the set. I don't need to know, from the point of the existential quantifier, what the property F is or how to define it. I just need to know whether it has any members. If so, Ex.Fx is true, otherwise it is false. 

This sounds like nonsense to me. There's a cottage industry of anti-colonial literature which tries to find precursors to Greek thought in non-European peoples. (See the wikipedia page on the book Black Athena for some details, and criticisms, of a different example of the genre.) I don't know of any meaningful sources of Indian or Hindu influence upon the development of Greek thought and the fact that the author doesn't provide any evidence for his claims makes me suspect that he is simply making this up. This isn't to deny there might be similiarities between, say ancient greek religion and vedantic hinduism. But the explanation there is common origin, not historical influence on the Greeks by the Hindus. In other words, I'm saying that Greek and Hindu culture might share some of the same roots, but I don't know of any historical evidence that the intellectual tradition of india influenced the greek tradition until after Alexander the Great, by which point all of the distinctive institutions of ancient Greece, like philosophy, democracy, theater and so forth were already very well established. 

Neutral monism holds that reality is neither mental nor material, but that mental and material properties arise from something else which is neither. 

This is a great question: Why don't scientists care to hear more from philosophers? My guess would be that the culprit here is specialization. This can happen in two different ways. First, both philosophy and the natural sciences have become increasingly specialized in the past century. It has gotten much harder these days for a professional philosopher to also be up to speed on what is going on in the natural sciences, and vice versa. There are some exceptions. I would wager that Lawrence Sklar is about as up to speed on the cutting edge of physics as any non-physicist can be. Still, the amount of time and effort required to really get to know more than a few debates in one's own field is prohibitive, let alone to get the expertise necessary to discuss issues in other fields. Second, there have been some high profile cases where scientists have made sweeping, negative claims about philosophy. Amateurish generalizations and denunciations make some philosophers question whether there really is anything philosophers stand to learn from their colleagues in the natural sciences. 

What you're talking about is called "cognitive phenomenology," i.e. what it is like to experience a certain kind of cognitive state like knowing, or believing, or understanding, or doubting. Some people don't think there is such a thing, others do. I don't know this literature very well, but there is a recent (2012) collection of papers on the topic that includes a lot of really big names in philosophy of mind. $URL$ 

For every person S, and every truth p, S knows p if and only if S is able to prove p. (premise) But, nobody can prove that he or she has hands. (premise) Therefore, nobody knows that he or she has hands. (from 7, 8 by universal instantiation and modus ponens) 

Rows 1 and 2 look obviously correct, since they match our intuitive, natural language reasoning use of "if . . . then". We intuitively know Modus ponens and modus pollens are valid inference rules, and that's what is represented in lines 1 and 2 here. Rows 3 and 4 require more comments. Since we want a truth functional logic, we have to fill in something for the truth value of "A->B" on these lines, and we have only two choices (T or F). So, let's see what happens if we fill in F for line 3. (i.e. let's assume A is false, B is true, and A->B is false.) Then the following argument would be valid (i.e. the argument would have the property that the truth of its premises would guarantee the truth of its conclusion), but intuitively the argument is not valid. 

No. When you're testing your maxims, what you're looking for is the logical or practical possibility of everybody doing what you're doing. You can't make a false promise, because if everybody made false promises, there would be no practical point to the institution of promise-making. Saying "I promise to repay" wouldn't get people to lend you money, because they would know you are lying. But there's nothing logically or practically impossible with everybody liking Justin Bieber (I assume that's the kind of thing you have in mind about liking before it is cool). If everybody could like Bieber, then it is permissible for you to do so. The thing that I think is catching you up here is how to describe the maxim. I think you're thinking something like "the maxim of my action is: like something before it is cool, but it is impossible for everyone to like something before it is cool since everyone liking something makes it cool, therefore it is wrong to like something before it is cool." But that's the wrong description of your action. You're liking Bieber because you enjoy the music, not because most other people don't. (At least, I hope so, but the heart is desperately wicked above all things, so who knows.) Now the question you should ask is: "Well, how am I supposed to know which is the right description of the action to run the universalizability test on, according to Kant?" The answer there is: Kant wasn't himself aware of this problem, and there are a variety of views. Some people like Anscombe think this is a huge problem for Kant and proves his moral theory unworkable, others think its a minor defect. Who is right about that is a separate question (which I am not qualified to answer.) 

It's been a long while since I read Dawkins on memes, but IIRC, he thinks of them as more like concepts than beliefs. A belief is made up of concepts, but I think Dawkins's point was that the concepts reproduce themselves (albeit with slight changes) over time. Hence, the analogy to genes.