I am planning an new network. All the traffic coming out of this network will be fowarded into a VPN in order to exit out onto the Internet on a distant server. This will be done via OpenVPN. There will be only one tunnel. We're looking at a very high speed Internet connection with a downstream speed of 100 Mbit/s and an upstream speed of 5 Mbit/s. What sort of hardware will I need to support such speeds ? Are there any thumb rules for hardware sizing of OpenVPN servers ? Will an atom board be sufficient ? What about an AMD Geode 800Mhz ? Thank you in advance for your help, 

You do not need to define a broadcast address for secondary IP addresses. Configuration for "failover" IP adresses is just the following : 

EDIT2 : After doing a bit more investigation, this issue only comes up after somewhere around 6 days and is solved for another 6 days by just rebooting the system. Now it makes even less sense. I would like to avoid scheduling a reboot every few days as this doesn't sound like a decent solution. EDIT3 : This doesn't seem to happen on a regular frequency as it just happened after 3 days. 

The drops you can see in the graph are the cron jobs running and eating up more space trying to free some space. MySQL binary logs are not enabled. 95% of the disk space used on this server is located in the /var/lib/mysql/dashboard_production which is the directory where the MySQL data is stored. We have had this issue before with a different application (Zabbix monitoring) and had to dump the DB and re-import in order to free up space. This was a very painful process and not a very elegant solution but it ultimately worked. Is there any way we can reclaim this disk space ? What we can do this stop this behavior ? Edit 1 We are indeed using innoDB and we are not using configuration directive "innodb_file_per_table". As requested by Felix, the output of the command is the following : 

As I need to be able to add and remove items from an array I need to cast it as an as opposed to the more common options (, , ). I also need to preset it with data, but the caller of the function needs the ability to change the preset as they desire. The preset in the block is required as another entity is looking for preset data. I've tried several variations, but here's the one that makes the most sense: 

So you've already done the hard part of generating your list in . You're probably over thinking how to do the email and that's what's tripping you up. Remember, Powershell is there to make your life easier. If it seems too complicated, there's likely an easier way to do it. Anyway you need to figure out the following variables and add them to your code: 

Source 1 and Source 2 All available cluster tests are grouped into 5 test categories. They are , , , , and . Only the category contains tests which will trigger a failover or impact performance (according to Microsoft that is). Additionally, most of these test categories are not intended to be executed after the cluster is certified and operational. Except for one that is... For Existing Clusters Microsoft designed tests for use on an existing cluster. In fact, these tests only run on existing clusters. To execute this test category run the following command: 

I find chroots to be way to complicated and have never been able to install one. One could argue that if I had been able to do so, I would find great interest in it but I still haven't. I think that isolating your services in virtual machines (on Xen of course, but VMWare will work too if you insist :-P ) is a much better idea considering the computing power available these days. Virtual machines also have the huge advantage of being really easy to backup/migrate which chroots do not have. You also have comprehensive interface for managing VMs, which you definently don't have for chroots. 

Standard filesystems (NTFS, FAT, EXT3-2, ...) cannot be accessed by multiple nodes at a time. They are meant to be accessed by a single node and are therefore simpler. If you need a filesystem to be available by several nodes at block level, you should consider GFS or OCFS. If you need a filesystem to be available by serveral nodes at file level, you should consider NFS or CIFS. 

The dig answer may vary from host to host but you should not get any empty "ANSWER SECTION". If you can resolve using OpenDNS using dig but not using wget or curl, that means that your system has not reachable DNS server configured. If that is the case, consider editing /etc/resolv.conf 

You can use Xen and Remus. Remus keeps a live copy of your VM which takes over if the original copy dies on you. From $URL$ : 

I'm using to download a file from the internet and place it in a network location. The location is similar to which the cmdlet says it can't find and that it doesn't exist. To get to pass successfully you have to add the filesystem provider to the location like this: . The rub is that doesn't like destinations with the filesystem provider declared and errors with "The path is not of a legal form". The problem is further compounded by the inability to use and run the code in a remote shell on the destination server. blocks this usage. What's the solution to using with a network location? 

The output displays two columns, the first the drive letter, and the second is the device ID displaying the GUID. To find the drive letter for a specific GUID try this: 

You need to create a credential object with the cmdlet, store it in a variable, and use it with your . 

I've been googling and searching MS's website for their MSDN or technet page on this cmdlet and can't find it. Google keeps wanting to point to the Get cmdlet. I used the MS link for the Get: $URL$ And tried to use: $URL$ But it fails. The cmdlet shows up in the ConfigurationModule and because of where the server lives I can't use Update-Help. There's also no "link" section in the help to point to a technet article. Anyone know where the MS documentation is on this? 

I am looking for a PCI or PCI Express based Network card with builtin VPN possibilities or a network card which allows to flash its firmware vyatta, ipcop , routeros or any similar os. The idea is to allow remote support of a server system (access to its oob interface and os) even though the systems operating system is unable to boot correctly and setup the VPN connection by itself. May this little drawing helps explaining it: 

If you're not using ubuntu or debian you cant just copy and paste this commands but maybe they point you into the right direction. have a nice evening. 

Active Directory servers act as NTP servers per default. You can specify them as NTP targets for your XenServer 

You can create n VM's with 4 vCPU's. The question is if the performance of the vm's will be good. Best practice is just to add 1 vCPU per VM and add another vCPU if you really need one. I just have one or two VM's with 4 vCPU's. Every VM's shares the physical CPU's of the host system. As more vCPU's you add the more time slices a VM get to work on the physical CPU. Normally you don't reserve a physical CPU only for one VM. It's possible but normally not needed. 

You can also take a look at the XenServer from Citrix. It's like the ESXi freely available. I don't have much experience with the XenServer and don't now it's unlicensed feature set. I would recommend ESXi because the migration of the VM's from the VMware Server to ESXi should be nearly painless (thanks to VMware Converter). Also you already got the basic knowledge about the VMware envionments (naming conventions etc.) VMware will not discontinue ESXi 4 or change it's pricing (basicly free...). At least not in the near future. The end of life of the Vmware server product line wasn't "silently". You just have to know where to look ;-) $URL$ 

Given how WMI was built and implemented you're a bit SOL on a magical solution. I can help you some of the way, but you're still going to have to eyeball the results. Essentially you need to start with a list of providers which you can get with the following code: 

When using a or with "Windows Cluster Aware Updating" and "Updating Run Profiles" would calling the cmdlet Stop-CauRun do any of the following: 

If your DC publishing ADWS is 2012 or later, you have the latest RSAT, and at least Powershell v4 you can do this: 

Powershell treats "\" as a reference to the root of whatever context your operating from. So if you're working from the standard provider (e.g. "c:\") "\" is the root of C:. If you're working from the certificate store provider (e.g. "cert:") then "\" is the location container for the user and machine cert stores. Another nuance to Powershell is the way it works with network resources. You typically experience greater success when operating from the file system provider (e.g. "filesystem:") than you do from the standard provider. You also have to specify the network location "\server\shareroot\etc". Your path variable needs to reflect either the mapped location (e.g. "Y:\Trunk\bin") or the network location (e.g. "\servername\folder\trunk\bin"). Hope this helps. 

When the domain was originally created there was a "god" account created. Find out what that was, its password, and you should be able to login to the DC hosting the global catalog. From there you should be able to undo what you did and give it time to propagate. If that fails there are some hacker techniques you can use, but it wouldn't be appropriate for me to relay that here. Contact a local security expert as they're usually up to speed on hacker techniques and can help you regain the domain. Of course, if this is just a few servers, and it's not critical, you might as well just wipe and start over. 

After debugging this issue for nearly a week we've installed the newest NIC drivers. Unfortunately this didn't really help either so a Windows Repair from the Windows Server 2003 SP1 installation CD was executed and the Service Pack 2 installed again. And suddenly it works ;-) I'm pretty sure that some dll's were corrupted. 

run postmap with more verbose output and post the output here. Hopefully you get some useful information out of it. 

You've got a pretty neat setup here ;-) Are the vCPU's used to their max capacity? What are the graphs for the CPU wait, CPU ready and CPU usage telling you? As more vCPU's you add to a VM as more overhead is generated on the host system to manage the vCPU's and map them to the physical one. At some point you wont get more performance out of a VM by simply adding more vCPU's. Did you check if there is a performance issue on the iSCSI SAN? Check the graphs disk read and disk write requests and of course the disk read and write rates and compare them to the ones of the phyiscal cluster member. Maybe some of the values can point you into the right direction. 

Normaly the /tmp directory is writeable for everyone. You shouldn't be concerned about this. Additional the sticky bit is set so only root and the owner of a file can delete that file. 

DNS (is the forward/reverse lookup for the used dc's,servers and clients correct) Does a firewall block port 445 (tcp) or some other AD related ports? Are the file permissions on the DFS root set correctly? (a directory on the dc is created for every target you define)