I think you understand this, but just for the record: The recommendation is to learn how to use an autoblock correctly, and to make sure that the loops of the autoblock won't get caught in the belay device. This is done by a) extending the belay device, possibly with an anchor chain, and b) getting a custom made autoblock loop that is only long enough to wrap around the rope a few times, and too short to catch in the belay device. Avoiding getting the autoblock tangled is more a matter of assembling the right set of equipment in the first place than a specific motor skill. As for whether or not a fireman's belay will overcome a stuck autoblock loop... probably, if the belayer pulls hard enough? I'd think it would. Its a little tricky to answer, because I don't think anyone has actually done rigorous testing on the dynamics of this system. I may be wrong. 

It sounds like the problem that you're getting is that your ankles are swelling up too much. This could easily be caused by wearing boots that are laced too tightly. It could also be caused by other factors. It can be comforting to have a very snug fit when you're doing technical scrambling, but that's not always practical for long amounts of time. If you're feet are swelling up while you're hiking, and throbbing inside the boot, that's could cause orthopedic problems down the line. You're trying to fine tune your lacing strategy, but I have two thoughts: 

You probably want wool. Wool has a fairly good warmth to weight ratio, and keeps most of its warmth when its wet. You can get wool products for both base layers and insulating middle layers. "Merino wool" is the style of wool that seems to be popular for high end outdoor wear now. They can be expensive, but the following companies make very high quality wool pieces for outdoor wear: Ibex, Smart Wool, Icebreaker. More general outdoor companies like Patagonia, Arc'Teryx, and Outdoor Research also offer some wool pieces. Unfortunatly, they're very expensive. Like a lot of "natural" products, wool outdoor pieces are priced as luxury versions of the synthetic ones. Down may also be appropriate, but I've never seen down jackets that weren't also made with nylon (I don't understand your motivations for wanting natural materials, so I don't know if this is a problem). Down has the best warmth-to-weight ratio of almost any material, but keep in mind that its worthless when it gets wet. For what its worth, wool is relatively warm when its wet, but that isn't a substitute for keeping dry - if it might be raining where you're going, you should bring some kind of dry outer shell. Unfortunately I'm not aware of any commercially available natural materials for that (i.e., there isn't a natural alternative to a Gor-Tex jacket). Even with nice wool layers, if you get rained on enough, you would still get hypothermic. 

It doesn't really go away with time. At least not for me - when I'm on a hard gym route I tend to ignore any holds that are "off" for that route, and every now and then I'll hit one with an elbow or knee. Also outside, while you want to emphasize using your feet, ever now and then you'll find yourself needing to place a knee on a hold. Working on technique and flexibility will make these issues better, but there's no reason to build up a bunch of scar tissue on your legs while that's happening. There are pants made specifically for bordering and climbing. They look like heavy denim capri pants. You may want to look into some. Anything made of a heavy denim with gusseted crotch and articulate knees should protect the skin on your knees while still giving you range of movement. Prana, Patagonia, and Arc'teryx all make pants like this. 

Backpacking trips force people to live at a radically different pace than what most people are used to. There's a lot less stimulus that we get in a city. Most outdoorsy people find it wonderful, but there are people out there that just don't. Some people are just wired to need more stimulus. That's OK, not everybody is the same. When I've gone on trips out West in recent years (to Colorado, or the Eastern Sierras), I'll treat the trips more as vacations than as pure backpacking trips. My friends and I will go on day or overnight hikes, but also plan on spending some time in town (staying in hostels or hotels), and also doing general touristy activities (going to local restaurants, driving to touristy areas like the tourist loop in Yellowstone, or visiting breweries if I'm in Colorado). I find that interacting with the locals is often the most fun part of travel. And having a break for a day in the middle of a week long trip goes a long way towards keeping everyone's spirits up. 

Leg loop verses main belay loop You'll find recommendations for placing an autoblock on either the leg loop or the main belay loop. Some concerns about either placement are: Leg Loops 

It depends. If you're in a climbing gym, or some scenario where you're belaying someone on toprope on a route that's less than 50' tall, runs straight up-and-down ( so there's no chance for the climber to swing dangerously), or crash into a ledge then the exact amount of tension is somewhat of a personal preference for the climber. The belayer should usually keep all visible slack out of the line, while at the same time not putting active tension on the climber. If there's a chance of the climber hitting the ground on ropestretch, more tension is recommended. Also, you should use more tension of the climber asks for it. Otherwise, if the route is longer (and there's more rope and rope-stretch), or it traverses (and the climber may swing some), or there are multiple ledges during the length of the route, or if there's a lot of rope-drag (friction on the belay), then judging the amount of tension is a matter of choosing a tradeoff between different risks. The belayer may need to be a little more experienced, and be able to make judgement calls on his / her own. 

You ask: "Don't these offset the dangers mentioned above? To me it seems like the threat of getting caught in a summer afternoon lightning storm and forced to get down the mountain quickly is about as dangerous as the threats a person runs into in the winter." You're right. There are risks in all seasons when you're going hiking or climbing up in the mountains. And getting caught above the treeline in a thunderstorm is dangerous and potentially fatal. But I don't think its correct to say that the summer is just as dangerous as the winter. The thunderstorms in Colorado tend to be fairly predictable - they start in early afternoon, sometime between noon or 1pm, and they rarely last more than an hour or so. When you're hiking in the mountains you just plan your day around this. If you're going to hike to a summit, you wake up and start hiking well before dawn, so that you can summit around mid-morning, and be back below the treeline before any of the thunderstorms hit. You might get rained on, but you should be safe from the worst of it then. In the winter, conditions are different. Freezing temps, snow, ice. There are more objective dangers (avalanches, frostbite, whiteout conditions, slipping and falling on ice, etc). Understanding how to predict and avoid avalanches, travel over ice and snow, avoid frostbite, use crampons / telemark skis / snowshoes, these all take extra levels of training, equipment, and physical fitness than what you'd encounter in warmer months. And these dangers are ever present in the winter, they don't just exist between noon and 4pm. 

One other difference - in the winter, your food and water can freeze during the day. Make sure that your lunch (or anything else you'd eat without cooking) is something that you can actually chew when its frozen. Also, camelback-style water bladders can be a little more difficult to use, as the water in the tube can freeze up. 

There's a distinction here between ice formations and actual frozen waterfalls. A large percentage of the ice formations you'll see (including your 1st picture) aren't actual running waterfalls, but cliffs or steep gullies that in the summer would just appear damp and mossy. The "low" volume of water can still be enough to freeze into large formations. They will freeze over more easily than actual waterfalls because ice crystals are more likely to form in slow moving water than fast moving water (at least that's my impression). In this situation, I believe that all that is required is for the high temperature to be below freezing for several days (up to a week) in a row, and thick ice formations will start to appear. You'd probably want to look for north facing cliffs / gullies, or cliffs that otherwise don't get a lot of direct sunlight. Where I live, it never gets cold enough for whole rivers or waterfalls to freeze, but it will get cold enough for visually striking ice formations (like in the first picture) to form. There's actually a (very small) community of ice climbers that will climb them. But that's 2nd hand information. I'm not going to cut-and-paste 3rd party information, but the following link says things that are consistent with my impressions of the subject: $URL$ 

So, like I said, I'm not a great expert on using duct tape and moleskin. I'm writing an answer because someone specifically asked. :) My experiences: First off - applying duct tape or moleskin to your feet is a skill you develop through trial and error. Make sure that you learn to do it BEFORE going on a major expedition. Whenever I have a big hiking trip planned, I make sure to do a series of short day hikes over a period of months before the trip. That gives me a chance to make sure I'm in shape, and review my backpacking skills, including treating blisters. 

I don't know that you were specifically planning this, but going "off the couch" to a 30km hike without any other preparation is setting you up for a variety of overuse injuries (in addition to blisters, you could develop knee or ankle problems) that could be avoided by a more gradual training experience. 

I've heard rumors of studies that show that trekking poles reduce the force on your legs during a hike (by transferring it to your arms). The only reference to a study I could find was this one, but I wouldn't know how to verify that the study was well constructed. 2010 UK Study This showed about a 25% reduction in the strain on the leg muscles of hikers (measured by an analysis of chemicals in the muscle tissue, and also the precived amount of muscle soreness from the hikers). The hikers trekked up and down a mountain trail in the UK, so it seems like a fairly realistic test. The study measured exertion of muscles, not knee injuries, but I would assume that reducing muscle strain would also reduce overuse injuries. My experience My totally antectodal experience is that 100% of the people I know who hiked long distances on the Appalachian Trail (either through-hikers, or guys that hiked a long portion) used trekking poles, and swore by them. They claim the poles reduce the strain on their knees, let them hike faster, and made them a little more stable when descending a trail. This included one 60-ish hiker, for whatever that's worth. Also, I have no way to back this up, but I would speculate that anything that made you more stable on your feet would reduce the risk of, say, slipping and tearing your ACL while descending a loose trail. No Silver Bullets Of course, if you're having knee problems while hiking, you should think of trekking poles as part of your strategy to address that. Other things may include, looking at your shoes, maybe losing weight (if you're overweight), maybe adding in some lite strength training and stretching for your legs, reducing pack weight, and maybe even picking less aggressive hiking goals. 

Rest? Sometimes this kind of pain can be a sign of overtraining. In the question, the poster doesn't say how frequently he climbs, or how long he's been climbing, so its hard to formulate an exact recommendation. If you're just feeling a tremendous amount of lower-grade soreness, try reducing the numbers of days a week you climb. I have friends that can climb hard 6 days a week, but I set myself up for an injury if I climb (hard) more than 3-4. When I started climbing, I was only able to climb 2 or 3 days a week. Like other people said, building more open hand strength will help you minimize how often you need to crimp, but that can be a long term change, and regardless of your climbing level, your body still needs a chance to recover from rough workouts.