You could do the same thing with the bike upside down, but you'd need to rearrange things a little. The question body makes it clear but the original title didn't, so just in case it's not obvious, if you have the tool upside down it will not work - there's a reservoir full of fluid at the bottom, if you invert it that won't hold the fluid. (note that the above photo is a bit of a cheat, it's of a 406 wheel bike with hub gears so the derailleur is used as a chain tensioner and the chain only runs over one idler. But I do the same thing with my 622 wheeled road bike) 

Cycle! Be the example that leads people to ask questions about why they don't ride. Not in a pushy way, but just through lived experience. When you're meeting people somewhere, turn up on your bike. Park it right next to your destination, go in. If it's raining, take your bike on the train with the other train users. Show that there's no need to be a purist about it. Over time you'll build up in people's memories all the times a group of people went from place to place and the bike was faster as well as cheaper and easier to park. Once that sinks in as lived experience rather than "10 things you need to know", they're much more likely to have a go themselves. 

I suggest taking the battery out, waiting a minute, then replace it. While you have it out rub the battery on a dry rag to clean it, and clean the battery contacts and inside of the speedo too. If it works after that you have a cheap, easy fix. The other solution is to buy a new, cheap speedo. You can get speedos from about $AUS10 on ebay, so if your requirement is just speed and distance that's going to be the quickest, cheapest way to go. 

So it's likely that the reason you're having problems is that your pump is a cheap version of mine, and it works even less well than mine The effective pressure gauges that I've seen are all dial gauges, and there are not many mini pumps that have those. Normally they're found on floor pumps like this: 

In my experience this is a problem with all such products. I use Pitlocks on my bikes and while they have slightly more corrugated interiors, they still slip. I have once sent a bike to be serviced and the shop extracted the Pit-locked rear wheel without damaging the bike or Pitlock. They said it was easier than making me post them the key. 

It sounds as though you have drop bars, and one of your measurements is to the brake hoods. Since those are independently attached to the handlebars, that measurement only tells you that something is off, not what it is (you have two measurements and three unknowns - the bar position in the stem, the left brake level position on the bar and the right brake lever position on the bar). I assume there are no markings on the bar, and no bulge where the bar thickens to 25mm from 22mm, otherwise you wouldn't be asking? I suggest loosening the stem off and making a mark on the centre point of the bars, measuring from a point that has a sharp edge. If the bars are new the end of the drops is good, but on old bars one or both end is often bent a little. Even 5mm makes a noticeable difference here. If the bars have been taped the tape will also affect the measurement, which is why the bar end points are good. But regardless, the next best way to measure is from the inside of the forward-swept part of the bars. Get a ruler that's longer than the width of the bars and place it on top of the bars, at 90° to the bike's long axis (across the handlebars). Line it up parallel to the bars, so that it's just in front of the cross part. and the same distance forward on both sides. I find that lining up the forward edge of the bars and the back edge of the ruler works well. Then measure off the forward edge of the ruler, since that's on the straight parts of the bars. Here's a quick top view: 

Briefly: 1) yes, you can re-use the existing rim. 2) yes, you could shorten the existing spokes, but that would be expensive and foolish. 3) The installation is the same except now you have wires so you need to plug them into the hub too. The main issue is (2). Spokes are usually only reused when the rim is being replaced with an identical rim (usually a new one for a worn one), and even then most wheelbuilders will prefer new spokes. Spokes bend a little as they're built into the wheel, and getting those bends in exactly the right place when you rebuild the wheel is effectively impossible. So you'll build the wheel, ride it a little, the spokes will bend back and you'll have to re-tension everything. Usually more than once. If you're paying someone to do this it's cheaper to just buy new spokes. It's possible to shorten spokes, there are spoke cutting tools for this. They're normally used to make really short spokes (for putting a dyno hub into a 16" wheel, for example) but these days it's possible to buy spokes online in almost any size. But you could sit there and shorten all the spokes in your wheel. But again, if you're paying someone else to do this for you it will be more expensive than a new set of spokes. The tool is also much more expensive than a set of spokes. If your rim is in good condition that's the bit to keep. If it is worthwhile, you may be better off selling the whole wheel and buying a new rim anyway. 

Note that almost no-one does entirely outer sheathed on derailleur geared bikes because the bend under the bottom bracket to the front derailleur is too awkward. I suspect cost to manufacture is the main driver of this, with weight a secondary consideration. On cheap bikes, it will be purely cost. That's why I'm sure it's cheaper, because on cheap bikes there is almost nothing that could be done more cheaply. Suspension and other sale gimmicks are the exception, obviously, but I've never seen "exposed gear cables" advertised as a feature on a cheap bike. 

Short answer: yes, but a Rohloff works for me. I've been riding a Rohloff-equipped RotoVelo on and off for a couple of years now. I did play with the gearing a little when I got it and it's pretty usable now. The RotoVelo weighs about 33kg and I live in a relatively flat city. I have it set up so that spinning reasonably fast in bottom gear I'm doing about walking speed - say 3km/hr. That way I can go up overpasses and the sort of hills we get in Melbourne and Sydney with a bit of work. Set up that way I spin out at about 80kph. Frankly, at 80kph I've usually stopped pedaling and I'm just going "wheeeeee!". My top speed ever is over 100kph, which was a bit scary. When I stop at a traffic light I shift all the way down then back up a couple. And I mean all the way down, typically at 30-40kph cruise speed I'm in gear 9 or higher, so it's much easier to just twist all the way than try to remember what gear I'm in. Which is an advantage of the Rohloff - all the gear intervals are the same so you can just keep shifting without worrying. It's possible to combine a Rohloff with a front derailleur if you really need to. I suggest waiting until you have the velo before committing, but make sure you can if you need to - most velo makers normally ship deraillers, so getting them to leave the front derailleur post in place shouldn't be an issue. With your small rear wheel (most velos are 406/20") the low gear should be fine with the Rohloff 2.1x gearing requirement, it'll be a question of how big a chainring you can fit in. For touring I'd be tempted to use lower ratios than for commuting. With heavy gear in the bike and more hills in the country I found that I was pushing the velo more often than I would prefer. Partly that's from the heat build - lack of ventilation becomes an issue when you have to work really hard to keep the vehicle moving at all up a hill. Not being able to pedal faster than (say) 60kph wouldn't bother me, but being able to sit back and grind slowly up long hills would be better than pushing.