I'm seeing a ridiculously good local deal on a Cinelli Experience frame. I think I'll build it up with entry Campagnolo stuff (also seeing a deal). I am mildly confused about the front derailleur attachment. Some listings for the complete bike talk about it being braze-on, but I sure don't see that in pictures: I see some sort of Cinelli specific clamp. Is a normal 35mm Campagnolo clamp front derailleur just fine? What is this? 

The little plastic lever to tighten the o-ring broke on my floor pump. It's probably fifteen years old. The model is a Pyramid Pro. The broken bit is highlighted in red. 

There's nothing else wrong with it and it seems silly to toss the whole thing over so small a problem. Is it supposed to be easy to replace the head on cheapo pumps like this? I cannot easily figure out how any of the pieces are supposed to come apart. Neither end of the hose screws apart. There's a large allen key hole that I think allows for dismantling the whole lower plastic housing, but it's not obvious to me that the hose is in any sense replaceable. I assume the answer is I'm just being stupid cheap and need to a buy a new pump. Just checking first. 

The plan: move spacers around on the rear wheel to get the cassette about 8mm farther in for better range of access from the small chainring; re-dish wheel for proper alignment; shorten the chain a little bit; remove the front derailleur. Maybe remove the big chainring. Am I missing anything in this plan? UNNECESSARY DETAILS: This is an old steel road bike frame with a franken-drivetrain: 8 speed Campy cassette with a Sora rear derailleur and an SRAM chain. I'm going shell out and buy a nice road bike for training and long rides, and my plan is to make this older bike a lock-up commuter. I'd like to avoid sinking money into it, as it faces good odds of being stolen at some point in the next four years. The main problem I have is the front derailleur is an endless pain. If the chain gets even a little dirty the shifting becomes very fiddly: dropped chains or sometimes stuck on the big ring. None of the parts are worn or stretched. I think there's just a certain amount of incompatibility in the mismatched drive-train parts. (Maybe I'm wrong.) Using it as basic transportation & commuter I don't even really need the large chainring. It seems to me that it should be possible to move some spacers around and get the cassette about 8mm farther in so more of the gears are properly usable from the small chainring. Then I'll have enough gears to never be annoyed. And if I maybe switch out the indexed shifter for a friction bar-end shifter I'll barely have to do any maintenance; no indexing worries. Just clean the drivetrain maybe once every 7 weeks. 

Is it considered bad etiquette to ride a road bike through a small residential area? Not talking about a cheap bike and riding on the sidewalk but a nicer road bike at a decent pace. I don't want to upset anyone by cutting through their neighborhood but it would be a lot easier for my commute. 

I'm no expert in racing or anything but the calves shouldn't be activated almost at all when cycling to my knowledge. You're not extending the calves at the bottom of the stroke and the amount of pressure would be insignificant unless you're deliberately extending the calves while on a very hard gear / slope. If anything this calf extension would be less efficient. Calves are a very difficult muscle to train and requires serious weight. If you see a cyclists with large calves its most likely from one or a combination of the following: 

get into the left lane right before the shopping center intersection when its still 2 lanes. staying right in the middle of that left lane forcing cars to slow down behind you if there are any cars. (Of course only taking the lane when there is ample time for the car to slow down) Get over into the (right-most) left turn lane once across the shopping center intersection. 

• Here is a Satellite view by request. I labelled the left side is the area I'd be approaching from and the top is where I need to get to. 

You can generally find them pretty cheap (not this model but other ones). They're incredibly durable. Relaxing for when you do want those roaming around trips, but can also be pushed for the fitness side. And learning a new trick or jump will burn less calories so you don't lose weight. Loads of fun too! 

This is best done by picking difficult challenges that you enjoy. It could be getting a BMX bike and working to learn one trick after another. It could be setting a speed goal for yourself that really forces you to push yourself. It could be any number of things. Just set challenging goals and surround yourself with others that will push you to reach them. 

The easiest way to tell is by going to a bike shop and test riding few bikes. I had the same decision to make recently (road or CX), and after test riding, I was confident I wanted to CX. The road bike was noticeably faster, but the comfort on the CX trumped that for me, and it was still very fast (33C road tires, compact gearing). It is also running without problems on trails and gravel(as its supposed to), which is a plus as I can take tours through the woods ( as long as the trails relatively flat, eg for hikers/hourses). I think the main things to consider are: do you care for off-pavement rides? Is the pavement quality good? if there are too many bumps, road bikes can be a pain, while the thicker CX tyres will help. Finally, depending on what you prefer, you might want to ask to test ride road bikes with a relaxed geometry, that will again be more comfortable. 

My MTB has currently a Deore FC-617 2x crankset. I am looking what components I need to convert to 1x. Do I need to change the crankset, or simply getting a new chainring for my existing crankset will work fine ? 

I am upgrading (or downgrading ? :P) my MTB to 1x, currently on compact 2x10. I will be changing chainring, derailleur and cassette. I will get 11-42 Sunrace MS3 10-Speed Cassette. Also Shimano XT M8000 Shadow+ 11 Speed Rear Mech I will be using the mech with 10 speed shifter, I read and was told on multiple places they work better than 10speed mechs with the large cogs. What I don't know yet is if I should go for long or medium cage? Im on a hardtail 

I was always curious about this, but I never found the answer. Originally I only knew freestyle BMX bikes, but then found there are official races offroad. What is the idea behind this? Sounds like racing giro d'italia on downhill MTB. 

I want to make the most of this feature, and use it for navigation on pre-planned courses. I have used it two times now, and the experience was much different. The first time everything was ok, sometimes marked me off course briefly while I was riding on course but nothing terrible. Second time, it was way off. It would show me on different location compared to the route very often. Very often the view was zoomed out too far, and it was not clear where the turns are as everything was smashed together. I am not sure what caused this difference in experience. My question: What steps do I need to take to make most of the courses feature? Is there a way to avoid manually adding waypoints to turns, so that I can get turn directions? If not, what are the most reliable tools for creating routes with waypoints ? Any tips for these tools ? Finally, I saw mentions of manually setting the zoom level on the course, but no clear description of how to do that. 

Eat more. Seriously. Any exercise will cause a little weight loss and if you're really looking to challenge yourself mentally then that means more than a leisure ride. That means more calories. You'll have to learn what the right amount to eat is to not lose weight and then you can decide if you want to eat more to put on weight. 

First and most important is the depression. You should really go to a bike shop and hop on a few different bikes and styles. Try them all. The one that makes you feel giddy and excited is the one to get. Pleasure, smiling, laughter, and exercise all release endorphins which help depression. Get the one that will not only give you exercise but also make you feel great! This is also how you will know if it is comfortable and fits you. 

• Finally, its a bit hard to see but this is what it looks like from the light at the shopping center in the morning. You can see there's very little traffic at this hour and I'd actually have to leave 15-20 minutes earlier by bicycle so there would be even less. 

Pretty sure while making the screenshots I figured it out but I'll ask anyways since I went through the trouble. I don't plan on taking this Left for a long time, if ever (I'll either go Pedestrian to get across here until I'm more confident or take a different route). But this is the most direct route from my place to work. The issue is the road goes from 2 lanes and then gets a right turn lane and a left turn lane into shopping centers. Then after that it expands further to have 2 left turn lanes, 3 straight lanes, and 1 right turn lane. That's where I need to make the left. • 2 lanes getting ready to expand with the turn lanes into shopping centers: 

What would be the best way to get in to the left lane? I've seen cyclists there so I know it can be done, just never seen the whole process. I'm thinking after writing this: