I welcome everyone else's input on both this answer and possible different solutions! This is what I came up with: First off, providing a 1G thrust the whole way (switching to decelerating half way there) would be a great way to provide "artificial gravity". I found a site that actually has scripts to help with such calculations! Assuming the site is correct, here is what we come up with: $URL$ Using the Long Relativistic Journeys calculation: 

Does the cosmic microwave background pattern change over time? I would assume it is getting "cooler" as in more redshifted as time passes, but I am more interested if the pattern on the background, as depicted below changes. I would expect we would see something like the cosmic microwave background retreating one light year (or possibly further due to inflation) every year, and it would be neat if we could make a "3D map" of the background as time passes (e.g. take an image of it every year). 

Now that I think more about it, this would mean most of the mass in the universe would be light instead of matter if dark matter is light. I doubt that most matter (e.g. in stars) turned into light, even throughout the life of the universe. I believe hydrogen looses only a tiny portion of its mass (as energy / light) when it is fuzed into Helium. However, it is possible that the cosmic background radiation, passing through almost all parts of the universe could account for more of the light. I still doubt that would be enough to account for dark matter, but would like to see what effect this does have. This tells me that light probably does not account for all dark matter, but that it could still account for a portion of it. I welcome further input on this (e.g. how much of dark matter is light, if any). 

What would happen if two galaxies collided very quickly (e.g. at near the speed of light)? Would they mostly just pass through eachother unscathed, or would there be very energetic collisions that would rip both galaxies apart, or would something else happen? 

Here is my attempt, assuming the orbits are circular, and along the same plane. Otherwise, calculations become more complex, and those variables would have to be specified. Size of the planet and size of the moons would also impact the calculation (e.g. they might never fully eclipse if the planet is fairly small / dense). Also note that Moon A may eclipse Moon B and Moon B may eclipse Moon A depending on their size. I do not consider this in my calculations (I only consider the planet eclipsing them). 

I know the atmospheric pressure on Mars is less than that of Earth, and so is its gravity. However, I know that the deeper you go (e.g. in a cave or a hole that is dug), the more atmospheric pressure you would experience. How deep would you have to go on Mars (e.g. below the surface) for the atmospheric pressure to be equal to the pressure we experience on the surface of the earth? 

Normal case: The effect would not be very noticeable unless the large planet was extremely large / high gravity (e.g. it would look "almost" normal) looking at one another. If the planet was that large, it would probably not be able to support life, but to see what would happen, lets assume it can support life. Relativistic case, from the large planet, observing the small planet: If the large planet were extremely "heavy / massive" (think more like a neutron star), the people on the large planet would observe the people on the small planet moving much faster. It would be like watching a movie with "fast forward" on. However, light would also be blue shifted, which would produce other interesting visual effects (e.g. what was red might now be blue, and what was in invisible "infrared" might now be red depending on the amount of the shift.) The amount of blue shift (light wave compression) and "fast forwarding" would increase if the planet were made bigger. The rest of the universe would have similar effects when observed from the large planet. Relativistic case, from the smaller planet, observing the large planet: The people on the smaller planet would observe the people on the extremely large planet moving in "slow motion". It would be like watching a movie in slow motion. The people on the large planet would also be "red shifted". For example, something that was blue might appear red, and something in the ultraviolet range might now appear blue. The "slow motion" effect and red shift (light wave expansion) would increase if the extremely large planet were made bigger. 

I'd say this is quite beautiful! I realize it would probably be dark enough that we wouldn't see it quite that way, but the robot you control in Planetary Settlers has an enhanced camera to adjust to dark or bright environments. Note that the land is dark grey, but is lit turquoise by the lighting. In this view, you are standing in a sand garden, so the color of that land appears a bit different (starts off light yellow, lit by turquoise light). A big thank you for all of your inputs. If you are interested in learning more about the game I am making, I just made my website for it here: $URL$ Thank you all for your wonderful answers! 

Does the "amount" of dark energy in the universe change over time, or is it constant? The dark energy I am asking about is the rate of acceleration of the universe's expansion. 

Yes, the pattern still largely holds. It seems be about 3.5 - 4.5 years for each additional factor of 10 for distance (and seems to be getting less time "near the breaking point"). Let's assume based on this that each factor of 10 increase produces an approximate 4 year increase on the observer's time, and that the time experienced on earth is very close to the number of light years travelled. 

This is one of the great remaining mysteries of the universe. I have a theory on this that one can derive known equations for gravity, as described below (this has not been proven, but I believe it is very likely to be the case). Other people have theorized this as well, but it is not yet the mainstream view. In fact, someone wrote a paper on it, discussed here: $URL$ My gravity theory (simplified): I believe gravity is the flow of space itself into mass. By space, I am referring to the 3 dimensions of space that we observe in the universe. I believe all mass constantly "absorbs" the space around it, bringing everything around closer to itself. To conceptualize this, imagine mass being a vacuum cleaner, sucking up the air, and the dust that is in the air all around it. This has the greatest effect on the air that is nearest to the vacuum, and I believe mass behaves likewise with space. Several things this explains: 

Does the cosmic microwave background recede at the speed of light? Is it possible it recedes even faster because of the stretching of space? 

If we were to put a highly reflective substance into Venus's upper atmosphere, could we cool it down? I am envisioning adding a highly reflective fine dust or gas, possibly lighter than "air" to the atmosphere. I believe to have the proper effect, it should also reflect infrared light, which causes heat. Apparently Venus already has a high albedo of .75 (reflects 75% of light): $URL$ . However, if we were able to raise that higher, even up to 99%, would that cool it down, perhaps even making it habitable (temperature wise), or possibly even making it ice cold? 

If we were to locate a pulsar in a close elliptical orbit around a black hole, could this reveal significant information about the black hole (e.g. time dilation / structure)? Could this even tell us the structure of a black hole (e.g. if it is a singularity, or a sphere formed around the event horizon, or something else)? 

I know the surface of Venus is very hot, but that it gets cooler the higher you go in the atmosphere. I have heard that there is a section in the atmosphere of Venus that might be somewhat habitable even, that where it is about 1 atmosphere, the temperature is slightly over 100 F. Not really comfortable, but possibly livable temperature wise (likely with some cooling mechanism). However, I recently heard that near the poles, the atmosphere is extremely cold: $URL$ Does this mean that at the height where the atmospheric pressure is 1 atmosphere, and somewhere between the pole and the equator would lie a comfortable zone of 72 F? "Extra credit" for suggesting / providing reasoning for a likely latitude where this condition would exist (if it does). If this does exist, it might make an ideal place for a blimp like sky colony. I am considering adding this to my Planetary Settlers video game. 

I would like to know the ratio of cosmic microwave background radiation to normal radiation in the universe. I am considering cosmic microwave background radiation to include the microwave, and any other radiation that is being emanated from near the "edge of the universe", while normal radiation is radiation emmitted by stars, nebulae, and other sources within the universe (excluding the cosmic microwave background). Since we are in a galaxy, I know that the normal radiation here far exceeds the cosmic microwave background, but I am interested in the "average" value over the universe. For example: total cosmic microwave background radation in the universe / total normal radiation in the universe. 

Jupiter's magnetic field shape compared with the jets that can come from near black holes (I would think this might push material falling toward a black hole into or out of the poles): 

What is the temperature under the surface of Mercury? I know at the surface the temperature varies greatly (-297 F to 801 F). I also realize that the answer would likely depend on depth. Do we know the temperature at any depth, except the surface? I also realize the temperature may vary based on latitude. I am mainly looking to see if there might be an ideal location / depth for a colony on Mercury for my game Planetary Settlers. 

Do the jets sometimes emitted by a black hole result from its magnetic field? It would seem Jupiter's magnetic field tends to be concentrated at the poles, and I would imagine this might extend to black holes as well. I could see the concentrated fields near the poles accelerating particles either into or away from the black hole at high speeds. I have included an image of Jupiter's magnetic field below: $URL$