A cat is a cat. By why are this cat and that cat equally A Cat? Indeed, there is a natural inclination to be impatient with philosophy, and certainly Plato's concept of the Forms does take some mental grappling. Why bother? First, so you will know what other people are talking about when they talk about Plato. Second, by wrestling with such ideas you can expand not only your knowledge but your imagination, the ways you see things and the points-of-view your brain can assume. As was pointed out by others, the Form Cat is that which makes the specific cats the same sort of thing and not some other thing. All the instantiated cats are "part of" or, to use Plato's peculiar term, "participate in" Catness. How and why this concept becomes possible is not quite as simple as just "naming things." It may seem physically obvious with cats, but, as Plato explores in The Republic, what about "acts of justice"? Or things we call "good"? What is the Form of "The Good"? How can so many entirely different things assume or "participate in" this... Form? And as noted previously, Plato draws on geometry as his paradigm. The triangle is not what you actually draw. Nor does it depend what you draw it on, or its scale, or how many times you draw it. It remains "triangular" or within the Form of the triangle. Plato is struggling to grasp the same kinds of truths we grasp in geometry, though in all the "roughly drawn" and sensed objects of the world. Another metaphor employed by Plato is light. Today, we say that light enables us to see things. What we "see" is not neurons nor is it the "cat." We see the light bouncing off the cat and exciting our neurons, or so we put it. But in fact we never see Light. We only see the partial refractions, bending, and distortion of Light that we call "things." When you see the cat, you see a partial, temporary rupture in Light. The Forms also have something of this quality of "being partially revealed" by matter. 

It seems that you are taking a rather extreme form of mathematical nominalism and denying the existence of distantly mind-independent objects. There is no existent "counter" who can keep on "counting" to infinity, thus it is a mere word, or rather the fanciful negation of the word "finite." Reason exceeds its remit. This starts off sounding like good, hard-headed common sense, but can soon lead into the radical empiricism of Bishop Berkeley. If nothing is granted "real" existence apart from what can be "counted" or observed, how do you distinguish between your own observing mind and the so-called "existing" world, including other minds in that world? Are they all really there when you aren't looking or counting? Moreover, what seems most certain by direct experience is that you cannot observe absolute "finitude." Have you ever seen it, chewed it, experienced it? Where is it? As far as each of us can think in all directions and back into our past, don't we discover only a kind of infinite regress of consciousness? Never some clear boundary where "finitude" begins. In terms of strict empiricism, there seems to more evidence for an infinite continuum than for its opposite. So now we are in the reverse antinomy. We want to kick the stone and say "things exist!" Yet we do not grant existence to all those things that cannot be observed or counted, like some infinite series of numbers or anything those numbers might refer to. Must we then assume, with Berkeley, that all these things exist because they are being observed and counted.... by some possibly infinite Accountant? 

I agree with Alexander King that this is an interesting question... if we ignore the fact that its suppositions have no current basis in physics. In that case, it is also a refined version of an ancient question. It is, quite simply, the question of apparent natural determinism and apparent human freedom. One hardly knows where to begin! The need to reintroduce some sort of "quantum indeterminacy" into a picture of physical determinacy dates back to Epicurus and his use of the "swerve" to qualify the billiard-ball model of the pure atomists. In my own view, the most refined philosophical attempt to reconcile physical, Newtonian "laws" with the representation of those "laws" and human "freedom" are Kant's, in which he structures a model based on two different modes of "causality," to put it over-simply. As to your Laplace Demon, it is a historical oddity, emerging between the Newtonian world and the enlightened "freedom" of the French Revolution, actually shortly thereafter. Laplace did not, as Kant would do, attempt to account for the "outside" privilege of the observer. Yet he was also a father of probability.So in pursuit of his "demon" he was already attempting to mathematize the incalculable, the indeterminacy assumed by human projective "freedom, the Epicurian "swerve." 

Briefly, I don't think an analytical "translation" would be possible, since both writers are heavily invested in the medium of language and their idiosyncratic philosophical concerns. It would be like asking for an accurate, "realistic rendering" of a Matisse. But there are lots of secondary and introductory texts, as you know, and lexicons. These help with the framework and crucial terms, then you can begin to ease into sense of the work. Among analytical types, Rorty was somewhat sympathetic to, and wrote essays on, the continental philosophers, and I'm sure there are others. Heidegger's student Gadamer is relatively clear, though I haven't read his works on Heidegger himself. I read some Heidegger along with secondary texts, and enjoy it almost in the sense of poetry and for glimpses into the history of philosophy. I now have the new translation of "Being and Time" (Stambaugh) and a "Heidegger Dictionary" (Dahlstrom), but will have to report on my misadventures at a future date. However, I do think Heidegger, in particular, is kind of philosophical cul-de-sac leading only further and further into Heidegger. I would not expect to discover fruitful connections to the concerns of the analytical lineage. I'll know more when I finish B&T...about 30 years from now. 

I do think you need to make these cases clearer. It is difficult to sort out what you are asking. Perhaps you could describe more exactly the exchanges between "X,"Y", and "Z." What you describe sounds like common "personal" arguments or even, if I may add kiddingly, "spousal" disputes. It is interesting to consider how logic or judicial judgements might work, or fail to work, in the typical, repetitive arguments people really have. It sounds like the "you" who intervenes in these cases is assuming his/her own neutrality. Yet that neutrality is not being accepted by the original party or parties. Once you are "in the argument," so to speak, there is no way to "prove" you are neutral. Indeed, there is never any way to "prove" one's motives are "pure," since motives are unobservable. As a practical matter, logic is generally useless in personal arguments. One can endlessly "reframe the hypothesis," as Quine might say. One can endlessly dispute motives. And it is interesting to consider why. Silence, however, will often prevail. If you simply cease argument after your interlocutor's most exaggerated claim, they will be left holding their own words, and may go on to perform their own "reductio ad absurdum." This is more rhetoric than philosophy. But the Sophists and much of Greek philosophy did emerge out of the law courts. 

Sounds a bit like Searle's Chinese Room. Certainly one can convey information without understanding it, for more than half of the "teaching" process is in the pupil. It is, according to Plato, coaxed out of memory.... or biology, deep grammar, the synthetic a priori, etc. Similarly, one may teach by negative example. People simply observe me, whether I am aware of it or not, and learn any number of valuable lessons about what not to do. In a like manner, the learning process in a Platonic dialogue progresses by means of what sequential interlocutors don't know. 

Both the Sophists and the Postmodernists tend to be relativistic, anti- foundational, nominalist, and suspicious of metaphysics or any totalizing metanarratives... especially those concerning some invariable "human nature" or trascendental values. The Sophists were sensitive to cultural relativism, "sophisticated," as a result of their itinerate urbane professions; and the Postmoderns were similarly skeptical about the universality of "human progress" and "science" following the catastrophes of WWI and WWII. These are generally healthy instincts. Both terms, however, cover such a diverse range of original thinkers it makes little sense to collapse them into sweeping judgments. It is typically the epigones applying hollow jargon that draw the aspersions. 

Adorno, that paradigm of Marxist elitism, once remarked that he really wouldn't mind running an elevator a few hours a week. Having worked nearly every sort of job in the course of a lifetime, from picking corn, dishwashing, and oil field labor to financial reports and advertising campaigns, I heartily agree. It isn't the sort of work exactly that matters, it's one's control over the circumstances of labor. Few people mind cleaning the house or shoveling snow if you aren't doing it under a boss and time clock, 10 hours a day for a lifetime. Marx indicated as much when he spoke of being a "hunter, herdsman, and critic," or whatever the famous quote is. In addition, Marx was deeply attuned to the social potential of labor, especially in the factory. When you are engaged in rapid, engrossing teamwork with, say, a military platoon, kitchen staff, stages actors, or construction crew, it can be quite elevating. The oppressive hours, rules, and bosses, are, for the most part, based on quite unnecessary class constraints. What's needed is rational distribution of labor, rather than some people hopelessly unemployed, some working 15 hour days, some imprisoned, and some performing utterly useless pantomimes of productive labor, usually at the executive level. Above all, however, Marx was engaged in critique. Apart from the example of the Paris Commune, he did very little to paint pictures of a Marxists society. He was not bent upon "improving jobs" but on a complete reorganization of our social and technological relations...in short, a revolution. And this entails both mutual recognition and a relationship to your future. For a time right after the Bolsheviks took over, many Red Russians, quite uncharacteristically, worked like crazy--everybody did so, even the drudge work, in a state of high excitement. 

Several off-the-cuff answers come to mind. The first is a behavioral test. Is a "philosopher" today readily distinguished from other people by observation in public settings? Probably not. Certainly not to the extent of a Diogenes. Further testimony to the contrary: Though I can't recall the exact quote, Hume famously claimed that the skeptical inquires of philosophy simply vanish once the philosopher leaves his study and joins his friends for some claret, cards, and conversation. On other hand, personal life may be negatively impacted by philosophy, and not only via a Socratic fate. Those beset with philosophical urges are famous for personal neglect. Both Thales and Adam Smith tumbled into ditches. Roland Barthes was hit and killed by a milk truck. The foppish Leibniz was praised for appearing so unlike a philosopher. Tellingly, a princess remarked of him: "It is so nice to meet a philosopher who laughs at jokes and doesn't smell bad." And it depends on the philosophy. Stoicism, Existentialism, or Marxism, say, presumably affect one's ethical practices, while logical positivism has no bearing. In the modern world, philosophy should at least, we hope, make one less vulnerable to unexamined ideology, fallacious appeals, demagoguery, and general enthusiasms. Heidegger notwithstanding. I like Mary Midgley's view of philosophy in the daily world. She likens it to "plumbing." No one sees it or thinks much about it until something breaks. This is as true personally, I believe, as socially. 

It seems to me "self-undermining" in context is entailed in the very definition of "fallacy." So the question might be: Is there a fallacy that does not refute or undermine itself? That would be, perhaps, a fallacy translated into a context that justifies it. "All Cretans are liars," claimed by a Cretan, then repeated by an Ionian may be true or false, but no longer undermines itself. 

I know nothing about Raymond, so this answer may be laughably simplistic. But out of context, at least, the statement appears rather straightforward. Desire by any definition is for that which one does not possess. That which is absent, not present, unavailable. In the broadest sense, that would mean all that does not presently exist in the "world that surrounds us." If we take this to be the physical, "natural" world observable to science, then the longing for this absent desiderata leads to the "supernatural." This is a common interpretation of the appeal of religions, divinity, the afterlife, or the purposeful "protosciences" of magic. How Raymond treats the ontological status of such realms is not clear from the quote. Such imaginative desires, exceeding the constraints of "nature" and "experience," are presumably unique to humankind, thus rendering us "disproportional" to nature as we find it. The square peg in all round holisms. Such "disproportionality" may become institutionalized in representations of the "supernatural." Or, alternately, may supersede the "natural" through science and technology, methodically actualizing capacities that would surely have appeared supernatural in the past. Thus, as Hegel observes, we "rationalize the actual" and "actualize the rational." The "natural" itself is remade by our interminable desire to supersede it. I trust that others, familiar with Raymond, will add nuance or correctives to this answer.