Route choice aside, take the miles, throw away the hours, other than as a crude comparison tool. Examine the route profile (however you can manage) and try to classify what part of the route is flat, climbing, congested, etc. Use your personal performance in prior long rides to judge speed for each type, and do the division. Keep in mind that, on an unsupported ride, you will spend time looking for food, looking for the loo, looking for a place to stay, and, generally, being lost. You need to figure that an eight hour day will only get you maybe six hours of actual up-to-speed riding in most cases. Also understand that about halfway through the second day you'll begin to feel every bone in your body hurting and will have to slow down and take more frequent breaks. By the middle of the third day, though, you should have your "sea legs" and be doing a bit better, if you don't beat yourself up or short-change food and sleep. You're doing 500 miles. Unless you're an exceptionally strong cyclist and the terrain is flat (which I know it isn't) doing that in 5 days is unlikely at best. Doing it in 6 is a maybe, and perhaps what you should plan for, but give yourself the option of taking an extra day (or two), or calling a friend to "rescue" you after 6. And plan at least 24 hours recuperation after the ride. And don't forget the sunscreen! 

What can you afford? If you're not really struggling financially you should replace the tire. If you cannot afford that (or if you need a temporary fix while you're obtaining a new tire) then you need a "boot" inside the tire. A "boot" is some piece of flat material (typically about 5 cm x 5 cm, though size can vary based on tire size) that is flexible but still stiff enough to resist the pressure of the tube trying to poke through the tire. You can buy purpose-made boots made from plastic or rubber, you can cut your own boots out the (thin) sidewall of an old road tire, or, popular in the US, you can fold a dollar bill up several times and use that. The boot is used by inserting it into the tire after the tire is mounted and the tube is in place. Pry the tire off the rim near the hole and slide the boot in between the tube and the hole. Using a boot is not as reliable as replacing the tire, of course. There is a danger that the boot may shift over time, especially if the tire pressure is not properly maintained. And a boot is an even less reliable fix for a hole in the sidewall of a tire. The tube is actually less of a worry than the tire. If the hole is a puncture rather than a cut/slit, or it's a very short slit, then you can patch it with conventional tire patches. If the cut is so large that a standard bike patch will not comfortably cover it (with maybe a 10mm margin) then the tube needs to be replaced. 

As anecdotal evidence, on my commutes, I find I am consistently 10% faster on my fixie, compared to my geared hybrid. I put this down to the noticeably better power transfer, and also to a lower riding position using bullhorn bars instead of flat bars. 

Knee issues are mostly a symptom of bad pedalling mechanic (over extension, misalignment, imbalance, that sort of thing). Low cadence "grinding" does not fundamentaly change that unless you start altering your pedal stroke as your cadence goes down. Note that for fixed gear riding, you also need to consider how very high cadence (descending) may also alter your stroke. In terms of knee problems, fixed gear skids are another potential knee pain inducer as most people will bend one leg inward to get leverage against the frame. So in short, if your pedal stroke is sound, riding at low cadence should not represent a higher knee injury risk. 

A geared bike main advantage over single/fixed gear bikes is to keep you at an efficient cadence over a wide range of speeds. This is particularly important when riding up hills. I find that on flat courses, and in the absence of strong headwinds, that advantage become quite small if you choose the correct gearing on your single speed. A single/fixed gear bike is simpler, lighter and more efficient than a similarly priced geared bike. This is particularly true of a fixed gear bike which greatly reduce energy loss in the drive train. So for a repeatable commute without steep climbs, you can select the gearing on your single speed to help you reach your optimal speed, based on your fitness. If you know your functional threshold power (FTP) this can be done quite easily. Use the bike calculator to calculate the speed you can theoretically achieve on your bike and course. Then use the other bike calc to work out what gearing will keep you at your preferred cadence for that speed. As an example if my FTP is 250W and I want to ride at around 80% effort, I'll enter a 200 Watt effort, my body weight, bike weight, riding position into the the first calculator, which gives me a speed around 31km/h. 

Your new tyres have a significantly bigger outer radius, hence affecting the trail of you bike. Your new tyres run at lower pressure and are therefor flexing more when leaning in corners. Your threaded tyre offer increased grip on the edges, while your slick have a reasonably constant grip regardless of leaning angle. 

Gear hubs are nice, but after getting a Rohloff I realized that shifting is extremely difficult and requires lots of effort. So this got me thinking: do electronic shifting systems exist for gear hubs? I know about Di2 for derailleurs, but what about geared hubs? 

I'm sure for many bike builders, their ultimate dream bike starts with a frame that they designed themselves. And herein lies the problem: it seems that modern means of frame production (e.g., hydroforming) implies very sophisticated shapes of frames, not just a bunch of round tubes welded together. Is the design of a frame (together with rigidity calculations) something a layperson can reasonably pick up without taking a Mechanical Engineering degree? I'm curious about how all this stuff is actually learned and whether there are some places (training?) that explain it less than a few years. 

I cannot comment on entire bikes, but my personal experience with buying bicycle accessories from Ali has been abysmal. Typically, the issues come down to: 

I'm planning to change the rims from 27.5 (ERD=566) to 27.5+ (ERD=563). Will I be able to reuse the spokes in this case, or is it worth getting new ones? 

So I've ordered the light and the Light Cable to connect it to. Update: did the entire installation process, here are the approximate steps I had to take. 

I recently got a bike with a Yamaha PW system. The bike computer has a light on/off button but the bike itself has no light and I want to add one. How do I do this? From what I understand, I need a light cable, some sort of crank pulling tool to open the motor, plus the light itself. My question is where can I learn about the detailed procedure for doing this? 

I'm looking at XTR Di2, and it seems the rear derailleur comes in 2 variations: medium cage and long cage. What are the two sizes for? Do they match different types of cassettes? What kind would I need for an 11-42 or 11-46? 

I've filed tons of disputes, and in most cases the supplier refunded the money after I posted pics (and even links to videos) showing their crapware in action. Now, you might say that Amazon also sells pretty much the same China made stuff. Well, yes, except you pay for quality control. The Amazon price will be higher, but you're a lot less likely to buy a lemon. Long story short: you get what you pay for.