In 1936 Trotsky was convicted by a Moscow court to death in absentia. After that the 4 years before his assassination was just a technical period of preparation for the perpetration of the sentence. 

It seems to me that weapons were quite expensive in ancient world. At the same time there could be much of captured and imported weapons available. So did the Roman military prohibit use of captured weapons and weapons acquired by the the soldiers privately? Did the military distribute captured weapons to the soldiers or what was the use of such weapons? Were they auctioned, re-cast to standard weapons or what? 

In the USSR there was none among the common people, maybe except the Cuban crisis period, I don't know. There was totally no fear of war, let alone, a nuclear one. The state propaganda emphasized peace and and international friendship. Regarding the Cuban crisis some people I had talked to said that they realized how dangerous it was only years after, and that they had no fear of war at the time. It seems in the West on the other hand the fear propaganda was put in full and they could really strike us under this psychosis. Next follows my opinion. Peace was a part of the social contract in the USSR. The Communist government failed to provide high standards of living but at least they provided peace and were basing their legitimacy on that. There were many WWII veterans who knew how bad the war was so the TV constantly stressed that wars were over now thanks to our party and government who guard our peaceful skies and constantly struggles for peace in the world. 

I'm sure not what you're looking for, but as a technicality: The property of an embassy is normally considered the sovereign territory of the country staffing the embassy, and not of the host country. So any time a new embassy opens, the host country is donating some land to the foreign country. North Korea opened an embassy in Belarus on Sept 18, 2016, so that's probably the most recent such case. Update Okay, this looks like a word game. Of course, diplomacy is often all about word games. Under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations ($URL$ Article 22, "The premises of the mission shall be inviolable. The agents of the receiving State may not enter them, except with the consent of the head of the mission. ... 3.The premises of the mission, their furnishings and other property thereon and the means of transport of the mission shall be immune from search, requisition, attachment or execution." And Article 23, "The sending State and the head of the mission shall be exempt from all national, regional or municipal dues and taxes in respect of the premises of the mission ..." The Vienna Convention does not use the words "soveriegn territory" or any similar phrase, either to say embassy premises are the territory of the host or the sender. The US state department web site says, "While diplomatic spaces remain the territory of the host state, an embassy or consulate represents a sovereign state. International rules do not allow representatives of the host country to enter an embassy without permission --even to put out a fire -- and designate an attack on an embassy as an attack on the country it represents." ($URL$ So ... the embassy property is the territory of the host country, but they cannot enforce their laws there nor collect taxes there, and an attack on embassy property is considered an attack on the sending country. And by the way, embassy grounds are normally patrolled by soldiers or other armed personnel of the sending country. It sounds to me like a very fine hair to split, to say that the sending country sets and enforces the laws, has sole right to impose taxes, and maintains troops on this piece of land ... but it's not their land: the land belongs to another country that does NOT set or enforce any laws, impose any taxes, and is not allowed to send troops in. In a brief web search I found plenty of sources saying an embassy is the territory of the host and plenty saying it's the territory of the sending nation. e.g. host: $URL$ sender: $URL$ some of each: $URL$ 

There are some instances when barbarian names were romanized in order to be similar to already existing Roman or Greek names. Just some examples that come to mind: 

This is totally impossible, "fascism" was a heavily loaded slur word since at least 1936. Regarding the poster, it is evidently a fake because the USSR never was at war with Great Britain not to say, bombing London. Even at the hight of the Germany-Soviet relations the official position of the USSR was that they were neutral. Making such poster would be contrary to the stance of the USSR in foreign policy. 

and so on. It should be noted that "we just will conquer you" statements are quite rare in world's history. This is because if you use such arguments, you will experience problems in the future with concluding any treaties with other peoples, thus diplomatically unwise. The most close possibly being Islamic conquests which were based on theological arguments. 

These situations were totally common throughout history. Starting from the industrial revolution in Britain which led to numerous concerns in France about their textile industry. I can tell you many other examples. 

To the best of my knowledge, there are no surviving records outside the Bible that can be linked to the time of Solomon. There are surviving mentions from the records of other nations to King David, and to some of the kings who reigned after Solomon, but not to Solomon. (Not shocking in itself -- lots of people in ancient times are known to us from only one or two sources.) It's instructive but not definitive to examine the Mosaic Law. I was surprised when I checked on this to find that the Mosaic law does not have any clear prohibition of prostitution. Deuteronomy 23:17 bans cult prostitutes, but not prostitutes in general. Deuteronomy 22:21 says that if a man marries and discovers that his bride was not a virgin, she can be executed. But if a prostitute never tries to marry ... there's no clear law against it. It was certainly condemned as horribly immoral. It makes me wonder if it was like pornography or alcohol abuse in the U.S. today: widely condemned, but not illegal. I say it's not definitive because just because something was written in the law 430 years before doesn't prove the law was still enforced or even thought about. Or new laws may have been written. So I think the answer is: no one knows. I'm happy to hear if anyone has information I'm not familiar with. 

It is wrong to say that Italian Jews were not exterminated. They in fact were, but only after Italy was occupied by German forces. Regarding the stance of the Italian government and fascist party, it did not express much of anti-Semitic ideology. At the origins of the fascist party were many Jews, and also Jewish black-shirt brigades of Jabotinsky were trained in Italy in a preparation to invade British Palestine. When the Holocaust started, Italy gave asylum to Croatian Jews who were killed by the Ustashe regime in Croatia. Despite demands of German government, Italy refused to transfer their Jews or Jews from the occupied territories to Germany. It should be noted though that in the beginning of 1940s Italy under German pressure enacted some anti-Jewish legislation in exchange for Germany's consent regarding forced expulsion of ethnic Germans from Italy's South Tyrol. Hitler sought persecution of Jews as a more important task than protecting ethnic Germans in Italy. The legislation was easily avoidable by the Jews though: to be exempt from prosecutions a Jew could either attend a Christian church or enroll into fascist party (some other categories such as WWI veterans were also exempt). The situation changed when Italy declared war on Germany and was consequently occupied by German forces: all the caught Jews were sent to German extermination camps. 

Personally, I always hate it when a TV or movie producer takes some famous book and makes major changes to it, like adding a totally new character. Like hey, if you didn't like the story, write your own. Don't put your words in someone else's mouth just so you can piggyback on his popularity. Thee was certainly no such character in the original Robin Hood story. Whether this really is or will become a "staple of the mythology", we'll see I guess. But that little rant aside ... To make a Muslim character living in England plausible, you don't have to suppose any large community of Muslims establishing a permanent residency in England. You just have to posit that ONE person could have made it there. And that seems pretty obviously possible. Others have noted that Muslims did visit England and trade with England in this period. You just have to suppose that among the hundreds? thousands? of Muslims who visited, one decide to hang around and join this particular group. 

I think in Russia we had little knowledge about Libya and Gaddafi before this war. Some people remember that he was a Soviet ally in 1970s and also that he was accused in supporting terrorism. Our impression of him as a dictator stems mostly from his pompous uniform which is stereotypical for dictators (i.e. some guy in a gold-knitted uniform->he is, probably, dictator). During the war Gaddafi was very much supported by the leftists, anti-Americanists and patriotic nationalists, all of them constituting the majority. He was vilified by pro-American forces (liberals). This is similar to what happened during the bombing of Yugoslavia and invasion in Iraq. The government did not support Gaddafi especially due to pro-Wertern then-president Medvedev. In justification of their position the government cited the following reasons: 

Was there ever a society in which sex was viewed either as a functional necessity, duty before the gods or pleasure without any admiration of love? 

The king is thought to originate from gods by his ancestral line or claimed that the gods directly interacted with the originator of the dynasty and gave them the right to rule. This is the most strong idea of the god-santioned power. The gods consented to the king's rule. In many ancient republics and monarchies there was a rite after the king's election by the people and/or choosing the heir in a monarchy, which was intended to test whether the gods accepted and loyal to the pretender. It was usually a chance-based experiment through which the gods should express their will. This kind of god-santioned power meant that the gods were loyal only to the current ruler and not to the dynasty as a whole. There is a usual religious rite of becoming a king, like a marriage for example. The ceremony does not mean the gods somehow support exactly this ruler, but rather intended to make the ruler to take responsibility before the face of the god(s). If he becomes a bad ruler, he may face punishment in afterlife. The ceremony usually takes form of an oath, promise, possibly involving a religious scripture. This form of rite is used in many modern republics as well, such as the United States for example, where the president makes an oath on the Bible. 

At least some ancient Greeks accepted homosexuality. Thebes and Sparta are both reported to have military units made up of homosexual couples, the reasoning basically being that this would inspire them to fight harder to protect their lovers. Some sources say that Sparta considered homosexuality superior to heterosexuality because they believed women were inferior to men and thus not worthy of true love -- a woman was only good for reproduction. For the most part Greek homosexuality appears to have been pedophilia, at least, they routinely talked about the older man as the "lover" and the younger as the "beloved", though I don't know what the upper limit on the age of the beloved was. Plato quotes Socrates as saying that when he was a boy he was proud of his abilities to seduce older men. Homosexuality was certainly known and practiced by the Romans, but it was widely condemned. Or at least, the surviving history books were written by people who condemned it. But for example, according to Plutarch, when Julius Caesar was a young man, he was appointed ambassador to Illyria, and had a homosexual affair with the king of Illyria. But Plutarch says this brought widespread criticism, opponents taunting him as the "Queen of Illyria" and the like. According to the Bible, Sodom and Gomorroh accepted homosexuality. I don't know of any other ancient cultures who accepted it. Of course that doesn't prove there were no others: I don't claim to know all about every culture that ever existed. 

This is graphic depicting the drop in industrial output in Russian Federation (blue) and Moscow (red), in per cents to the level of 1991: 

It is a wrong assumption that Europe was never unified politically. First, in the ancient times the cultural development of different European peoples was very diverse. The most advanced peoples of Europe adopted the Greek culture, alphabet and gods. You can see this on the example of Etruscans who used the Greek alphabet and worshiped the Greek gods. The same can be said about the Balkan peoples, Spanish peoples and to a certain degree about Italians. Germanic and Celtic peoples of the time also used Greek alphabet for their languages. At the height the Greek civilization included not only most civilized parts of Europe but also portions of Middle East and Africa. The North Europe was not included mostly because it was not that much developed at the time. Later the civilization of Rome followed which also included the the most civilized parts of Europe and Mediterranean with some other areas as client states. In the Middle ages, the Catholic Church and the Holy See took the role. It was only starting with high middle ages the European nations began to assert sovereignty, partly because of the falling authority and prestige of the church. 

Alex has given a good general answer. Let me add a detail: The ancient Jews had a simple system for mass-producing copies of Scripture: Get a room-full of scribes. One stands in front with the book to be copied. The rest sit at desks with blank paper. The guy at the front reads slowly, while the rest write down what he says. Then they had various schemes to check that a copy was accurate. Like always write the same number of letters per line. Then when you get to the end, if the original ends on, say, page 32, line 20, and that line has 15 letters, then if your copy does not end on page 32, line 20, with 15 letters, you must have added or dropped letters somewhere. They'd also spot check places in the middle. I'm not sure if this technique was used for books other than Hebrew Scripture, but it seems obvious enough that it could have been. Of course this assumes there's a large enough demand for copies to justify getting a bunch of people. 

These diplomas certifying citizenship were issued to ordinary people who earned citizenship as well, according to Suetonius: 

I wonder where this fashion originates from? Is not it the Byzantine Empire where such fashion appeared the first? 

By making a search over some var memorial archives you can find remarkably old soldiers. For example, Drobyshev Illarion Pavlovich born in 1839 was killed in 1948 in combat with bandits in Tambov Oblast. HGe was deputy-commander of a company, and if the documents are correct he was 109 years old. $URL$ Pichuzhkin Pavel Feodorovich born in 1833 was killed in 1944 near Veazma. According the documents he was 111 years old. $URL$ Chontuvian Arony Philippovich born in 1832 deceased in 1943 of pneumonia, being a military sailor. According the documents he also was 111 years old. $URL$ Dolgopolov Philipp Ivanovich born in 1831 was killed in 1943 in Leningrad area. He was 112 according the documents. $URL$ Semeanin Ivan Ivanovich born in 1830 was killed in 1943 near village Scherbinka (near Novgorod area) being a private. He was 113. $URL$ Proseanykh Illarion Kanafievich born in 1829, was killed in 1945. The cause of the death is unknown, he was a private. He was 116. $URL$ Kovalchuk Zakhar born in 1828 died in a German POW camp in 1944, at age 116. $URL$ Tonkikh Matvey Gordeyevich of 1828 was killed in 1943 being a private at age 115. $URL$ Gavrilov Ivan Dmitriyevich also of 1828 was killed in 1943 at age 115. $URL$ Zhukov Ivan Frolovich of 1827 died in German POW camp in 1945, although he was captured in 1941. Volkovich Peter Vasilievich of 1827 was killed in 1944 in Belarus at age of 117 being a partisan. $URL$ Some private Ivanov F.F. of 1826 was killed in 1944 near Tver at age 118. $URL$ Timofeyev Konstantin Filippovich of 1825 died of wounds in 1944 at age 119 $URL$ Nikorenko Pavel Denisovich of 1824 was killed in 1845 in Kuybyshev area. $URL$ .... There are lots of similar records, but most of them seem to be just typos. The oldest record I found is Ivanov Vladimir Ivanovich, a warehouse guard who died in 1942 and according the documents was born in 1778! $URL$