Which means it is a very good calorie level (specially in the morning and post workout) , very low in fat and very high in protein 

The article mentions that Targeted fat loss is a myth and that fat is lost from overall body as i mentioned above. The magazine talks about two researches made by the University of Connecticut one in 1971 with tennis players and One in 2007 with: 

6'2, 200 pounds and 28 years old ==>Your BMR is: 2061 calories, eat 2061 +700 = 2761 calories to eat per day. Eat real non processed food, with the following (my personal recommendations): 

I was using the BMR and Harris benedict equations. I got a negative result when i used the following information just by curiosity: 

What probably happened is that during lent, as you stopped eating meat (and maybe other food types), you actually decreased your overall food intake ,which in its majority consisted of meat. So, this means you were eating much less quantities of food , and the stomach is an elastic organ : the more you eat, the more it gets dilated , and vice versa. So your stomach actually shrink during lent. Thus after 40 days of eating less, your stomach got used to small quantities, and that's why now that you are having meat again , ie eating more quantity , your stomach is getting dilated again beyond the limit it reached during lent, and thus you feel the pain. 

Anatomy drawings are a little funny this way. Look at them enough, and you'll see inconsistencies in attachment points. To be fair to the artists, anatomy isn't all that consistent itself! Point being, if you look at the red circle insertion point of the lower trap above, we can see with its medial (inside) attachment, when it pulls down the lateral side will go up. Ala: upward rotation. We can also see pure scapular depression isn't going to be a big job of the lower trap. Because again, if it pulls down by itself, part of the scapula will actually move up. Long story short- we don't really want to isolate a muscle in a vacuum of one action. We want to use the full breadth of its potential work. So, when you mention doing dips and pull-ups, sure, there can be scapular depression at the top of those movements. However, there doesn't have to be. For instance, in pull-ups, at the bottom we start with the shoulders shrugged into the ears. Who says we can't be at the top of the rep that way?             A lot of people end their pull / chin-ups like above. Next, even if we are hitting scapular depression in dips / pull-ups, we're not maximizing how much we can work the lower trap. There's no (active) upward rotation, and retraction is similar to depression- it may or may not happen. (Downward rotation will happen.) To get all three actions, we should 

As shown above, they are not calorie heavy and fat is not bad for you.Also these mentioned recipes are savory (try it) I do have tips for other meals, i have one on my mind right now: 

With all due respect for Doctors, researchers and professional trainers, and i do not claim to be more knowledgeable at all but...The thing with researches is that, in my humble opinion, there are too many of them and one contradicts the other. For instance, some researches say eating fat will make you fat while others say the complete opposite. Some researches say you should have a low carb diet to loose fat, other researches will say differently, etc.. I will answer you based on common logic and things we notice in our everyday lives, some facts: 

which means, MRI, a very accurate technique, found that fat loss is overall from the body and not targeted (spots). PERSONAL experience: Beside scientific researches, it is always good to share personal experience about a topic (sometimes it is more efficient than a research). 

They will be absorbed for sure. How much will be absorbed depends on how much your body needs at that time. 

While the above is a discussion on hip flexibility -because that's what I've seen to be the most common limitation- the ability of the ankles to plantarflex (toes point down) has to be considered as well. Knee wise, the range of motion is usually there. Unless the person has awfully tight quads, or has an injury history where they never regained their flexion range of motion. Not common issues. Finally, not being able to get all the way is no big deal. Much like not everyone can do a split, not everyone can squat the same either. You want to be careful about forcing range of motion though. You end up jamming bones together, which can cause issues over the longterm. If you feel some tightness while stretching, that's a sign improvement can be made. If you feel a blocking, like you just can't move further, that's likely bone in the way. Pushing that will only make the matter worse. (Bone gets bigger when it gets pushed or banged on sufficiently.) 

It's not easy fitting e.g. four+ hour workouts into a week. You almost always find everyday people basically do the best they can during the work week, then on the weekend have one long workout, trying to simulate the event the best they can. This is why first timers to these types of activities often end up destroyed after the event. By far the biggest mistake I see first timers do is, 

When i first started the fat burn/muscle gain routine, i used to think of carbs as the devil and that i should train 4 hours a day. This is all wrong, you need to understand what you are doing cannot be accomplished in 1 week, and that you have to constantly challenge your muscles without overtraining (as mentionned above). Overtraining made me gain fat even with low calories level. So in a summary: 

100% true ! there is a lot of contradicting info and as u said 'get-fit-quick' type scams and misinformation. I could help you out with the BEST nutrition book: nutrition's best book that has scientific information, is written by actual doctors and that is NOT trying to sell you stuff or make you consume more is The navy seal nutrition guide. Read this book from A to Z and u'll learn the real stuff (It actually makes sense that this book is professional and accurate, since it was written in the 1990's and it targeted military special forces, it wasn't aiming at reaching the consumer market) As for strength training, i am not sure what level of strength training your aiming at, but i recommend mark lauren's You are your own gym as a bodyweight strength training bible, it is very well written , has lot of good info, and has around 101 variation of bodyweight training. I heard good feedback about a book called Practical Programming for Strength Training but i didn't personally read it, but you might check it out and see. 

I can only speak from experience as someone else that usually works out a few hours before going to sleep. I often have the same problem, particularly after cardio due to the elevated heartrate, but sometimes after weightlifting too. The best thing you can do for yourself is to establish a night-routine that will help relax your body between a workout and sleep. Personally, I just read for an hour before I go to bed (preferably fiction, not a technical book). This should bring down all of your vitals and allow you to fall asleep more easily. A cup of decaf tea/coffee also helps. Try to avoid carbs right before bed if you have a post-workout snack/meal. I fall asleep easier if I just eat something with protein like nuts or edamame. Your muscles will likely be tense after a workout, which can also prevent sleep. To help this, I'd recommend self-massage, otherwise known as myofascial release. This works EXTREMELY well for me, and it's quite relaxing (a bit painful). Your gym likely has some of these foam rollers in stock. If not, you can purchase one cheap on Amazon. 

These are two exercises I like for this purpose: Toddler Squat: $URL$ I have people hold that position for 30-60 seconds, for either three sets, or have them spread it out during the day. Harder version: $URL$ It's good to have something nearby to hold on to. Often the person will feel like they're going to fall backwards. Another exercise: $URL$ You can think of the latter as a horizontal squatting motion. Because resisting gravity and stability isn't a concern, it's easier. It's also a good assessment because of how relaxed the body can be. If after a couple weeks of working on this the person isn't getting anywhere, that's a good sign something structural is going on. For instance, notice how this guy's lower back rounds when he rocks back: 

The caveat here is drugs. If you're a bodybuilder taking drugs for muscle growth, then hyperplasia may be on the table. This is believed to be one of the biggest advantages of steroids and the like. Again, hyperplasia is an endlessly debated topic in the strength and conditioning world. It's been that way for decades. Part of the issue is counting muscle fibers is apparently something no researcher wants to do / can do precisely. But that should say something. If it's that hard to find a difference in fiber number, it's unlikely to matter much, if at all. (Whereas finding a difference in fiber size is rudimentary.) Testosterone Think of testosterone as workers who help hold up a building. If you have more testosterone flowing through your body -more workers- OR more room for testosterone to be housed (receptors), you can hold up more muscle- more of a building. This is a commonly thrown out theory for why people have individual limits when it comes to how much lean mass they can hold. The amount of testosterone flowing through people tends to vary quite a bit, hence, the amount of muscle a person can hold tends to vary quite a bit. Sure, one can take drugs to increase this natural limit, but increasing the amount flowing through the body is futile without increasing how much can be used. This is also believed to be why some respond better to steroids than others. Charlie Francis, sprint coach of the infamous Ben Johnson, said the irony with drugs is the better athletes are the ones who will get more out of them, due to more androgen receptors. You can see Lance Armstrong bring this up nowadays when asked whether he was cheating. He'll tell you everybody was doing it, but he'll honestly remark it's possible he responded to drugs better than his competitors, giving him an unfair advantage. What he's missing is that advantage is thus inherent. Where he was already ahead of them, drugs or not. (He was a teenage endurance phenom.) Receptor wise, what you start off with is what you end up with. (At least theoretically. Not sure if this has been examined.) I understand that might not be a satisfactory answer, but for many asking why is like asking why our genes can't reprogram themselves to grow a new finger or make ourselves taller. It's just not something humans can do. Epigenetics is not my strong suit, but I wouldn't be surprised if certain parts of the genome are forever locked away after a certain age. Tradeoffs When it comes to regular humans, I think it's fairly clear we have limits, and what some of those factors are. However, what's limiting one person is not guaranteed to limit another. My personal theory for endurance limits is the amount of heat a person can dissipate. That said, two runners may be have the same limitation here, but if one has less volume on their body e.g. smaller calves, with the same surface area, then they will be able to dissipate more heat, increasing their performance. This is one reason Kenyans are so dominant. More surface area; less volume. Their limbs are long and skinny; their torsos short and narrow. But you can only decrease your volume so much. (Interestingly, you notice African-Americans dominate more as the event distance goes up. Further distance => heat becomes a bigger concern, where African-Americans have an inherent advantage?) The tradeoff is those who are better at dissipating heat will not be able to handle cold weather as well. Whenever you get something in biology, you lose something. In Survival of the Sickest, it's proposed type 1 diabetes is a positive adaptation to cold weather. Diabetics pee more => have less water in their body => less likely to freeze to death. More mobile joints are less stable ones, and vice versa. This is why world class powerlifters look so stiff and why world class ballerinas look like they'd break in half with a barbell on them. Those who try to be great at everything end up mediocre at everything. The CrossFit games are fun to watch, but none of those guys have impressive lifts or running times compared to sole lifters and runners. The Rabbit Hole I'd also point you to these two videos on asking "why?": The technical: $URL$ The funny: $URL$ 

The short answer is yes, it's overestimating your calorie burn. But it's unlikely the sole reason that you're having trouble losing weight. Most exercise machines overestimate calorie burn, and ellipticals are among the worst offenders. Studies have shown that they can overestimate calorie burn by as much as 40%. A more reasonable expectation for someone of your weight might be 100 calories burned per 10 minutes (assuming a moderate pace). Because it's difficult to precisely know how many calories you burn throughout the day (BMR and exercise machines are not 100% accurate), it may be a good idea to give yourself wiggle room when it comes to your calorie intake. These calculations have a lot more room for error at body weights approaching 135kg and higher, especially if you have a high body-fat ratio. Try to aim for a calorie deficit of 1000 instead of 500, and estimate 300 calories burned for 30 minutes on the elliptical. If this is too difficult and/or you lose more than 1kg per week, you can adjust it. 

Generally, you want to take in about 20g of protein and some carbs after any workout, particularly resistance-training, sprints, and high-intensity cardio. This is the point at which your muscles are in their greatest state of recovery, and having a high-protein environment is important for that. Some people may choose to take BCAA in lieue of a post-workout meal. As long as you eat some complete protein or take BCAA, it should speed up muscle-recovery. If you take creatine, it's also recommended that this be done immediately after a workout. 

Close up from one of his sprains and another one of his swings:                 Curry media from How golf can negatively impact the ankles. I use Curry as an example due to his fame, but the principle is don't ignore the other 23 hours of the day. You might attempt to tighten your ankle with 30-60 minutes of exercise per day, but if you're holding the ankle in a stretched position many hours outside of the exercise, it's hard to offset that. 

When you have long femurs relative to your torso, it's harder to stay upright. Those femurs push your hips back as you go down. Leaning the torso forward is an understandable compensation: if you try to stay upright, you're much more likely to fall backwards. This is a big reason olympic weightlifters have short legs relative to their torso. Yes, short legs means not having to move the bar as far, but it also means an easier time staying upright. (Remember, if you fall forward in a front squat -which is the position of the catch in a clean and jerk- you're much more likely to dump the bar.) We can take this further. Notice how the more low back oriented squat involves more hip flexion. The knees are more into the chest: