It cannot be objective. It's not defined anywhere, it has no exact specs therefore you cannot make an universal rule for it. It will always be subjective, no matter what some completed in polls or not. Even in extreme situations (like mutilation) some may find that more attractive than the normal so beauty will always be subjective. The fact that so more (even a majority) agree on something does not make it objective. 

Here's a example: We do an experiment and get valid results. We say X causes A to happen. We do another experiment and get valid results. We say Y causes A to happen. In both cases, we have math and observations backing up our claims. But X and Y are self-exclusive (a xor if you will). So what can we do in this case ? We can do experiments of another nature and see what was actually correct. But if that's not possible, we should select the cause that actually can explain more. I encountered this in physics many times, where theories were validated both by observation and math and in the math part we had a constant "c" and a variable "v" because in this manner the observations could be explained. But re-thinking everything, one could see that in the math formulas, the same valid result is obtained if "c" varies and "v" is declared a constant. Both cannot be variable or constant in the same time because it would invalidate the math part supporting the theory. So we got 2 options leading to the same result, confirming the same theory but we do not know which is a variable and which is a constant and we have no observable/experimental way to determine this. What did in such a case was choosing the option that can explain more. In the current example, let's say if we had a constant "c" and a variable "v" we can perfectly explain how a car engine works, but cannot determine anything related to the car wheels. If "c" varies and "v" is constant and we explain how the engine works just as in the 1st theory but we can also explain how the wheels work, we select the second option as the valid one. 

I assume that N. means by 'facts' things which confront the individual as external constraints and the individual has no power over them. However, the facts are tied to certain kind of activities: If I drive a car, I must abide the driving regulations, the technical constraints of the car, and the financial realities of keeping the car in shape and fixing it whenever faults emerge. I can use the car as I please but I have to abide to these constraints. On the other hand, if I sell the car and decide to go with a bike instead, the constraints/ facts of car-driving no longer apply to me. I am then bound by the constraints which control riding a bike (different kind of regulations, regions where I ride and so on). I no longer need to care about whether gas costs 1,3 euros or 2,6 euros because I am no longer engaged in car-driving. When I switch from car driving to riding a bike, the activity changes and so do the constraints. I cannot alter the facts associated to particular activity, but I can find freedom in choosing what kind activity I engage in. The types of activities which are available for me at the moment, are determined by the society in which I have been born into. And engaging, I also gain the particular types of freedoms associated to that particular activity. Facts always require seriousness from people and try to convince that they are eternal and never change. N. is pointing out with this example that the facts of witch hunting were tied to interpretation which was prevalent at certain time but as times have changed, people no longer dabble in witch hunts and he is claiming that this applies to all human activities. 

The above is a 4D object represented on 2D. Quite the loss of visual information here. A 3D holographic projection could offer way more clues as to how a hypercube may look like. In that case. you would a 4D object represented on 3D. Much more visual info to get from that. But what humans lack in this case is the initial image of how the 4D hypercube looks in 4D. Due to that, there is no end point for the extrapolation to work, so in most cases humans will not be able to extrapolate at all a 4D object. 

One does not have to agree to a conclusion if he agrees to all the facts leading to it. Example: you can have 5 symptoms and a nurse can maybe formulate a diagnostic bases on that. But the doctor with many years of experience may independently check that all 5 symptoms exists and manifest as described by the nurse but he may set a totally different diagnostic. Hegel himself admitted that his dialectical method was part of a philosophical tradition dating back to Plato but he criticized Plato’s version of dialectics. Hegel argued that Plato’s dialectics deals only with limited philosophical claims and is unable to get beyond skepticism or nothingness. According to the logic of a classic reduction to absurd argument, if the premises of an argument lead to a contradiction, we must conclude that the premises are false. That leaves us with practically nothing. In turn, Karl Marx presented his own dialectic method, which he claims to be a direct opposite of Hegel's method. Direct quote from Marx in the paper "Afterword": 

In Critique of Dialectical Reason, vol. 1, Sartre wrote (translation from the Russian translation into English is mine) 

Stoicism is a form of attaining self authenticity through the rejection of own dreams and impossible plans, for the sake of acceptance of and reconciliation with painful conditions, whereby one exercises controls over only what he has power to control. Stoic is free when he is busy with controlling own passions while the world out there is beyond his control. Sartre was distressed when he was mobilized on war in September 39. He was anxious with the perspective to be killed without having done anything great in his life. Under the impression produced by reading Heidegger he was all in the search of an "authentic position" in front of the face of danger. He first inclined towards becoming a stoicist (read "Notebooks from a Phoney War"). For Sartre that meant to quit his self-identification as a man meant to become great with his writings one day, and to put on sincerely the role of a soldier without love and future, meant to die. While being in the army in 1939, and later in a camp for prisoners of war in 1940, he felt increasingly dissatisfied with the ostrich head-in-sand, "passive" (albeit of endurance) self-positioning. He began to strenghthen in his concept according to which everything we experience (including negative feelings) has been pre-processed and taken on by our (pre-reflective) consciousness, that everything can affect us not otherwise than only through us and via our "stamp". Therefore, if I feel e.g. helpless it is due to myself, my choice to be so. Thus, a man is responsible for everything which happens with him. Sartre specially stipulates that the responsibility is not obvious to the first person perspective - not only because the choice is unreflective but also because it is not based on anything: consciousness is the basis of its possibilities and choices while consciousness itself exists by no ground; he labels this paradoxic yet fundamental human condition "unbearable" - since a man looks sentenced to be responsible for what happens with him in a way like he's just a receiver. But as long as own reaction has been self-selected and the one is responsible for it the one ought to consciously charge himself with it as if it was voluntary chosen on purpose and as if for some progress to make about oneself. ("Notebooks from...", Mon., Dec. 4.) There cannot be a world apriori/knowingly beyond control, because we can find ourselves only in such a world where our finger is in the pie already. This existentialistic stance made Sartre a soldier/captive more active than he was initially under his stoicism. A stoicist will restrict himself with doing things he feels to be in control of; a Sartrian will expand himself doing things as if his circumstances are the condition of the whole world and are what he had brought in willingly, whatever is his control radius (the control and power will then get corrected via practical acts). 

By choosing the orientation the humans think the cube may have, we can say that we generated a random sequence of 0s and 1s. But is it truly so ? If we do this test to thousands or more, we may find that a selection is way more preferred compared to the other. That means some other pre-determined factor (like spatial orientation capabilities, geometry knowledge, the distance between the eyes and object) influences the choice. So in order to actually have the random result we must consider all these factors when making the test. So basically, if we are able to account for everything involved, we may find a trick to generate something truly random. Otherwise...slim chances. 

University research is not a guarantee for accuracy of theory. Any theory can get to be widely accepted and then something else comes in that invalidates the initial theory. It's how science evolves. Given this and how today's science and specially physics tends to work, I'd rather trust an independent research of a small group of scientists than that of an university's research. The logic is most of the time university projects are bound to comply by the very restrictive already established theories (there are exceptions, but they do not form a majority) while independent research can practically dig in any direction unrestricted. So far this approach worked very well for my research teams. 

I think that master morality does not damage the herd, but the herd damages itself. Master morality is for itself but herd mentality exists for some other reason: If an artists creates art because he likes expressing himself, or through expression he discovers new viewpoints, he is cultivating master morality. Master morality takes on risks because it cannot know beforehand where its activity is going to lead. Herd mentality, on the other hand, always engages in activities for some other good: the herd seeks approval from other men, shelter, security or dabbles in narcisism or hedonism. The herd always exists for something else and when it tries to please the fleeting audience or evaporating pleasures, it enslaves itself. Master morality, on the other hand, develops and overcomes its own borders. When the herd observes how it has spent its energy and time on things which later on are judged to be worthless, it looks master morality and feels resentment. If you are interested in reading more about master-slave morality and resentment, the writings of the writer Charles Bukowski are a nice source. e.g. see these poems $URL$ $URL$ For a good illustration of resentment, see this nice short story by Gogol: $URL$ 

I think this is not about randomness vs objectiveness but rather randomness vs nothing being actually random. Objectivity has it's own opposite: relativity. Because of relativity we have big problems determining what's what, therefore objectivity is recommended specially when dealing with advanced physics, universal laws and such things. 1+1 will always equal 2 only if the correct rules are applied, just as the author said. Otherwise, 1+1 = 2 is not true. As a rule-based example: 1+1 = 10 if the base rule is that we deal with a binary system. To discover if there is any true randomness somewhere in the Universe may not be that easy. For example anything natural is related to Golden Ratio and/or Fibonacci, so there's nothing random in living organisms or plants (not even at DNA level). Going from DNA level and atoms to a very large scale like galaxies, we will notice that even the stars have a non-random arrangement in galaxies. So from an Universal point of view, the vote goes against randomness (note: not to be confused with chaos). That being said, what's left to do is try to generate our own synthetic randomness, just to prove that it can be done. But in this situation, we may find that this isn't easy either. In the case of computers, it's well known that numbers generated using them aren't genuinely random. Any piece of software needs some kind of unpredictable physical input to be able to generate from there. But what about humans ? Well, most of the choices they make are based on something quite pre-determined so we don't get much randomness from there. but as we trick the computer giving it physical input, we could find a way to bypass the human pre-determined concepts so we get something random out of it. Let's design a situation. We have the drawing of a cube. Any sane mature human should understand that those lines drawn in 2D are the representation of a 3D cube. But the orientation of the cube cannot be determined from the 2D drawing, so each human would have to pick a way he thinks the cube orientation is.