I would presume that any bag specifically made to be hotfilled would be able to resist having hot water poured in and that just filling with hot water would also not be able to maintain an elevated temperature for too long to worry about it. But, as these things go, not all the pouches are equal to eachother and there could be a lot of variation from brand to brand, or different products of the same brand. As it seems there is only a general answer and it would be wise to make a bit of research, or contact the manufacturer directly, to know the specific materials of the bags one is using and purchase from a known and reputable manufacturer that publish all the needed materials specification and certifications when in doubt. PS: when the above quoted text says to see the handling practices section its referring to a paragraph concerning fumes coming from outer coating buildup on the heated elements of sealing machines in commercial operations, conductivity of the film and scrap disposal. 

Sun will help, you can leave it in the sun taking care the whole affected area gets direct sun then, still outside, brush off all that is possible with a stiff brush. After that you can proceed to a proper wash. For the wash you can use oxygen bleach, it will have a better outcome than regular bleach. From there on it really depends on the conditions of the pack after the wash, you might have to repeat the process. Keep in mind that even if the mould is gone there is a good chance it will smell like mildew, that is a difficult smell to remove sometimes and that some discoloration can remain in the area affected. Remember that the brush will have to be treated as the pack is after you used it on the mould. Edit to address the residual mildew smell, which is likely to remain if the mould was a lot: 

The foam is a quick way to securely glue and fill the gap between block and hull without going to heavier products. All the expanding foams will eventually degrade and in practice you could get plenty of years of service from any expanding foam. There are a lot of different kind of formulation and availability is a big factor in repairing. Even the closed cell foams wont be completely closed cells, meaning that one small portion of the foam will have some open cells (technical specifications usually indicate what percentage, but its minimal and absorption will take years) products used today are much better and consistent than what there was years ago, that's why you find that some older hulls are more prone to get waterlogged than others. Don't get scared by the terms "compromised if submerged for a period of time" as they tend to cover constant immersion situations for years (floating docks etc) and not the condition of a properly maintained hull cavity. Clearly you need a closed cell expanding foam, an open cell will end being a sponge and drying out becomes extremely difficult, sometimes impossible. I'm not sure if we can name products following a question, however if you go to a chandler asking for a 2 parts closed cell expanding urethane foam there are a few, very common brands that are all perfectly suitable, some formulation might attack slightly the Styrofoam surface but usually sets right away so they don't present a problem, manufacturers indicate in clear if they are not compatible with other expanded foams and you can still try on a small piece to be sure. If you never used them, the way they expand can surprise you, generally they can be poured in layers so do a bit at a time as they can make damages expanding and always leave the room for the foam to expand into, don't trap it between two blocks or it will separate them, for example a crack in a foam block will have to be cut open leaving two wedges >< so the new pour will expand towards the outside. A couple of inspection ports are usually added to the deck (splitting apart the hull is definitely not recommended) to allow for complete drying out of the cavity if waterlogged, it can take months in the worst cases so a warm place and a small fan to circulate air (that's why two inspection ports) inside helps. With the inspection ports and draining the cavity as regular habit you wont have the problem of a waterlogged foam block. If you reuse everything and there are no gaps to fill you could go even with plain glue. Careful that open cell and closed cell are different formulations and not all closed cell are the same, glues that bond one kind might melt another so the glues will indicate the types of foam they are formulated for. 3M is one manufacturer but there are others, check your local supplier, epoxy can work for that too. If you foresee a foam repair because of an hull crack (you indicate that in a comment) be aware that you don't really need it: the crack can be repaired from outside without removing any foam block and if you were to reach the foam to properly apply a fiberglass patch, the epoxy used to laminate the patch will do its work in bonding it to the foam. (pretty much as it bonds in a foamcore construction) Just as a note, there used to be a Sunfish Knowledge Base page somewhere on the net with repair guides also. You might have to search it on google and use the Internet Archive to try to reach it through old links. 

Now, lets take one of the videos you linked as example: it uses a piece of pencil lead being burned by jumper cables connected to a car battery. In principle no different than a car cigarette lighter but with one big difference in practice: in your car the circuit and your battery are protected by fuses, these, as much as your steel wool filament, are set to "burn out" when there's the chance that the circuit will end shorting out your battery. In the video you are just assuming that the pencil lead will burn out opening the circuit before shorting the battery and that's not always true, the smoke might end coming out from the wrong place. You want to use your car battery? Pull the wires you need from the lighter plug or pull a signal light and break that, at least there will be some fuses in the circuit. With a car battery you wont get shocked, its just about 13V delivered, but the amperage that the battery is capable of delivering is very high, while you need to dissipate all that energy or protect the battery in some way when in a circuit, dry skin offers too much resistance for the amount of volts to push all the amperes the battery is capable through an healty body. If you touch the wires to create sparks instead, both the wires and the sparks can leave burns (and that's also not good for the battery). The cellphone battery example: these days many have short circuit protection ( IEC62133, since 2012, is one of the normative used as a standard for these things, it does vary from country to country though). If you go buy generic lithium batteries you find that they are not all created equal, some are protected, others are not, some are suitable for one thing while some are suitable for something else. When it comes to protection circuit of a cellphone battery the threshold can be set so low that some steel wool will trip it, no juice delivered anymore, depending on the protection system used this can be a temporary switching off or permanent (you might lso find interesting reading about Intrinsic Safety and battery design). A generic, unprotected, el-chapo offbrand lithium battery bought on Ebay can mean trouble in any application. Think that when it comes to these batteries even making your own flashlight requires that you pair a lamp compatible with the cells you will be using so you cant just say that a lithium battery will explode if you use that way, but at the same time just mind that unprotected lithium batteries are not that safe if used outside their specs, so when it comes to lighting a fire (in the fire pit and not on the battery) these might not be the best tool for the job. They are also not cheap so I wouldn't use them just for experimenting, they are more useful in the phone. In one of your examples is mentioned a "brillo-pad": given this is basically the common name used for whatever steel pad used to clean a pot be aware that some are way too thick to give the results you want. Stick with steel wool. The "jail" method that uses gum wrapper or a thin piece of the foil in cigarette boxes works because the material is very thin. If you were to use the tinfoil used in kitchens chances are its too thick (tinfoil thicknesses vary) At the end, the finest steel wool is a material that you know works with everything, its so thin and its resistance so high that there's no particular risk involved and an AA battery can light it just fine, a 9v is just much easier to use since the terminals are one near the other. Just don't store the two together or you will light a fire in your pocket. And talking about storage, many kept spare batteries in the junk drawer without worrying about possibility of shorts and cabinets on fire, and that is more hazardous than lighting a camping fire with steel wool and a 9V battery. You were asking about which materials can be safe with which battery. That can go a bit on experience, experimentation or crunching numbers (a resistance formula R = ρL/A where R is the total resistance, ρ is the specific resistance of the stuff the wire is made of, L is the wire's length, and A is the thickness of the wire, will tell you what to compare to the battery specs, however noone will bother calculating this ;) ) You don't need to risk anything, once you know the principle you will have a clear idea of what works or not. One of your links (lifehacker) mentions getting sparks from shorting the terminals... that's not what the steel wool+battery does, you dont try to create sparks to light stuff up, you are literally heating and burning up the steel wool itself, it catches fire. If you want to be really safe you can always make your battery from a lemon and use that to light your steel wool, it wont explode and it will be still fit for eating afterwards. Add a small ball of lint with vaseline if you like. 

I think the problem is the generalization. It depends on the food. Watermelon is surely not comparable to trail mix. Also I have my doubts about the idea that berries are a problem and a mash to squeeze out the water is better than eating them because of the skins and seeds... that makes no sense. The way your intestine absorbs water is different through its length, the first part of the small intestine its what needs dilution of food with juices from liver, intestines and pancreas, to bring it to the same osmolarity of blood, that to allow absorption from that part of the gut, the food will already have an high percentage of fluids when it arrives there due to saliva during mastication and stomach juices. (BTW some sport drinks talk about osmolarity etc saying that an highly concentrated juice will sit in your stomach until diluted and that's not true, the stomach doesn't take care of that). The final part of the small intestine and the colon work a bit differently as they can absorb fluids against osmotic gradient so they don't need that dilution, by design when the food gets to the large intestines will have lost the majority of the fluids, something like 80/90% and the large intestine will absorb more if necessary (it usually does as there's very little fluids in normal feces... obviously diarrhea is a complete different situation). Seeds and skins that are not digested don't need liquids, you cant dilute something that has not been destroyed by digestion, and you don't need to, they get pushed along and eliminated. I find odd that with the reason of pushing out a few seeds someone would skip the chance to add whatever nutrition could get from the fruit. The way I see it is that mashing and squeezing is done way more efficiently already by our body and the precious fluids I would waste squeezing a bit of berries by hand would be more important than the bit of fluids temporarily added to it by the body. For the constipation thing... well the more the feces stand in the colon the more water is absorbed from them, its not that one gets constipated because the colon cant push the waste along because is too dry, its perfectly able to push that food out, its not sand. It takes a long time for an otherwise healthy but constipated person to develop the kind of fecal impaction that would lead to a blockage. If the idea is that the water is not wasted as it gets absorbed anyways but the process is a problem while the food passes through the first portion of the small intestines where it could be diluted then one needs to figure out the advantage of paying the price for that short time, and in that case quantities of food ingested have their importance as extra dilution of an handful is different than dilution of a full pot of food An huge portion of our daily fluid intake comes from food, you cant just cut that out because "its gonna need dilution" without taking in account the types of food available to you, the total quantity you eat and how you spread that food intake through the day.