Either find a touchup paint that closely matches (often bike shops have tons of surplus or can order one that matches), or clear coat it. Or use clear nail polish. Or don't worry about it ;) As long as you're not storing the bike outside in the elements, you will reach the fatigue life of a weld somewhere on the frame before scratches will rust sufficiently to compromise its structural integrity. And before anybody says it- yes, I know steel can be repaired. Once again, as long as the bike is being stored out of the elements you'll be able to repair welds many times over before the frame will rust through. 

Above all this is a matter of mindset and discipline. I've found myself in the same position since starting a job much further away from my home than my previous job, so I know how you feel. You've got to want to ride and get into the mindset that you have no other option but to ride to get to work. This is easier said than done and if you're like me, it's extremely hard to convince yourself of in the morning. My suggestion to you, which I've had decent success with myself, is to throw your bike on/in your car on the way to work on Monday. Ride home that afternoon (because the ride home is the best part of your day, right?). The next morning, you don't really have a choice but to ride in. You can either throw the bike back on your car Tuesday afternoon or ride your bike home again. Just make sure you're riding at least one way each day and you'll get in at least 4 half commutes a week. That might be enough to wean you back off of the car and back onto the bike full time. 

What?? No! Hardcase, hardcase, hardcase!!! Your bike is not going to fare well going most of half way around the world in nothing more than a plastic bag. Please believe me. Don't ruin your tour. Some shops rent hard cases. Call around and see what you can find. Ask your friends. Ask local clubs. Look for a new or used one, buy it, and sell it when you're done. Ship the empty case to your endpoint. For that matter, you'll probably be better off- both in terms of how the bike is treated and how much it costs you- if you pack the bike and ship it ahead of time. Just make arrangements with family/friends/local shop to receive it. Get it insured. Whatever you do, don't ship your bike in a plastic bag. If you don't heed my warning, please post pics. 

I would not worry about it. I run my shocks with ProPedal on most of the time, and something else has always broken well before the rear shock gave out. You're not going to do any extra harm to the shock just because you ran it down a descent with ProPedal on. You should be more worried about bottoming the shock out or not keeping it properly serviced. 

You should look into getting a folding double kickstand. They're great for loaded bikes. Both legs fold off to the left side, but when you kick it down one leg supports each side so the bike stays perfectly upright. 

If they are the same make, model, and year frame and the proper sized seatpost will not insert into the frame more than 1-1/4" then something is wrong.This one's hard to diagnose over the internet so I suggest you head down to a reputable bike shop and let them have a look at the frame before something gets mucked up irreparably. 

Different brands and component levels of levers have different shapes, and different bars have different amounts of drop and different curvatures. Arne's suggestion of lining the tips of the brake levers to be even with the flat part of the drops is a common rule of thumb to get you started. If the bars are already installed on the bike you can do this with a ruler or something else flat and rigid. I found a decent image illustrating just how to do this, albeit on an older bike: 

Could be water freezing inside the housing, but don't forget that the viscosity of any lubricant is going to increase as the temperature decreases so that could be your problem as well. If you do re-lubricate your cable, be sure to use as light of a lube as possible. If that doesn't work, try replacing the cable and housing. If you're running v-brakes, be sure that the little rubber boot is staying seated against the end of the brake noodle. 

Women have different leg/arm/torso ratios, so if a frame truly has a women specific geometry, you're going to typically see a shorter effective toptube and longer seat tube & headtube. For really small women's frames (and men's for that matter), the geometry starts to get really wonky because the wheel size and BB height typically don't change. I won't elaborate any further because I think you're asking more about step-through frames than you are women-specific frames. Step through frames are thought of as women-specific, although typically these are cheap bikes where there is no difference between the standard and the stepthrough geometry. The only difference is the shape and angle of the toptube which has no effect on the geometry of the frame or the contact points for your body (ie pedals, saddle, handlebars). Just like with most things there are exceptions to this rule- for instance, Breezer makes nice step through commuters with slightly shorter cockpits for the stepthrough models. 

There are other potential issues but the ones listed above are the most likely culprits that are most closely related to the drivetrain. 

Yes, there is hope for skinny people like us. Please keep in mind that sitting on a saddle for miles/hours on end is never going to be totally comfortable. I'm sure I will get flamed for this but I'll go ahead and state it- there is no such thing as a comfortable saddle. Saddle choice is a matter of mitigating discomfort, not enhancing comfort. The two most personal choices people make beyond the bike they ride are shoes and saddles. These two items run neck and neck in terms of personal the preference is. What works for one person may be an instrument of torture for the next and vice versa. Helmets are a not-so-distant third. What you need to do is try different saddles. Keep trying different saddles until you find one that you deem bearable. Give them time. Someone once told me that "you don't break the saddle in, the saddle breaks you in," and that holds true for pretty much everything with the exception of a certain brand of English fame known for their leather saddles. Unless the saddle is excruciating to sit on for the first short ride, give it a couple weeks of regular riding or a month or so of sporadic riding before you conclude that it's not right for you. This process can be expensive. Road saddles are much more difficult than mountain bike saddles because you spend more time on them and move around on them less frequently. I've been riding regularly for many years now. I still haven't found a road saddle that I'm happy with. I have the same mountain bike saddle on every other bike I own except my road bike. The longer your ride and the harder your ride, the more uncomfortable you will become regardless of your saddle choice. More padding does not equal more comfort. Do not forget that. That goes not only for saddles but for shorts as well- and everything else involved in a contact point with your body for that matter. Just because something costs more does not mean that it will be more comfortable- same rules apply here as well. Don't underestimate the value of a good pair of shorts. You probably shouldn't pay less than $60 for a pair and you should do your homework on what makes/models rate well and which dont. There is some personal preference involved with shorts but it's not to the same degree as with saddles. Typically if they rate high you will be happy with them. If they don't you might be better off sticking cardboard down your shorts (I've owned a pair of shorts like this that weren't that cheap). Bad shorts can make a good saddle feel more uncomfortable to a degree, but the best pair of shorts cannot make a saddle that does not fit you comfortable. To close, I will reiterate that saddles are not very comfortable to begin with. What you're trying to do is find one that limits how uncomfortable you become as your ride progresses. Try enough different ones and eventually you will find one that works. Best of luck. 

Carbon fiber is a tougher material than you may think. For a carbon crankarm it's going to be thick throughout the arm and likely solid at the end as well as being reinforced by the aluminum pedal spindle insert. It will show scratches, but so will an aluminum crankset. It's nothing to worry about. If the manufacturer was concerned they wouldn't manufacture them for mountain biking. Another fact you may not know is that many carbon mtb cranks aren't all carbon. Many are carbon wrapped aluminum. This is typically done for aesthetic purposes, not structural. A perfect example is the XX crankset. If you could view a cutaway of this crank you'd see that the core is aluminum with a thin veneer of carbon over top. 

I wouldn't dish the wheel to fix this if I were you- you'd have to do it a lot more than you'd like to prevent contact that close to the hub just due to the geometry involved. Since the hub is centerlock get a 1mm freehub spacer and stick it on there. Hopefully that's all it will take. Alternatively, several companies make centerlock to 6-bolt adapters which may well push the rotor out enough to prevent the caliper from rubbing the spokes. 

All else being equal, longer chainstays equate to a longer wheelbase, and the rear wheel trailing further behind you. You are correct in your assertion that as wheel size increases so too does chainstay length, though many manufacturers have put considerable effort into minimizing this and as such the increased chainstay length is not directly proportional to increased wheel radius. For example, a 26" and 29" version of the same bike model are unlikely to have an inch and a half discrepancy in chainstay length. That said, there are tradeoffs to be had in chainstay length differences. As an analogy, think of a drag strip or hill climbing motorcycle vs a standard sport or dirt bike. The first two examples have very elongated swingarms that put the rear tire well behind the rider and dramatically increase the wheelbase. Those long swingarms are great for preventing the bike from looping out and maintaining straight line stability, but neither can turn or corner like the latter standard motorcycle examples. That is a very exaggerated example, but the same principles apply to chainstay length differences on bicycles. Again, all else being equal, longer chainstays are going to be more stable at speed and typically provide better climbing traction, but they will cause the bike to not handle as sharply and to no turn as quickly- that much is just basic physics. Keep in mind that chainstay length and wheelbase are just two factors in a multitude that determine how a bike will handle. Also keep in mind that just because you have a bike with slightly longer chainstays doesn't mean you can't rail corners or navigate switchbacks, and just because you have shorter chainstays doesn't mean you can't bomb descents- much of this comes down to technique, and you'll alter your technique to accommodate for any differences in your bike's handling characteristics. 

Negligible difference. More expensive pedals will have higher end bearings which should spin better, but what you're really getting there is a bearing that should last longer. The more you pay for a pedal, the lighter it should be and the longer the bearings should last. That's really it. 

Youll run into two types of metallic pads- sintered metallic and semi-metallic. The term "metallic" without any modifier gets used for a couple of reasons- a) many manufacturers don't offer both varieties of metallic pads for a given brake, so the type is implicit, and b) lots of folks don't know the difference or think the terms are interchangeable. They are similar, but different: Sintered metallic pads offer the best stopping power, but also cause the most rotor wear and can make the most noise, especially when wet. They are also the least affected by adverse conditions. Sintered metallic are typically used in downhill/freeride applications, but can be used for less demanding riding types as well. Depending on the setup, sintered pads can feel "grabby", that is, that they lack modulation at the lever. That problem tends to arise on more powerful brakes with larger rotors though, and both of those factors play towards that perception. Semi-metallics are a tradeoff between braking performance and pad wear/noise. They still stop very well but can be a little less noisy and cause a little less rotor wear. They may also offer better lever modulation than sintered metallic pads. This pad type can often be found on higher end all-mountain, trail, and cross country oriented brakes, though some manufacturers opt for sintered pads while others may opt for organics. Organic pads are the kindest to your rotors and typically quitest, but don't offer the same bite as metallic pads. These pads also wear the quickest. This does not mean that they're low end pads though, and depending on conditions, riding style and personal preference they may be a great choice. Organic pads can offer the best lever modulation of the three pad types, but may not stop riders sufficiently in demanding circumstances. 

For lighter loads and a shorter trip I might suggest a messenger bag, but an over the shoulder bag can get pretty uncomfortable as the load gets big or the ride gets long. In both cases I prefer a backpack style pack with two straps. There are a few companies out there that make or have made backpacks that stand up off of your back. Usually they have a stretched mesh panel that sits against your back with airspace between the mesh panel and the bag itself. They do a decent job of mitigating the heat and sweat problems compared to a standard backpack. Camelbak and Vaude made them for a while though I believe they've been discontinued; it may be worth looking on Amazon and other stores to see if you can find them on the cheap. Deuter is known for this type of pack and has a pretty good assortment of sizes and styles, like this one for instance. You should be able to find one that fits your needs in terms of size and will sit on the high end of your budget. I have a 28 liter pack from them and like it pretty well. 

Before we get into axle breakage, let's discuss your axle spacing, which probably isn't going to work going from a 6spd to an 8spd cassette unless you install a new, longer axle with more spacers, and you'll need to re-dish the wheel slightly. In terms of breakage, I've seen all speeds of freewheel axles break over time. Freewheel hubs' axles are just more likely to break because of the leverage you can get over the axle. Here's a great diagram that illustrates this point: