Yes, there's a technique, however I strongly recommend you to fix the front brake. Rear only is dangerous. The rear wheel tends to block much sooner than the front one because of reasons you mentioned in the question so the obvious way is to avoid blocking as much as possible. First, you can emulate ABS on the car by quickly pressing and releasing brakes in series, this way the wheel will likely block, but with less tendency to slide sideways. Another is moving your mass center towards back while braking - not cool, but it helps, actually. And again - fix the brakes, repairing them is not a hard job. 

There was a questionnaire on Bikeforums on this topic and here you can see the results: Brifters - how reliable are they? 39 people gave their votes and obviously for most people brifters did not break at all. The second question is about working optimally. To be honest I am yet to see a brifter which does not work optimally. Brifters have very little to no setting up, so they either work or don't work, no middle line there. Campagnolo brifters are known to be easily serviceable (assuming you have the parts), but Shimano are serviceable to some extent as well. 

Most setups are supposed to have at least some sound when switching gears. Depending on your derailleur/setup the sound may vary from a short click to longer sound of chain grabbing around the gears. The switching is supposed to happen without pedaling backwards, so you should not do it. Normally it is not okay to switch gears with highly tensioned chain, such as during the climbing, so you should find a moment to switch speeds when pedaling forwards will not have any effect on speed, which means the speed must be higher than the speed you could achieve by pedalling. It sounds very complicated, but in real life should happen almost instinctively, without thinking at all, just get the "feeling" on what gears lead to what speeds with your cadence. If the switching is not smooth anyway, there's good chance you have to adjust the derailleur. Some random manual on how to do it can be found here: $URL$ 

Most likely the source of the wheel going loose was loose nut. Department store bikes are not likely to have quick release which is safer because it does not become loose with time. Put the wheel back and screw it on tightly. Don't forget to check the front wheel too, because if that goes loose the consequences will be very unfortunate. The wheel on the picture looks off centre which is likely because it is not properly in. The question is whether you need need to invest into more serious bike. If cycling is interesting to you, the answer is definitely yes. Just don't buy those bicycle-like objects in department stores anymore. 

Can't see a single reason why not. I am commuting on road bikes since the times of Noah (ok, a bit later) and only being happy for the decision. Used MTB before and it was not as fun as road bike is on roads. There are some interesting issues, such as rugged bottoms of the trousers of your dress suit if you don't clamp them while commuting, also some funny looks from the strangers but otherwise it is all only positive. Commuter bike is more exposed to the external elements such as sun and rain so be ready to maintain some rust and molten tires (been there). With the rust it is easy - keep your grease on, especially after the rainy days. With the molten tires under the sun it is a bit more tricky, but I have found out empirically that Michelin tires melt like butter while, say, Contis stay hard for a longer time. 

I used to commute 14 kilometers one way, which makes up 28 both ways to work every day. Needed to get used at first but it did not take much time. A bicycle moves 22 km/h in average in a tight traffic with lights, +-3 km/h if you are lucky or not, which makes some 40 minutes for the whole trip - not a big deal, really. I did not ride in rain and when it is much colder than possible for comfort. Use lights at night, take care of traffic and you will be fine. I don't think there's any extra preparation needed. 

Drink plenty of water, eat well, take care of the traffic, and you will be fine. There's nothing much else to recommend, 180 kms is not extremely long distance and no need to stress out about it too much. P.S.: forgot to write at first, a very important tip about touring. Keep attention on your cadence! If you run 30 km with cadence too low you won't notice much difference. If you run 150 with too low cadence, you will be unable to walk for a while. Avoid starting from lights too quickly and applying too much force onto pedals, conserve your power. 

Using 23mm tires on commuter for several years and feeling excellent, don't see any need to increase the size. Always commuting on asphalt only. Very seldom getting out on gravel and it is not that bad too. Used Kenda, Panaracer, Michelin (Pro3 and Pro4) and Continental (4000). Michelin remain the distant favourite among all - the most sticky and comfortable tires. During the last 5 years got only two flats. The first one was on Kenda tires - they were not good anyway, and the second on Panaracer, because tires were work out to the point of exposing large portions of wireframe. 

From the practical point of view, you will get more tired on ups and downs, but more bored on flat. Downs do not compensate for ups, because they require a lot of concentration and muscle power - your speed is much higher on downhills! You will be very tired after a 30 minute downhill, which never happens on 30 minute flat. In fact, roads where there's very little flat and mostly hills are very hard to ride physically although fun for your mental part. Never really bothered calculate it, but emprically on long rides my normal daily distance on flat is 180-200 km, in the mountains 120-140 km. This makes it obvious on which one is more "efficient" distance and speed-wise. On the other hand, ups and downs are much more beneficial for your fitness. 

The long answer. I took my first long trip after commuting 30~40 km daily and never doing anything more than 60 km at once before. The bike was very low end flat bar road bike. The trip consisted of 150~180 km per day for three continuous days. There were few not major, but noticeable mountains on the first day and plenty of traffic. 150 km of the first day did not take much effort. I felt like running more would not be an issue at all. 180 on the second day were very hard, mostly because of the sores caused by the inappropriate clothing and flat bars and a major city I have had to cross at that day. Crossing large cities is a thing to avoid. The third day was hell because of rain, but that's completely different story. 

First of all, welcome to the "mysterious click" society! The obvious first thing you want to check if this is pedal or not. Find a certain way to reproduce the click and reproduce it by pressing on the pedal, its furthest end, only. Then try to reproduce by pressing only crank by your foot using similar force (be careful, cranks are slippery!) and watch what happens. If click does not happen, then there's a good chance all you need is to tighten your pedal a bit. If the click is still happening, check the screws on your stem and handlebar, saddle, also check if quick release levers are tight enough. These can click if too loose too. If you have a threaded stem, tighten the center screw - it does click if loose. It is usually very hard to understand from where exactly the click comes. Try to apply the pressure without grabbing handlebars, try all kinds of tricks to understand what is clicking. Carefully check out all the frame and cranks for cracks. Those can happen on new bikes too. Check your chain - may be there is a loose link? If the click still happens, then it is a bit more mysterious than the usual causes. I have had a bike which was so mysterious so that even LBS disassembled it all and re-assembled for free - the click was gone that way. Reason still unknown.