The sun isn't the same density all the way through. According to MSFC's solar interior page, the core density at the centre of the sun is a whopping 150,000 kg/m$^3$. Surrounding it the radiative zone is around 20,000 - 200 kg/m$^3$ (already less dense than water). Eventually at the edge is the convective zone - the density at the part that we see is much less dense than our own air... So although the Sun's average density isn't very remarkable, the core is the densest place in the solar system. (Sun cross section from Wikipedia.org) 

Ideally a tripod as Journeyman suggests. Another idea is to use a different grip. Use both hands to hold the right hand objective housing. Allow the left hand objective to rest on the back of your left hand/wrist. Also if possible hold your elbows in closer to your body (this is really only possible if you're not looking very high up.) This means your two hands are in a "relatively" rigid triangular arrangement. It's still far inferior to using a tripod, but it's a bit better than just holding the binoculars in the traditional way... 

Using the eyepiece, and no camera lens, is a very different configuration to the camera+tube+scope (case 3). The configuration you're after is "Eyepiece projection". I don't know exactly what you have available, but I believe you will need to fit a T-threaded extension tube to the external thread on your T-adapter. Then fit the camera onto that. Note - before you go out and buy a new extension you can probably do a hand-held test of this by the following: 

Short answer - not really, parallax for the closest stars is right on the limits of resolution for a good ground-based amateur equipment. The nearest star would show a parallax angle of under an arcsecond. (The Parsec even takes its definition based on one arcsecond of parallax.) Ground based amateur observations are probably limited to an arcsecond at most, so it's probably not possible to measure them. A special (and totally fictional) case - if a nearby star like Alpha Centauri were exactly between us and a much more distant star, and it were possible to see them both without Centauri overpowering that distant star, then maybe it would be possible to observe them as a close double. That's not true in practice however. Update: Prompted by Rob's much better answer, the earliest parallax determination I've been able to find was using 

Correct: though gravity waves were predicted for a long time, their final direct measurement adds a bit more reinforcement to relativity theory, the behaviour of spacetime, etc. The important thing is, we know there must be more "out there" than just relativity and quantum mechanics - there has to be something happening at the crossover point between the two (Quantum gravity and stuff like that). The next stage may be to look in more detail at gravity wave events using the growing LIGO network and its more sensitive successors, and see if gravitational waves behave exactly as predicted, or if there are any gaps, which may point to new physics... 

If your choice is between a 40mm refractor and a 60mm refractor, I would say the 60mm is likely to be better. I had (still have) a 40mm and it was OK for a beginner but dim at higher powers, and those maximum powers were probably around 70 times (very rough estimate). A note about the star diagonal: these reverse left to right as mentioned in the question, but this is not a problem for astronomy. After a little while you learn to swap left for right when aiming the scope. A 60mm refractor will show Jupiter as a fairly small bright circle at 80x, in still conditions two or more horizontal bands will often be visible. The moons will be visible in a low power eyepiece as small points, and their positions move from night to night. (Note we wouldn't expect to see any detail in the moons, just their positions.) Either of the small refractors you mentioned will show the moon quite well, there is a lot to see especially when the air is still. 

These time dilation effects are (always) accounted for. An observer at any "place" in the inflating universe would experience time at his, her or its own rate. Several observers might find they had experienced different rates of time if they gathered together afterwards and compared notes, however. 

Objects in orbit pass over the surface above what's commonly called their ground track. For objects in low earth orbit, though they go around the earth every 1.5 or more hours, the Earth rotates beneath them so they don't trace a simple "circle" over the same points on land. 

The quantity of light gathered is the important difference. The VLT and its kind can use interferometric methods to achieve the resolution of a much higher telescope - that allows detection of fine detail that previously couldn't be seen. Large single aperture scopes like the E-ELT don't offer such a high resolution, but they collect a larger quantity of light so can produce acceptable images of much fainter objects. Part of the E-ELT's core goals is imaging of very distant galaxies, and for this it doesn't need exceptional resolution, but it needs very sensitive light gathering. ("Light" including part of the infra-red region too, though that's separate question.) 

This is not a solution to the problem, just an idea which may help diagnose it... Try setting up with the mount deliberately aligned slightly off the pole. Then a time exposure with "perfect" tracking should record stars as a straight line. Once set up like this take a single long exposure for, say, half an hour and see if the trails on the image are straight with regular bumps (that would probably indicate periodic error as James suggests), or if something more random is going on. 

Yes you can. You just need a partly clear sky (to see the stars) and part cloud (to produce the rain). For an example of suitable conditions, look for pictures of a moonbow. (I've only seen one once, personally.) 

We're at the centre of the observable universe - but this is because everything (when observed over very long distances) is expanding away from everything else, so we are at the centre of what we observe. The spherical shape of the observable universe is really an optical illusion, in conjunction with the large-scale expansion of the universe. We simply can't see anything that is apparently receding at (close to) light speed, so everything beyond a certain range is but off from our view. The actual universe - well that's probably much bigger than the observable universe. What shape it is, and what conditions are like in other regions, we can only guess at right now. (I have to lie down now, my head is beginning to spin.) 

Be aware that a 4mm eyepiece and a 3x barlow at the same time will give you a very high magnification - too high! For regular Jupiter viewing I would suggest you stick to 100x or 200x at most, unless the air is exceptionally still. (After a few sessions you'll find out what "Still" air means.) A lot of beginner scopes like this are sold with barlows that tend to give too much power, my advice is to keep it packed away for most sessions. So I'd stick to using that 4mm on its own, jupiter will look quite small but with practice you can usually tease a bit more detail out of the image. I don't have one of these scopes, but my experience of comparing cheap modern eyepieces with expensive ones is that the lower cost ones are generally OK these days. 4mm is quite a high power so the extra magnification will cause a lot of blurriness and it will take patience to get the focusing at its sharpest, so don't panic if everything is looking fuzzy at the moment. For a first stage I would suggest a few things that are nothing to do with the eyepieces at all... 

This is the wrong way to do it. A point 3000 miles south will be pointing in a very different direction, because the earth is round and only about 8000 miles in diameter. For example: Earth is around 25,000 miles in circumference. A point 3000 miles away is 0.12 times the circumference away. (3000/25000.) The circumference is equivalent to 360 degrees (assuming the Earth is a perfect circle, which is almost true for its polar section.) So 0.12 times 360 degrees is a difference of forty-something degrees. This probably accounts for your difference (very roughly). Additional comment about roughness of these calculations: in fact the Earth is not a perfect sphere. Drawing a great circle along the meridian, the Earth will not appear perfectly round because the equator bulges slightly (and the poles are flattened). It's only something like 30-40 miles difference, but bear in mind this has a slight effect when calculating angles by dividing the circumference, as I did above. (Still better than assuming a straight line though, which is what I think the question is doing.) 

Iorio (Preliminary constraints on the location of Telisto/Planet Nine from planetary orbital dynamics) has suggested transmissions from the New Horizons probe (currently beyond Pluto) could be used to test for the influence of the proposed new planet, and provide constraints to its possible position. It is estimated that the position of New Horizons could be affected by the proposed planet, of the order of 100 metres or more by 2019. It is stressed that this is a preliminary proposal: 

There is an earlier 2006 paper by some of the same researchers showing earlier attempts, with a much more coarse radio map of Jupiter. This goes into more detail about the earlier image processing techniques though (requires good knowledge of Fourier analysis etc.) (Note: I can't read the current Science paper in full, it's behind a paywall.) 

(Source: Heliometer article on Wikipedia.) In purely aperture terms, that's an amateur-sized instrument (with some admittedly very precise measuring gear built in.) So my suggestion now is to ignore my initially doubtful response and try measurements, perhaps using a camera at fairly high magnification as Rob suggests... 

This means the surface of the planet is far brighter (in the raw data) than the surrounding magnetosphere. The planet itself has been darkened considerably in the image, otherwise it would be a pale circle and show little or no detail. The press release from the VLA's site itself doesn't even show the wide field image however; it concentrates on the image showing detail of the spot itself. It mentions: 

Presumably you're supposed to start by calculating the minimum orbital period a comet can have for a 10,000 AU aphelion distance. Then divide that period (number of years) by five, assuming we see on average one of these every five years. That will give you an estimate for how many there are out there. (I would also tell the person setting the question that there are some pretty wild assumptions implied in the question!) 

A seventh magnitude star. See this link: $URL$ Further info: the star in question was probably HIP 54057 (also known as SAO 118636 or HD 95848.) On April 12th it was occulted by Jupiter (that is, Jupiter passed in front of it) for about three hours. So the star would have been in the area of Jupiter for a few days. 

1) your original image is blurred and possibly overexposed. I can't tell if the blurring is due to poor focus or inaccurate tracking. I think you really need much better, sharper images that show the true boundary of the planet before you can start to measure diameters. 2) with a sharp image, there should be no need for posterising the image. 3) "Is there a reason why the middle posterised object gives the most accurate value" - well we could claim that it marks the "average" estimated diameter, but in my opinion the answer is: coincidence. If you posterised it to give, say, four bands instead of three, which would you take as your "true" diameter? And without knowing the real diameter of Jupiter in advance, how would you ever know? Edit: by the way, I noted your previous question on this subject. Did you read and use those answers? How sure your magnified image is really the size you think? You could try to verify this by photographing a double star of known separation... 

To directly answer the question, the Drake Equation is not based on a "logical fallacy" (which means a different thing, philosophically). The logic is fine, the real problem is we don't have any meaningful data. Regarding abiogenesis (the first formation of some simple life): as you correctly state, we know only that it happened once (here, presumably but that doesn't matter). However the argument that it happened quite quickly on our planet is meaningless statistically, because that's just a sample of one. (If anyone thinks this answer is too waffly or off topic just say so and I'll delete it by the way; I think the question is a fair one but we just can't present any data, just reason.) 

The orbit is around the Earth in a fixed plane, so we are likely (but not guaranteed) to see the satellite pass over 12 or 24 hours later. 

You are correct, and in fact the clocks are offset. But most people never notice this because of the way days are defined. If you measure the "day" length by the stars (instead of the sun) you will see it's not 24 hours at all. It's around 23 hours 56 minutes. (Check this by going out at night, picking a bright star, and noting the exact time it passes due south. Then observe it the following night and note it passes 4 minutes earlier.) By the way this shortened "day" is the sidereal day. Each day, the Earth shifts along in its orbit (by about a degree, as you correctly observed in the question). So if you go out and point at the Sun at Noon every day, you are pointing in a slightly different direction. (I'll also neglect the Solar Analemma at this point too as it's just too confusing.) Really, the "day" of 24 hours is not related to the true rotation period of Earth at all; loosely speaking it's just the average time between sunrises, or sunsets, or noons. 

It's not true; this object is not a moon of Earth's. Here's a NASA/JPL announcement of it. 2016 HO3 is the "name" being used for it at the moment. They're calling it a "quasi-moon". It's in an orbit that is in resonance with Earth's but is not permanently bound. (It's not the first object to be found with such properties too.) 

All they can say is, somewhere in the southern sky. In the future a network of more detectors will allow such events to be pinpointed much more precisely. 

From memory (I don't have a copy here right now) the HNSky package used to have a hand-drawn "supplement" file for the milky way. It contained a lot of data points arranged as RA & Dec points and was extracted from photographs, with a bit of correction and scaling. I suggest you load and install one of the older versions still on HN Sky's page, such as 3.0.0, and look for the supplement file. (The newer version 3.2.3 does not seem to include this file.) This is only position data - no proper motion, etc. as the question mentioned. So only a partial answer. (Note: You might need to ask the authors of that file for permission if you're going to release software based on this. No harm in looking at it for purely personal interest of course.) 

Things entering the atmosphere (whether a meteor or an atmosphere-skimming object) travel too fast to be visible for 10 minutes. Normally a pass of a satellite (at above atmosphere height) takes 2-3 minutes and most meteors are over in seconds. Even the famous daylight fireball from the 1970s was over in a very short time. I would guess what you have there is a plane at high altitude, though it's moving a bit slower than I would expect. (I'm open to suggestions.)