The galaxy is not spherical. Its shape is rather more like a round disk (with some irregularities and some features like arms, etc). 

If F is the focal length of the objective, and f the focal length of the ocular, then the magnification of the instrument is: M = F / f So you'll get 10x with the first combination. This is enough to see craters, mountains and valleys on the Moon. You will probably not see planetary disks or the rings of Saturn. The large diameter of the ocular might be awkward, but it should work. Make sure both lenses are installed on a rigid tube - plastic tubes from water pipes should work. Make sure the lenses are perpendicular to the axis of the tube - small errors there reduce overall performance. You will need a way to finely adjust the distance between objective and ocular - the ideal distance is F + f but don't just glue them in place; instead, see if you can make two concentric sliding tubes, you know, like the spyglasses from pirate movies. Then you'll be able to look through the instrument and adjust the distance until the image is sharp. If there's any way you could find a used ocular from an old microscope or binoculars, use that as the ocular in your instrument. It will provide higher magnification (smaller focal length) and its performance should be much better than a simple biconvex lens - fewer aberrations, since true oculars have internal corrections (well, most of them). With the higher magnification you will probably see the rings of Saturn, the moons of Jupiter, or even some equatorial belts on Jupiter. Take it slowly and do it right. This is totally doable with simple materials. This is the design of the first telescope I've built many years ago. You'll be very proud when something you made with your own hands actually works. 

The PyEphem library allows you to create Python scripts that could calculate any conjunction you want (and many other things besides that). $URL$ Here's a script that already does that: $URL$ Here's the result of running that script now: $URL$ Notable event: extremely close conjunction between Jupiter and Venus in 2016: 

Very likely not. If it's a gravitational process like galaxy lensing, then a "mirror" would require a very large deviation. That's extremely unlikely with this process. With other processes, e.g. classic reflection, it seems even more unlikely. We don't know any natural processes that could craft mirrors at cosmic scale. 

This is what I would do in your case: I would take the scope out 1 hour before observing, every time. I would try and learn how to collimate the scope. I would try to figure out a few simple collimation techniques, and a few simple tests. I would spend a few days / weeks practicing that. I would keep reading about collimation. When collimation is at least partially under control, I would learn how to properly focus the scope. Seems simple, but it can be tricky. Use a bright star, and try and make it as small as possible. Use the Moon when it's visible, and try and make it crisp and clear. Do not try this with a miscollimated scope, since it's pointless. After a few months, when I gain confidence that the scope is in better shape, very well collimated, very well focused, I might try to borrow a better eyepiece from a friend. I said borrow, not buy. Something like a 3 ... 4mm eyepiece, good quality, that would give me a comparison for the existing eyepieces. This ONLY makes sense with a scope that is in perfect collimation, perfect temperature, perfect focus. If an improvement is seen, then get a better eyepiece - but do not spend hundreds of dollars for an expensive eyepiece that will then be used in a tiny cheap scope. Second-hand eyepieces often work exactly as well as new ones. If you know someone in your area who makes mirrors, see if they agree to put your primary mirror on the Foucault tester, and assess its condition. But beware: the results might be very disappointing. Or not. You kind of never know with these little scopes. EDIT: After the scope is collimated and so on, you could try to increase magnification by using a 2x barlow with your eyepieces, but do not expect miracles - the image will be bigger, but probably rather "mushy". More magnification is not always better, there's always a trade-off. Good luck, and clear skies to you! 

So, as you can see, the standard solar system model in astronomy is in excellent agreement with what you can see with your own eyes. There is no disagreement between observation and the model - if there was, the model would be fixed. That's how science works. 

It is a very common issue with cheap laser "collimators" that the collimator itself is miscollimated. The laser only helps if it is very precisely centered, otherwise it is misleading. Unfortunately, many, many commercial lasers are woefully off-axis. Plug the laser into the focuser. Tighten the screw only a little bit, so that the laser is sitting there semi-snugly, but you can still turn it around its own axis (rotate it in place in the focuser). Fire up the laser. Now gently turn the laser around, while watching the laser spot on the primary. What does the spot do? If the laser is centered, the spot should never move as you rotate the laser in place. If the spot moves even a little bit (try to avoid rocking the laser tube sideways, as that would falsify the test), if the spot describes a circle on the primary as you rotate the laser in place, throw that laser in the garbage can. (Ok, some lasers can be adjusted, provided they have the 2 or 3 adjustment screws on the collar, on the lateral part of the laser tube. Sometimes the screws are hidden under a plastic or metal ring. If that's the case, try and rescue the laser by carefully adjusting those screws. Otherwise dispose of the laser, or destroy it, since it's misleading.) 

The formula seems to suggest that you could get near-infinite magnification from any telescope by just reducing f, the focal length of the ocular. And it's technically true. But the question is - how much can I increase magnification before it's too much to be useful? When you zoom into an image with Photoshop, at some point you start seeing the pixels; any zooming past that point does not reveal more details. Telescopes do not have pixels, but the image the objective provides does not have an arbitrary amount of details - just like with Photoshop, arbitrarily increasing magnification with a telescope past some point will only give you a messy blur (not pixelated, just blurry). So how much is too much? It depends. If you had perfect optics, used in perfect conditions, then the maximum useful magnification would be: 

The real reason is that the human eye is not a linear sensor. A 10x decrease in illumination does not produce a 10x reduction in your perception of light, but more like a 2x reduction at most. So yes, during the 90% phase of a partial eclipse, the level of illumination is massively reduced. You could check it with a device that could measure ambient light, and it would show you the huge decrease. But your eyes tell a different story because they're not built to operate on a linear scale. 

Your telescope has a 2000 mm focal length, and 200 mm aperture. With the 20 mm eyepiece, you get 100x magnification. With the 10 mm lens, you get 200x. Several things could cause what you describe: Seeing (turbulence) might be bad. It is common in many places that less than great seeing means everything at 200x and over might start looking blurry. But seeing changes with the seasons, or day to day, hour to hour, or indeed from one second to another. It's random. If you get the exact same results all the time, and the image never improves even after many weeks of trying, then perhaps it's not seeing that's the culprit. Your telescope might not be collimated. Look in the user's manual. Is there a collimation procedure you need to follow? (EDIT: yes, there is - page 20) A miscollimated scope indeed behaves as you described - seems "sharp" at low-ish magnification, but quickly becomes blurry if you push magnification up. Point the scope at a bright star and defocus. Are the rings perfectly circular? If not, it might be miscollimated. $URL$ Another factor is optics quality. Optics with lots of aberrations cause "mushy" images and a difficulty to find the true focus. High quality optics produce a scope that is very "snappy" when achieving perfect focus, and make very sharp images when seeing is good. There's nothing you can do about this, but the good news is - this problem is not very common nowadays; optics quality, while not always great, tends to be at least passable in many cases. Quality could be evaluated either on the test bench (which requires equipment), or via direct observation of stars (which requires a very experienced observer and takes time). Finally, have you compared views with another instrument of similar aperture? The image at higher magnification will always seem a bit more soft, compared to lower magnification - even in perfect seeing with a collimated instrument. Also, the contrast always decreases as you increase magnification. This is why there is always an optimal magnification for each view - sometimes higher, sometimes lower, depending on many factors. The best scope in the world will look mushy and blurry if you push magnification up too much. Can you easily see the Cassini division in Saturn's rings? If yes, then you're probably in okay shape (collimation and seeing), you're just not used to the softness at higher magnification. I have a very high quality reflector (self-made), similar aperture class to yours (a bit smaller), and Cassini is immediately visible at 180x and looks sharp; it's also visible at 255x but the whole thing starts to look mushy and faded. It looks super-sharp and high-contrast at 136x but it's kind of small. This is in perfect collimation, perfect thermal equilibrium, high quality optics throughout the stack (primary and secondary mirrors, eyepieces), and good seeing typical of N. California. When seeing is bad, Cassini starts to fade no matter what I do. 

Atmospheric refraction Yes, the Earth's atmosphere refracts light. One notable effect is that objects near horizon appear higher than they should be. 

Some ideas and solutions: Adapters I tell everyone who is trying to do prime focus photography with visual scopes (dobsonians, regular newtonians) to ditch the old T-ring system and just buy dedicated adapters. All you need is a piece of metal that goes in the bayonet mount on the camera on one side, and into the focuser on the other side. No need for T- components. Some such adapters are made by telescopeadapters.com: $URL$ I have two adapters like this, they save a very large amount of back focus, compared to the classic T-ring / T-adapter system. In other words, they allow the camera to get much closer to the focuser, and therefore catch the focal plane on the sensor. You just need to choose the kind of adapter that works with your camera. Most of these adapters are 2", so in a 1.25" focuser a size adapter is needed - but that would waste some back focus distance. Camera Classic DSLR cameras have a very large flange distance, so a large back focus is needed to overcome it. Other removable-lens, large-sensor cameras have a much smaller flange distance, if they are mirrorless. Examples: Micro Four Thirds cameras (Panasonic G series), Sony NEX, Samsung NX, etc. All these systems have large sensors (comparable to DSLR) which work well for astrophotography, but don't have moving mirrors, so their flange distances are tiny. $URL$ I have a Panasonic G1, used with the adapter mentioned above. I only need 25 mm of back focus for this to work, which is an extremely small value. Use a barlow A barlow would increase the amount of back focus available. Try and see what happens. Keep in mind it cannot work miracles - if you need a very large amount of back focus, it may not work. Use eyepiece projection With some eyepieces, you can thread adapters on the user side, and then put the camera body (without lens) on the adapter. Move the eyepiece WAY out of focus, and it will generate a real image which can be projected on the sensor. This is not prime focus photography anymore, but it works and it's better than nothing. However, such adapters are hard to find, and many eyepieces won't support them. Use a dedicated USB "eyepiece camera" You can find relatively cheap USB cameras made for imaging, some are less than $100. With one of those, you could achieve focus relatively easy. Example: $URL$ Would not offer the same performance like a DSLR, but it's better than nothing. Use a telescope made for imaging Visual scopes, like a small newtonian, are not really that great for photography, for a variety of reasons. A dedicated astrograph would always work better. There are many Cassegrain systems out there made specifically for imaging, some are relatively inexpensive (not much more expensive than a DSLR). In many cases, you need very long exposure, and you need to track the sky while the shutter is open. Many such scopes come with a tracking mount, or are made to be installed on a tracking mount. That would make it very easy to do tracking well. It would be very hard to do tracking with other kinds of scopes (tracking platforms for dobsonians do exist, but are not very common). Move the primary mirror up Think about it - if you move the primary mirror up in its cell, the focal plane will stick out. This is a way to gain back focus only if you know what you're doing. Additional spacers in the primary mirror cell could do it. Modifying the cell is also doable. Beware, you could ruin the scope if you make a mistake. Also, if the secondary mirror is too small to begin with, you'll increase the amount of clipping. Afocal photography Put the eyepiece in the scope, just like for a normal visual observation. Now put the camera at the eyepiece and move it around until you capture the image. Click the shutter. This is called afocal photography. You'll need a camera mount, that will attach to the focuser, holding the camera at the eyepiece. Something like this: $URL$ Keep in mind that your camera is very likely too heavy for this trick to work. Also, afocal is usually the lowest quality of all techniques, and rarely works well enough. (There are special adapters that go on the eyepiece on one end, and thread into the camera lens like a filter on the other end. These would work better, but are hard to find, only a few eyepieces support them, and your camera is too heavy anyway.)