Hills: Pushing a light bike up a hill is obviously easier than a heavier bike. Everyone likes to brag about that HC climb he did the other day. Without resorting to lying about actually climbing the hill, the easiest way for a cyclist to make his life easier is to carry less mass up the hill. Nobody will say, "That didn't count because you rode a 3kg bike," and you get no extra points for lugging a 40 kg dutch commuter bike to the summit. Technical Competence: Bicycle manufacturer have tried over the years to reduce bicycle weight, to the extent that weight (or lightness) has become a proxy measurement of the manufacturer's technical competence. Anyone can build a heavy bike, but it takes real engineering skill to build one that is light. 

As others have noted, your brakes probably aren't set up correctly if you can squeeze the lever so far that it touches the bar while the bike is stationary. That said, squeezing the brake levers while the bike is on a stand won't cause any more wear than normal braking would [1]. If you want to determine how hard to squeeze the brakes while on the stand, a good test is this: ride at a moderate speed in a safe environment and then try to rapidly stop. Your brake levers should not touch the bars, and (obviously) nothing should break loose. A properly adjusted rear brake should be able to skid the rear wheel (but it is considered poor braking technique to skid the rear wheel). A properly adjusted front brake should should be able to lift the rear wheel off the ground (you don't want to actually lift it, so use care). Try to get a feel for how much pressure you apply to the levers when you practice a panic stop and then apply a little more when the bike is on a stand. Please note that it is unsafe to suddenly fully-apply the brakes (suddenly squeeze both levers as hard as you can) while traveling at speed. If your brakes are properly adjusted, you should be able to easily lock either wheel by pulling hard on the brake lever. For the rear wheel this is less of a problem: You will simply skid the wheel, wearing down the tire. If you do this enough, or at a high enough speed or with a thin road tire, you risk wearing down the rubber to the innertube. If that happens, the tire will rapidly deflate and you will be riding on the rim (this is bad). Locking the front wheel is a bigger problem: the front wheel will NOT skid. If you lock the front wheel, you will go over the bars and hurt yourself. [1] Within reason, of course. If you're some sort of Olympic weightlifter, it's possible that you might squeeze hard enough to damage something. Also, if the brakes are "looser" after you squeeze really hard (ie, if you have to pull the lever farther, not harder, to make the brake pads touch the rim) then you are either squeezing too hard, or you need to readjust the cable and tighten the cable clamp on the brake. 

If you can't get out of the lowest (easiest) gears then something is stopping the cable from releasing. There could be a number of reasons for this. The shifter on the handlebars might not be working properly, something may be caught on the cable and pulling it, the cable could be frayed and is snagging on something, or the rear dérailleur could be jammed. So you should do some diagnostic tests: if you try to put it into highest (fastest) gear and the cable goes slack but the rear dérailleur doesn't move then it's not the shifter, so you can rule that out. If you undo the nut that holds on the cable to the dérailleur and the dérailleur moves, then it's the cable, and if it doesn't then it's the probably the dérailleur. 

I have 2 torque wrenches. One that goes up to 20Nm and another that goes from 20-60(ish)Nm. The little one is necessary for most of the things on my bike like my headset bolts and hollowtech crank bolts (around 7Nm and 14 NM from memory) and the big one is mainly for the cassette (40Nm) and bottom bracket (can't remember) and (just quietly) undoing stuck things (it's my longest spanner, so if I can't undo it with that I need to go get some pipe). Unless you're doing super precise stuff with them a lot you'll probably be okay with cheap ones. I got mine when they were on special at Aldi, and probably use them less than once a month, but it's good to have them when you need them. I balked at the cost originally, until I ruined a set of cranks by over-torque-ing the bolts, which cost me quite a bit more than if I'd just got a torque wrench in the first place). 

Another disadvantage of helmet mounted lights generally is that they can get snagged on stuff. Many of them are connected quite strongly to the helmet, and if you hit a low branch they're going to jerk your head back, which puts you at risk of neck injuries at least. In an urban setting they increase the risk of injury if you come off, not only because they get caught on things, but because they could also end up being mashed into the helmet and your head. I've had helmet lights before that I've made myself, and they all were mounted on with velcro, which is enough to keep them in place, but will separate with minimal force. 

TRP make road hydraulic brakes at a reasonable price, I'm thinking about a pair of these, with bar-end shifters. 

My experience with the GSC10 (though with an Edge 305 not a 500) has been that the batteries last 6 to 12 months, or roughly 2500 to 5000 miles of riding. That works out to something like 125 to 250 hours of operation. That is considerably less than what is stated in the manual, but in the ballpark of what the other two answerers experienced. The symptom you described (losing connection with the Edge 500) is consistent with a dieing battery. However, another cause could be poor alignment between the magnets and the sensor. I've found that the cadence magnet, in particular, will not be sensed if it shifts by a centimeter, or so. Since the Edge 500 can compute speed from GPS data, it's sometimes difficult to tell whether the GSC10 is really not sending data or simply not sensing the cadence magnet. Make sure the cadence magnet is aligned with the embossed groove on the side of the GSC facing your crank arm. 

As for the Hovding helmet specifically, it looks like the main selling point is that it sits around your neck while you are not actively colliding with something. Some people seem to think that conventional helmets look dorky and all helmets seem to give you "helmet hair" to one degree or another. So, I would say that this is again a case where you are paying to get a helmet that gives you more of categories 2 and 3 above. 

I have been searching for a generator or 'dynamo' (preferably one built into the hub) to run lights for night riding, but it seems that most are rated for only about 3W (presumably to meet German bicycle standards). I currently have a DiNotte 400R tail light that serves me well, running from a battery. I'd like to add a high-lumen headlight (at least 800 Lumens) and run the whole thing from a generator. I've measured the average power consumption of the 400R on one of the blink modes to be about 2W. A reasonable ballpark estimate for LEDs is about 100 Lumens per Watt, so I'd need a generator that can source an average power of at least 10 Watts for the head and tail light combined. I have some experience with electronics so an unregulated output in the range of, say, 5-30 Volts is acceptable. Storing energy to supply the power surge when the tail light is 'active' is something I'm confident I can handle. A typical cruising speed would be something like 20 mph (30 km/h). So: Generator (preferably in the hub) that can output 10 W at a reasonable voltage at 20 mph. Does anyone know of such a thing?