Check your DNS server settings by using Check your file (located in X:\WINDOWS\system32\drivers\etc). It should be reseted if it contains some non-default records. Check what will show. Check your browser proxy settings and/or proxy-like addons. If you can't resolve NS record via ping, but can use your browser it might be resolved through proxy. Check your firewall (bundled or external if you have any) settings. It might block ping utility or everything except your browser. Check your antivirus software if you have it to block some network/software. 

As I can see now, from your detailed update, most likely it seems that you don't have those IP's assigned on your local network interface. You've only added 111.222.62.130 on your server. In order for linux S(ource)NAT to work, you must have every IP address you're NAT'ing to (--to-source) to be actually added on your network interface. Check on how to assign additional IPs to an interface. You must issue for every IP you want to have SNAT working for. It will be convenient to write a script to fill those values. Be aware, that once you'll add those IPs on your local interface, you will "expose" your server via them to the Internet. You might use iptables INPUT table to block unwanted local connections to those IPs. By local I mean only to your server. Those coming through NAT are subject to FORWARD table only. PS: If that it's not the case, also please check and post your . 

www.cloudorado.com - it is actually a price comparison for cloud computing, but could be limited to a list of providers www.cloudharmony.com - they also provide benchmark for subset of the list 

There is a paper by folks from Israel Institute of Technology which analyzes the spot market. Their conclusion is that spot prices are not bid driven but rather generated with AR(1) function. So in such case it wouldn't be due to other's bids, but due to algorithm used. $URL$ Though, I guess it could have changed if spot market really reached the level where they could get nice prices from demand/supply. As Matt suggest it become a common practice to drive costs down with spot instances and many overbid on-demand prices to avoid down time. In longer run it was still cost effective ... but is it still? The real problem is that apart of Amazon nobody really knows how the prices are created. 

If you focus on costs, you could try cloudorado, which will calculate price of a server at multiple providers. It won't calculate backups though, but server and transfer. 

here you define a class to which a rule is applied (in this case a rate of parameter $3, which is egress in kilobits): 

That is a traffic shaping (also known a throttling) script. It appears to take 3 arguments. The interface, the receive limits and the transmit limits. This first part just deletes everything: 

It appears you have a Centos 6 machine but have configured the Epel repository for Centos 7. That is not going to work. Remove it and install the Centos 6 Epel Repository at: 

So what you need to do is add mydomain.com as a permited host in the users table, mysql database. For example: 

while you attempt to download a file. If you don't get any entries then its a firewall issue, if you get something like: 

Full info of components of Linux Traffic Control can be found here. UPDATE: by the way, in a regular linux box you can see the status of the traffic shaping queues by using tc -s. For example you could try to issue the following commands in your phone and they should work too: 

Now, to create a clustered VG, I've enabled fencing on all 3 nodes in my cluster (with IPMI if that matters). 

If you don't want to able to log in on serv2 without password when you don't set your non-default identity with '-i' option, you have to remove your default identity stored on serv2 at . It should be the same line as your local key. 

If that doesn't works, refer to that library manual on how to spawn a shell without , probably will work too. 

I don't actually require access from that node to VG/LVs stored on that SAN. But I need to have that node synced in the cluster for resource management purposes. Is there are a way I can tell LVM to ignore/exclude that node from clustered VG? 

Then it is not possible. Your question doesn't specify if you need 2-way connections (i.e. having "black boxes" accessible from the Internet) or not, but anyways this would require at least iptables for SNAT and advanced policy-based routing with iproute2. Added after original question was edited: Yes, something like this could work. But that is strongly dependent on your OpenVPN settings. Those local IPs from the VPN subnetwork (10.8.0.0/24) should be set up on your Server A and routed through VPN tunnel. Also do not forget to allow related packets coming back. This is usually done with something like this rule: 

The first thing to check is to see if the DNS request is actually leaving for the right destination. Open 2 terminal sessions. On one type: 

You can also add just '%' and it would work for any host, its like a wildcard. If you can't even get into the database to make the above changes, then you should change your hostname to localhost from mydomain.com. Your allowed connections to the database should at the very least be the localhost ip 127.0.0.1 UPDATE: 

As you can see a tcpdump capture on port 69 will not show you the full dialog. Also if you have NAT, once the server attemps to send a file from a source port other than 69, most NAT implementations will fail to forward the packet (only a full cone or restricted cone NAT will work, but Port Restricted or Symmetric NAT will not). 

You should edit your expect script to allow for timeout and expected result after rsync. For example: 

The client would therefore receive the 404 in the SIP reply plus it will be told to connect to sip:not-in-service-recording@atlanta.com for a recorded message. 

You could first migrate it to VM Ware ESX with VM Ware Converter - here is how. Then you can move the server to Amazon with VM Import Connector. Disclaimer: I haven't try it. 

You could also use standard ssh mechanisms. The best approach would be if user run on their machine to generate his/her key pair. Then they send you (or id_dsa.pub, depending on chosen algorithm) and you add its content to the on the destination host in the home directory of the user account they should be able to access. There can be more than one key in the file. One per line. And that is all! The same public key (id_rsa.pub) can be used on any number of hosts - it will always identify the user. You can also do it other way round - you run the ssh-keygen and post ~/.ssh/id_rsa (or id_dsa) to the user. And the user saves the file to ~/.ssh/id_rsa. Just need to remember to change permissions to 600 (-rw-------) of that file, otherwise ssh won't accept it. This is obviously less secure, since the private key is being distributed over email probably. It can also be done in PuTTY with PuTTYgen. 

Your www-data user most likely doesn't has any password set. This disallows logging in with and that user. Your www-data user shell are most likely set to something like which makes sense as this user aren't supposed to log into the system as real user. 

First of all your iptables command missing part. But this should generate an error as no POSTROUTING table exists in filter table by default. Make sure you are adding this to a correct table. This is very similar to this question: NAT GRE (IP protocol 47) over Linux router Next, make sure your are specified correct $internal_ip and that one matches the one you see on your tcpdump. Sometimes a simple typo slides out of sight and makes things look complicated. Also check your iptables rules doesn't have any preceding rule which triggers before your SNAT rule. Netfilter will trigger only first match on that occasion. Your note that TCP/1723 are natted actually means that you have other rules there. If this doesn't helps, make sure to check & post your detailed configuration with and things like . With switch with iptables you can actually see how much packets was triggered with each of your rules. You are running inside VM. Check your host node iptables rules also! Your rule might worked but host node firewall has overwritten packed source IP coming from your VM back to your internal ip. As seems like you are inspecting packets somewhere else, i.e. not directly on your VM. 

Your sendmail.mc looks ok. Apart from stopping and starting sendmail again (which I would guess you have already done). I would look at the actual configuration file which would be called sendmail.cf. Make sure you see the lines: 

Get rid of it. Thats is not an openvpn parameter. UPDATE Yes, I see you needed to add the client parameter as well. I am in the habit of setting up OpenVPN between networks with static keys and IP addresses. I never need the client parameter in those cases. 

If you do not even see the outgoing packet, then there is an internal problem with the name resolution config on your server. 

I think you can see the point. If you are not familiar with military timezones here is the list: $URL$ You can also try to use zdump to see if your zone file is not really what you are expecting: 

The first thing I would do before proceeding further would be to test port 25 end to end with a tool like netcat. The tool comes standard with most linux distros. For example on CentOS I would stop postfix to release port 25. Then I would start netcat like this: 

PS: Just noticed this question are actually from 2015 and was bumped due to bounty by other user. Still my answer solves this issue, as I did reproduced this situation and had the same "No suitable device found for this connection." issue as OP before I've tried this solution. 

I am not familiar with NetworkManager. Personally I prefer "old-fashioned" direct approach with iproute2/brctl/vconfig tools. But I've found this bug report & errata: $URL$ which are very related to your problem. You are just having issue with adding VLAN to a bridge instead of bond interface like there. But a workaround from that bug report will work too. Instead of adding (which will fail because you already have device associated with connection!), you must edit properties to make it slave to . I've tried to reproduce a configuration similar to yours. But without teaming, because seems like you don't have issues with that part as you can ping from team0. I've created a bridge and vlan id 24 on my NIC enp2s0. The link above suggests then to modify bonding (VLAN in our case) connection like like this: 

Keep them on TrueCrypt encrypted disk. They will be stored secure while you don't need them, and you would mount it only once you really need to use them. TrueCrypt creates a file, which then is mounted as virtual disk. Edit: If you need to protect it in a code which is not interactive, you could obviously encrypt the private key and decrypt it you application code. There is a plenty of samples how to decrypt file with Java. 

The hourly prices gives you flexibility if you need to add or remove capacity to adopt even hourly bursts (eg. peak hours). If you need something running instantly, then usually there are some sort of subscriptions or so. Amazon has reservations, others have monthly packages. But yes, it makes it all even more complicated to calculate. It may get a bit easier though with Cloudorado, which calculates prices for multiple providers. I think that good approach is to have dedicated servers for constant load and cloud for bursts. It is called hybrid hosting, but not many provide it (eg. Rackspase and GoGrid does). But also keep in mind that with some cloud providers, you may really adjust the instance size to your needs (separately define RAM, CPU, storage). This may also bring you some savings if you need resources in uncommon proportions. These are for instance CloudSigma, ElasticHosts or OpSource. 

here you create another scheduler for the virtual interface and a class with a rule defining a rate of parameter $2, which is ingress, in kilobits: 

Make note that in my example the secondary IP is not controlled by NetworkManager, hence the NM_CONTROLLED="no". You don't need to tie it up with a another MAC address, it should work fine without the HWADDR line. 

The only way one can guess at it is to check its reverse DNS entry. For example if the server detects a connection from 

The first word in the DNS entry clearly says its a DSL connection. That would be an example of an easy one. Another example: 

The reason your are getting the mydomain.com error is because the operating system is resolving the DNS host name lookup 127.0.0.1 to mydomain.com. That is not a mysql issue but a networking issue. 

The above will exit the script in case of 60 second timeout or if received a denied response in case of bad password. Otherwise if it receives a "sent" text it continues.