To be explicit: this is my problem. I'm not "blaming" the new guy (actually he's rather nice). That said ... I'm allergic to smoke. When I was younger, I went "out on the town" only once or twice a year, because I would "pay for it" for a few days afterward. I also avoided friends' parties (which sucked) or just came by for a short while to at least "make an appearance". At the office, we have one big room with "clusters" of 4 desks. A new guy started quite recently, and he's sitting diagonally across from me in one of these clusters. A few of my colleagues smoke. They (by law have to) go outside to do their business, and then come back in. Most of 'em, you can smell that they're smokers; a few of them you actually can't; and then there's, um, Joe. I don't know what he smokes, but he reeks fiercely. When Joe is closer to me than 2 metres, I have reactions -- find it difficult to breathe, it stings in my eyes. We've already had a project together, and he helpfully came around to my desk to discuss some code on my screen, and I literally could hardly breathe. How can I ask my manager to relocate him, without me looking coming across as a jerk in the process? I'm always at a loss for how to say something about this -- without coming across as unintentionally hostile. As I said, he's a nice guy, I just can't tolerate his stench. Update: Wow, this really woke people up. I would like to make two points: (a) I do not know for a fact whether I am "allergic", suffer from "asthma" or "vasomotor rhinitis induced by chemical irritation" (thank you so much for the knowledge you've shared), I only know that it's hella uncomfortable, and has been for my entire life; and (b) I will not try to resolve this by adding more chemicals (in the form of chewing gum or air freshener), because it doesn't work that way. I need to have the "offending chemicals" removed, not masked. Update 2: What I believe sets this apart from the "possible duplicate" Smoking with the front door open is that this is not about (a) "breaking a rule", (b) "snitching", or (c) being in any way secretive. The reason I haven't already resolved this on my own is purely due to the risk of social fall-out from me being Bad With Words. Final(?) update: I ended up writing a friendly, open and honest email to my manager, and waited for her to consider it. We then had a private face-to-face meeting. The outcome is that maybe I'll move to the next "island", but for now we'll both stay where we are -- he's got a whole bunch of assignments coming up that would have him be located at clients for long stretches at a time (I did not know of this until today). I might have a talk with him directly at some point in the future, if it proves necessary. As a closing note, I wish to give all of you a big heart-felt thank you for your consideration and inputs. 

The implication made by "You're the first one to complain", is a logical fallacy. That's how you counter it objectively. The implication is that you're weird, or different, or making unusual requests, or making unreasonable requests, because naturally everyone else is for the most part, reasonable, right? It's a version of Argumentum Ad Populum (appeal to crowd fallacy): Argumentum ad populum Management is trying to make the case that your argument is invalid because otherwise, others would be making the same case. That's like saying when you claim 2+2=4, you are wrong, because no-one else is coming to management saying 2+2=4. Clearly that's a fallacy. You can be right on the merits of your argument alone, regardless of what anyone else is doing. Now, whether or not you should ACTUALLY counter management's argument objectively is the more important question. My advice is, it's rarely advisable to get into an argument, especially with management, unless this is something you are willing to risk your security of employment for. Better to be a gentle persuader, and show them why treating their employees better is better for THEM, not YOU. Everyone listens to WII FM (what's in it for me). 

Yes and no. No, because look at what else you're gaining/training: the skills and mindset needed for maintenance, which all software needs but few (ostensibly) want to do. I've landed more than one job, I believe, in part because I like maintenance work (that is, really getting to know one code base, as opposed to hopping around many as a short-term consultant would). Yes, because obviously you'll find it hard to have interviews with "modern, interesting" companies that use ditto code. That you will have to nurture on your own time. If you can't (or won't) spend this extra time, then a job change is in place -- the sooner the better. Either way -- jobs are ephemeral. Do what makes you happy in the long term. PS. ...this from a guy who worked exclusively in Lotus Notes for 10 years at a rather traditional company, but nevertheless is now working in a rather neat and fast-moving Java/PHP shop. It's possible! 

I suppose you mean "Invisalign" or similar. My wife has been wearing those for the last 3 years -- and she's 40. So yes, also at 25 it's definitely acceptable. Besides, I agree with Kilisi. 

Relax. Just let the distractions happen like water off a duck's back. Handle it professionally, just as you would handle interruptions on the job. Consider it part of the background noise unless someone is speaking, and then take that opportunity to pay attention and respond if you're spoken to, in a way that demonstrates your people skills vs. your technical skills. I.e. consider it an opportunity to show your warmth as well as your competence. 

Sounds to me as though the CEO does believe what he's saying but doesn't want to force it on other manager(s). Best to have an open and honest discussion about it with your manager. Tell your manager how you feel, but ideally don't threaten to quit. Just go on an information finding mission for now. See how your manager feels about it, try to understand their position. If you hear that you need more experience, ask what areas specifically you can help with to gain that experience. 

As a general rule in negotiations: 1) Try to get quantified info, don't be in such a hurry to disclose your own 2) Have other options so that you don't need/barely want the deal First, don't talk any more about your current salary more than you absolutely have to. Second, don't "ask" them. Tell them this is what you would like. Third, when you do give a number that you're aiming for, don't quote merely a few percent increase above what you expect is possible. Your sights are too low, in my opinion. 

The best way to transfer knowledge is for the people who need the knowledge to work with those who have the knowledge. Whilst the knowledgeable people may not have the time to work on documenting their knowledge themselves, they may already be spending some of their time explaining to others what to do and how to do it. Even if the knowledgeable people had the time to write up their knowledge, it is not necessarily the case that the documentation they produced would be of use to the less knowledgeable people. It is surprisingly easy to miss out important 'obvious' information when trying to impart knowledge. By making the knowledge transfer more explicit and co-operative, and having the users of that documentation write it so that they can understand it, you could both ease the burden on the knowledgeable people and get more information transferred. If the knowledgeable people are really pressed for time, you could ask the people who need that knowledge to write up what they understand now, and then have the knowledgeable people proof-read and correct any misunderstandings. This could substantially speed things up, and could also help identify areas where the knowledge is lacking. 

I've been working as a contractor in the US for few years. I can give you my perspective on things here, which may assist you, and in particular US readers who wonder about your question. Typically employers here are willing to pay about 30% more for contractors. The reason is that they win back vacations, benefits, unemployment insurance etc. and get added flexibility. So I have a simple rule of thumb that I use to figure the equivalent and translate from perm to contract. I will take my hourly rate as a contractor and multiply that by 1500 to get the equivalent rate I would charge annually as an employee. So for example if I was making $30ph contract I would be looking for a perm. salary of $45,000pa. Or if I want to make $80ph contract-equivalent, I would be looking for a perm. salary of $120,000pa. Then I'll try to quantify and add in anything that's a bit unusual about the job I'm considering, for example travel time, if its particularly close or far, or new skills I might acquire and what value they may bring. Also if I will have to spend time away from family, how much of a premium do I want for that. If I have to relocate, what's the cost of living difference, etc. 

Theft of any kind would usually be considered Gross misconduct and grounds for summary dismissal. If this is the case where you work then you might want to print out a copy of the company policy, highlight the section on theft and leave it somewhere prominently in view. Even though the theft of a snack is probably not worth reporting, it does provide a concrete example of a pattern of disruptive, dishonest and bullying behaviour that could be used as corroborating evidence when a bully does step over the line (the proverbial straw that broke the camels back). You may also want to look up company procedures on harassment and what your company expects you to do in this situation. You may actually be breaking company rules by not reporting harassing behaviour. Once a company gets to a hundred employees, it really should have an employee handbook, but it very much depends where in the world you are. I have worked for both multinational corporations and companies as small as 10 employees and they have all had an employee handbook, detailing grievance procedure and general responsibilities. 

Don't give up. Keep enjoying your hobby. Write code, build websites, API's, utilities, whatever drives your passion. Try to use common technologies in the process. Learn the common patterns. All the while have fun solving problems algorithmically and pick up a deeper understanding of fundamentally important languages like C/Java variants and SQL variants. Sooner or later, you'll be able to answer those whiteboard questions OR you'll be in a position where you'll have so much broad experience and enthusiasm it won't matter. 

Why not? I'm skeptical of that assertion unless there's an unusual time crunch. Using reference material only takes seconds. 

There are only two possible problems. You are not applying to enough places or your resume is not as good as it needs to be. You may want to get your resume reviewed by a professional. Then pump it out in volume. Also, sometimes it is easier to plow around the stump. You could build an amazing piece of software or an amazing website during your summer. If you can produce one that is popular and generates a passive income, even better. At the very least the experience should dramatically improve your chances of getting an internship next year. 

In the European Union, you have to be careful that employees do not end up working longer hours than is allowed by the European Working Time Directive. Except in the UK (where you can agree to waive, in writing, your rights under the WTD) member states must ensure weekly working time is limited by law, or collective agreement and average working time should not exceed 48 hours for each 7 day period during the reference period of 4 months. Incidentally, in order to comply with this directive, employers in Europe are effectively forced to keep track of employee working hours. In the UK, I have known business to request that employees opt out of the WTD not so they can work longer hours, but to remove the requirement for hours to be tracked, reducing the administrative burden on both the employee and the company. 

I've recently been thinking about bias in recruitment procedures, as part of a consultation at work to help with our Athena Swan application. For early stage candidates, you may be able to significantly reduce your own bias in selecting candidates for interview by asking for resumes to be stripped of the following information before they reach your desk: 

First, if a recruiter says you can get 30k, then you can get 40k. (Edit for clarification: this means if they are talking about 30k in the market generally -- not if they are discussing only one particular job) Second, the best way to negotiate is to have other options. The people who get the best pay raises go into their pay negotiation with another job already lined up. You can be polite for sure, but this isn't going to come across as "polite" no matter which way you ask for a raise. Even if you are very polite, it will still feel tricky. To some extent your goals of keeping your boss comfortable and asking for a significant pay raise are conflicting. 

No... part of being professional is competence in getting the job done. You are being mocked because your colleagues are bullies, not because of anything you are doing wrong. 

So four years of posting questions on Stack Overflow? My advice is put integrity first. Just being honest will take you further than anything you can write on a resume. Edit added: In comments, you have provided more information about another StackOverflow account (other than the one this is linked to) which seems to have credibility and significant reputation. If true, I suggest you can claim ample experience training or mentoring others via StackOverflow, and I would sell to that strength that while also working to fill the gap by actually building a demonstrable and substantial project. Someone with your skills should find it easy to put a project together in short time. Then when asked, you can say you are young and you are working on something amazing - it's in the works! Good luck. 

The only other thing I would say is that while working hours are a significant part of your situation, managing people such that they don't feel the need to spend excessive hours of over time is another. You should try to identify if there are other impediments to these employees work. It is possible, for instance, that they are spending so much time during the day helping the newcomers that they hang around late just to get some peace and quiet and allow themselves to get into flow. One way to avoid this might be to have one established team member at a time available to help newcomers, leaving the other established team members to concentrate on their work. This could switch every day/week, so that people at least get a day/week block of time to concentrate of their tasks (depending of course on their business needs). Having 1 person working at 50% and two working at 100%, but only putting in 100% of their hours might work out better than having three people working at 70% (because of the task switching), but working 120% of their hours to make up the time.