I tested this in sandbox, and as recommended, I've added the 'knowns,' including geography and timeframe. What and how would we go about salvaging an alien craft in the immediate days after a crash? In Portland, Oregon, USA, a large 'saucer' of 350m radius and a thickness of 30m has crashed into the west hills leaving debris, but remaining largely intact. It's understood that no aliens have survived, and the human count is very low. Forest fires have been contained. Now what? 

I have an alternate history epoch taking place in 10th Century Islamic Renaissance, but I have a large Bedouin tribe that does not use anything to indicate a person's name or identity. This is a big Catch 22 every time I try to wrap my head about it. I don't want a number or symbol, I want it to be foreign for this tribe to refer to someone specifically. Historically, they might say they are son or daughter of so-and-so (Bin So-and-so / Bint So-and-so), but I want to avoid any way to name a person. In an effort to prevent this from being idea-generating or too-broad, and to be able to select a correct answer, I'll narrow it with the following: 

Over the course of Homo-sapiens, we have become larger, because of diet & selection. Even in the last couple centuries. Today, we vary across geography and cultures, too, of course. Now it is thousands of years in the future (your call) and people live happily on Earth, but have evolved to be much smaller; still in proportion, just smaller even than our distant ancestors. We've grown in population, but have stabilized the Earth's issues and become highly sustainable: almost Utopia. What contributing factors helped make us so much shorter over time - even those staying on an Earth? 

EDIT As suggested in the comments, I've moved your meteor to deeper water. This should also reduce the amount of sediment you get in general. 

In one scenario, potentially not long at all. In contrast to the other answers, a Challenger II battle tank in World War II (or I) would catch the attention of the opposition very quickly. It's location and vector could be very well known. Quickly a trap could be constructed whereby the tank falls into a deep trou de loup and is rendered useless until the crew must expose themselves to firepower to try to dig themselves out. 

NASA considers oxygen to be very common around massive stars, and in 2011 the Herschel Telescope confirmed that it was floating around as tiny dust. Oxygen is the third most common element in the known universe, so I suspect you should be able to collect it easily wherever you go. Another question could concern the tech that is used to gather and process O2. Herschel Telescope Confirms Oxygen in Space 

Researchers are scratching their heads, and Portland Water Bureau is furious. In Portland, Oregon, a reservoir in one of the City parks has begun spilling out a river of naturally occurring beer/ale. How can this happen? I'd like to avoid magic or human intervention in favor of a series of coincidences that created this natural craft. While it can get contaminated / dirty as it spills out, it must be drinkable and be a lot. It can occur in a reservoir, in the geology, in pipes, or in a water tower. A little bit of hand-waving is acceptable, if necessary. Everything is present-day, Pacific Northwest, any season. 

Insulation Packed earth and even packed hay are incredible insulators. This, along with upper-ceiling, open/close air shafts allow for some pretty good moderation of the temperatures. Views Better use of glass, much like a church's stained glass allows for safe viewing and natural light. Double-pane them for insulation, and allow them to swing open for ventilation. Plumbing It requires no electrical devices to build a toilet for more comfort than using the gold chamber bowl. Water can easily be brought to above the castle ceiling in order to have flowing water on demand. Wastewater can flow downhill as it does. Rainwater Catchment Water in 'the olden days' was often mixed with alcohol, because it was from a river, tasted bad, and could give you diarrhea or worse. By using and storing rainwater, you have a pretty good tasting and more sanitary water. You can still mix it with wine, but you have a lot less chance of getting ill. Heated Floors Build small passageways or 'pipes' that allow a 'downstairs' heat source to channel up directly under his wooden floor, and out the castle. During cold winters, this technique is used, so the king has nice, warm floors and warm chambers. Hot Water Heater Everyone likes a warm bath, but the King wants it on demand, and doesn't want to wait for the chamber maids to haul hot water up the stairs in buckets. A continuously heated chamber of (captured rain) water sits above the bathroom, and when he wants it on demand, the chamber maid turns a faucet allowing hot (and cold) water to his liking, to flow in. Then she goes and refills the water upstairs. Recreation Facilities Everybody likes bowling. Have your architect build the facilities and instruct the king how to play a number of modern sports that are easy to learn. Bonus: Bacon A pipe or vent between the interior walls goes from the basement kitchen up to the king's chambers. In the mornings, the cook makes a lot of bacon, so he wakes up to the smell of bacon each day. 

The Element of Surprise I think the only way the Greeks could defeat an arguably superior enemy is through tactics that take the aliens by surprise. Flanking - this pits an unfortunate few against your aliens in the field, while the bulk of your army is in the trees (or whatever) to the left, right, and back of your enemy. This maneuver was used by the Greeks in the Battle of Marathon. Traps - The classical use of the trou de loup would trap and kill approaching enemies. Simply make your pit large enough to sufficiently trap your odd alien or two. Guerrilla Warfare - an out-powered defensive military can use the tactics explained by Sun Tzu in The Art of War as early as the second century BC. "All warfare is based on deception. Hence, when we are able to attack, we must seem unable; when using our forces, we must appear inactive; when we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away; when far away, we must make him believe we are near." -- Sun Tzu 

All of the contingency should include delivery space, space for your astronauts to collect it, your printer (and backup printers!), and any spillage or spoilage. Total = 580 cubic meters of space. Your walk-in storage hall could be 2m high, 2m wide, and 145m long. You can store the champagne and glasses "overhead" or "below the walkway" presuming you have gravity. But, wait, there's more. Consider a percentage reduction by using the materials in poop (sorry) and recycled urine (sorry), to reduce the space requirements for feeding your 40. Benchmarking I ran a restaurant for two years, and a days' worth of food for 40 people could easily be squished into 9000 cubic centimeters, so my numbers might even be too high. Feel free to replace any of the assumptions and percentages to design your space craft. But, why? I am keen to understand why on Earth you want to prioritize Pluto in our space program in the next 35 years. 

Without intervention (or environmental & cultural impacts), I see no reason why a planet wouldn't ramp up their production of an item in demand, if they have the materials, technology and coordination to do so. Planet Mikey has huge volumes of naturally occurring cheese. In addition, it has the workforce, technology and ability to massively produce cheese products and ship them efficiently to planets who are great at manufacturing pizzas, sandwiches and so on. Why wouldn't the Planet ramp up the production, unless there were trade blocs, etc. or environmental issues with the practice? I don't see the practice changing, but then again, you're talking very far into the future, and I just used a cheese-is-a-mineral example. 

I hope this isn't a stupid question ("just add air"). I would like my intrepid explorers to have drilled through the ice of Europa and into the water without creating a geyser (they plugged the hole behind them). This is assuming a liquid subsurface ocean. 

Simply chip away at the base through a tunnel network like a mine, leaving much of the exterior supporting it. Then go after the exterior and you'll eventually hear a loud crunching sound, and get the heck out of the way! Now, where to land that tree is another issue, and the makeup of such a heavy structure would make for a good question. 

Inductive Reasoning This one is a bit of a stretch. Being capable of inductive reasoning does not mean a super robot can't come to the same conclusion, but because it's faster for a human-like robot in some cases. Predicting the outcomes based on emotional, 'human' sense might come to the same conclusion as a robot that takes it as a statistical factor, just more quickly. "Storms a' comin'. I remember May a couple years ago we had an afternoon like this. Also, my knee's gone out - I always know that way." May be just as accurate, but quicker than calculating all of the weather factors, humidity, etc. Long-Term Sustainability & "Gambling" "Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater," my mom used to always say. So while an immediate calculation might be helpful and make a determination, a 'human' robot could gamble that it's better to hold off, with mixed results. Sometimes gambles pay off. Companionship Companion in Latin means someone to break bread with ('com' & 'pan'). A 'human' robot can offer this, and then there's people that want the RealWifeBot2000. Emotional Sympathy Attending a therapy session with a sympathetic (or would it be possible: empathetic?) robot should have better results than a robot that calculates exact reactions and prescribes precision drug uses. 

No. There can be a religion that preaches non-violence, from Buddhism (though, I don't really consider it a religion) to fun, modern ones, such as the Church of the Spaghetti Monster. Similarly, one might consider Atheism a religion, as "religion" is defined as a collection of beliefs or world views. The reason, however, that I say you will never be a religious group that does not commit violence, is because you are including individuals. In any situation or culture, you have people committing violence in the name of their religion: even Buddhists. You can have a religion that promotes non-violence, but you cannot expect comprehensive adherence of the individuals. 

There would be no calendar - only passage of time. There's no meaningful suggestion for seasons or days or months. Time passage could be measured by natural processes: for long times, a standard could be set for the amount of time it takes a certain plant to reach a certain height. For short times, it could be the amount of time it takes a leaf to flow a distance from one point to another on a river that has a pretty regular flow. These are irregular, but so was our measure of the length of a forearm in ancient days. Soon these get standardized. Finally, if you prefer to apply them to healthy sleep cycles or any other designation you may; and then create the calendar as you like. I presume it would be more like a metric: One Hundred X's is a Sleep Cycle, One Hundred Sleep Cycles is a Y; One Hundred Y's is a Z. And so on, substituting your constants and variables as you like in your story. There is no calendar of sorts, with the exception of your later advanced astronomers. Happy Writing! 

Obviously, it's not a good idea. The premise: An advanced species has a plot to remove everything in our airspace and place it 1.5 million kilometers away from Earth. Their purpose is a misguided idea to study our air-faring elements. The birds, the kid skip-roping, the hot air balloons and sky-divers, etc. are in bad enough trouble, but one evil genius is aware of the plot, and will create a space-ship disguised and can function like a commercial airplane. 

I'm assuming there is no surface land on your planet? Geology Your world will still have the same geology as Earth, in terms of processes - volcanoes, rifts, underwater/shifting hot spots. The differences include the lack of a Neritic Zone (the area of sediment above the continental shelf) and all shelves and slopes will have been formed as simple piles of sediment and volcanic action. Features would include: 

Why not a meteor? Your meteor strikes the Southern Bight portion of the North Sea and sends a devastating wave of water and sediment in all directions. Keep in mind that the sediment part; 

And so on. Your story can always be supported by your article, and you can always expand it if necessary. 

A planet without the kingdom, Plantae, would presumably still include the remaining five kingdoms of life, including Bacteria, Protozoa, Chromista (algae, etc), Fungi, and of course your Animaliae. Presumably, for your animals to exist, the herbivores will have to have been adapted to consuming a lot of different algae and fungi. In order for the fungi to thrive, it will have to grow off of dead algae or the poop from your grazing animals. Next add your predators. It's not going to be as prolific, life on your planet, but there can be life.