These hitches don't work very well. They don't grab tightly enough, so they can twist around the bar and bump in to the wheel. As they twist they will take off the paint. They also require a lot of turns to attach and remove. I had two trailers with this kind of hitch, and 3 bikes to pull with. I bought this Burley flex connector for each trailer: 

Perhaps your shifter cable can't slide smoothly. Shift to the tallest gear (smallest cog). Pop the shifter housing out of the brazed-on stops. Slide the housing back and forth and look for stiffness. Put some lube in the housing and slide it back and forth to distribute it. Perhaps your derailleur hanger is bent. A bike shop will have a tool to easily check its alignment. If either of these is a factor, then you will never be able to adjust your shifting properly. 

3, 4, and 5.1 are glycol-based, and must be changed periodically, as it absorbs water. 5 is silicone-based and does not need to be replaced. 

If I'm comfortable temperature-wise when I leave the house, I will be too hot a few minutes later. I remind myself to be chilly as I leave, so that I can warm up and be comfortable on the bike. When I'm too cold, I find that covering exposed areas, even lightly, helps more than adding layers where I already have some. So, gloves & hat before a heavy jacket. 

I found that it was really good for teaching my son how to pedal, and build the appropriate muscles, so he was at an advantage on his own bike. The flex was not an issue when we started, but a couple years later I had to retire the trailer. I couldn't track a straight line up a hill. Some models have 5 speeds. That's more complexity, but if it breaks you can still get home. It can help a kid learn about shifting. The Burley Piccolo attaches to a special rack, making it lean properly in turns and supposedly reducing flex. I used to hitch on a standard 2-wheel trailer to my tandem-trailer, either to carry groceries or to pull my baby twins. We had 5 wheels, 4 people, were 16' long, and weight 400+ lbs. I had to take corners carefully. 

To prepare for hypothermia, you must first anticipate it. When I learned to sail they said that the weather conditions that are most likely to produce hypothermia are 45 deg F (7 deg C), light rain, and wind. If it's colder, people tend to recognize the risk and dress warmly or stay indoors; same with heavy rain. If it's warmer, dry, or calm, it's easier to stay warm. So, dress for the weather, but remember that if it's cool, wet, and breezy, you probably want to wear a little extra. 

Good for you, to think of riding as a year-round activity. I would choose an older steel frame (Specialized Rockhopper from 1994?). Steel is very durable, and the older frame is less to be worried about with salt. Put a little FrameSaver on the insides, and don't worry about it. (I'm not an expert on these, just a Grant Petersen fanboy). You really don't want to get stranded in an Ottawa winter. Add some storage, and carry: 

The trick to rim brakes in the wet is to dry them out before you need them. When you anticipate a need to stop (approaching a driveway or intersection, for example), lightly apply the brakes. After one rotation of the wheels you'll have most of your braking power back. After a second rotation, they'll be in great shape. 

Make sure you have street tires. Knobbies will slow you down. Make sure your wheels spin freely. If the hubs are jammed, or the brakes drag, that will slow you down. After that, changes you make to the bike won't affect your speed very much, perhaps only enough to matter in racing. Changes to your fitness will matter more. You can reduce rolling resistance (change tires, pump them up). You can reduce windage (mostly in your posture). You can reduce weight (in the wheels first). Where you ride will affect where the biggest wins are. Personally, I would focus on reliability and fun over speed, but you gotta find what's right for you. Go to your local bike shop and ask to test ride different bikes, and see what you think. It's hard to get objective comparisons of the speed of different bikes, but you may learn about what you like more. 

Even with lots of good advice, it takes a while to get to know what bike works best for you. Each person's body is different, so getting a good fit is difficult. And getting a good fit has a huge impact on the joy of riding, which makes the difference between the ride you can't wait to start vs. the ride you talk yourself out of. Start with a used bike. Look for one that has been stored out of the rain, and where the wheels don't wobble when you spin them. Get a tuneup right away, as there are a few safety and longevity issues with neglected bikes. Getting the right frame is the most important thing, as it affects everything else, and is the hardest to change. Once you have that, you can adjust the handlebars & seat to fine-tune the fit. I like a great drivetrain. Smooth shifting under load is wonderful to ride. I'm not too picky about brakes, as long as they work. 

Against: In a crash with a glancing blow, a helmet increases leverage of the impact forces around your neck. A twist-around-the-neck injury is very different from a straight-on-impact injury. 

Gary Taubes makes a very reasonable argument that you can't "exercise to lose weight". Or rather, that the conventional view that manipulating calories in through diet and calories out through exercise will cause you to gain or lose weight is not backed up by science. That is, while "Energy in - energy out" is true, it is not useful, as the cause of fat gain or loss is elsewhere. (He argues that carbohydrates in the diet are the "true cause" of fat gain, but this part of his argument is not as strong.) 

However, I don't know where to get them. Maybe if you have an O.R. doctor or nurse in the family. (I also use these to clean the kitchen, to wipe up spilled soup, to wash a car or bike, as hot pads, and as napkins. I put a damp one under the cutting board to make it stable.) 

Fixed-gear bikes, as compared to single-speed bikes: Trackstands. The ability to move the bike backwards with the pedals makes it possible to keep balanced while stopped. This is useful (while waiting for cross traffic, for example) and is a demonstration of the skill of the rider. Brakes are optional. You can apply back-pressure to the pedals to slow the bike gradually. Alternately, you can throw your weight forward (to unweight the back wheel), and apply very strong back pressure. Once the wheel is locked up, you skid to a stop. This is also a safety issue, as you can't stop nearly as quickly without the benefit of a front brake (where most of braking happens on most bikes), and it depends heavily on the skill level of the rider. No brakes (or front brake only) simplifies the bike even further, compared to a single-speed bike. Image and exclusivity. Fixed-gear bikes are unusual, and not everyone can ride them. Heavy people with heavy loads in hilly areas are pretty much excluded. They require unique skills, and have an element of risk that repels most cyclists. In my area, they have been adopted by the "hipster" subculture. Fun and variety. For someone who rides a conventional multi-speed bike the contrasting experience of riding a fixie can spice things up, keeping bikes interesting. 

Heavy, water-proof grease is a good idea. Slipperiness isn't the reason for the grease. The goal here is to keep out moisture and oxygen, thereby discouraging oxidation. Aluminum oxide is especially problematic, as its molecules are substantially larger than the aluminum molecules in your seat post. Oxidation will cause it to jam very tightly. In general, you don't have to worry your seat post slipping. The surface of the seat post and seat tube are not perfectly smooth. The "high spots" will push the grease out of the way, in to the "low spots" where you might otherwise see moisture and oxygen. It doesn't take much grease to do the trick, since the seat post is already quite snug. Just make sure it's all covered. In some cases it's possible for grease to get trapped and not be able to squeeze out, giving a result similar to hydroplaning. You tighten & tighten and things are still slippery. It's not likely in this case, because the seat post clamp is narrow. For overkill, you can even use anti-seize: 

Try driving around bicyclists Now that you are experienced with biking around cars, you know what drivers often do that you hate. Periodically do some driving around bikes, to stay in touch with what drivers are going through. That will help you anticipate driver's behavior when you're on your bike. 

It works pretty well, but on one bike it's slippery, so the quick release lever can turn a little even when tight. But not enough that it's going to make the wheel fall out. Also, on one bike it bumps in to the QR, so I have to put it in just the right spot. 

"Pubic Bone Height", basically your standover height, is the main measurement to consider when sizing a bike. Not overall body height. There are many other factors, so until you sit a given geometry, you can't really know if fits you. 

The tires have more traction in some directions than in others. Your front wheel does most of the braking; your rear wheel does all of the propulsion. Tires are oriented to give the most traction to the primary fore-and-aft forces. 

Prerequisites It helps if you can ride slowly. If you don't feel confident at below-walking-speeds, then you'll have a harder time learning to mount curbs. How to do it The most important thing is to get your body weight off the wheel that is going up the curb. You weigh 5-10x as much as your bike! Make your approach 90% from the curb. Low speed is good, but make sure you feel stable on the bike. Stand on pedals at 3- and 9-O'Clock. Keep your knees slightly bent. Just before the front wheel hits, throw your weight back, and yank up on the handlebars. You may lift the front wheel off the ground slightly, but it's not necessary. Just before the back wheel hits, throw your weight forward, and hop on the pedals. You may lift the back wheel off the ground, but that's harder than the front wheel. I can't do it! If you do it perfectly, it should be a smooth motion. The bike doesn't get jolted around. You don't lose any speed. Where to practice Try a flat, empty, paved parking lot. You want the biking to be as easy and safe as possible, without distractions. Before going up a curb, practice with going over a twig or a pebble. See how smoothly you can do it. Graduate to larger items & higher speeds when ready. The concrete bars they put at the end of each parking space can be good practice, too. Going down a curb The same principles apply. Before your front wheel drops, shift your weight way back, and ease the wheel down. Before the rear wheel drops, get your weight on the front. Advanced techniques If you can bunny hop (I can't) then you can approach a curb or other obstacle at high speed, and clear it easily. Good for you.