If your relatively careful and considerate wild camping is great. I hardly ever camp in camp sites in the UK anymore, I much prefer being out in the wilderness on my own. Enjoy! There are several facebook groups which you can sign up to for more info, search for "wild camping". I'm a member of one called "Wild camping and bothying UK". Below is a photo of my friend who wild camped with me in snowdonia: 

I know there is a degree of "gray" in this question but: I have a Beal Top gun II 10.5mm, I've had this rope for around 4 years now and I'm starting to think about retiring it. 

I keep seeing a particular bird lately and I don't recognise it. Can anyone help? I've only ever seen it from the car and in flight so I have no photo's unfortunately. 

Rock strength One other thing to bear in mind is the strength of the rock. There is no use putting a 20Kn cam into soft brittle rock. The cam may hold the fall but if the rock gives way it doesn't matter. 

Every climber I know relies heavily on this knot and I've seen it used on countless tutorials yet it seems to be marked as "deeply distrusted when used by itself" on Grog. Should the clove hitch(with a good length tail) be deeply distrusted ? Why/why not? What alternatives are there? This seems to come from a sailing point of view, why (if this is the answer) is it not trusted in sailing but it is in climbing? 

Now on top of this you don't mention what kind of terrain your boarding on? Is it off or on-piste, etc. The more difficult and dangerous the terrain the better the back protection your going to want. If it's simple on-piste green run, I'm sure a back pack (with some protection in it) will be fine. If your planning on heli-snowboarding, I'd invest in a good level back protector/body armour. 

The other day the strap on my helmet snapped. It's not the main strap but the one that sits across the back of you head and has a tightening dial. So the helmet doesn't fall off but it also doesn't stay still anymore when moving my head around. It's now effectivly useless as it rattles around on my head getting in the way and obstructing my view, etc. I'm considering fixing using gaffer tape (the old mountaineering adage that if you can't fix somehting using gaffer tape, you likely need to use more gaffer tape)? Is this a good idea or should I discard it an get a new one? Here's the model, it's a DMM brand: 

I already own a full set of winter and waterproof clothing. I then spent the winter in Wales (when it snowed) walking paths I knew well and gaining experience. I practised self arrest and various other winter specific techniques that I could only do with snow. We then spent a week in Scotland walking in the cairngorms (ticking off munroes). I'm now pretty confident up to winter Grade II. I don't feel (TBH even after all of this practice, etc.) that I have enough skills to tackle the Alps quite yet (I also can't afford it right now as I'm trying to save to buy a house). I have not done any crevasse rescue or work on glaciers (because there aren't any in Scotland). I would suggest that Mont Blanc (via the ordinary route I think it's called, the most common one) is typically everyone's first Alpine mountain and you will struggle to find any other peak as accessible (with a guide). So I can't really suggest another European hill to do as training. There are numerous less busy alternatives though, Mont Blanc can get very busy. Obviously none of these mountainous areas are anywhere near London, I'm lucky I live in north Wales. But I would suggest spending as much time as you can in winter in Scotland, etc. this will help you hone you winter skills which you will need for a summer accent of Mont Blanc. Good luck!! Interestingly I've just finished reading an article in the perils of alpine routes on Mont Blanc, prob worth a read $URL$ 

Callouses can be useful in preventing some pain on sharp holds etc. But if you let these build up you run the risk of flappers. Hence climbers file down the callouses to prevent them becoming too think and peeling off. This article explains it quite well and talks about hand and foot care 

But I'm struggling to get a sense of the route and difficulty of this path, there's very limited information on this route on the internet. Has anyone been this way before? Any maps of the route or more detailed information anywhere? Should this require a rope, what grade is it (I'm guessing scrambling grades?)? I think I'm going to reccy it this weekend but I'd like to have some information or other sources if possible. 

The UK has an incredibly high population density (262 people per km). This is one of the highest in the developed world. Though your correct there are higher,Holland has a higher one actually but they also have space issue, that's why the reclaim land using dykes, etc. The UK was also the birth place of the industrial revolution in the 1800-1900s and as such land was needed to build ships, mine coal, etc. for the expanding empire (the UK had one of the biggest empires in the modern era). This lead to a much more insensive usage of the wild areas (for example see the highland clearances in Scotland, etc.) So the UK has a very long tradition of intensively farming of all it's available space. All mountain areas in the UK have been sheep farms for thousands of years and the industrial revolution/British empire lead to this being expanded massively. So first off, it's not really fair to compare the UK with some where like Lapland (Norway's population density is 15 people per km). Now that said you make a good point about Hoge Kempem. Belgium is even more densely populated than the UK. But does this region have a same tradition of farming and management? Belgium did develop industrially in the 19C but I would wager not to the extent or pace that the UK did. what I'm really trying to say I suppose is, that each country has it's own pressures over long periods of time. The UK could likely do more but it's traditions and culture are different to many other countries. 

I have a knife and a whetstone. One side of the whetstone is rough and the other is finely grained. I occasionally sharpen my knife but I'm not 100% clear if I'm using it correctly. I normally move the knife in a circular motion trying to hold it at an angle.. o_O I usually use the rough side first then polish it with the finer side. Is this correct? What is the best technique for knife sharpening in general? 

In a word yes. Dead wood forms an important base to any wooded ecosystem. If you think of a food pyramid for a wooded area it'll look something like this: 

Look fun, but seems entirely a gimmick if you ask me. If you wanted to save weight you'd bivvy, if you wanted to be comfortable a tent is much more flexible. With my fully practical head on, I can't see any useful benefits. They look comfortable though I'd imagine you and everything in the tent would slide towards the middle of the tent. 

The weather has been really nice this weekend in North wales so over the weekend I set up a slack line in my back garden to have a play about on! On Sun I went to take it all down. Problem is I attached one end of the line to a carabiner using a clove hitch, it appears this was a big mistake. The hitch is now totally locked up and I can't undo or move the knot, it's been under tension for about 2 days. In hindsight this was probably not the knot to use here... Can anyone suggest any good tricks to loosing the knot off? or do I have to cut the thing off? Seen someone suggest a "Fid". But I obviously don't own one of these? Alternatives? 

All pieces of gear should come with these ratings written on them somewhere or in the documentation included (this includes ropes). Different pieces of gear will hold different kns and they all vary slightly so you need to check the rating of that particular gear. For another example here are some brass nuts. You can see the ratings below: 

This slightly depends on size and heat output or your stove, but camping stoves are universally good at one thing, heating water. So this makes them ideal for using with dyhydrated food's. These have come a long way from super and pot noodles and you can now get some pretty decent tasty food that you simply have to add water too, there are a couple of good suplpiers of these, like: 

Everyone who climbs suffers from this to some degree, so you need to accept that doing this will make you scared. What didn't work for me I've had very similar issues to the one's your describe over the years. I've tried several techniques to help with this with mixed result. From my personal experience the below didn't work for me (they may for you) 

Basically it's an open access law, meaning you can camp in any **"unenclosed space"*. So you can't camp in fields, private land, etc. As mentioned you should follow the Scottish Outdoor Access Code for camping: