As a Bayesian, evidence for a truth-statement can be thought of as any observation (also a truth-statement) such that (where '~' means not, means probability-of, and means given-that-we-observed). I think this covers every use of the term evidence, though in cases where you cannot conveniently calculate probabilities it's more of an analogy than an exact definition. Note also that evidence can be good or poor (depending on how great the difference is), and you can be confused about what evidence actually means if you do your calculation wrong or have insufficient data to perform a good calculation. 

The answer is, of course, "whatever you force it to be by picking appropriate definitions of 'later stage of evolution' and 'possibilities of action'". If the question is whether there are some metrics in which humans vastly outstrip other animals, the answer is of course yes: our ability to construct technology utterly dwarfs that of every other extant and historical species. If the question is whether there is some objective measure of importance, I suppose one could argue that our technological facility positions us uniquely to be the savior of complex (as measured by things like number of different genetically stable states, for example) life on earth as we alone (so far anyway) have the potential to escape the eventual death of our star. But that this is the only possible choice is not entirely clear, and the answer depends intimately on those choices. But if you're just looking for something grand to feel good about as a human, "We can save life!" is a decent place to start. If it is likely for dormant bacteria to survive being blown into space by an asteroid impact, and then colonize other planets, our potential may sound slightly less grand ("we can save the big multicellular life forms we care about"). 

Let be the proposition "I ride/rode on day ", and the same for driving. Then the statement "I ride or drive every day" can be expressed as . Negating this just gives . Language does not always give you a convenient form in which to state your logical formulas. In English, the preferred form would be "It is not the case that I ride or drive every day." (You need all of "It is ... the case that" to make it clear that the "not" is modifying everything else you're saying--it serves, by virtue of length and custom, the same role as the parentheses. Note that there are not very many levels of parentheses that you can effectively convey in English prose this way--this is one reason why people use mathematical notation for logic. But here, it suffices. Merely, "I do not ride or drive every day" may also work, but it could also be parsed as "I do not ride every day and I do not drive every day", which is a different statement.) However, since you are trying to express a logical formula, you can always use identities to transform your logical statement into a form whose English (or other language) representation feels more natural. For instance, using the identity , an equivalent statement is . The English version of this is "Some days I neither ride nor drive." (The existential mapping to "some", and the negation of an "or" mapping to the "neither/nor" structure.) Note that in English, the implication of "some days" is that there are other days that are different. If you said "some days it rains" but it actually rains every day, it would be technically correct but the listener would feel justifiably misled. Almost every phrasing carries some impliciation like this, though: "there has been a day where I neither rode nor drove" suggests such days are rare; "it is not the case that I always ride or drive" suggests that riding or driving is the norm; "sometimes I avoid driving and avoid riding" again suggests rarity; "usually I drive or ride" suggests that sometimes (rarely) you do one but occasionally none; "usually I avoid riding and avoid driving" suggests that you sometimes must do at least one but usually don't. Language is rich with implicature, and if you wish to avoid this, you generally must stick with logical formalism. 

The proof is not valid and it isn't even true. In particular, does not imply for some . If the universe is empty, is true for any (including both and ). If you can assume a non-empty universe, the proof is correct. To demonstrate it mechanically, you should write it out more completely as well-formed formulas and apply transformations like to demonstrate correctness. This usually ends up being a pointlessly tedious exercise after you've done it a few times to verify that it works. 

Penrose's idea fell afoul of well-verified contradictory information. First, the mechanisms for functioning of neurons are quite well worked out, and do not require microtubules for signaling (only for structural properties, which change meaningfully on time scales longer than a choice that we percieve). Second, microtubules in cells are at relatively high temperature, immersed in solvent, and connected to all sorts of proteins and other gunk--in short, an absolutely terrible place to maintain any interesting properties not well-described classically, and an even worse place to transmit that state over any interesting distance. I'm not sure whether Penrose is even bothering to propose the theory any more; that seems to have fallen mainly to Hameroff. The various hypotheses (perhaps that is too generous--pseudoscientific babblings is nearer to the mark at this point) are generally regarded among both physicists and neuroscientists (those whose opinion I know, anyway) as wrong. Since the hypothesis is, so far as we can tell, completely baseless, it is hard to know whether it's dualistic or not--unless Penrose comes right out and states what he intended, it's rather hard to infer such things from an incorrect theory, because the answer may depend on the fix. (For example, one could "save" a broken non-dualist theory by becoming a dualist.) 

Premises are whatever we state to be true without rigorous justification. They may be partially justified by obviousness, or completely unjustified but accepted as a thought experiment. In any case, within one particular argument, the premises are those things which are assumed to be true. Logic is then how we (validly) reason from those premises to a conclusion. Given that many statements are statements of equality not just implication (e.g. a number is even (divisible by two) if and only if one plus that number is odd (not divisible by two)), one can often exchange certain premises for conclusions, and get a different set of premises and a different argument. In the case of the passage in your book, however, this doesn't exactly seem to be the case. If the first two lines are taken to be premises, then the third one does not logically follow, except very weakly inductively, given that the first two are simply examples of one person's reactions (one of them hypothetical!) in one situation, and the "conclusion" is a universally quantified truism. Unless the universe consists of only that one encounter with John, this does not logically follow. You are correct that it works better the other way around: given the 3rd sentence as a premise, the 1st and 2nd are at least completely consistent (if not the only possible reactions that are logically consistent). 

For example: if it were not possible for eggs to exist, then omelettes could not exist. Here is an omelette. (In this case, we can conclude further that eggs have existed recently.) 

I personally think that the main distinction between positivists and interpretivists and pragmatists is in the varying kinds of confusion they are subject to. Unless you're a full-blown relativist, the endeavor is the same, the methods are the same, the goals are the same. What is a qualitative interview yielding understanding other than an observation and measurement computed in the head of the interviewer? All you can manage by rejecting the positivist aspect of interpretation is to embrace being confused and misled. It's perfectly okay to say: human subjective interpretation is the best measurement tool we have for this. To say, you can't measure this and yet I'm going to come up with the right answer in some sense is just wishful thinking or confusion about what one is actually doing. So I don't think there's actually much of a logical gulf between those approaches done well. (For instance: a good interpretive study would try to estimate measurement error. You always want to know how good your measurements are, even if the measuring device is a graduate student chatting with someone.) Pragmatism again is in accord but focused on a different aspect of a problem. All models are incomplete, which is to say wrong in some sense. Why bother with wrong-in-some-sense models at all, except if they're useful in some way (at least useful for appealing to your sense of elegance or completeness!)? One can argue about which aspect of utility is most important: I-can-predict-something-a-bit-better-now vs. this-is-reliable-knowledge-that-we-can-write-in-textbooks-and-trust, for instance. But to the extent that pragmatists say anything new, it's only to the extent that others have gotten confused about the nature and scope of what they're doing. Otherwise, it's just a difference in degree, not kind, as the pragmatist would probably be better disposed to useful-now theories than a self-identified positivist. 

Any system of values that depends for value on the desires of living humans, or on the presence of rational thinkers, and which generally has positive value--and this is practically all of them--will support survival of the human race. Also, evolved organisms have evolved to sustain their species; organisms whose actions lead them to go extinct are assuredly highly suboptimal, and it is doubtful that we intend to be that suboptimal given how central various species-survival actions are to our lives (sex, raising children, teaching, etc.). So it's not logically necessary in that you can always "not care". But otherwise, survival of humanity trumps pretty much everything else out there as all other value depends on it and there's nothing that we've been more strongly selected to do. 

The type of answer you give ideally would reflect what your instructor wants. One can approach this sort of thing at many levels of detail. In the absence of a clear idea, I suggest dealing with ranges and conditions. For example, you can contrast the number of child-abuse cases he would see in the case where he does vs. does not report abuse, and compare the fraction of time the abusive situation stops when he deals with it vs. when it is reported. Then you can come up with inequalities that must hold in order for it to be a net positive to abused children; if the inequality fails, you then will have a formula for the relative benefit to adults vs. detriment to children that must hold for it still to be a net positive. For example, let's suppose we're using red-light cameras on all intersections, and let's suppose that when a car runs a red light it has a fraction of being involved in a fatal collision. Let's further say that your average citizen has a rate of running a red light (measured in number of red-light runs per unit time), which will drop to if you send them a warning; if you send them a ticket; and if you take away their license. If you see a car run a red light, what should you do? Well, you could consider taking away the license of anyone who runs a red light. Presumably it is better to have a license than not--let's call that benefit , but it's also better to be alive than dead, and we'll call that benefit . If we take a license away the cost is (where is the elapsed time) and the benefit is . Thus, we should do this if and only if 

It's a perfectly fine hypothesis, but since you need to estimate the rate of observation of kangaroos over all people where kangaroos are ever observed, it's not very practical to confirm it, nor is it likely to stay true if conditions change appreciably between the time of measurement and the time when you're wondering if it is still true. You probably want to ask things about the activity of kangaroos during the day vs. night, how willing they are to approach human dwellings during the day vs. night (as compared to their visibility during the day vs. night) and stuff like that. Armed with evidence regarding these hypotheses, you can then have a better hope of predicting whether you should go outside today or tonight if you want to see a kangaroo.