If your hero survives all this and reaches a star system with a suitable planet then a whole new bunch of perils await him: 

As said in one comment your world as-is won't work due to lack of light and other problems. Caves with (semi) natural (glass-covered) openings will not allow for a rich forest (inverted or not). If You enlarge too much the openings you'll have structural problems with both the transparent "windows" and the cave ceiling. Even ignoring that any "window" (especially if near-horizontal) needs to be cleaned, otherwise dirt will accumulate till it's not transparent anymore, there's structural problem with large glass structures which tend to crack when under the (huge) pressure given by normal Earth crust movements (no need for real earthquakes). You could change the setting putting a huge forest on the surface and having the roots penetrate in the caves and feed some parasitic vegetation (fungi?). You can have Your elves to live in this strange looking underforest composed by fungi and likens, in a very soft light even by day. "real" plants could grow in patches near the "windows" Fungi could be symbiont providing something useful to the forest. Please note real caves have the ceiling composed by (bare?) rock and the floor covered with mud. There's good reason for this as any underground cavity with ceiling composed by dirt would collapse quite soon. Roots should enter the cave from crack in the rock or have some specific system to "drill" the rock themselves (some roots have this capability). 

The main problem with direct electrical storage (capacitors), kinetic storage (flywheels) and localized chemical (batteries), when used to store huge amount of energy, is all that energy may be discharged (almost) instantly in case of disruptive failure either internal to battery pack or even external to it. Such a failure is bound to have catastrophic consequences and is very difficult to prevent because actual place of release depends on specifics of failure. The only (currently available or conceivable) way to limit damage is to use chemical storage with separate storage of reagents and use a reversible process, possibly in the form of power cells. As explained in another answer to a similar question, (currently) easiest is $2 H_2 O \Leftrightarrow 2 H_2 + O_2$ which can be efficiently performed by electrolysis/fuel-cell and necessitates of three independent, separate and possibly jettisonable containers. Note this is actually quite similar to Justin Tyme answer (which I upvoted) but it apparently didn't appear to answer question, which was about Batteries/capacitor risks and ways to prevent them. 

I'm not sure this scheme would work in practice. Problem is these "super-beasts" (suspending belief about their existence and characteristics, of course) are used "as-if" weapons, but they seem not fully controllable. This is a military no-no for several reasons including: 

Given human nature this wonderful invention is likely to be buried, together with its creator, in some very deep pit (after public burning at the stake). 

Technical possibility to reach Americas was there since a long time; Thor Heyerdahl demonstrated Egypt had technology to do it a few centuries before CE. Most likely others had it as well. Problem has always been none knew Americas were there, so none had the idea to go colonize. Vikings followed they usual routes and ended up in (very) north America where climate was not favorable (no Gulf Current to keep warmth) and desisted. Columbus had a stroke of luck getting his hands on wrong maps giving a severely underestimated (about one half) value of Earth radius so he thought (wrongly) he could reach Far East sailing West. Note: correct Earth radius (including knowledge Earth is round, of course) was available in the same time and place where originated Thor's boat. To come back to your question: Knowledge of existence of such a land would have been enough to spawn attempts at colonization. As to who, when and how, that's open to speculation (and plot matter), but I strongly suspect it would be tightly linked to exactly how Americas existence became known. 

Somebody has to work to provide food and drink for the "infected". Infections usually are not evenly spread on the whole world. It is highly likely that, as soon as the infection has reached a sizeable amount of people, there will be zones where system collapses, "sane" people fly away (helping spread) and infected die. This should be enough to convince people being infected is not a good idea. Actually stopping infection spread is another thing, of course, but awareness will be there well before global collapse. In order to contain and later eradicate the fungus, after conscience of danger is established, strategy depend on specific details. Assuming it's a "normal" fungus spores will be very little, perhaps microscopic, but nonetheless sizeable and generally filterable quite easily (a simple dust mask should suffice). Further steps are strongly dependent on physiology of the fungus and disease; a few scenarios: 

If you want to "save the world" you need a better plan ("bad guys" in movies are often quite dense). 

Ice is less dense than water because its crystalline lattice is kept together by hydrogen bonds. At about 4°C hydrogen bonds begin to form, even if they're not stable before freezing and thus water molecules start to form bigger (and unstable) aggregates that will later give rise to ice crystals. Hydrogen bonds are so basic in (almost) all chemical processes within cells that nothing would work without them: DNA helices would not pair, protein chains would not bend the way they do, "respiratory chains" in mitochondria wouldn't work, etc. In short: life as we know it wouldn't be possible. Note: I know You asked a different question, but you cannot separate cause from effect. Note2: In case it was not clear, the answer to the question is: "a world where ice is heavier than water would not have any life as we know it (among other things)." I added the answer because I felt this is a relevant difference that was not included in other answers. 

What you ask is pretty much impossible, at least as I understand it; "modern" small processors (equivalent to the very old things used in those ancient probes) use the same technology as the "big brothers", so any change invalidating the latter would render useless also "small" ones. It is true high integration chips are more sensitive to radiation, but difference, even with ancient TTL technology, is not so high a serious shielding wouldn't suffice. It is possible to imagine a different universe where very high integration is impossible, for some reason, but having it stop working in our universe seems to need a lot of handwaving. If something like that happens, somehow, we would have to rethink and redesign many things, from planes to cars, not to speak about all our communication equipment, GPS, smartphones, TV, etc, etc. Reconversion to older technologies is possible, of course, but it wouldn't be a short or easy process. A stupid example to clarify: Modern printers are made with cheap plastic because all head positioning errors are computed in real-time by printer controller and "compensated" via software; printers with smaller controllers, unable to do this need much higher quality mechanics. Something similar is true in almost anything "modern". If modern Very High Integration electronics fails we would have much deeper problems than being unable to access the Internet.