It appears that one additional week of vacation is the sole issue here. It seems as if the company offered a compromise (overtime to make up for unpaid days off), but you rejected that for some reason. This seems to indicate that the company doesn't wish to make exceptions to its vacation policy, and that you aren't interested in anything other than an extra vacation week. So it appears to be an impasse. Unless you are willing to leave over one additional week of vacation (something only you can decide), it might not make sense to use the threat of leaving as leverage. As a hiring manager, I know from experience that people seldom leave over one issue. There are most often many reasons - and curing one doesn't make the other reasons go away. Perhaps that's not the case for you. In general, if employees come to me with a threat of leaving and ask for something to keep them around, I'm pretty confident that they will be leaving soon anyway. And thus, I seldom assent to their demands. Instead, I start planning for their departure. No more important projects, no more raises, no promotion of course, and I make sure all their work is well-documented. I'd doubt if showing offers from other companies would make a difference - particularly offers that you rejected. Obviously, there was something about your current company that made it more appealing than the rejected company, in spite of the difference in vacation policy. If you are a good employee, your employer already knows that you are capable of leaving and getting hired elsewhere. I'd be surprised if printed offers would change anything. But you never know. If you are truly willing to leave if you don't get the extra week, you might as well give showing off your offers a try, and indicating that the only thing that will retain you is one more week of vacation. The worst that could happen is that you are let go quickly (unlikely) or are treated as a short-timer from that point on (more likely). 

Whenever I'm in a position to give feedback to a superior at work, I first consider how I expect that feedback will be received, and if it will make a difference. Being brutally honest at work is a risky proposition, and you want to be sure that it is "safe" to provide this sort of feedback; that you won't face repercussions. In your case, you believe that "she's not that interested." Thus, I wouldn't bother to provide honest feedback. Venting to someone that isn't interested is of little to no benefit, and may put you in an adverse position regarding raises, and choice roles. If she's truly not interested, it's unlikely to make anything better, and has a chance to make this worse for you. Save your constructive feedback for those who want to hear what you have to say, and for those who can and will change things for the better. 

It's not hard. Just try something like: "Thanks, it sounds interesting, but I'm not willing to put time into a job application without first knowing the salary involved." You'll certainly lose a lot of recruiters quickly that way. But the few that will proceed will give you the salary information up front. Use the same approach for any basic information that you feel you need to know before you pursue the job. For each addition pre-req you will end up with fewer and fewer opportunities, but it sounds like you care more about specifics than quantity and you aren't actively in the market anyway. 

It's not at all common in my experience. I've only notified my boss once. That was a situation where I had worked with him for a long time, I knew that it wouldn't be held against me, and I knew that I wouldn't be surprising him. In general, wait until you have your new job, then give your notice and work out the appropriate notice period. In my part of the US, two week's notice is standard; anything else would be unusual. It's pretty easy to see how notifying your manager that you are starting a job search would help him. But I don't see how this would help you. And I see how this could turn very bad for you. It makes me wonder if your manager is taking advantage of you. 

You may wish to expound on this more in your cover letter, as this is experience that may help you stand out over other candidates, or may be the most important part for your internship. Even if you aren't permitted to share the actual code you created, you will be able to talk about it during an interview, and perhaps demonstrate the concepts and your abilities on a whiteboard. 

It's only £45 a month if you end up getting paid for the extra 15 minutes. If the end result is that are told you don't need to come in early, then it's £0 a month. 

If there are medical issues preventing you from actually functioning around other people, you need to address those first. It won't make any sense to find some trick that will get you through interviews, only to be unable to function around other people once you are on the job. If it's just a matter of nervousness or inexperience, you may just need to suck it up and force your way through it until you naturally get better at it over time. If instead this is a medical or mental health issue - seek professional help first. 

It might be unrealistic for you to expect others to know that you don't want to be bothered unless you make your desires clearer. It either isn't obvious to your neighbor, or he just doesn't care. 

By "enjoy this period" I assume you mean just hanging around getting paid but doing nothing. That's certainly not advisable. Managers appreciate people who are self-starters. They don't appreciation people who want to be told how they should spend every hour each day. You risk looking like you will take advantage of any opening to just slack off. You don't want that to be your first impression.