I took a management class from a man that ran the production of the U.S. F-16 airplanes. He had a very wise expression in his closing slide. If an employee is not doing their job (including being practical) then determine 

Ask for an offer letter. Tell them politely that you were wondering if they had made a decision yet as to whether or not they were going to extend you an offer for a position. If they did not describe the position, as for the description of the position they offer to you. Even if they described this in the solicitation for the offer, ask for a clarification regarding the responsibilities, a list of direct reports (subordinates), and who would be your supervisor. Ask for the salary, compensation (bonuses), and full description of benefits (e.g. heathcare, vacation and PTO days, holidays, pension / 401k). If there was a signing bonus, make sure this is in writing in the offer letter. Ask for the number of vacation days you will have when you start. Ask for the expected start date or be prepared to supply a start date. Ask for a decision date: when do they need to know your decision. Consider their delivery of an employment contract / NDA / non-compete / request for drug test to be part of your decision process. Use that information to help you decide if you want to be their employee. Maybe their 'ask' is too onerous? If they balk, ask what they need from you in order for them to provide an offer letter. It is fair for them to ask for references, background check, and perhaps even a drug test before making an offer. It is also fair for you to push back and tell them that they can provide you an offer letter than is contingent upon you meeting the terms of employment (e.g. they can give you an offer that is only good if you sign within xx days, pass a background check, pass a drug screening, ...). I do not believe it is fair for a professional, salaried employee to be required to submit an employment contract to get an offer letter. You should not need to commit until they have completely described their offer to you. The only exceptions I can think of are related to the government, military, and classified work. 

Let her get away with it... once. Don't do anything. Treat it as a one-off and give her the benefit of the doubt. Maybe she really did mean to pocket your tip, maybe she didn't count the money she was given and assumed people hadn't tipped, maybe people thought they had tipped but actually had calculated wrong. There's no way to know for sure at this point. The point is, even if it was intentional, bringing it up with your manager doesn't help anything. It's not really your manager's business, and bringing it up just makes you look unprofessional. Next time, take preventative measures. Work out your contribution out loud: 

What is it that the organization seeks in hiring you? How do you provide a specific (and brief) enough resume to communicate your value effectively 

I have a tendency to go with certainty rather than uncertainty. Life is uncertain as it stands. You can get fired or laid off at any moment. I don't count on performance bonuses, promises of future growth, promotions or raises - what are you offering me today is what I evaluate. I am old enough that I look at intangibles. I like a good corporate culture that helps people grow. I like to work for people I respect. I like to learn and contribute. I like some freedom to determine how I execute my work. I like to hear good advice and give advice and have it be respected when it is good. Don't count on the vacation time unless you will actually use that time. The majority of Americans don't use all their vacation time - will you? Do you need the money? Maybe you're saving for a house. That $15k will go a long way (over time) to putting a down payment on a place. Ultimately, if you are tempted, go discretely for an interview. Look for a job when you have a job, not when you are out of a job. Then you can really decide on the best choice. Interview the company to find out the position, culture, and determine your co-workers and your boss. If it is a good move for you (and you've spent enough time at the old place you're confident you've accomplished enough to show value on your life resume), then make a change. I would not go to your old company and ask for a raise making the demand you'll leave. I have seen this backfire first hand every time... it never ends well. Sounds like you're happy where you're at, with the exception of the hope for more money. Don't poison it by demanding more. 

I am a former employer who has founded 3 businesses and hired hundreds of people. I agree that both of those negative experiences don't reflect on your suitability as an employee, but strongly suggest you provide that information to your prospective employer. Here is why. Background check, criminal records check, financial records check, social media review... Smart employers do every background check you can imagine, including a hiring specialist to mine social media. A huge red flag to any employer is deceit on the resume'. That includes errors of omission as well as commission. It is more than certain that both of those short term employments will show up somehwere, and then you'll be ruled out in the finals, where the serious money is spent on background checks. Bringing a bad candidate into a business is detrimental and expensive. Every savvy employer has learned that the hard way. Money invested in investigation before the hire is money well spent and many candidates are ruled out and never know why because it does not help the employer to tell you. We regularly ruled out people for bad credit etc, because employees bring all those messy personal problems to work, like it or not. Sadly, all these other answers are suggesting that you intentionally hide something and that's called lying... Living with deceit is not comfortable for you and that shows in your question. Besides, you can be let go on the spot if it is later learned that you lied on your resume' Be up front. You'll find a match and you won't be looking over your shoulder wondering when your "secret" will be found out. Good luck! You'll find a good job. 

(This could come across as aggressive if delivered as so - make sure to say it in a friendly way and you'll still get your point across without sounding mean.) If she somehow manages to get away with it a second time, then you can bring it up with her (I still wouldn't recommend going over her head and reporting her to the manager - it seems like overkill, and it might just be an honest mistake about differing expectations) and see what she has to say. 

You didn't answer the original question ("Why did you leave?") wrong at all, but you could have handled the followup question better. There are two potential problems here. 

Are they capable and need to be trained? If so, train them yourself or get resources to have them trained. Are they unable for some other reason? If so, have mercy on them and find them another position inside or outside of the company. Are they unwilling? Fire them without mercy 

Know compensation for similar positions. Use salary surveys, private information, ... whatever you can get your hands on. Pay attention to regional differences throughout the U.S. Also keep in mind sectors are different (healthcare, semiconductor, ...) Estimate what you are worth to your potential employer. If you expect to make $100,000 then bear in mind that the employer is spending $130k - $200k in salary and benefits (sometimes more). In addition, the first 6 - 12 mos. a new employee is not really at 100% efficiency. So, investing in a new employee is expensive regardless of your expertise. Understand how money flows in the company from customers to you. Can you really produce $200k of revenue each year? Are you going to produce (by virtue of your work and your subordinates' work) more than $200k per year. If so, how are you going to do that? Never use 'he or she got that, so I should too'. No employer I know is going to listen to that. You just sound like a little kid complaining. I don't want to hire a complainer. It is not negotiating if you can't walk away. If you think that you must take whatever offer you're provided, you can't negotiate. Unless you can walk away and say 'no thanks', you're not really negotiating. Be reasonable. I already lived through (x1) Dot.com boom / bust. Friends were getting (x2) the 'standard' consulting rate to take ridiculous work. Be ethical and reasonable and you'll get respect - that is worth a lot more than an extra $100/week. Give something to get something. Offer to take on specific job functions, management, documentation, training of others - offer something your employer values to get something you value. Don't negotiate for future raises. It never happened for me - all the promises of promotions or salary adjustments or bonuses never materialized. Negotiate for the here and now, not some promise of a 'review in six months'. Use the job as a learning experience for the next negotiation. If you don't think you can truly negotiate for more money or if you don't get what you've asked, decide if the organization can 'teach' you something intangible. Face it. If you're asking StackExchange for advice, you may lack the experience to negotiate strongly. Look at the advice you've been given and try to figure out in your existing job or in this new opportunity what you learn to negotiate better the next time. 

If you're an experienced developer with offers coming out of your ears and the phone ringing off the hook, then you probably don't need to bother investing a bunch of time on a coding exercise. You might make an exception if you really like the sound of the job, but you've got enough offers to choose from that you don't need to invest your time if you don't want to. If you're more junior, and you need the opportunities - then is your code a selling point? Will the interviewers read it and see potential or will they run a mile? Do you structure things logically, comment things sensibly, employ best practice and generally write good, clean, well-designed code? Finally, consider that they'll probably make you write code at some point in the interview process. I personally prefer being able to write things at home in my own time and with access to Google and a compiler, rather than sweating in front of a whiteboard with everyone looking at me. Other people will prefer to do it on the whiteboard where they can talk to actual human beings and aren't going to be judged on every misplaced comma. Think about which option would work better for you. 

I think if your employer is unhappy with anything, they will tell you or signal you during normal work interactions. It's not hard to know if you are performing well or not, either at work or in a relationship. If you are fishing for compliments, don't waste your time. Here is what I want in a periodic review. 1) What can I do to carve out some time, on the job, to explore areas of interest to me that I in my own judgement think might benefit the company. 2) Can we set some learning goals that will improve my mastery of the skills that the company needs me to perform well. 3) How would we define my work and performance in terms of the purpose of the work I do in these key areas: Customer experience, advancement of the organization, value to my fellow employees. A discussion that outlines these important factors that are shown to directly link to your job satisfaction and the quality of your contribution to your company is far more important than a blow by blow evaluation of some past actions. Don't focus on past actions in discussion with your manager. Focus on the future. In your daily work, do your best and whatever it takes to deliver for your customers, company and coworkers and you'll never have to worry about the past. 

You've explicitly mentioned the tip, so if anyone has forgotten they are reminded, and if anyone disagrees with tipping or with the percentage they can say so. I used to do this when I was younger and had a group of friends whose default was not to tip (whereas my default was to tip) and it works reasonably well. When people are adding up the bill, you can remind them again if necessary. For example, if they're totalling to "$100" and that's the sans-tip price, you can gently correct that to "$115 with tip". If they continue, at least make sure that your tip gets passed on and doesn't go towards reducing the price of a coworker's meal: