Natural materials would be the biggest giveaway, the most obvious being wood. The surface textures are quite fixed in size and you're going to be seeing vast sizes on woodgrain where you're expecting fine patterns. Other materials, like cloth and paper, will be quite hard to work at those sizes, suddenly a fine material becomes a massively thick and heavy one. You can't just scale down materials with natural fibre thicknesses, these things are going to stand out. 

Assuming your cowboy is a pure consumer, he knows only how to load, fire and maintain his gun. Luckily cannon have been invented in the 14th Century, they've been around in Europe for 50-100 years. Gunpowder is a known compound and it doesn't change much until smokeless powders in the very late 19th Century, so it's likely the right propellant for the weapon. Any blacksmith will be able to make the bullets, he just needs some lead and a mold. That's a minor detail. However the bullet cartridge and firing button is a much tougher object to make to the correct tolerances and would be best passed to a jeweler. 

Rivers are measured in flow rate, the volume that passes a given cross section in a given period. This makes it easy for us because your town boundary is a cross section. Let's go with cubic metres per second ($m^3/s$) for the flow rate and an arbitrary value of a factor of 10 on the time dilation. Generally the flow rate of a river is fairly constant. It's increased by tributaries and other incoming water, but isolating the river from tributaries and other sources for the sake of this model, fundamentally what goes in at the top is what comes out at the bottom. We'll also define your river cross section as remaining constant all the way through the zone of interest* (the river equivalent of a spherical cow in a vacuum). Entering the town changes the flow rate of the river because it changes the meaning of the second. However the effective volume of water flowing through the system doesn't change. Say you're getting $1m^3/s$** approaching the boundary, within the boundary that becomes $1m^3/10s$ or $0.1m^3/s$, $1/10$ of the initial flow rate. Given that the river will most likely remain in its same basin, it has the same physical constraints, your reasonably fast flowing river outside the boundary will become a lazy river within the town then return to being a fast flowing river outside it again. 

There are many factors that could cause the tribes to settle into some sort of farming pattern. Probably initially via transhumance and improving the pastures to which they will return next season, but also through more immediate internal or external pressures. 

'GPS' in the form of radio beacons was available long before satellite GPS. Even if you cleared the orbits, if someone really wanted an area to be navigable with GPS they'd just need to set up radio beacons at high points around the perimeter. An area could not yet be covered by such beacons but it wouldn't prevent someone setting them up if needed. The following could be combined with cleared orbits to prevent such beacons 

Exile is not a valid punishment for "normal" people. It only applies to leaders, politicians, princes. Normal people can just go and be normal people somewhere else, but leaders of the people when exiled, are doomed to become normal in their new home. They lose the power and influence that is their identity. While you as an authority have removed a problem from your territory, when it's a normal person you haven't really punished the person in the same way that you would have otherwise. Certainly exile to the average criminal could not be considered a punishment on the same level as death, but to a prince the two could be considered almost equivalent. 

Weapons would need to be made of alloys that were largely invariable in size as a result of temperature change simply due to the amount of heating resulting from use of the weapon. While they can overheat in prolonged use, the autoignition temperature of your ammunition is going to be the more significant factor. As an example of the heating from use, here's a guy firing an AK until it catches fire: $URL$ (Don't talk to the Germans about this, the G36 rifles lose all accuracy when they get hot.) 

A lateen rigged mulithull vessel such as Hōkūleʻa have straight advantage over the square rigged monohull designs the European powers used. It's faster and it can sail closer to the wind Choosing when to have your combat is one of the most important factors in "random encounters" in the period. Many of the Hornblower type stories include statements about larger and faster vessels and the risks of encountering one. They also spend a lot of their time trying to gain the controlling position upwind of the vessel they're chasing. The lateen rig of the Polynesians on a catamaran hull with appropriate leeboard/centerboard can sail 10 to 15 degrees closer to the wind than a square rigged monohull. In this case, even when smaller, it's still faster, and sailing closer to the wind, you get to choose your opponents, and when and where to fight or not. Under normal (modern) circumstances I would say that a multihull vessel is slower to turn, but in this case you're again comparing a schooner-lateen rig with a square rigger. If you maintain this difference in rigging then you maintain faster maneuvering as square rigs lose all speed to tack and can end up going backwards. It's entirely valid to scale catamarans up to quite large sizes without having to change the rigs all that much. If you have the people and you have the timber you can build them up to galleon scales. However one of the key differences you'll notice when scaling up a multihull when compared to a monohull, apart from the significantly higher complexity of construction, is that monohulls have larger holds relative to deck size. Multihulls have much larger decks but can't haul as much cargo. This leaves you in a situation of having greater naval effectiveness close to your home ports but limited ability to project power at greater ranges. 

In the long run you can't. You can make it difficult or awkward but when power changes hands all the powers that the previous government had transfer to the new one. Anything that was written can be changed. Anything that was set in stone can be removed simply by saying "it's a holdover from the previous administration and should be discarded accordingly". Everything else is just spin and you can spin things any way you want them. Mind you, if the group is still hated by the general population, changing to democracy isn't going to help. Even democracies have shown themselves perfectly capable of institutional, systematic oppression and denial of rights to ethnic groups, sexes, religions, sexual orientations or otherwise. 

The fundamental roots of this could be the statement: I will behave like this to others because I hope that others will behave like this to me. 

Both Go through a phase where it's hot enough to dustbowl the land, then drop the temperatures to ice age and freeze out the oceans. You'll probably kill everyone and everything this way. Internet research says that ice ages can cut in very quickly, but all the sources I've seen are questionable. 

Consider a situation where "good" has won and "evil" is in remission. I'm going to be quite crude about the meanings of good and evil. All is life and light and order, death and darkness and chaos have been banished. Taking this to its illogical conclusion, because that's where it's going, new life is born, trees grow, nothing dies and it's never dark. But light and dark are part of the cycle of life, some animals need the darkness and some need the light. We live on the death of others, the death of plants and animals. The butterflies and the bees will be fine for a while but the lions and tigers are going to be starving. Predators live on the edge, in the chaos, they are the thing that goes bump in the night, do they too not have an equal right to live? With no death life becomes unbearable, crowded and hungry. With no darkness it becomes too hot. With no chaos it becomes dull and meaningless. It would not take long after the loss of the darkness for the light alone to be considered just as evil and for people to seek the darkness and chaos. Either one without the other takes you to a very bad place. The eternal summer is no better than the eternal winter. 

3 to 5 day gestation Just over 3 weeks from new born to full growth Dead two months after hitting full growth My first problem here is that growth rate, you're going to be able to sit and watch a kid grow. That's going to take some serious calorie and protein intake. The next problem is the transfer of knowledge. It takes us years to teach kids the basics and years more to teach them a trade. It takes 6 months to become proficient at a basic office job and they don't have time for that sort of thing, they need to get on with reproducing or they won't live long enough to do so. You could have some big meerkats but I wouldn't call them a functioning society by our standards. 

Define "same" Currently humanity has vast physical diversity, there are many different forms that you look at and automatically think "human" even though adults can have a 50% disparity in height, 400% disparity in mass and totally different surface colouration. 

I know I'm late to this but it needs a map. The problem is that simple magnetic compasses are fairly approximate anyway, they don't show direction by the global magnetic field but rather by the local one. For it to be truly useful over large distances you also need a map of Magnetic Declination. An up to date map shows how wrong your compass is at your current location. (Map source is link above) As you can see, the magnetic fields on our planet are pretty wacky even at the best of times. It's well known that the magnetic poles move, so it's important to have an up to date map, however: 

The US national debt is structured in a similar way to the tribute paid to the ancient imperial or royal powers. There's no plan or intent to ever pay off the debt, it's simply allowed to slowly depreciate against inflation while interest is (sometimes) paid on it. (This model requires continuous growth). This allowance of continually rising debt is the price paid to prop up the current economic system. It's also tied to it being one of the safest investments in the world. The debt continues to rise, it is never paid off, it is never written off. Even threatening to write off this debt risks the collapse of most of the world's economies. People say that national debt "is more complicated" than personal or household debt, this is true, because the collateral on the debt is the country and its economy. In short, the US threatening to write off a debt to another country is utterly unbelievable, it could never happen. (And if it does, make sure your bunker is well stocked) Also the description is that of a regional skirmish, not a world war. 

These are the primary limitations on the human body along with being the primary costs keeping the money in circulation. There are secondary factors, for example humans desire stuff. Meatbags have a tendency to want to keep up with the Jones, to indulge in financial vanity, to be seen to have wealth and spend it. This is another factor keeping money in circulation, again droids don't have these urges (unless artificially written in). This leads to a classic problem that the Luddites will always protest against. Each droid puts 3-4 people out of work and generates almost none of the economic activity for the money earned relative to those people. The people who want the things they produce will have no money to buy them due to being out of work. Total economic collapse results. At least that's the theory, in practice it never seems to work that way as industries automate. The solution is to keep the droids as slaves and not give them money at all. Limit how many droids a household can own and each one is permitted to take the work of a member of the household who is responsible for its maintenance and to whom the droid's earnings go. What could possibly go wrong, slaves never rebel after all. 

In practice this is about your own world and story as it's a cost-benefit-regulations game. We've previously discussed the fact that almost nothing is worth shipping across interstellar distances, so where you do your processing is up to you. Your questions are: 

Double glazing! The ambient temperature on the surface of Titan means that having a bit of a draft between your jacket and trousers could well be fatal rather than merely uncomfortable. Safety precautions in such a situation suggest that at least one layer should be totally airtight. This means there is an option for a full helmet filled with warm breathable air. It doesn't need to be a full clear globe, it only needs the forward arc to be clear for visibility. Double glazed with a vacuum between the layers of glass/polycarbonate or otherwise. Rigid aerogel can be used for the rest of the helmet. Most of the specified materials are highly flexible, the helmet should be of a close fitting type that moves with the head on flexible neck seals. The need to have that airtight layer means no breathability in the suit, moisture controls would hence also be needed to prevent it turning into a sweat bath and as such would control fogging in the helmet as well. The other key complex part of the suit is the gloves. Dexterous work is going to need thin gloves, but these may not keep the cold out long enough for prolonged exposure. I can see two potential solutions to this. Powered heating elements in the gloves1 or an extra layer of heavy outer gloves worn over the lightweight ones which are removed for short periods to work and then put back on when the work is completed, the maximum time limit reached, or a skin surface temperature alert is triggered. A combination of the two is also a possibility, but we're steadily increasing the load on the suit's power systems with the powered features.