And much more. Feel free to look through the document, you will see that to a large part its purpose was to humiliate Germany and to destroy it as a world power. This intent backfired - this treaty didn't let Germany get over its defeat, instead Germany kept seeking a way to retaliate and to circumvent the restrictions. 

I couldn't find any numbers for the Soviet army, merely the continuously repeated statement of unclear origin mentioning 15,000 delivered messages. Compared to the numbers above this would mean that the Soviet army barely used homing pigeons. I also couldn't find evidence for any significant use of homing pigeons by the German army in WW2. You can see how the pigeons were used by looking at the "celebrities": 

For us this means: If you look at the "official" numbers then the state that supplied the most soldiers was Virginia. The sources claiming otherwise apparently took the statement "North Carolina supplied many soldiers" and turned it into a superlative. As to the real numbers: I'm not sure whether they are known by now, I couldn't find anything resembling a reliable source. 

Kostomarov then describes in great length the first open confrontation between Nikon and the tsar in 1658 that caused Nikon to abandon his post. 

This apparently refers to Allied Military Standing Order Nr. 153. While I couldn't find the actual text, the text The Execution of German Deserters by Surrendered German Troops Under Canadian Control in Amsterdam, May 1945 and a bunch of others mention it. Essentially, this order was meant to maintain discipline and order within the surrendered German troops. The easiest solution was to keep existing military structures intact until a better solution could be found. However, there were restrictions: 

The differences here cannot be explained merely by different translations, e.g. Hitler clearly doesn't talk about the next winter as Suvorov suggests. But even assuming that Suvorov was reading a translated version (I somehow assumed that he knew German and read the original) and that the translator made a mistake here - the context makes it very obvious that this is just some theoretical thoughts about something that could be done over centuries. It was by no means a strategy for the ongoing war. But that context was omitted because otherwise this nice quote would become boring. As I said, it seems that all "facts" listed in the books got the same treatment. That explains why real historians scoff at them - it is hard to take somebody seriously who has to invent things in order to support his claims. 

The most obvious example would be the Siege of Kaffa, in which the Golden Horde tried to take control of what was then a Genoese colony, situated on Crimea. However, the Black Death spread in the mongol army, and they had to abandon the siege. Before they left, they hurled dead corpses into the city, in the hope that the plague would spread. It eventually did, and from there to the rest of Europe. Here is a blog post discussing the more medical aspects, which also cites a primary source in some length. 

One example is the Battle of Bogesund, a part of the internal conflicts of the Kalmar Union, which led to then Swedish regent Sten Sture the younger being mortally wounded after a cannonball had bounced on the ice, and ultimately allowed Kristian II of Denmark to seize the Swedish throne. Other battles has taken place on Storsjön, Bysjön, and Viken. There is also a mythological batttle on Vänern. For a really history-changing event (even if was not an actual battle) which was made possible due to winter conditions, there is the March across the Belts, during which king Charlex X of Sweden managed to cross into the Danish island Sjaelland and threaten Copenhagen. The peace that followed transferred large parts of present Sweden from Denmark-Norway. 

I would submit the Swedish general election of 1968, where the Social democratic party achieved 50,1 % of the (raw) votes, with a voter turnout of almost 90 % (they had achieved even more in 1940, but then war conditions made for some small infractions against the communist party and a lower turnout than usual). As for referendums, I would cite the Norway referendum for approving the dissolution of the union with Sweden in 1905, but there were less than the required 500 000 voters, and women had no suffrage. Still, it achieved an impressive 99,95 % approval. 

Hector Alexander the Great Julius Caesar Joshua David Judas Maccabeus King Arthur Charlemagne Godfrey of Bouillon 

Note how it mentions seats on the platform but not in the elevator. From Te Aroha News, 28 September 1889: 

So essentially it took HMS Hydra 15 days to travel from England to Sierra Leone, the jorney that MV Apapa did in 9 days. It seems that 11 days for the same journey in 1895 aren't an unreasonable assumption. And the stops are pretty typical (have a look at the logs of the other ships on the same server): Madeira, then Sierra Leone. The next stop would be Accra already. 2-3 days spent in a port seem typical for 19th century, so we would get a total travel time of 16 days plus 4-6 days for the stops meaning 20-22 days. 

According to this inscription on a Pony Express marker only one out of 120 riders was killed in the 19 months. This would mean that the probability of getting killed on this job within a year was 0.5%. Then again - one death isn't anywhere near statistically significant. I see little reason to doubt these figures that are repeated on many websites. The general tendency seems to be exaggerating the dangers and the achievements - so an inflated death count would have been more likely. The real chances weren't as bad it seems which is apparently why many texts prefer to talk about abstract "dangers" without backing it up with numbers. Nevertheless it was definitely not an easy job. 

It is unfortunately far easier to prove the presence of seats than their absence. The newspapers worldwide covered the Eiffel Tower in great detail and I decided to check what they wrote about the elevators (which where obviously a particular point of interest). The National Library of New Zealand puts historical newspapers online and makes them searchable, that's what I looked at. One typical description comes from the Otago Daily Times, 14 December 1889: 

(Frederick Douglass in the North Star, 1848) It could be that his words were transformed into the statement you heard. 

While not exactly records of actual events, stranded whales where important enough to the early Icelanders that they regulated them in their laws. Grágas states that you are even allowed to work to secure a stranded whale on Sundays. Stranded whales are also recorded in sagas, such as Grettir's saga, which, among other things, records a feud over a stranded whale. While the sagas can not be taken as straight history (Grettir also encounters ghasts and witches), they can provide valuable insight into mentality and everyday happenings. 

(The two last claimed that they were sons of Magnus after his death). I also found two cases of four brothers: First, we have the sons of Harald Gille from the list above: 

Niels was followed by Erik Emune, bastard child of Eric Evergood. Later, his bastard son Sweyn Grathe would also take the crown. After this, there were no more bastard kings of Denmark. The Norwegians possibly had eight bastard sons in a row (one claimed to have been such, but was not recognised), see Wikipedia. By contrast, Sweden has had only one known bastard king, Emund the old. 

Medieval Scholars were much more sophisticated than they are usually given credit for. Knowledge of the shape of the Earth were never really "lost". Apart from their own observations, there were also classical works that supported this view. During late antiquity, Boethius had access to Ptolemy, even if it later was forgotten and had to be reintroduced to Western Europe. Two other works, however, Pliny's Natural history and Platon's Timaeus were available throughout the period. There are a few examples of scholars that suggested other shapes, but they were exceptions, not the rule. Some examples Adam of Bremen (second half of eleventh century) is known as a historian, and an important source of Nordic history, but in his Gesta Hammaburgensis Ecclesiae Pontificum he also wrote on the midnight sun: 

The ancient Romans used to have the new year at the end of February. To fit the lunar and solar calendars, an extra month was sometimes added after February. This practice continued even after the months were shifted so that new year moved to where it is now (this shift is the reason why we have e.g. "december" 'tenth month', as number twelve). This proved to be problematic, as it was the Pontifex maximus who decided when to add this extra month, which was sometimes forgotten, or done/not done to gain political advantage. With the Julian reform, the months got the length we are used to, and the leap days as we know them were added. See wikipedia on February for a somewhat longer history. 

Your examples don't really count. Yes, polytheistic religions don't consider all gods as equals. But that's simply the hierarchy of human societies applied to gods, it comes naturally with the human psyche being what it is. Nevertheless, polytheism seems to be the more obvious form of religion: a single almighty god is very abstract and hard to imagine, a number of gods each with his own area of responsibility is a simpler concept. Particularly if you consider that religion originally sought to explain nature - it was logical to imagine a different cause (god) of each phenomenon as opposed to a single cause for all of them. In fact, even Christianity today sometimes seems to have the same polytheistic properties: at least in the Russian Orthodox Church it isn't uncommon to direct prayers to saints rather than to god. Regardless of the church's official position, many people prefer to view saints as subordinate gods with their respective areas of competence. 

The book goes on to compare these numbers with the actual population and comes to the following conclusion: 

If Germany decided to invade Poland to get back East Prussia that it lost to Poland after WWII - would it be a war of independence? One needs a lot of fantasy to call the Polish–Soviet War (this seems to be the official name of the conflict) a war of independence. In 1919 Poland was already independent - it gained its independence with the Treaty of Versailles. The issue was rather that Poland wasn't satisfied with the territories it gained and would like to recover all the territories it lost in the partitions. This meant first suppressing the Ukrainian independence movement in the Western Ukraine (Polish-Ukrainian War). But given that Western Ukraine had a large Polish population one could still explain it with defending the newly born Polish state. This explanation no longer works for the Polish invasion of East Ukraine and Belarus in the course of the Polish-Soviet War. While these territories historically belonged to Poland (they changed hands a number of times actually) they didn't have a significant Polish population. So this had nothing to do with independence. Instead, there were quite obvious strategical reasons: 

Considering that Ragnar and his sons are figures as much out of legend as of history, I will answer with another legendary figure: Ivar Vidfamne. According to Snorri, he began in Scania (today the southernmost part of Sweden), and began by conquering the (then much smaller) Swedish kingdom. He then went on conquer "all Denmark, a big part of Saxonia, the whole Eastern kingdom and a fifth of England." Snorri based most of his account on the older poem Ynglingatal, which he also quotes from, but nothing that supports this story. Ivar is also known from Hervarar saga, which says that after Sweden, "[h]e also subdued Denmark and Courland and the land of the Saxons and Esthonia, and all the eastern realms as far as Russia. He also ruled the land of the Saxons in the West and conquered the part of England which was called Northumbria." He is further mentioned in a lot of other Norse sources. They all seem to agree on him conquering at least both Sweden and Denmark. Sources Snorri I have in translation to Swedish by Karl G. Johansson. Hervarar saga I found here. Other primary sources are mentioned by Wikipedia, I checked on Sögubrot (Swedish translation) and Af Upplendinga Konungum. 

Probably more common than you would think. Lots of nobles were little more than farmers with a coat of arms. Peasants could acquire a lot of wealth. Were the division between the two classes fell varied enourmously between countries, as well as the relative status. To give an example: In Sweden, the noble class was created in 1280, when anyone who would equip and keep a war horse in the service fo the King was declared to be exempt from other taxes. Thus, the entire nobility was created straight from the peasantry, so there difference between "peasant" and "noble" was not a matter of blood, but rather one of exactly how much money you had. Marrying someone slightly less rich than you would not be a great deal. Note that even if you want to restrict "nobility" to having some sort of conferred title, the only ones that really existed in Sweden were "duke" (almost exclusive for royals) and "knight", and a person like Bo Jonsson (Grip), who controlled two thirds of the country, never attained either (and he was, BTW, married to the daughter of a knight).