Have you cleaned out your MSDB lately? Good article by Brent Ozar as to what ramifications this has on your db's and backups $URL$ 

I'm not sure what the source of your errors are but here's a place to start looking: 10036 Error: $URL$ 7888 Error: $URL$ NOTE*-If this first link is right, check service enabled in your MOSS setup and make sure you don't have something enabled that you don't need for your particular license type $URL$ 7 Error (need more specifics as this is a generic error): $URL$ NOTE*-From first glance looks like error 7 might point to a bad drive. Is this vm local (workstation) or on ESX? Is it on a SAN or local disk space? Can you do storage migration and try this VM on another disk? 63 Error: $URL$ NOTE- Again, hard to diagnose with no source information but looks like another possible issue with disk. 

When you register your CMS there's a drop down with Authentication. Change that to SQL Server Authentication (if I'm understanding you correctly) 

I would like to change the path for a SQL Server Filestream but I can't find any information on this. I know how to change the mdf and ldf filenames, but can't seem to find how to change the folder name where the FileStream stores the data. 

Isn't it possible to set a password on a message and congifure the msmq queue to accept messages with that password? I'm having trouble configuring my remote queue to accept messages from an asp.net site (network service account). I want my queue to be authenticated (just a checkbox on the queue), but I'm unable to add the Network Service from a remote machine to the users in the security tab. If I leave the checkbox Authenticate unchecked, then everyone can just send a message to the queue. If I check the checkbox Authenticated, and I try sending a message to the queue from a Console Application, it does work. My Console Application runs under my account and in the security tab of the queue I added myself (on the remote server). But how to give access to the Network Service of my local machine? 

Without going into detail, this is definitely an issue to take to management if it can't be addressed effectively with the individual in question. I would try to engage the other person and give him the opportunity to explain his rationale', however, given the arrogance and ego often found in our industry, it wouldn't surprise me if he didn't appreciate such challenges to his "authoritay." At that point, you should build a solid logical, financial, and pragmatic case to counter his broken practices and you should suggest a few alternatives (NB: complaining without suggesting solutions is called 'whining'.) At the very minimum, get a copy of "The Practice of System and Network Administration" and start looking for best practices. Put your concerns down in writing. Each organization has different attitudes toward 'argument from authority' (e.g. do textbook best-practices trump those from the local sysadmin or management or developers or Marketing?) If possible, leave a way for the senior admin to 'save face' to make it easier for them to change, without necessarily admitting they were wrong.) I wouldn't worry so much about not 'being on the team'; it's one thing to be a destructive, disruptive or obstructionist element; it's quite another to make change a positive experience for everyone involved. That said, depending on how dysfunctional your organization is, your choices may be to change your job or change your job - either fix it or find someplace else less broken. That's probably an extreme case though; keep it depersonalized and positive, listen more than you speak, and above all keep a paper trail. :) 

You COULD but why would you want to? Theoretically you can have the whole shebang of services on same box (Small Business Server). Just because you CAN do something, however, doesn't necessarily mean you should. The Domain controller holds the AD database so if you want to risk bogging that down with printing (and god forbid) file sharing then that's a risk you'll have to assess yourself. If you want to play it safe stand up a Linux server for free and use that as a network file share or print server and try to keep your Domain Server boxes as just that. 

VMDK's can be easily grown but not shrunk. Its best to start off smaller and grow as needed for storage management reasons. With VSphere 4 they have thin provisioning now so you can tell the server its 100 GB but on the backend it only provisions how much its really using. $URL$ 

Another answer (if you're SQL inclined and bored) is that you can open Excel, connect to a SQL datasource, connect to the SQL instance hosting your Virtual Center and query the views that Virtual Center uses 'under the covers' to roll your own reporting solution. Beauty to this is that it will always be up to date since its data coming live from your SQL and its completely customizable provided you're comfortable enough to do it in Excel (or even Reporting Services if you're that advanced/bored). 

If you have an asp.net site sending messages to a remote queue, how do you handle authentication. If Windows Authentication is turned off, the network service sends a message to the remote queue. Does that mean that in de security tab of the queue, I need to add the netwerk service of the server sending the message? (by the way, I do not use http or https). And what if Windows Authentication is enabled, do I need to add all users that will log in using windows authentication to the queue? 

If I trigger this code ten times/second, then after some hundred mails, sending a mail takes 10 seconds... Could there be a queue involved here? 

Is it possible to configure loadbalancing on one server with IIS7? What I would like is to have three applications in IIS7 (sites). One site should forward the requests to the other two sites (loadbalanced). Problem is that at a customer of ours loadbalancing is used (with virtual servers). We on the other hand do not have (yet) a virtual environment and only one buildserver. (maybe using Application Request Routing module?) 

Tangentially related, depending on the number of servers, the number of admins, and whether all admins need access on all servers, consider a configuration management system such as (in no order of preference) bcfg2, cfengine, lcfg, or puppet. You can start small, managing admin accounts and keys as well as restricting ssh logins with the AllowUsers and AllowGroups directives in sshd_config. Usually there's never enough time to learn to configure or deploy a CM system but if you target a test group of 2-3 machines and work at managing simple things at first (static files like authorized_keys, resolv.conf, etc.), you'll be surprised at how quickly you can get it implemented and ready to deploy to more systems. As more systems are brought under central management you'll also be surprised at the subtle misconfigurations which will turn up. What does this have to do with setting root access? Simple: Once you manage configurations from a central system, it's much faster and easier to manage keys and access. Auditing is simplified which may or may not be important to you. Further, if you couple a CM system with an automated build system like Kickstart or Jumpstart, you can seriously reduce backup overhead and server deployment time. Access control is an important facet of configuration management; sometimes it helps to have a glimpse of a bigger picture. 

I recently started using integrated mode for an IIS application instead of Classic .NET Mode. Now I have a system.web tag and an system.webserver tag. Should it be possible to move everything from system.web to system.webserver (I do not mean just copying, but having the same functionality with tags under system.webserver). 

I have a RetrieveBlob.aspx that gets some query string variables and returns an asset. Eeach url corresponds to a unique asset. In the RetrieveBlob.aspx a Cache Profile is set. In Web.Config the profile looks like (under system.web tag: 

Now the caching doesn't work anymore. What am I doing wrong? Is it possible to configure under Caching tag of System.WebServer a Caching Profile for a Dynamic aspx page? I already tried adding something like this: 

Ok, this works fine. When I put a breakpoint in the code behind of RetrieveBlob.aspx, it gets triggered the first time, and all the other times not. Now, I throw away the Cache Profile and instead I'm having this in my Web.Config under System.WebServer: 

A lot depends on the specific server software you're using. You would expect the software to throw an error over an illegal port number but that is not necessarily the case; some software will happily accept whatever you hand it, resulting in very odd behavior. Here's the issue: The port number is an unsigned 16-bit value (0 - 65535) and in some situations, applications will accept larger numbers but only use the lower 16 bits. This has lead to baffling cases where a startup script specifies a port of (say) 90000 and the application is found listening on port 24464 (90000 mod 65536 = 24464) I documented a similar incident back in the Feb 2002 issue of SysAdmin Magazine in "Increasing Reliability Through Forensic Operations" (copy) Ideally, these things should never happen but between naive software and developers ignorant of the specifics of the underlying network (i.e. range of legitimate ports) one still needs to guard against such 'impossible' incidents. My preferred approach is to work with developers to make sure their code is ops-friendly but often ops and development aren't on the best of terms.