I recently (2015) purchased my first full-suspension mountain bike. As time goes by it is increasingly making creaking noises when I climb. Initially I thought it was the press fit bottom bracket but have now come to the opinion it is the frame linkages. Is it typical maintenance to remove the rear triangle and re-lubricate the pivot points on full-suspension mountain bikes? 

For Ultimate durability I would go with downtube or bar-end shifters that can be switched to friction mode if things go horribly wrong... that being said after more than 30 years of cycling, I have never had a shifter fail. Chains have broken, cassette bodies have stopped racheting, cassette clusters have worn, etc. but I have never had a shifter give up the ghost. If you are interested.. there are a couple rear hub models that support tool-less cassette body removal and servicing. If I was on my way around the world I would be looking to get the right hubset before I looked to get the perfect shifter. 

A couple years back I put a pair of 105 5800's on a 1986 Centurion Elite RS that had Diacompe brake levers. It worked great. I never even considered that the pull ratio would be an issue perhaps I should have? I have heard of pull ratio being an issue when trying to use cantilever brakes, linear pull (v-braves), or disk brakes with vintage road brake levers, but in my case... my 5800s worked with my 1986 diacompe levers just fine. 

I am from the Bike Lobby in Austria, and we are doing security checks together with the police. We make a checkpoint, the police stops all cyclists and checks their equipment. If everything is O.K. we give the rider a goodie, like some chocolate If something is amiss we have a repair tent nearby where we fix the problems. We have reflectors for free, and do repairs e.g. for dynamo powered lights for free. If there are some components missing (battery lights) we sell them cheaply. If someone does not want to fix their lights (happens rarely) he will not be fined, but has to push his bike. This works great, and we have pushed the light quota from 60% to 95% in the city we are doing this kind of activities. It requires a lot of effort and support from the government though. We run 12 of these checkpoints on different places in the city, always in the weeks before or after the change from daylight saving time to normal time. This activity is sponsored by the government, they are paying the costs for the repair tent and some of the equipment and goodies. So summarizing: Instead of trying on your own, better work together with some people and get organized. This approach works! Infos about the Event in German 

I think what you are looking for are a pair of "slicks" for your mountain bike. They come in a number of sizes for 26" wheels. Batman suggests looking for a set between 1.7 - 1.9" That is a good suggestion since you will be able to use the same tubes are are in your 1.95 mtb tires. If you are willing to get a new set of tubes with those tires, I would suggest looking for 26 x 1.25 - 1.5" slicks. It is a matter of preference, but I find them to be a bit quicker and responsive if you are willing to run the associated higher pressure. If you commute has lots of curb jumping, pot holes, or broke pavement 1.75s may be my choice... My experience is that 1.95 slicks really dont offer much over a fast rolling knobby tire. 

I could not find the SpeedZone Sport Double Wireless ANT+ manual on line but I did find the SpeedZone Sport Manual on line and here are the spec's 

It looks like a tricky problem. When I am faced with such problems I try to exhaust options before altering original parts.. With that in mind, I would look for a button head (rounded top) screw to replace the hex-head that hold on the derailleur hanger to see if the lower profile of the button head gives you the needed room to mount the fender in its designed configuration. If that does not do the trick I would weigh my options between the fender angles you mention (hard to comment on effectiveness not seeing pictures) and perhaps countersinking the derailleur hanger so a flat head screw can be used to buy you the clearance you need. Final thoughts... the derailleur hanger hex head looks pretty beefy. I have seen them attached with a couple 2M screws which are quite small. Changing the screw to button or flat head will result in using a smaller hex wrench for tightening. If getting the required torque to tighten it securely is a concern you may want to consider using some medium strength lock-tite as a measure against potential loosening due to vibration. 

I am using Headphones like this: They even reduce wind noise, and you can hear the music and everything around you, because they are not blocking outside noise. The problem is that in city traffic you will not hear the music, because the cars are so loud ;D Important is that they have foam, cause that reduces the wind noise. 

I have transported a lot of loads like this on my bicycle rack without problems. The load should be no problem for a usual bicycle rack but there might be a problem with the balance, so you will need to strap it down pretty good. With strapping down comes more pressure on the package, that might mean you might need a more stable package. For strapping I use old tubes. They are elastic, nearly unbreakable and if you form a knot it will not get off so easily. Another argument is that there is no scratching of your bicycles paint. Just use 3 of them, tie 2 trough the rack and one through the seatpost and you should be ready to go. I always have an old tube on my rack in case I need to carry some stuff. 

I have this bike for a year now and I am pretty happy with it. It does not allow very sportive riding, but it is nearly maintenance-less, since the chain is fully enclosed by the protector (which rattles sometimes). The rear rack allows mounting a Basket. I check the chain every 3 Months, and there are still no signs of rust or that the original oiling has diminished. The transmission is very good for city riding and pulling a trailer up a hill, but not so good for going fast on roads (35 - 40 kph max possible if you have to pedal). The brakes are also very good, the only maintainence required is filling them with some special oil, and they have no problem braking the bike going down a steep hill with a fully loaded trailer. The bike has built in lightning that is very bright, with a hub dynamo. This is a photo of my bike in action, with full loading capacity of about 60 kg (30 kg on the trailer, 30 kg on the rack). Total cost of the Bike, as you see it here (with trailer and baskets and airzound) was 1500 €, Maintenance cost is around 30 € per year. 

The 0.5% - 0.75% answers when you should replace the chain but does not answer the max stretch before skipping. Sheldon Brown's site ( $URL$ ) indicates things get dramatically worse once the elongation reaches 1.0% because at that point it is every other link that is load bearing... so I would assume >= 1.0% is the answer with the variance being attributed to the condition of the cog. Checkout the link and you will learn more than you can imaging on chain-cog engagement. 

I actually don't have first hand experience with the Vuelta hub but based on this video Video of Removing a Vuelta Hub Cassette Body and your pictures I would predict that you need to use a cone wrench on the drive side and a 6mm hex inside the non-drive side axel to loosen the freehub body 

As far as materials go.. I always prefer wool but any moisture wicking material should do... Good Luck. 

I agree with Mark W's answer above but as both a commuter and an off-road tourer I will give you another option/opinion as to what to look for in panniers if you want to have a setup that double duties for commuting and bikepacking. I have a pair of Specialized Ground Control Off-Road panniers circa 1993... they have a feature that is essential for off-road... the panniers attach to the rack via a compression straps. If looking to use the same setup for bike packing and commuting I would steer clear of pannier systems that use bungy cord attachments or engineered plastic attachments for quick connect-disconnect. The bungy cord systems tend to bounce off, the I would fear the quick connect systems may break or get compromised by dirt, mud, or grit. Downside to the pannier system: For off-road touring pannier systems do not distribute the weight as evenly as bike packing bag systems. Additionally, pannier systems are wider and can result in a clearance issues on narrow singletrack. For commuting the downside to bike packing setups is there is no large easy to disconnect storage. It would be nearly impossible to carry a computer (if that is your thing). For me, I would love to have both setups... however the downside to my off-road panniers for bike packing is less than the downside to bike packing gear for commuting. So if I was looking for one system to double duty for both applications it would be the correct set of panniers. I don't know of anyone making panniers like my Specialized off-road panniers so that option may be off out of reach for a new setup. 

In Germany, all bicycle lights above a certain lumen value have to have a low beam feature, so it's pretty standard here. So, if you do not want to kludge your existing headlight get a german one, e.G. Busch und Mueller Headlights always have a low beam feature, which they especially advertise. Here is their english web page. $URL$ 

The only thing that I would worry about is your comfort/security because of the efficiency of the suspension. Suspension only works if most of the weight is suspended. When you are putting the weight in non suspended areas you are effectively reducing the efficiency of your suspension. So if you are only doing light offroad and are using it for comfort it should be ok, but if you have some downhills with sticks, stones and roots where you really use the suspension it could get dangerous! This could be avoided by putting in only light things like clothing. Also your load will be shaken pretty good, but that should be no problem if you are putting in what you are describing. But avoid electronics, cameras, cookies ... A bottle might jump out of a bottle cage. Else the mounting looks good and stable, and I think there should be no damage to the suspension fork. 

I spent some time on a century ride with a guy who had porteur bars on his cross check. They certainly did not seem to slow him down or make him uncomfortable. The Cross Check (full disclosure I do not have one) is the Swiss Army Knife of bikes. I say go for it... ride it for a season and if it is not your thing re-configure that ultimately configurable rig. 

Since you are new to cycling... I would say you made about as good of choice as you could have given the information. I know two people 5'7" and one likes 52cm frames and the other 48-50CM frames. The point is, the difference is subject to preference based on body type (e.g. short legs-long torso vs long legs-short torso). Once you get the bike there will be a number of adjustments (seat height, seat position, handlebar height) etc that can be made to dial things in just right. Finally, really try to understand the frame geometry of this bike so if and when you get your next bike you are vary familiar with the specs what you like what you wished was different etc... so you make the best possible choice in the future. 

I got a pump with an head like this, and I use both the presta and the schraeder opening. The problem is that the automatic switching does not seem to work as well as it once did. It is pretty random where the air comes out, and most of the time it involves a lot of shaking and cursing before I can get my tires pumped up. Can I fix this somehow? The pump was not cheap, and I would like to avoid getting a new one, though the hassle of getting air out of the correct hole is annoyinng. This question is about a Pump Head, where the mechanism does work (air only comes out of one hole), but switches pretty randomly. I want to get an answer if there is a solution without replacing the head, else i would order a new pump head. 

Well. I think that you really want this you have to build something youself. Basically you will need a light without a condensator and this circuit. Just add it to the power cable and have fun. $URL$ IMHO flashing lights are not optimal because they reduce the ability to gauge distances. A better approach might be to use a really bright rear light, or one with the braking light functionality e.G. the light from Bush and Mueller Toplight Line Plus 

Former Alsop Suspension Stem rider here... as much as I respect everyone's answers above I can say that Alsop suspension stem advocates would disagree with some of the assertions. Alsop's motto was "suspend the rider not the bike". So as far as having to decouple light-weight moving parts from heavy stable parts for suspension to work... That is exactly what an Alsop does, decouples the rider from the frequency vibration of the bike. Alsop stems, at least the later models, were spring loaded not polymer loaded. They traveled as a parallelogram giving about an inch to an inch and a half of travel. The parallelogram motion of the Alsop is what set them apart from competing suspension stems. Other suspension stems (Girvin Flex Stem) used a swing/pivot point which limited the overall travel and rotated the handlebars along an arc during compression. Limited travel and rotating controls led to the demise of the competition long before Alsop succumbed to the suspension fork. At the time I loved my Alsop Frankenstem... the problem and what eventually caused me to walk away from the product was they tended to wear out fast. Bushings constantly needed to be serviced. Additionally, they were susceptible to catastrophic failure. Over the course of 3 years I had 2 stems fail... horrible crashes and stitches were the result so I spent the better part of the next 20 years riding rigid bikes.