But again, no specific time limit. However, note that competitors who have more than 108% of the total time of the winner will receive no World Cup points: 

After the question was amended: Note there is no such thing as “active” and “passive [offside] position” in the Laws of the Game, those are just jargon terms. For an offside to be called, the player must be “involved in active play” by one of the three exactly defined activities listed above. The first one was definitely not the case here: 

So, for the most common case: No, you are not allowed to touch the ball beyond the net to stop an oponents’ pass which is going parallel to the net. Sources: FIVB Official Volleyball Rules 2013–2016: 

If nobody would be sitting in the penalty box, the team would need to wait until the first whistle after the penalty time expiry and only then send the complete five-men squad, as it would be impossible to ensure the correct time otherwise. In that case, you can easily imagine the shorthanded team being unable to stop the play legally for very long time. With the currently valid rules, at the exact moment the penalty time expires, the player goes to the ice to help his teammates (governed by the penalty-box attendant opening the gate for him): 

As you say “a tournament”, be aware that different competitions use different rules for tie breaking. When you mention FIFA, the tournaments organized directly by FIFA use the rules described by Dor Cohen; e.g. the official FIFA World Cup 2014 Regulations state in rule 49, paragraph 5: 

(On the other hand, football (soccer) is a sport with such a rule: The ball is out if and only if its orthogonal projection is outside the lines.) Now, to the volleyball: The respective rule (FIVB Official Volleyball Rules 2013–2016, Rule 8.4.1) states: 

During a road bicycle race, like Giro d'Italia or Tour de France, cyclists have to share the road with the support cars and often ride just behind them. Don’t they mind the exhausts from the cars, or do the exhausts inconvenience them? Do the cars have any special equipment to reduce the harmfulness of their exhausts (or, at least, is there regulation requiring the cars to fulfill some stricter norms)? 

The same logic applies when a player is assessed a minor and misconduct penalty at the same time: Generally, a player with a misconduct penalty waits in the penalty box until the next stoppage of play (his team is not short-handed during those 10 minutes of his penalty, it’s just that he personally is not allowed to play). But when the player receives a minor penalty as well, another player needs to sit in the penalty box to be able to return after two minutes (while the penalized player stays in the box to serve the whole misconduct penalty). 

The captain and (during his absence on ice) alternate captains (not “assistant”) are players designated to be the point of contact between the referee and the team. Only these players are allowed to discuss with the Referee any questions relating to the interpretation of rules. This privilege applies only to the respective captain/alternate captain who is currently on ice – any player, not invited by the referee, who comes off the bench to make a protest with the officials, shall receive a minor penalty. Also, this discussions relating to the interpretation of the rules cannot concern a penalty – no player, not even the captain, is allowed to make complaints regarding a penalty. When he makes such a complaint, he shall receive a minor penalty (a misconduct penalty under IIHF rules). The referee can (and often does) explain a penalty to the captains, but they are not allowed to complain. Note that the referee crease serves quite a different purpose: It is an area where officials can safely discuss among themselves – no player (not even captain) is allowed to enter the crease when the referee is reporting to or consulting with the other officials. Should he do so, he shall receive a misconduct penalty. But it is also the place where referees will usually discuss with the captains. Normally, there is one captain (marked with “C”) and two alternate captains (marked with “A”), one such player in each line. The NHL rules also allow to have no captain, but three alternate captains (this must be chosen prior to the game, and in this case, the Captain cannot be present in uniform). This is not possible in the international (IIHF) rules, where one captain and no more than two alternate captains must be appointed. As in almost all team sports, the captain and the alternate captains also have important non-official duties. They are usually the senior/experienced players, having respect of other players, officials, and spectators. They also often serve as a point of contact between the players and the manager and the rest of team management. Sources: 

As far as I can tell, there is no such limit. The official Rules for the FIS Alpine Ski World Cup define only: 

Note that the mark of the ball touching the ground is not even a circle; it is not like there is a moment at which we should take a projection of the ball to the ground and decide. A part of the ball might touch the ground e.g. because of compression caused by the impact, and in that case, the ball is in. 

with the FIVB Refereeing Guidelines and Instructions stressing “It is essential to realise the importance of the word ‘completely’”. So: There is no “perspective” involved at all. You need to determine the part of the ball which contacted the floor, and the decision is based on whether this part was outside the line. Or, to use your words, if any player could see the ball not touching the line from his/her perspective, the ball was out. (However, the fact that someone (including referee) saw the ball “above” the line does not necessarily prove anything.) 

The FIVB Rules of the Game Volleyball Casebook, 2014 edition lists several examples (examples 3.13–3.22; pages 11–12), where it is made clear that: 

During the start of a Formula 1 race, the safety car is positioned behind the cars, and it starts together with them. Why is that (why does the safety car not wait outside the track like it does for the rest of the race), and when does it leave the track afterwards? 

I doubt it. Given the fact the receiver must wait until the ball bounces (see below), and the fact the service is usually aimed practically at the service line, it would be quite difficult. But someone can prove me wrong. There is nothing in the ITF Rules of Tennis which would prohibit that. It even explains in an example case that “The receiver may take any position inside or outside the lines on the receiver’s side of the net.” (see Case 1 in rule #8). So yes, that would be legal. No, that would be prohibited by the rules. Rule 24 states