Part of what's confusing here is that no connection is offered between this objection and the terms of Singer's argument. Indeed, there may not be a reasonable connection between them. I will therefore answer your question and then make the connection best I can: Something has “intrinsic value” if it has value in itself, independently of its relationship to anything else. The alternative to this is being valuable because of a relationship to other things. This latter kind of value, “extrinsic value,” is the kind of value cars have. Their value lies in their relationship to human beings and human beings' goals. People likes their cars because they allow those people to drive places. In the absence of any need or desire to drive anyplace, or any other reason for appreciating cars, or in the absence of people, cars would probably have no value at all. Something with intrinsic value, on the other hand, cannot lose its value this way. It it always valuable, and should be valued, regardless of how the world is, or who has what interests and desires. It is a matter of debate whether anything at all has intrinsic value. Some people claim that human lives have intrinsic value. Others claim that happiness has intrinsic value. If these or other things have intrinsic value, it would be unreasonable or incorrect not to value them. So, the accusation here is that Singer's argument does not treat people as beings whom it would be unreasonable not to value. But the outline you linked to does not say why. One possible reason would be to say that if we have a moral obligation to give things to others in extraordinary need, to the extent that we can, that obligation undercuts our freedom to do anything we want with what we have. If you believe that, you must believe that a thing with intrinsic value ought to be free of any moral obligations, and that to admit that we have moral obligations to others is to undermine our status as intrinsically valuable beings. I'm afraid that I cannot think of, nor have ever heard, any reasonable or semi-reasonable rationale for why an intrinsically valuable thing ought not, by virtue of being intrinsically valuable, have any moral obligations to others. I think it's just sloppily expressed on that page. 

I don't think there is any philosophical claim that all philosophers agree about. This might look initially like a bad thing, or a sign that philosophy is doomed to irrelevance because nobody can ever agree about anything and nothing gets established. However, I think this reflects a strength of Philosophy. Philosophers frequently work to offer the best defenses they can think of of interesting claims they identify as not having been defended, or as having not been as well defended as they could be. For instance, if I were to think of a claim about what "truth" means that no philosopher had yet argued for, and some slightly good argument for it, I would probably write a defense of that claim. I am not sure it follows that I believe that claim, but I think it does follow that I don't think the good arguments all go the other way, either. Then, it follows that if philosophers often do that, as a function of its structure Philosophy avoids agreement. Is that bad? It is not bad if we understand Philosophy not as converging on single correct answers but as mapping out the possible positions one could take, and identifying their strengths and weaknesses. In this way, Philosophy is healthy when philosophers disagree about some claims, and come to agreement about other claims, but even on those topics someone is still trying to think of better reasons to dissent. 

Logic, epistemology, and philosophy of science are among the areas of philosophy that discuss truth, the first set. If you're interested in discussing truth, try those areas. However, the positions taken in logic, epistemology, and philosophy of science are not distinct from other areas of philosophy in their truth status. Philosophers who work on logic analyze what assumptions logics should be grounded on, and there are considerable debates about this. Logicians don't just state truths. They try to figure out what models of truth-preservation are the best ones, and why. They argue for them in the same way other philosophers do. Logic shares with all areas of philosophy an interest in getting philosophical claims right, and works with similar standards of success and failure. 

The way you've framed the question, there are no such reasons! In Chapters 6–9 of Structure of Scientific Revolutions, Kuhn lays out the process by which one paradigm replaces another as a sociological process. The process is typically promoted by increased attention to anomalies in the existing paradigm, which is itself promoted by the sociological phenomenon of younger generations looking for new research projects, and by the development of technology aimed at investigating anomalies, which in turn creates new anomalies and amplifies the visibility of existing ones. Other factors contribute. Within a particular paradigm, the emergence of anomalies will seem like a good reason to abandon the current paradigm, but these can never be real reasons, in the sense of ideas that one ought to accept. That is because there are, for Kuhn, no paradigm-independent truths, and because shifting from one paradigm to another is a matter of Gestalt-shift, or change in one's way of looking at things. It is not a rational, or reason-driven process. It is produced by crisis in an existing paradigm that makes scientists want to flee it for something else, rather than rational or reason-driven evaluation of two paradigms. 

Other philosophers' definitions include or presuppose that an argument includes premises. An example is Jennifer Fisher (2008), On the Philosophy of Logic. She defines “argument” as 

... is true when one, and only one, of the n sentences is true. This is not right, because the following should turn out to be true (substituting truth values for sentence names: (T xor F) xor (T xor T). The right term there is False, so the whole is True. My error! 

I think you are asking about this sentence: ~(∀x)(∀y)(Ixy → Rxy) I think you are asking which sentence, logically equivalent to that one, includes ~(Ixy → Rxy). The answer is (∃x)(∃y)~(Ixy → Rxy). As we move the quantifier in past the (∀x), it becomes (∃x). That is because, to take a simpler example, “~(∀x)Px” means “not everything is P,” while “(∃x)~Px” means that “something is not P,” which amounts to the same thing. So, equally logically equivalent is the intermediate sentence (∃x)~(∀y)(Ixy → Rxy). Move the negation inward once more and you get (∃x)(∃y)~(Ixy → Rxy). For your second example, ~(∀x)(∃y)(Ixy & Rxy) is logically equivalent to (∃x)(∀y)~(Ixy & Rxy). 

I believe you're referring to the fallacy of inferring the “sum” (or “I am”) part from the “cogito” (or “I think”) part, right? The “ergo” (or “therefore”) makes it sound like Descartes is expressing an argument which has as its premise that he thinks, and the conclusion that he exists. The potential fallacy in this representation of the Cogito statement is that a more substantive meaning of “I” is usually read into the conclusion than is read into the premise. The support for the premise is just the introspective observation of the occurrence of thought. The conclusion, however, can be understood to mean the he, Descartes, exists—a guy named René who's French and has long hair and wrote letters to princesses, and everything else that's part of being René Descartes. That stuff is not entailed by the premise about the mere occurrence of thought, hence the accusation of fallacy. The consensus response to this in recent Descartes scholarship is that the Cogito is not an argument at all, where either part is inferred from or logically-entailed by the other. Rather, the thought that Descartes thinks is indubitable is something like “there's thought and there's existence,” where the two parts of that claim are bound up with one other and both are perceived simultaneously. Indeed, that is how Descartes generally expresses the point, outside of the mention of the Cogito sentence. In the second Meditation, he writes: 

No. On what I take to be the most natural interpretation, two logically-equivalent ways of rendering the first statement in formal logic would be: 

You are describing the No True Scotsman fallacy, which you might understand as a special form of equivocation (as in the good suggestion in another answer). NTS involves insulating a claim from counterexamples by appearing to use one of its terms (e.g. Capitalism) in a descriptive way, as describing and being made true by actual cases, but actually using it in a very restrictive prescriptive way. In this prescriptive sense, a writer allows that the term applies only when it makes the claim it is part of true. For example, for the term Scotsman, the categorical claim might be "No Scotsman eats porridge with sugar." Consider the objection, "but my friend Angus MacDonald from Edinburgh eats porridge with sugar!" For a reasonable person, that should count as a counterexample to the categorical claim. The writer should modify it or give it up entirely. The writer commits the New True Scotsman fallacy when instead of giving up or modifying the claim in the face of the counterexample, he or she sticks to it by rejecting the counterexample – here by rejecting that Angus MacDonald from Edinburgh counts as a true Scotsman, as he can't be one (the reasoning goes), precisely because he eats porridge with sugar! That is, the writer is actually using the term in such a way that it automatically excludes all counterexamples. It is being treated as true by definition. What's fallacious or misleading is that the claim is presented as a descriptive claim, when really it's offering a prescription for how to define its central term. 

A person who shifts her position this way could be doing one of two things. She could be committing the formal fallacy of being inconsistent, if she adopts a second position and denies the first, especially if she then in some way continues to hold the first or appeal back to it when it's useful. Or, it's worth recognizing, she could be doing something that's not fallacious at all. She could be changing her position in response to criticism. There are ways such changes can be problematic in certain circumstances — ad hoc changes for instance, which are unreasonably tailored to address certain criticisms. But those aside, it's worth remembering that having an opponent change her position in response to criticism is generally the goal of argument, and should be seen as a reasonable, not fallacious, move for her. 

It is not a problem for Popper that his theory of science is not falsifiable, even though he treated falsifiability as a necessary criterion for scientific theories. Someone directing this criticism at Popper may be thinking of the historical complaint about the Verification Criterion of Meaning (as it is expressed for instance by A.J. Ayer in Language, Truth, and Logic, 1936). Ayer suggested that any claims at all which are not verifiable by some possible observation are not “cognitively meaningful.” This invited the criticism that that sentence itself is not cognitively meaningful. As Popper's falsification criterion is sometimes understood as a potential replacement for the verification criterion, it is easy to see how one might naturally try to direct a criticism of the same form at falsificationism. However, Popper does not offer falsification as a theory of meaning. It does not separate what we can meaningfully talk about from what we cannot. Instead, he offers falsifiability as a criterion for science. It is part of his effort to demarcate (or distinguish or separate) potential descriptive scientific theories from unscientific theories. Since the falsification criterion is not offered as a scientific theory, falsifiability is irrelevant to its legitimacy. As you ask about this in the context of Marxism, it is true that among Popper's criticisms of Marxism is that it is not falsifiable. So, you might ask, didn't Popper aim his criterion at other philosophies? Not as such. His complaint about Marxism's unfalsifiability is specifically about the Marxist theory of history, which makes claims about how history progresses. Accordingly, this specific part of Marxism has the form of a descriptive scientific theory. However, it is not employed by its proponents, Popper argues, in a way that ever opens it to falsification. Consequently, he concludes, it is unscientific. 

Yes, in part. Socrates is teasing Ion, but also with a purpose. He is drawing Ion out. Ion is flattered by the endorsement of his interpretive talents as derived from the gods, and thinks that this is an endorsement of his artistic or interpretive expertise. Part of why Ion appreciates this view of his talents lies in its connection with the Greek understanding of art as something channeled from the gods through an artist. If his talents are a gift from the gods, they are genuinely artistic. Artistic inspiration originates with the muse, passes through the artist (and maybe though an actor or rhapsode like Ion), and then reaches audience. Plato even uses the idea of magnetic stones to try to help us think about how that force works. It's strongest with the muse, but then passes to the artist, who is then endowed with magnetic attraction, but slightly weakened as it gets further from the muse. But with respect to the flattery: as Ion agrees with the idea that his talents are skills given by the gods, in the sense that he has become a good channel for the their artistic force, you rightly note that he thereby gives up the idea they are a matter of his having acquired knowledge. By encouraging Ion in this direction, and helping him along by stoking his considerable vanity, Socrates creates an opening to attack Ion's expertise. He argues that Ion does not have any knowledge of the things he rhapsodizes about. Even though Ion interprets Homer's depiction of a battle, he does not have any expertise about actual war, and the Athenians should not ask him to be their general. So, Socrates argues, he doesn't know anything about his subject-matter. He doesn't have expertise about it. So, if he doesn't know what he's talking about, all he is doing when he presents Homer, Socrates argues, is whipping up feeling. But the ability to stir up feelings is not expertise in anything worthwhile, in Plato's estimation, because having strong feelings provoked in a non-rational way is a bad thing to have happen to us. Specifically, Ion's skill lies leading his audience away from clear, rational, and philosophical thought about subject matter like battle. And that is, for Plato, a very dangerous thing to do, maybe even the most dangerous thing to do. So, in summary, by going along with Socrates' flattery, Ion puts himself in the position of many of Socrates' interlocutors, which is to say vulnerable to Socratic attack on his claims to know and have expertise about important questions.