I suggest you buy a cheap wire kit from somewhere like Wiggle and learn. $URL$ would be perfect at under $6 US. $URL$ There's a similarly priced brake cable set too. The bare minimum tools you need are 

Old age. Your wedge as pictured shows some clear flat spots on the ridges that are supposed to bite into the inside of the steerer tube (the receiver that forms the top of the forks) So its very likely the steerer has equivalent wear on the inside, and you're simply seeing a lack of grip. First fix would be to file the wedge so its got more obvious ridges in it. Use a triangular file, or the edge of a quarter-round file for metal. Do be conscious of metal shavings and avoid getting them near bearings. 

That's a question with multiple answers depending on what you're trying to find out. From a distance the Aluminium and Carbon bikes look almost identical. Compare these two Emonda bikes and see which you think is CF and which is Aluminium. Try to ignore the wheel rims and different colour schemes, barsm stem, saddle, seatpost, and that both have a carbon fibre fork. 

You can have any tire size shape or colour you want. But you'll pay an incredible amount of money for it. Companies like Hoosier Tire will make any tire you like. They specialise in vehicles like cars and motorbikes, but money talks if you're paying for a custom build. I have no experience of the iterative process of tyre design, so you might have to commit to a minimum quantity, or accept the first few might not match the required tolerances. 

Depends on your location. Unless there is direct contact or injury you're wasting your time calling the police. Here in New Zealand we can report a bad driver on the local police website, providing all possible information. Your jurisdiction may have something similar. Cameras are "after the fact" information. They don't stop anything from happening. I've found that a lot happens outside the camera's view. Behind and beside are areas where bad thing happen. Personally I've found the best answer to be avoid dying or getting injured. There's nothing like seeing the problem and avoiding it. A good loud bellow can be cathartic too, but there's no guarantee the driver will understand or even hear it. Modern vehicles have excellent sound insulation, to the point where emergency services vehicles can be almost inaudible. Here's an example of proactive problem avoidance - I did not get doored, and the camera lets you lot enjoy it. 

Another possible solution is to grease the mating points of the lock Your bike lock lives on your bike, outside a lot and in the elements. Grease helps shed water, but it also fills voids which will cut down on the rattle. Downsides, grease is messy and can get on your hands and clothes. But other parts of your bike are greasy/oily too. Upside, your lock will rust less, and should close smoother. 

To do a proper job, get them blasted and powder coated. This won't be quick or cheap. First, price some brand new wheels as you want them to look. This dollar-value is your hard upper limit, to compare with the costs of repainting. No point spending more than this on your old wheels. 

Spoke washers are used at the hub end, between the flared out cap and the hub itself. The intention is to take up extra length between the bend and the end, to help prevent the spoke from breaking. Common use is on hubs with thin flanges (for lightweight or because they're cheap) and on heavier loaded bikes to spread the load. Notice how the lower spoke is snugged closer to the hub? The upper spoke is more likely to break sooner. 

Note the black rings below the X of the logo? That can be adjusted for a harder ride. Its also possible to replace the rear shock with a steel bar instead, or some of them support inflating with a shock pump to add more air. If your bike is a low end model it probably won't have any of this. 

Yes the observant will see that I have a more modern wire where the yoke is only on one side, and the other side is the main brake cable. However I still don't trust it to release right should things go wrong, and I still need a bolt for my mudguard. 

It is highly unlikely that you have damaged your suspension. At worst you may have shortened its life by some small and immeasurable amount. As long as it functions okay now, all you need to do is remember to service it at the appropriate interval. You can't possibly damage locked-out suspension by riding on flat smooth road because that's exactly what its designed for. Hopping and stairs would be the cause of any damage. 

The inner brake cable could simply be super long and run all the way through the entire system and be terminated at the front brake, but that's too simple. I suspect there's some secret sauce in the rear brake that moderates the cable tension to the front brake, but their website photos don't show that area of the bike. If you disagree with any part of this answer, please make comments. 

The manual is at $URL$ and is utterly useless. From a review I found "[the loop] has perhaps the longest seat-post I’ve ever seen on a bike so no doubt it will be able to accommodate very tall people with ease. " So that means a 400 or 450mm long seatpost. As for the diameter of the seatpost - you can use calipers to measure, or take it into your local bike shop. It could be anything from 25.4mm to 34mm with 27.2 and 30.something being more common. 0.2mm difference will make the seatpost wobble and wear faster, so got to get the right measurement. Regarding the seat (saddle) the review mentioned its a particularly horrible experience, and that the saddle should be your first upgrade. So that's positive. 

Teeth don't grow back Depending on your location, something like this fork might be better. At least if it fails you have someone more local to provide backup and support. 

I'd consider finding two seats and posts, one each. Put a clamp or block around the pole so you cn simply drop it into the bike and it will be the right height for that rider. Still need to do up the QR to hold it though.