I think one could argue that the whole system is really broken but given the nature of the system she is doing what is in her best interest which is what is really at the heart of capitalism. In the same way as standardized testing is meant to 'test' what a person has learned or if they are able to get over a certain bar but actually can only test a small portion of what was learned and typically has little to do with the role that is being trained for. Interviews are trying to find out which candidates on the basis of 1 - 10 hours or so of testing are going to perform like for the duration of employment with a company. It is not too difficult to see that one does not necessarily have that much to do with the other. If you can figure out brain teaser puzzles this will somehow make you a better employee? It's nonsense. It probably has a lot more to do with employment law that it is very difficult to turf useless people than it is to keep them from coming in the door. Professional athletes have to have game time to stay at that level and nothing can replace that. Not practice time with a professional team or game time with a minor league team. I would say that in order to land the best job possible, it would be beneficial to know the interviewing process inside and out. When it comes down to it those are probably the highest paid hours of your life given the difference in salary it can make for you. It is easy for her to attend interviews and if she gets an amazing offer she can think about it, if not she already has a job she likes. It's a win win. As for 'wasting other companies' time', I would of course feel annoyed if I found out afterward this person was never going to accept the offer but many things in business are a waste of time and you never find out what thing is going to pay until after the fact. Are they less likely to hire her in the future? It would depend on the position but at least you'd be informed that she will just as easily leave your company as she did the last one so I would only put her in non critical roles. 

I have a software product that may have some appeal to a relatively small, vertical market. I am considering hiring a salesperson part-time (which can be in addition to the salesperson's other work provided that there are no conflicts of interest) to sell this product, customizations to the product, etc. What should I look for in such a salesperson? 

Her presence may not truly be as required as you think it is, and she knows it. I have no way of knowing whether this is the case. However, she may not feel comfortable telling you her presence at the meeting is not beneficial to your organization. Her presence and participation truly are required at least some of the time. However, she may feel she is having trouble meeting deadlines or taking time away from other parts of her job for the meeting. If that is the case, it may be beneficial to work with her to determine what the roadblock is. If it is possible that she needs to be present for questions, she could be less disruptive by attending the meeting remotely, even if she is actually in the office. We do this all the time at my current client's office: for example, software developers working on one of the major business projects are part of the weekly status meeting for the project, but they typically remain in their cubes (or remote, if necessary) with the headset on, listening for questions to answer. That way, the development work does not disturb the meeting. 

Any employee can use this excuse, and any employee is expected to inform the company in advance if the appointment is scheduled or to inform the company right away, if it's an unplanned visit. 

There are several approaches in your situation and they aren't mutually exclusive. They all boil down to accepting where you at and they require you to know where you want to go. Accepting where you're at You know your condition, that's a given. But what does that mean in context with the world? My favorite metaphor is a treasure map. You know you stand between a certain rock and an oddly shaped cactus. But what does that mean for the map? Are there more places like this or is where you are completely unique? You suddenly can become sick beyond working capability, but isn't that true for your colleagues, too? Sure, your condition is unique from the inside and please do not take this as belittling it. From the outside though, you're sick at home unable to work. There are a lot of rock-cactus-formations like that on the map. I recognize that your condition is of chronic nature and you may be on sick leave more often than others but again from the outside that's a difference in frequency and nothing else. Where you want to go Do you want to stay in that managerial role? Go even higher up? Maybe rather specialize on something that's unique in the company? Switch to something with lesser deadline pressure? Start consulting in your profession instead? This section is not meant as advice but, to open your focus up a bit. What you can do I'm listing several things here. Pick the ones that you expect to work best in your situation and your company. be open about it Talk to your superiors about your condition and what it could mean. Explain that you are perfectly capable of doing your job (they should already know) and that you just may need someone to jump in for a few days, or something else that covers your downtime. That you will make an effort to make taking over where you left off easy, but don't want to push through a pain streak for the reasons you mentioned. Risk: the company might of course view you as unfit for your role. Being open is something you have to do very carefully. work with your team Talk to your team about it. Get them on the same page as you are and maybe you can get them to take over some of your tasks when you're out. Risk: this comes down to loyalty. How loyal is your team to you? But it can also build loyalty. A team lead that shows they rely on and trust the team, have the team's back and ask team to have theirs, can build the strongest team ever. find out and point out the true size of the problem Like I said in the beginning, while your condition is chronic your down times might effectively not be worse than those of others getting sick randomly. If that's the case use this information as a defense if somebody pressures you. Risk: waiting until somebody puts you on the spot for a chronic disease can be viewed as keeping something from the company that affects your ability to work for them. 

It's been my experience that knowledge workers don't like being dictated to about policies for which they see no purpose. You do state a purpose, but the employees you are managing seem to think it is not a good one. Further, there are probably alternatives that you have not considered, and given what sounds like an issue being "dictated from above," your employees may either not have thought of them, do not feel comfortable proposing them, or feel that they would simply be shot down. If the only reason you are implementing the policy is because of tension with people in other departments, it's your job to manage that tension so that your people can work most effectively. I don't think that's the only reason, though. For example, what if a developer is needed to fix an urgent production issue that happens at 8:00 or 9:00 or whatever other time? However, it is unlikely that you need all your developers present to fix that issue. What if you had a rotating (unless someone volunteers) "early" schedule, so that each developer takes a turn being required to be there at 8:00 (or 9:00, etc.)? That solution seems more likely to satisfy both the business needs and the desires of your employees. Everyone "shares the pain" (or inflicts it on someone who doesn't mind it). People can come in and work most of the time when they feel they would be most productive. This is just one possibility, but it may generate discussion with your employees about how to solve the real problems and satisfy everyone's interests here. If you choose to go down the more disciplinary route, and the "start time" issue truly is important to your developers, you will lose your good ones to other employment. Your employees are likely to feel insecure in their jobs (what if some real emergency actually happens one day to make someone late?). Further, this can be seen as a shift in management in the wrong direction (from your employees' perspective), since they did previously have experience working under someone else. It's up to you, of course, but I would urge you to take a step back and try harder to see the situation from your employees' perspective. You have a job to do, of course, but I think there are solutions that better satisfy everyone's interests than the one you are proposing. 

I'm currently sitting on the other side of the table, building up a team. Maybe it's not the norm but for me, if you 'talk the talk' as they say, I can get a feeling for whether candidates are good on the job and ultimately I'll form my picture working with a candidate on a trial day, or pair programming session. So, if you genuinely are good at a job, display it not by preening yourself on something but by having an honest conversation, being interested in what problems you would be facing and - if you can - Current producer supplier, on how you would approach those difficulties, regardless of whether you would be hired. Would work with me, at least. 

Why should you see it as your fault? You shouldn't. You should see it as wrong. As a mistake. Then take responsibility for it by saying, for example, "I'm sorry this mistake got out. I did not double check the result of the proof reading, but I will do so in the future". This way you don't apologize for the mistake that other person made but take on responsibility for not having double checked it (which probably isn't even your job, at the moment) and make it your duty to do so in the future (thus accepting the responsibility in advance, making it obvious you care about the fact that this shouldn't happen). This is just one suggestion, maybe you find better ways of improving the situation. Another example: I'm a senior developer with not management or team leading role at all. I'm working on a new feature, togehter with two junior developers and while I'm out to lunch they deploy a version which I haven't seen before and which introduces a bug to production. I get back and see the mess that clearly didn't originate from me and I can either let it play out and see who's being hurt (usually the company in general) or I can take responsibility for it, hurrying to roll back the deploy, make sure everything works and put measures in place that - if approved by the mananger - make sure this won't likely happen again, like a rule that all deployments have been done by teams of two where at least one has to be a senior dev or above. You should. In a way. "Your fault" doesn't have to mean "the fault that originated in you", but can mean "the fault that you found and took upon you to eradicate". That's how you should see it. There's a fire. The firemen see it as their fire, not because they started it but because it's in the area they're protecting, so it's theirs to extinguish. 

Which production support issues have a higher priority than the two websites, and which production support issues can wait? It helps if you can help to identify temporary workarounds for more minor issues. It also helps if you have anyone else in the business who is able to triage the production support issues for severity so that you don't have to do it yourself. Of the two websites, which one is more important? Yes, yes, they're both important. But, pretend that only one could be done. Which would it be? 

In Illinois, the "official" way to find the "official" address of a business appears to depend how the business was organized. That is, the business could just be someone operating under an assumed name, or it could be a corporation, or it could be a limited liability company, etc. For an assumed name, the name and address must be registered with the county. See (805 ILCS 405/) Assumed Business Name Act. A corporation must have a registered office in the state. See (805 ILCS 5/) Business Corporation Act of 1983. The laws pertaining to other business organizations appear similar, and it looks like you can find a whole list of them in the Illinois Compiled Statutes. The link lists the laws pertaining to the various business organizations in about as clean a format as I have seen. Now, it appears that the Illinois Secretary of State has a page allowing you to search for information about a corporation or LLC. However, since assumed names are just registered with the county in Illinois, you would have to find the county administration offices to get that information. Finally, if the business is in violation of the registered address laws, you may have to discuss with a (perhaps different) lawyer how to serve them. In Minnesota, it is permissible to serve process on the Secretary of State for certain similar circumstances, but I do not know whether such a mechanism exists in Illinois. 

Here's an oddball suggestion if none of these others work for you: You could do it in the style of Pecha Kucha (Pecha Kucha on wikipedia)(or make up your own of similar design) where all the slides are timed so that if people interrupt it will literally derail the presentation (make sure they are informed of the format). That way, they will feel the social pressure to not ruin the presentation. This is presentation by performance so you will have to have the presentation well rehearsed. Pecha Kucha is a format where you present almost entirely in pictures using 20 slides at 20 seconds a slide. The total presentation is 6:40 minutes long. You need to rehearse so you know what 'script' goes with which slide. It is also beneficial to have a group. I mentioned in a similar style because maybe your material doesn't fit onto 20 slides or maybe you don't have exactly 20 seconds per slide. The main point is, your presentation is well rehearsed, the slides are on a timer, the visual information is in pictures and the text based information is presented verbally. You could also anticipate questions by getting one or more people from a similar role as your audience to review your presentation ahead of time and record their questions, then incorporate them into your presentation. 

I think your best bet is to fuse the two: Find a job at a retailer specializing in health care. Use this second degree to your advantage. There's virtually no combination of two degrees that one can't use to their advantage when you have the right attitude. Transition from one field to the other in a step-by-step manner like this: 

Some job agencies work like that. You have to talk to them to figure that out, though. I know a few and the common denominator in my experience is, that they try to get to know you personally over a few meetings, develop a detailed skill profile and have at least some knowledge of your field of profession in their team as well (which helps find better, more interesting opportunities). Good criteria to look for: 

(And they really were mentoring you already, though passively. Keep that in mind.) These ideas don't have to be overly original or special or genius. Just apply your perspective, take the time to really think it through and find some things you can really stand behind. From full-blown synergies, to minor usability fixes, everything is the right thing. Why does this work? This approach works, because even the most succesful, genius person can't think of everything, so they value new stand points, new input. And giving it freely, without strings attached, is a sign of appreciation they probably won't see often, so you stand out from the crowd of either silent admirers or people trying to work an angle. How would you know? I'm taking this advice from some, mostly passive, mentors I have, in particular Napoleon Hill, James Altucher and Jerry Colonna, who at some point or another all say this exact thing. 

Taking at face value your assertion that this employee's participation and presence is required for every topic under discussion at the meeting, I would have little to add to the other answers. However, there are a couple considerations from the employee's perspective: 

Are there additional tasks in your workload? Make a quick list. For this answer, I will presume that the list above represents your complete workload. Given that spending time on one task takes time away from other tasks, it is important to the business that the most important business priorities are delivered the fastest. In an abstract sense, the task with the highest business value (highest profit, regulatory benefit, cost savings, etc.) and the least cost (delivered in a shorter timeframe, purchased off-the-shelf versus development in-house, etc.) is the task that should be accomplished first. Usually -- as I believe is the case here -- the value vs. cost is not entirely clear. Fortunately, you don't have to rank all your tasks this way, since business priorities change all the time. Just rank the top few. In a more practical sense, I would recommend: Organize your thoughts and tasks. Look at your task list. Are there tasks (such as lower-priority defects with the internal website) that can be delayed until after the launch of the two websites? Are there parts of tasks that can be reused, especially between the two websites? Are there libraries (free or paid) that may solve parts of your problem for you? Don't spend much time on this effort, but even a few minutes organizing this list will help you have a conversation with the business stakeholders. Get agreement on business priorities for your tasks Now that you have a list, find out which tasks in your workload have the most business value from the perspective of your management. This means asking your manager -- and anyone else your manager believes should be involved -- to decide which tasks in your workload take priority over the others. In your situation, the two questions I would most likely raise are: