If you're talking about your CV, you can put down anything that may be relevant or set you apart from other candidates, so yes of course. 

My supervisor didn't have mark my thesis, and he gave me some tough-love feedback because he wanted me to do the best I can do. It may be possible that everything he's saying is coming from a good place! My advice to you is to write for your markers. If you know that your supervisor is going to be marking your thesis then take his pointers and incorporate them into your work as much as possible. It will not only improve the quality of your work (in his eyes) but will show him that you respond to feedback and that you're not too proud to admit that "maybe I can do this a little bit better". However if you know your supervisor is not marking your thesis, and you're aware that whoever is has very very different personal criteria for what makes work good (through past experience perhaps) then it is 100% okay to go against some of your supervisor's advice. Whatever the case, should try to remain respectful of you supervisor - at least academically and professionally. 

I would say you should act as you would every other day. Perhaps if the company you work for is having an event for International Women's Day and you could attend to "show support" for the day (if you want to), but other than that I don't believe it's necessary for you to do anything special! 

If the conference you were sent to provided you with information that could be useful to some of your other colleagues, my suggestion would be to create a document that summaries all of the information you receive over the course of the conference. You could then upload this document to a central repository that is accessible to all of your colleagues. Following this you can send your boss an email with a link to the location and ask him if they think it could be useful to distribute this link company-wide, or if there's any changes to be made before doing-so. The benefit of this is that to be able to reply to you, your boss will have to at a minimum scan what you have prepared. Even if they don't look thoroughly, they will be able to see how much information you have gotten and therefore how valuable it was to send you. Furthermore, you are sending only one email (therefore not spamming your boss' inbox) and moves the focus away from you "trying to impress your boss" to "trying to do as good a job as possible". 

Personally I think you should ignore this. It's not your responsibility to check that your colleagues qualifications are legitimate, that's for managers or HR. To be perfectly honest you have no idea if she's lying, and to mention this could lead to the rest of your team to not trusting you as you sneakily went to management rather than, at the very least, speak to your colleague yourself. Faking a client issue just seems sly - not the sort of person I'd want to work with! 

Background: I'm at the company since July 2016, and this is my last month of the timed contract. It's my first job out of college. Once the contract expires (on June 30th) I'm moving out of the city and starting an internship in a different industry. There are a few things to wrap up while I'm still here. About two weeks ago I was told of two tasks, unrelated to each other, that I'll be expected to complete. It was implied (although not strongly, I might have misread) that I'll be spending this whole month completing the tasks and nothing else will be expected of me (except maybe training my replacement hire if we happen to overlap, but that's unlikely). There's also an issue of vacation days - I have ten vacation days, which amounts to two free weeks. My boss doesn't want me to use them, he'd rather pay me the equivalent salary for the unused days (it's legal and standard in my country). I thought my boss takes such a stance because he understands the tasks will take up a long time, and I was okay with giving up a few vacation days in return for money. However, this week the deadlines were significantly pushed forward (again, they weren't explicitely stated, but I expected them to be nearer to the end of June). One of the tasks was pushed on last Monday - when I presented initial results my boss replied that he expects me to wrap it up by next Friday (which was two days ago). Fair enough. Then, on Wednesday evening the second task was pushed forward to the Friday, too. First he just asked if I'll make it - I replied that probably I won't. He wasn't at the office on Thursday and Friday, but on Thursday morning he sent an email in more direct terms - that I'm supposed either to complete the task on Friday or come to work on weeekend (he didn't mention the first task and I'm not entirely sure if he remembered I'm supposed to do that too). He's also not completely aware of the fact that one of my colleagues is not meeting the deadlines I negotiate with her - and her delays are slowing me down, too. Anyway, I came to work on Saturday and Sunday and completed the tasks, although not nearly as good as I would if I had more time. I don't think that these tasks are urgent in their nature - they could be completed later. Also, both of them could be delegated to someone else - although I'm probably the most qualified to complete them. However, some additional time to work on them would be very beneficial in my opinion. Now, my question is - am I in a position to ask my boss for reasons such strict deadlines were imposed? How to phrase such a question? Again - it's possible he never implied that I'll have the whole month to work on the tasks and I just misunderstood. 

It's probably important to note that you the company you work for does not owe you an extension on their deadline, as if you decline they will want time to find another candidate for the position. With six months still to go until you graduate I don't think you need to put pressure on yourself to accept a job offer that you don't want. The way you've described your problem doesn't sound like you have any interest in sticking around. In addition, it'd probably be in worse taste to accept an offer that you don't want only to decline several months down the line. 

It just means that the company will keep your CV on file for future job openings. If you're unsure of the meaning behind this response, the best thing to do is to reply and ask for clarity. It could mean that the offer has been withdrawn or the company may just be telling you that there is no room for negotiation, so if this salary is not suitable for you then they'll keep your application to see if a position opens up with a salary closer to your needs. 

I understand that there have been many questions on this site asking what to do if someone is not enjoying their job, and I'd like to stress that is a different scenario. Since leaving university I have had two graduate software engineering jobs. The first I left very quickly, as I wasn't enjoying it, I wasn't a cultural fit and I didn't like the atmosphere - I was dreading going into the office every single day. My second job I have fit in much better. I like being in work and get along with all my colleagues. I work for a fantastic company in a really interesting sector, but I'm starting to feel like a liability. I have to be taken through many steps as I struggle with the some of the work on my own. I understand that there's a learning curve with any job, but the other graduates I started with have been getting along fine and I'm starting to become very aware of my abilities. Having given this some thought, I think I'm just not cut out for software engineering, whatever it takes to be a good developer I don't have. I love technology and it's an industry that I want to stay in, but actually sitting down and writing code for x hours a day is not for me. I know I needed a software engineering job to come to this conclusion, but now I know I feel a bit guilty for being a waste of a resource. I have spoken to other departments to see if there's any project management opportunities (I think this is where I would thrive) but unfortunately it doesn't look like it. Graduate opportunities for project management are opening up in other companies and I do feel like it's a now-or-never move into this career path. Is it better for graduates to quickly find what they want to do/are good at and get entry level positions in those jobs etc, or is it more important to work up through the ranks towards a goal, even if you're not going to enjoy the journey? Is experience in a particular role more important than experience in an industry as a whole? 

I recently had a phone interview for a subcontracting job at a small programming consulting firm. The interview was very short, and at the end, the interviewer told me that based on my resume, he thought I would be overqualified for the job and find it very boring. I was rather confused by this because I don't have any real job experience and I'm still working towards my degree. Sure I played myself up on my resume --I go to a rather prestigious school, I listed every buzzword I could think of under my skill-set, and I jazzed up my work in high school for my dad's company --but I thought everyone did that. What do employers mean when they say "overqualified"? What qualities of a person without job experience or a degree could make them overqualified? How can I look just qualified enough when applying for future positions? I haven't bothered to apply for anything requiring a degree for fear of being underqualified. (I also hear they have bots that will trash my resume when it doesn't find 3-7 years of experience listed.) Should I scrap the whole resume and just put I LOVE SINGLETONS! as the whole thing? :) EDIT A quick clarification of what I mean when I say "I played myself up." I was very careful not to lie on my resume, and I only put things I could discuss and give a couple quick examples that made it seem like I really knew what I was talking about. For example, under Leadership Experience, I listed a library group I was a part of in high school. We met once a week to mostly eat food and chat, but we did plan 2 events in the 4 years I was there. Without lying, I made it sound like we regularly organized massive library programs the entire 4 years I was there with the intention of describing the 2 events we did do if asked about it. We did legitimately put a lot of time, effort, budgeting, and planning into those events though. As far as buzzwords go, I wasn't sure whether stuff like Object Oriented Programming would be more eye-catching or Test Driven Design would excite them, so I put everything I was familiar with. We didn't get a chance to talk about either the buzzwords or my work experience during the interview. He mostly just asked some questions about school. I was really trying to make what I had actually done sound impressive to make up for not having work experience or a degree. Ironically, I was trying not to sound underqualified. EDIT 2 I was talking to a friend about it, and he said the skills part of my resume sounded like I was lying. It looks like this: