Depends of his personality, if he lives forever or for very long times he might choose to enjoy the stupid phases of a human a little bit more because a person changes his attitudes depending on how many years left he thinks he has and how easily he gets tired or because he was very close to die or believes in something greater than himself Remember that most humans care most about the pleasures of life, and some don't want to stop enjoying but time makes them to do something meaningful before they die. Although years give you experience and experience can make you wiser, people like to have fun because its fun, imagine that it was impossible for a human to live more than 21 years, he would be very wise and giving the best of him at around 17-19. Do you think they would live with the same attitude like a 17 kid from today? But some young people have a personality of an old person. Sometimes personality and attitude count more to give the best of us than a skill or ability. If Einstein had lived 500 years we can say he would be the same because he always was like that and what he did was his pleasure. If a person who you don't like because of his actions lived forever do you think he would change his attitude at 100 years old? he might he might not. Most of the people tend to act according the judgement of society, look at him he is 45 and still not married, that person might want to get married, but if the youngest age to marry was at 120 in a world where people lived 800 years? more years give you more experiences for good or for bad. 

An easy guess is to assume they know what the dragon is allergic to, lets say the dragon is allergic to a type of flower, you can expect people cultivating this flower and using its properties against the dragon in some way . Another proven method is poisoning the dragon's food assuming that people know what he eats and that they leave dinner for the dragon somewhere, I see this method as more effective. Poisoned arrow or poisoned food. The use of chemical reactions seems more effective towards a dragon because using force vs force is riskier assuming that the dragon can fly and spit fire. 

The exponential dilemma might be a good bet. lets say that there are 120 gallons per tank. lets say that we can fill twice the gallons to the tank in the same time that we did before, a minute. So that in the first minute we fill one gallon. 

$URL$ The basic idea is that you don't need conventional optics to form an image. You can trade compute for optics and dispense with lenses and other trappings of macroscopic cameras. In theory, I would assume the type of camera described above could be made arbitrarily small. 

I imagine a society filled with Ender Wiggins. In some respects, we should expect it to look a lot like our society right now. There would still be Taylor Swifts and Kanye Wests, but their fans would not be fanatical. They would be the moms and dads of today's concerts, rather than the screaming teenagers, and they might go to concerts as much out of a sense of irony as any particular love of the music. There would be political parties, but the parties would appeal to the highest thinkers rather than the lowest. Instead of just promising to give away stuff to the masses, they would try to claim that their vision of the future is the most accurate, and extends the furthest. The debate would not be about whether climate change is anthropogenic, but rather which allocation of resources most appropriately deals with the near and far-term future. Credibility would be based on analysis and information-gathering, rather than pandering. If actual fanatics existed at all, they would do so as a higher-order tactic to achieve an obscured goal. Every major action would have a double-, triple-, quadruple-meaning and intent. The world would be a giant game of chess. If someone committed an act of terror, it would cause real terror, not because it is random, but because everyone would know that it is carefully calculated, and you either understand the cause (and can avoid a similar fate), or you don't (and you are already behind the curve). Some people would still choose to be homeless or vagrants or hippies, but probably very few would be low-wage workers, because they would realize in school that the path which leads to drudge work does not optimize personal happiness (in the future...of course, it usually is the result of consuming all the happiness in the present). On the one hand, cooperation would be maximized, because there are many situations in which it is rationally optimal but not chosen because of irrationality. On the other hand, this would make more appealing targets for high-functioning sociopaths, who are necessarily rational and open-minded (because ultimately, cooperation requires trust, and trust is the primary currency of sociopaths). I would guess that this world would be both more exciting and more terrifying. Human value systems would likely change more quickly, and we might view this society as barbaric in some respects. They might decide that eating dead people is perfectly acceptable and a good way to recycle resources. It might look like an extreme form of libertarianism. In many respects, it may look like a lot of cyberpunk societies. 

It is 2057 and a manned mission to Europa has been comissioned in the prospect of further exploring the ecosystem and energy signatures of Europa. Unlike the implied unnmanned probe, this mission logistically has to be able to do the following: 

Be able to enter and return from the subglacial abyssal ocean in Europa. Have a crew of 16 people. (12 people for the surface and 4 people for the submarine) Be able to have both a surface encampment and a sub-surface exploration mission. Be able to retrieve samples back to Earth. Cost less than 250 billion dollars (if unattainable give me your own estimate) Have a travel time of around a year to Europa (those poor bones...) 

My current model of how to achieve this is as follows: 1- A interplanetary vessel is built in Earth orbit using reusable rockets descended from the likes of Falcon 9. 2- This interplanetary vessel has living space, propulsion and a solar sail (since that's totally all you need for a mission as complex as a manned interplanetary venture, right?). 3- Attached to the interplanetary vessel is a shuttlecraft designed for flying in low gravity, atmosphere lacking environments since planes wouldn't work on Europa. On Titan, it'd make sense but Europa isn't a jovian moon known for its thick atmosphere. 4- This shuttlecraft is manned and deploys both the encampment (using modular bubblehabs that can be dug into the ice for radiation protection- this is Jupiter so radiation is an inevitable issue) and the submarine that needs to be able to descend all the way to the bottom of Europa's ocean... And back. 5- Said submarine is able to gain energy from the hydrothermal vents if needed (and maybe even ride the convection current back up) and can supply the crew in said sub for about a Month with food. Oxygen in the sub can be derieved from the sorrounding water. The submarine is modelled partially on a bathoscaythe, however it is very simple in shape (very capsule-like, but with a heat drill on the front that likely can double as a defensive weapon encase a sea monster tries to eat it). There are also communication systems and some deployable aquatic probes for sample collection instead of arms like current bathoscathes use. Deploying a human in pressure suit gear might also be possible if the story demands it. However, I have a feeling that a pressure suit for Europa would be somewhat expensive (I state as I detail out a high-tech submarine and a manned space mission more ambitious than anything in human history up to this point). The problem I have is i'm not sure how expensive or massive all this stuff would be. My intuition is that being a manned mission carrying a ship that can deploy both a encampment and a submarine which 4 people can reasonably man is that it'll be a big ship, but i'm not sure how big. The Delta-V of going to Europa, orbitting and going back with a manned vessel also will be pretty intense. The speed of the ship on average would be 5x faster than the Juno Probe as well, putting it at a drifting speed of around 370 km/s. That is about a thousand times slower than the speed of light but still really damn fast. However, assuming no fusion energy how would getting to this speed on the scale of say, weeks be feasible? Gravity slingshot around the Earth? I come here since I don't know anything about the logistics of space travel and want to see how many holes can be picked in it and what I should use to fill those holes in. And also because this is likely going to be insanely difficult to pull off and the more information I have on what would be needed the better, especially in regards to the mass of the three crafts, what prolusion systems to use and how to better structure the time frame of said mission. Also tell me if 16 people is too much or not enough. I just picked the number out of superstition more than anything else. Since it's in 2057 the tech doesn't nessecarily have to be current day, but i'd prefer the tech still be based on or descended from technology in research or on the drawing board today more or less. Fusion energy is off the table, for instance. (As for the life itself, that's all spoilers. It's not Europa native but evolved in Europa-like conditions with the magnetic field of the nearby gas giant, acidic seas and the 'right' balance of tidal stress. The inhabitants didn't become space faring independantly, they gained space age technology from a much more distant entity and technologically degenerated in the thousand years they lived on Europa. They surveyed Earth early on but their ability to speak a human language is likely non-existent beyond a few words. Not to mention they speak more like whales or dolphins than humans. I mention this to anyone who objects to advanced life on Europa here, even if this is not the focus of the question.). 

The only idea I haven't seen mentioned is the flying aircraft carrier. Imagine the dragon lifting a few soldiers with gliders strapped to their backs. At altitude, it releases the archers and they rain death from above. The archers may need to be in 2-man gliders with a pilot/bomber and archer. If the dragon(s) could release the gliders from behind enemy lines, they could cause a lot of havoc, but with the disadvantage that they have to land behind enemy lines or fly over the lines to reach friendly ground. Even dropped from friendly airspace, the gliders would have the benefit of gravity and elevation while shooting/bombing. In this mode, the dragon becomes a glorified elevator which substitutes for a nearby hill/mountain (which may not be present at the battlefield). If each dragon only had a few gliders to worry about, it could release them at high altitude (where they could start with bombing), let them glide down to some flight floor (where they can snipe with bows), and then pick them up again in mid-air, to bring them back up to the flight ceiling. In between, it could strafe enemy lines and do its normal dragon-thing. The gliders would be a force multiplier for the dragon's flying ability, to potentially devastating effect. In the same way, dragons could act as long-range siege artillery by lifting battering rams made out of giant logs and stubby glider wings (and, of course, an iron ram head). Since dragons are not necessarily experts at ballistics and aerodynamics, you would ideally want the ram to be guided on the way down (so the dragon can drop it from very high and far away, which provides both safety to the dragon and lots of kinetic energy for a big boom). Some elite pilots could ride the ram down, using basic flight controls, and jump off at the last minute, deploying their personal gliders for a safe landing. If you drop it from high enough, a battering ram will have enough energy to blow through not just the main gate, but pretty much any reinforced structure made of stone, so you could blow a hole through any large part of the outer wall that is easy to aim at. Of course, you still have to deal with the moat, but you don't need a roof on the ram to defend against elevated attacks. Also, the ram should be moving fast enough close to impact that it is nearly impossible to hit with arrows, so the pilots should be mostly safe (except for the fact that they are riding an inert missile!). 

Recently i've read Worldbuilding by Stephen Gillett and one thing that struck me was that for one reason of another many of the alien worlds lacked the resources needed for metallurgy. However, the book also mentioned how crystals would be common on at least a couple of these worlds which made me start thinking. Could a advanced species develop on a acidic world (even with less energy available) that instead of using metals, uses crystals, clays some other material in the place of iron/copper and has to advance on very different lines from humans with their steel and silicon chips or those other aliens with their calcium rich bioships and moldy circuitry? Crystals and clays according to the book would be in abundance on the acidic worlds (which is a generalization- the author goes through nitrogen-oxygen worlds, worlds with chlorine rich atmospheres where plastics instead of cellulose is used for wood and sulfur rich worlds, all of these worlds he concludes would lack in iron/copper. Therefore leaving any civilization that develops on a acidic world with chlorine or sulfur all over the place 'In the stone age'. I am skeptical of this simply because is metallurgy really the end-all be-all to even consider technological civilizations? It seems like it is on Earth, but that's more or less because metals are attainable and iron is easily available. But on another world where that's not the case could some other technological base exist and could it still be possible to make a advanced civilization through some alternative form of conductors? Crystals and clays to my knowledge both have diverse applications, but is it possible for them to fill similiarish technological niches seen in the modern world at least in the fields of automation of labor and/or computing? 

As a bonus question, would there be a difference if the Titanian was radiation resistant or would the results be the same? I ask since I am not really certain how to predict any of this. 

Not sure which one would be the most logical or thematic, but the general idea should be the same. A currency that has its weight not in gold, but in a celestial object of arbitrarily defined importance. The issue is I have no clue if using a cosmic object as a currency weight would actually work in practice given the expansionist nature of my human civilization. Since I am not really good at economics, can anyone who knows their economics tell me what unintended implications of this idea may entail given the scenario and/or celestial object used? I'm not completely sure where to look. *Detail: The "special particle" in question is called the "Lux Particle". It exists only in the corona of stars and must exist in plasma. Lux Particles allow ships to not only have FTL, but also fast-as-light travel and teleportation for spaceships. Brighter stars have more lux. I might have intentionally devised lux as a way to screw red dwarves over.