My experience with Soto Zen is that, a first mention of pain during sitting is regarded as normal and one should "just keep doing it". Generally, there's also a culture within Soto Zen taking pride on painful things -- like hard blows of keisaku, or sleeping on hard wood -- but I suspect this is more related to novices then advanced practitioners. At the same time, using a different posture or a chair was always welcomed -- despite the toughness attitude, meditation itself was more important than posture, specially if it's becoming an obstacle. My experience with Tibetan and Theravada is similar on this: there's a preference for a stable and "portable" position like lotus. But being in unbearable pain when meditating in a posture is not seeing as positive to the practice. Also, westerns are notorious for having difficulties sitting cross legged and many monasteries of different schools offer cushions and chairs. From the suttas, I think the attitude towards pain in the training depends on a few things: 

I see some parallels of what you have described with a discourse in the pali canon, MN 2. In it, the Buddha called this a "thicket of views": 

I think this is close to what mindfulness (sati) is in buddhism. It has different/related meanings depending on context but without going into details, I would summaryze as Thanissaro Bhikku put it: "What does it mean to be mindful of the breath? Something very simple: to keep the breath in mind." 

Maybe -- and it depends on what you mean by "meditation". But since the context is about CBT, I'm not sure this would be advised, specially without professional assistance. 

So, Right Thinking is the practice concerned with our inclinations, dispositions and intentions, aimed at enabling the eightfold path and realizing it's purpose. 

This is only an example of a process of cognition of something or an event in the actual reality, but the same applies to all of the senses. In other words, because of the functioning of the sense organs (eye, ear, nose, etc) and the presence of what can be perceived by those (forms, sounds, tastes, temperature, pressure etc), it's possible to have cognition of an event in reality. That's how, say, the perception of being killed in the actual reality becomes present. "I also have a very similar question/example: why does it result in good karma when you feed starving people, if the food, the pain of starvation, and even your good deed is just an illusion in the minds of you and the starving person? Obviously if I had a sandwich, and I saw a child who was hungry, I'd give them all of the sandwich. But then isnt the child receiving negative karma for causing ME to go hungry, even though it was my choice? And why bother at all if only karma is real - the child's hunger isn't "real", so why end it?)" Again, I don't where New Kadampa stands on this. Some buddhist traditions reject Idealism and some traditions accuse other traditions of the "mind only" view. In any case, I think these questions that you raise are very significant to be asked to anyone before you decide to take their teachings. Having said that, I'll take the liberty to answer the above from other buddhist perspectives. First, a deed in many buddhist traditions is not completely evaluated by it's results (e.g. the food given satisfied someone's hunger, or money given was used to buy drugs). To a certain extent, it's evaluated by one's intention, motivation and attitude when performing it. To that extent, the deeds transforms one's inner habits, transforms one's minds (thoughts, reflexes, inclinations, tastes). Thus, regardless of the actual results of the deeds, the performance of good deeds naturally turns one into a "good person", one who is inclined to have good thoughts (thoughts associated with non-hatred and non-greed), to associate with good people, inclined to do good. And bad deeds turns one into a "bad person", one inclined to do bad things, to take pleasure associating with bad people, to have bad thoughts associated with hatred and greed, etc. So, an action, in this sense, is a way of transforming one's character, or one's mind. This is straightforward, and not really an understanding exclusive to Buddhism. Apparently, the following remarks come from Christians, but it's not at all far from what the Buddha taught: 

I don't remember the Buddha ever been in legal trouble, though sometimes kings came to him to solve some issue involving the sangha. 

1In Bodhi translation, he says the Manorathapūranī understand this as , but in other places it can be or . 

An insight (no pun intended) on the kind of person Gotama was before Nirvana can be seen from the following passage, where he was training severe ascetism: 

It's not that they are not allowed. These are vows, so the meaning is that they chose not to. Furthermore, the community should not be disturbed just because one of them wants to have sex -- they are free to do so, just leave the monastic community. Finally, the monastic community functions as a republic: vinaya rules can be changed upon consensus. 

Now, what we can infer from the discourses is that Buddhism does not present a teleology, an ideal like "every being should be in Nirvana" as if everything else was essentially wrong (e.g. have a family, have kids, indulge in all kinds of worldly activities, etc). What it does is recognize aspects of our reality, present an explanation for our essential anxiety, and offer a way to resolve it or diminish it, if one is so inclined to accept it and is willing to do something about it -- under various degrees of interest (from abandoning unwholesome actions of body/speech/mind, through meditation, or finally to deciding to abandon wealth and possessions to become a monk/nun). I'd say this is the character of every sutta. Since any wholesome action is conductive to Nirvana, any wholesome action is a step forward, regardless if one is a monk or a husband. Thus Buddhism is regarded as a "path": it's a process. Furthermore, it classifies many stages of attainment, according to what kind of attachment has been eliminated. Hence, some teachings are presented culminating in Nirvana. Other teachings are presented culminating in "a better destination after death" (e.g. some heavens where there's less suffering). If one is unwilling to abandon all attachments, Buddha dhamma still teaches how to ease suffering (and perhaps appear in a better place -- and maybe there, attain Nirvana). In any case, all buddha-dhamma teachings, ultimately, converge to Nirvana. 

"My question is : Is what is impermanent always the cause of suffering?" No, what is impermanent is not the cause of dukkha, what is impermanent is dukkha. Meaning, what is impermanent is unsatisfactory in its absolute sense; it's out of one's complete control, and even if pleasing, it's pleasantness has an expiration date, bound to change, e.g., into something unpleasant. And what is the cause, the origin of dukkha? 

It's unlikely. It's reported that Gotama spent 6 years training all sorts of things before he achieved Nirvana. This training involved studying under other ascetics and practicing austerity. Presumably he learned a lot during these times, though emphasis seem to be on things he learned that weren't fruitful. But things that aren't fruitful aren't the whole story of this period. For example, he found some teachings of his previous teachers useful and kept teaching and exercising them even after Nirvana (e.g. meditation on nothingness/suññata) -- though these practices, by themselves, were remarked as insufficient for realizing Nirvana. Another example of useful practice is the time when he decided to divide his thoughts in two classes: 

Proponents of this argument usually say these are examples of the Buddha's "skill in means" or that he refrained from opposing his listeners, since they believe those things anyway. Others would say that another way of presenting this very same argument is that the Buddha lied -- something that he said is not possible for an arahant to do. It also raises other kinds of questions. For example, it portrays him hesitating about teaching something that, one would think, is "too shocking" to his listeners. And yet, his most shocking teaching is likely anatta. And in the suttas he never appears to hesitate for a second to "shock" his audience with such declarations. Additionally, it's not that clear that his audience was so overwhelmingly attached to prior beliefs of karma and rebirth as this argument above seem to imply. What history suggests is that, in his time, different beliefs were very popular. Among them, that there are no good or bad deeds ("no karma" doctrine), and that death is "really, the end". That being the case, these ideas likely weren't that shocking. It's also important to point out that the Buddha's own teaching of karma and rebirth do not appear to be repetitions of prior beliefs, but seem quite original in their particularities -- (to the point the similarities are just on the name, e.g., "karma"). Karma and Rebirth and the Buddha Dharma "Also, neither of these theories affects the main purpose of Buddhist practice -- to reduce suffering." Perhaps they do. For example, in the Buddha's time, there were proponents of "no karma" doctrine. It seems these people believed that there were no intrinsic consequences to their actions, so they could do whatever they want (bad things included) without concern. That is, indeed, the culmination of the full acceptance and belief of "no life after death" view: that morality is artificial (a social construct, an illusion). The ultimate conclusion, therefore, is that it would be foolish to not take illicit advantages when opportunity presents itself and there's no risk of being caught. And that it's foolish to refrain from getting what one wants, regardless if through immoral means. With that in mind, take the Buddha's teaching to the Kālāmas, where he used a conservative reasoning to make a point for virtuous behavior. In summary, he found the Kālāmas agreeing that good deeds lead to welfare and that bad deeds lead to harm. Then, he proceed to make his case about a person who does good deeds: 

However, apparently, abandoning sensual pleasures is something the Buddha rarely taught laity (he certainly did not preach celibacy to laity, for example), so this is usually considered a part of the practice that is targeted at a specific, dedicated audience (the monks). 

Nirvana While most people are fine with all that situation of living with pleasures and sufferings, others feel enslaved by this existential situation they find themselves in. These people came to conclude that no matter what happiness they may find in the world, they know deep inside that such happiness has an expiration date -- and suffering is around the corner. The Buddha was in this later category. The problem the Buddha set out to solve was: is there the ultimate happiness? and how to achieve it? By ultimate happiness, it's meant something that has no trace of unsatisfactoriness. And also, something that is not impermanent. Because it doesn't change, and because there's nothing else to desire, this is then the ultimate peace, where there's no danger whatsoever of suffering. It's impossible, then, to conceive any happiness greater than that, for this would denounce it's unsatisfactoriness. In Buddhism, this is called Nirvana, the end of dukkha without reminder. And the third noble truth is a declaration by the Buddha that Nirvana can be attained: "This is the cessation of dukkha". Because all the "worldly experiences" are conditioned, impermanent, subject to change and to vanish, the Buddha halted any of his attempt to find the ultimate happiness on these things. 

This training is the noble eightfold path, the fourth noble truth: "This is the path that leads to the cessation of dukkha." The Buddha said this path is "good in the beginning, good in the middle, and good in the end". It promotes happiness in this very life, happiness in the after-life, and if taken to it's last consequences, to Nirvana. Final Notes It's not known exactly what happens to someone who attained Nirvana after death. When questioned about it, the Buddha did not answer. He denied that after death, an Arahant or Buddha is annihilated. He also denied that he reborns. Finally, he asked that those things that he left undeclared to be remembered as undeclared by him. But, from what we know he has said, Nirvana is the cessation of dukkha and the end of suffering. We also know that it is said to be, indeed, happiness. So Buddhism is not depressive. It is, in fact, positive. It promotes knowledge about the nature of suffering and happiness and how to cultivate the latter. And to those "tired of the rollercoaster", it affirms there's indeed a secure shelter out of it and shows the path that leads to it. 

The Soto Zen temples and sanghas I've visited in Brazil all supported understanding what they were chanting (usually handing out translations, but chanting in japanese). Some of them made their own translations and chant in portuguese. Another center of tibetan lineage I visited also had a group of language study. Finally, when I was on a Ch'an temple, we chanted in chinese (though translations of the texts were available), and we also had mandarin classes. 

Anyway, this book is probably the best starting point to explore these questions. It's full of references, and also presents the view of researchers who disagree with the authors (thus, the reader gets to know the "who is who" list in the [western?] scholastic community). "How does this (notion of some progressive history of earlier and of later suttas) fit with the Buddhist councils? Were different suttas adopted at different councils?" As I understand, the traditional position is that the nikayas were fixed at the 1st council. Scholars, however, often talk about a later moment where a canon is "closed to addition". Certainly the existing parallel nikayas do not agree verbatim, so the historical question of the original nikayas spoken at the 1st council remains. "Do differences arise from when the suttas were transcribed as translated rather than from when they were accepted into the remembered/oral canon?" I think there are differences of script in manuscripts, but I don't know much more than that. Finally, the presentation "The ur-text of the Pali Tipiṭaka" by Alex Wynne, might be of interest. 

Ven. Buddhadasa [1] explains that second tetrad as concerned specifically with pīti and sukha whereas the third is concerned with citta in a broader and deeper way. 

It depends on what you refer to as "mistake", "wrong" and "all knowing". For example, the first known schism [1] brought 5 points to discussion, 4 pertaining to arahants: 

The following are a few excerpts from the sutras on how the Buddha dealt with and instructed his disciples to train when thoughts of anger and ill will are present: 

I don't know of a sutta that suggests that prayers or concentration directly affects the well being of beings being prayed to or concentrated on. Quite the contrary, suttas like the one below suggests that such thing would be wishful thinking. That is, wishing someone to be free from sorrow as the method to make them free from sorrow is a fruitless method. 

This is probably just a case of a word having many (conflicting) uses. Intuition is an elusive word. It seems we often associate it to a kind of feeling about something. Because that "kind of feeling" is also elusive and could be pretty much anything, it may be regarded as unreliable. Perhaps this explain why you were told it is not something to be valued. However, intuition can be used to describe not-so-elusive kinds of knowledges, like tacit/implicit/non-verbal knowledge we all use daily (e.g. intuitively knowing where the north is, or how to solve a puzzling problem). Finally intuition can also mean some kind of immediate knowledge of reality. I found the following dictionary descriptions interesting: