Do not wish to be rid of your anger quickly, your anger is a very good teacher. In the same way that you might observe pain that arises in your legs when in sitting meditation, equanimously, when anger arises, know that it has arisen, know "this is anger", but do not be moved by it, let it arise and flow, feel its effects, and also observe it passing away. As you are now seeing, so long as you are averse to anger, anger will arise, as the very nature of anger IS aversion. You must be compassionate and patient with your anger. There is nothing wrong with it at all, the only issue with it is that which arises in your mind that says "No, I don't accept this experience, it is not suitable". You did not mention what your practice is, but to help in this matter, you may try Vipassana, which will allow you to easily recognize these states arising and deal with them equanimously. And also, you may try taking up Metta meditation, perhaps for a few minutes after Vipassana, to help develop good will and compassion alongside your insight. 

According to Ven. Ajaan Tong, there are four things without limit: The knowledge of a Buddha, the world of beings, the universe, and space. The idea of a limited reality is more of a western concept, tied in with the Abrahamic religions which purport a creation and end. If anyone has any reference to the "four things without limit" that the Venerable sir is talking about, that'd be great. I have no doubt he is quoting a Theravada text, I just don't know which. With that being said, as far as Buddhism is concerned, even if Samsara were "depleted" of beings, it would simply cease to exist altogether, as it arises due to supporting conditions. If you remove those supporting conditions, it no longer arises. And Buddhism views samsara as devoid of any useful or beneficial intrinsic qualities, so in any case it is of no matter. 

Meditate on your desire to meditate using music as a meditation device. Or on your love for minimalist repition. That's how I would approach it at least. Becoming aware of wanting, desire, boredom. And how your mind relates to them. 

Through practicing insight meditation, one gains the knowledge of the arising and passing away of phenomenon, the suffering latent in all phenomenon, the uncontrollable nature of all phenomenon, and the cessation of phenomenon. 

It seems they are both talking about the knowledge of cessation that arises after cessation. Venerable Mahasi Sayadaw is saying that each experience of Nibbana is approached and achieved in the same manner, each time( Sotapanna, Sakadagami, Anagami, Arahant). Each time it is attained, however, it may last longer and is more purifying than the previous time, more complete. What Narada Maha Thera is pointing out is that each of the four instances of "intuiting nibbana", as he puts it, i.e. attaining Sottapana, Sakadagami, Anagami, Arahant, each occur only once. Thats the jist of it as far as I understand. Hopefully I didn't fumble any technicalities! 

In multiple Jataka stories, the Buddha tells of his different past lives, multiple of which occurred under King Brahmadatta. Am I missing something here? How is it that the Buddha was living multiple past lives, all during the lifetime of one king? for example : $URL$ $URL$ 

Someone, having not followed and understood the Buddhas teaching, regards the hot ball of iron in their hand as themselves, not knowing to put it down, they create their own suffering. When someone offers them another Hot ball of iron, they gladly accept it, and when it burns their other hand, they blame that person for their suffering. It certainly isn't wholesome to offer to hand such a thing to someone else, but it is out of ignorance to the way things are that someone should choose to hold onto it. 

What are Kusala roots, how are they determined, what effects do they have? And where in the Buddha's teaching are they mentioned? Thank you. 

How do we understand this? As impermanent, not ultimately satisfactory, and void of any self. Like all experience that make up samsara, giving rise to wanting or aversion to any of it is the seed for future suffering. As you now see, your aversion to this is bringing you mental anguish. The path the Buddha taught is the middle way; equanimously moving through any and all experience, unmoved by even the most horrific of things. Why do people enjoy this? They are delusional. The same reason anyone enjoys anything, they mistake it as being a source of happiness, failing to see the suffering latent in their grasping, and the manner in which this twists their mind and sets the stage for future becoming and suffering. 

Nothing happens to that person when consciousness ceases - there was never a person to begin with, only arising and ceasing of experience. I realized after the fact that I can't sufficiently cite sources while on my phone - apologies for such an incomplete answer, I'll try and expand later :) 

As far as seeing other beings taking birth and dying, I don't have magical powers, but I understand this as being something like the eye of the mind expanding to actually witness this happening. With nimitas, they are lights that appear in the minds eye so are "seen" by the eye within as well. Ajahn Brahm talks a lot about Nimitas 

In some Asian countries they will set out food as offerings so that hungry ghosts can make merit. In some instances they will even build tiny houses for them. 

You may try anapanasati meditation to try and help bring about more calm of mind. Here is one reference for this : $URL$ But these fears and feelings and such will resurface through this calm once you begin again to practice vipassana. So while useful, anapanasati may only be a crutch, albeit a potentially useful one. This is no different than being stopped by pain while sitting and having your leg fall asleep and give rise to pain. No matter how intense the pain gets, your meditation will not bear good fruits unless you see reality through in any form it manifests itself. Avoiding things is rarely the solution. An unkempt wound festers. And because you want them to, these "blockages" you speak of wont go away, . The only way to make peace with them and part ways is to look at them and let them be as they are, however they are. Here is more food for thought: $URL$ 

You should speak with your boss about having a meditation break added into the work day for all employees. This would definitely increase productivity if everyone was given the opportunity to calm their mind and re-focus their attention. 

The Buddha taught the Four Noble Truths, and the Noble Eightfold path. This is the path that leads to the cessation of suffering. Through the practice of the Noble Eightfold Path, the practitioners mind becomes balanced and equanimous; able to discern the arising and ceasing of all phenomenon as it is, rather than giving rise to states of anger or greed towards it. When traumatic memories arise, the meditator clearly sees "this is thinking"; if these memories give rise to sadness, the meditator clearly sees "this is sadness (or feeling). And as such, knowing all things as they are, the mind remains unperturbed. This practice is outlined in the Satipatthana Sutta, Magga-vibhanga Sutta, and Dhammacakkappavattana Sutta. You can also take refuge in the Buddha during times of distress, as illustrated in SN2.9 and SN2.10 The four protective meditations, in particular recollection of the Buddha, may also be of use to you. I hope this helps out, be well friend. As far as journaling goes, I think this can be a helpful tool for beginning meditators. Being able to write down experiences you otherwise have trouble accepting in meditation can allow you to "hold" these issues in your hand and read them, somewhat as a middle-ground between repressing them altogether and fully accepting them as they are in your mind. So I would say, if you find this helps, then this is ok. Just so long as you do not become attached to this, dependent upon it, and averse to dealing with these things in your meditation. In short, you have to stop using the training wheels at some point. So its important that you push yourself as far as you're able to, within reason, and do no become complacent. 

In "seeing the Dhamma", it's figuratively said, that is he witnessed for him self experientially the nature of reality, as opposed to intellectually understanding it. 

Samsara is just a word. There is seeing, hearing, tasting, feeling, smelling, and thinking. And there is the UN enlightened mind that misapprehends the true nature of these phenomenon. edit for your edit : 

In this way, seeing is seeing. Trying to prescribe anything else to it in an ultimate sense is false attribution. 

How to deal with it without being ashamed of such feelings? There's nothing wrong with feeling shame. How to deal with it? From a Buddhist point of view, you should practice meditation, and in my opinion, Vipassana meditation. By doing so you will come to terms with these feelings as they arise and they will no longer effect you in such a way, and by the sound if it, you will also be able to come to terms with this aversion you've built up to the intense experiences of pain you had in the past, which may have had some role to play in leading to your present experiences of anger and depression. Here is a brief article on pain and how meditation can help you come to terms with it: $URL$ And here is a good talk from a Buddhist point of view on the experience of pain and how it can be useful for us: $URL$ In any case, I would suggest you shift your focus from the healing of your knee, to the healing of your mind, as that is where both these negative emotions are arising, and the suffering from the pain in your knee. We dont always have a choice in experiencing pain, but suffering because of it is a choice. Best of luck. 

One does not account for all variables in the culmination of an effect. Only a fully enlightened Buddha can know this. For the rest of us, the pursuit of full understanding of Karma will only impede our practice towards liberation, and should not be pursued. 

Having started my meditation "career" with a Goenka retreat, in my opinion at least, restricting awareness down like this can be helpful for a beginner, as you aren't bombarded all at once with having to be mindful of EVERYTHING that can arise. But it can also leave you unprepared for having to be mindful of really powerful emotional/mental stuff that WILL eventually make its way to the surface. 

I am wondering if this website, and in particular, the guided audio meditations, are in line with the actual teaching of the 32 parts of the body meditation. I don't know much about it, so I thought I'd get a second opinion here, and also I thought that provided this is a good resource, I would at the same time share it with you all :)