You'd be looking for the "Credential Manager" which can really only be run locally: You can start it from the command line: 

(This installed bsd-mailx, exim4, exim4-base, exim4-config and exim4-daemon-light Ran through prompts to setup tripwire passwords etc Then ran: 

The procedure is outlined here: $URL$ Quoted: To move Event Viewer log files to another location on the hard disk, follow these steps: 

the "sync" you are referring to, is called "roaming profiles". A simple script implementation is described below that may copy something and log it. Modify the following to your needs (very basic) 

The "create mask" simply means that samba users are allowed to modify those permissions up to the mask, meaning if you set it to 777, then the user can modify all bits. This is not the same as unix file masks. Your setting is 0775, meaning that users can modify the permissions on User (rwx), Group (rwx) and Other (rw). This doesn't mean that the files will be created with those permissions, just that the user can use those permissions. To force a set of permissions, use something like: 

which means, 61000 - 32768 - $OPENPORTS = AvailablePorts On my box, thats: 61000-32768-32 = 28200 available port numbers. 

In the previous incarnation (IIS6), you could specify which IP's were allowed, and deny everything else, per site.. $URL$ Sort of shows how to do that on IIS7.. (not sure, don't have one lying around to test) Assuming your users would be from the same subnets it should work... 

I haven't found any iLO/DRAC interfaces on the back of the box, and I've only been here for a few weeks, so still struggling to adapt to ESX's weird ways. Why is IC showing 8 drive faults? I can't find anything about this online.. I thought I was good at googling! 

Should return a list of all pages (with line numbers) that contain your domains email addresses. Might need tweaking. Manuals for wget and grep 

You can Debug BEX using the SGMon utility, it is in the program directory.. however, it has quite extensive output.. You can also create smaller jobs, and run them sequentially, or, to back them up to a "folder" first, then run a "duplicate" backup job to tape. If it fails on the folder job, its a network/source issue, if it fails on the tape, its a drive[r]/tape issue. One of our servers started to do something like this, we got the drive itself replaced ASAP, problem solved. 

then just cron between them as needed.. when you are up to 100% relayed, switch your app to the new server. 

Wouldn't it be easier (and kinder) to simply setup a shared "Sales" mailbox, let all the required salesdroids use it. Its never going to be as fast as a simple redirection, but there is no need to script it or anything then. (We use many here, allows users to change roles, get promoted, quit etc without having to worry about redirecting or informing customers of new addresses etc). The other alternative (in Exchange) is a Public Folder, simply create & set permissions on it for all who will need access (using Outlook), then assign the email address[es] you require (in System Manager, will default to "Foldername@domainname.com"), then all mail will go there instead.. has similar/familiar delegation controls/permissions etc. If particular users need access to shared calendars or mailboxes, they can set them as "Favorites". That way, users can "Grab" messages for themselves, by moving them into their own mailbox, or deleting them when done etc.. Also, looks professional when you see: Joe Bloggs on Behalf of Sales@company.com. If its the public folder, turn of "Maintain Per user Read/unread information.." then staff can tell when a message has already been read by someone else. Customers like it, they get an easy to remember address and, their messages aren't lost! (that is the biggie I think) The managers like it, they can keep tabs on open items, weigh in on things and generally be "Managers".. ;-) 

Or, if you just need it for a few, (and you saved it in the NETLOGON folder above) simply edit the user account (Profile Tab -> Logon Script textbox) and enter the filename. 

I just installed it on my ubuntu-server box, it needs exim4 to be able to send messages, which is dead easy to configure. 

The examples given are all great Server related answers.. however.. System administration is never 100% computers.. I wish that it were! You have to deal with people too, in our case, that means Manglement, Lusers, Contractors and Suppliers.. arg^n Customer service skills knowing how to talk about what you need/want/have-to-do, getting information to other people, documentation, all are essential in Keeping your sysadmin job. If you want to get your projects funded and used: No point trying to get a new server if you don't know how to ask for the money, if you don't have the figures/alternatives/DR plan/quotes/implementation plan etc.. Office politics are a B**CH, money is always: "Tight".. whatever that means.. it doesn't affect the execs company cars, but it will affect your site security & ability to standardise if you can't impress upon them your reasons. I'd say the most important thing to remember: DO NOT TRUST WHAT A USER SAYS. Keep that in mind when answering the phone.. no matter what they say, you will still have to figure it out for yourself, because its ultimately your ass, not theirs, and they generally have no idea. Just because they can put together a buzzword laden paragraph to bamboozle your boss, doesn't mean they actually know what they just said. Other thoughts: 

Your users will be able to logon to their computers using "cached credentials" (default is to store the last ten logons), then you can connect using any VPN to your work network, and access the "domain" as it were. The only real restriction is roaming profiles, which get borked if you logon without being connected. If you are talking about logging on using an domain account that hasn't previously logged onto a computer remotely, then see TomTom's answer (and comments), unless the users have "local accounts" on the machines, and then use domain accounts to access the network, that also works. 

This only works on ANSI terminals, but all others have become virtually extinct. \e[...m ist the ANSI escape sequence SGR "select graphic rendition". The "..." can be replaced by some semicolon-separated integers, with the meaning: 0 : all attributes off 1 : bold 31 : foreground red 43 : background yellow "keyword", of course, can be any perl regular expression: (foo|bar) highlight the strings foo and bar \b((foo|bar)\b highlight the words foo and bar .\b((foo|bar)\b. highlight the whole line that contains the words foo or bar Or, the easy way, just install Its probably in your favorite repo (dag for CentOS) $URL$ $URL$ 

Does 9.1 have SGMon? the logging tool.. it will be in the program directory, you can actually see it working if the status stops updating. It will show you all the "under the hood" you can take! 

The 403 page is dependant on Apache serving that html.. you can override it for any or directive simply by using the directive: 

You could try turning off usermode caching at the IIS end: IIS7: $URL$ IIS6: $URL$ That way, if there is any "transparent" proxy in between, you will be able to control it.. somewhat. 

I'd say it depends on your servers retention policies, what sort of account you are using, how you are connecting, where the data is stored, how you are deleting etc.. if you just push del, it should be moved to deleted items, if you press shift+del it should be gone. However, it might be retained in the "Recover Deleted Items" tools menu, at least until the next backup/scavange cycle (assuming exchange). This question might be better on SuperUser.. 

The directive is used to assign special commands just for that hard-drive location, in this case, it tells apache what to do when it encounters an file in that directory. The tells apache where the 'home page' web files would be, if it weren't for the directive, which tells apache to redirect EVERYTHING to me.dev on port 8044. I bet if you commented them out it would work exactly the same. There is a complete guide to all the directives online: $URL$ Basically, every request (including redirects) will be proxied to For instance, should respond from 

Maybe my "comment" slipped you by, but my point is this: You can't access the POP service via the IMAP port number, Exchange replies based on the port you specify. To access POP, usually you have to use port 110. If that port isn't being forwarded by your gateway, then you might have to configure it to do so. It should be relatively safe to allow the gmail IP ranges (below), rather than every IP. 

You could verify that it is configured correctly: $URL$ Alternatively, you can enable message tracing: $URL$ and figure out where/why its not working. 

The "violation code" will literally be a random memory address, and will (should) change with every one you see, so google won't be able to help. You could install xdebug and trace it while google-api'ing. When next the error appears, hopefully your output will instead be a huge stack-trace detailing exactly which module is faulting and where. $URL$ 

This may not be possible with windows $URL$ Quote: For locally attached subnet routes, the gateway address is the IP address assigned to the interface that is attached to the subnet. 

Possible? I'd basically like to mirror all email from the hosted server internally, so users can access it via IMAP. Allowing me to back it up! (Hosting company organized by consultant who manages it through a third/fourth/fifth??? party, gah) And filter spam/virii/etc.. Is there a way for users to log into my server, which then logs into remote server and downloads email to itself, then delivers via IMAP to them? Or am I overthinking/confusing/breaking something here? What would happen if I sent an email to myself? Would it go out to the hosting company and then back in? Ideally only certain users would need to be on the hosted server, could I set it so that internal email gets delivered locally, but certain users get delivered to hosted server? Its 1630 on Friday, so maybe my brain is fried. I'll probably think of a hundred things wrong with this by Monday, but I want a second opinion. Just thought of something, I can set a forwarder for all the users who are ONLY EVER INTERNAL, and get their messages forwarded to my server.. hmmm.. that could work! I'll have a play and see what happens to a few test users. EDIT: Nope, either DNS is fubar, or the remote server won't send email back to the server that sent it.. would probably create a loop anyway. Bad idea.. :-( 

You will have to probably disable integrated authentication for that subfolder, as IIS sees that setting and tries it first, which it does by sending an auth request, basically a fail message to the browser.. your ajax script probably isn't testing for that fail, so doesn't know to send the data again. 

Yes, IIS can support running numerous simultaneous frameworks. .NET/ASP/PHP/SSI/ISAPI etc.. You just have to enable them. $URL$ 

$URL$ Don't know what your problem is, it could be the ports are wrong, your firewall is blocking it, your IMAP connector is off, your test account is locked out, g-standard-edition-restrictions, might need fully qualified name (user@domain.com). You could ask google, those fellas are usually pretty switched on: $URL$ 

It is up to the firewall to determine which traffic can flow in which direction, if you haven't configured any outbound rules, then, by default it will probably allow all outbound connections. "In the case of malware" is separate, as that can only be determined by the PC itself. (Unless you invest in a N/IDS). There are ways of preventing outbound traffic unless a human is involved, see $URL$ 

You are checking to see if the connection originates in the /domain/ folder, so you need to specify it with a slash.. otherwise you get a loop.. which may cause the 500 error. 

If you create a local account in that group, with the same username & password, the user in question probably won't realise that its not on the domain until they try and use domain resources from that machine.. its best to just have it on the domain. Is there any reason for its "non-domain" stasis? 

Might be a host filter: $URL$ Have you got log entries/server.xml from your Tomcat service? (use pastebin.com) You certainly don't need DNS if you are using the IP address. 

Then go to the second tab (Advanced) then select "Manage Passwords", this will let you modify saved network passwords for the current user on that computer. 

Check the security policy settings on that machine for "Named Pipes that can be accessed remotely" and add yours. Some good info here: $URL$ 

I am actually getting a few errors in the IIS space about my mapped drive.. $URL$ Obviously, its shared as: s$ So its hidden from casual browsers, but, the request is actually making it to the webserver, which is rewriting the request as a above. (drupal ya know) So, if you have a similar setup (IIS) you should be seeing requests for anything that isn't an actual share, and probably for those too, end up in your IIS logfiles. 

You talking about the same SSH as I use? Secure SHell? AFAIK: nothing to "proxy", no HTTP connections.. impossible. If you EVER get that working, defo email me or something, cause damn! This page describes how to reverse proxy FTP: $URL$ 

LDAP. Assuming you are using dhcp-4.2+ it is built into isc-dhcp-server-ldap Full guide here: $URL$ Or: $URL$ 

You can create a specific "Taskpad" mmc for them to use, like here: $URL$ Basically its a customized version of MMC, that is locked to using certain controls, like, creating users, creating computers etc. Depending on the delegation settings/permissions, determines what they can do from there. 

If you are wanting to have several/many users accessing, you will need some form of fanout, like his previous page.. handy! 

That page does say the range is 0-99.. so yeah, it is an integer. 0 = No expire.. You have got me wondering what 0.5 would do.. I'm thinking it would ignore the .5 part and just not expire them.. 

The one with 0.0.0.0 as the destination is your default route. You can leave this alone, and just add a static route to your LAN network, over your LAN interface. This will allow you to use the 3G device for internet traffic. Route print should also show you the interface table: 

Best bet is to script it, with a scripted reversal should you be locked out. Say, if prompt is not answered in 20s, revert all settings. You can script the windows firewall using vbs or netsh commands. $URL$ Scripting is good, it makes you think carefully about what you are planning to do. 

So there, no changes made to firewall (no need to open ports as we are only sending, not receiving email) and the mta only exists to send tripwire reports. Now we can start tripwire: 

I just have a button that reports the error to IT.. if users are stupid enough to push it for pr0n they get nailed.. I suppose you could use the same variables to populate a local php/perl function that modifies the acl, reloads the config and waits for cron to switch it back.. 

Locate the following registry key: HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SYSTEM\CurrentControlSet\Services\Eventlog Click the subkey that represents the event log that you want to move, for example, click Application. In the right pane, double-click File. Type the complete path to the new location (including the log file name) in the Value data box, and then click OK. For example, if you want to move the application log (Appevent.evt) to the Eventlogs folder on the E drive, type e:\eventlogs\appevent.evt. Repeat steps 4 through 6 for each log file that you want to move. Click Exit on the Registry menu. Restart the computer. 

You should be able to run squid (web proxy) on your server, with acl's for the external IP's of your work-sites (you wouldn't want everyone on the internet to access it), then simply route your browser through your home IP as its proxy, this way you can connect to any site on the internet bypassing all filtering. (Assuming you can connect to your home IP on one of these ports 80/8080/443/3128 etc.. squid will listen on whatever port you assign it) Its free, and there is a windows version: $URL$ Note: I haven't tested on windows 2008 or 64bit, but it does work on windows 2003/XP. Failing that, you could setup a webserver that reflects the gmail site.. not sure if that would work though.. I bet you get IIS7 for free with 2008, so you could try something like this: $URL$ You could also achieve it with SSH tunnelling.. There is a free OpenSSH windows version here: $URL$ Read up here for a quick overview of SSH tunnelling: $URL$ 

Is the default gateway the same on the ubuntu box and the exchange box? The *.local will not be addressable from "outside", I assume you are using another domain name externally, will this not play havoc with your virtual hosts? (expecting *.local getting *.corp.com will break functionality, but you should get some response)