I am planning a trip to the Alps, where I'll do some mountaineering, mostly on rocks (little or no ice) at altitudes around 4000 m. I expect to do mostly scrambling, with only a few places per day where we'll need to climb with protection. In the time left (a few months), I would like to improve my fitness. I can devote 30-60 minutes a day and a few additional hours at weekends. Which types of exercise should I do, to prepare my body most effectively? 

A helmet. If you're trad climbing, that's a whole different thing -- we'd be talking about a trad rack. 

In my experience, it generally works fine if I simply use cheap, lightweight water bottles (e.g., a 2-liter soda bottle), and put them inside my pack while I'm hiking. The surrounding material in the pack insulates the bottle from the cold air, and my body heats up the pack, so the water doesn't freeze. If the weather is very cold, I can use extra care in packing my pack so that the bottle is close to my body. Some of the answers have suggested putting the bottle inside one's jacket or clothes. This seems like it would be extremely uncomfortable and impractical, especially with a large water bottle. In my experience (down to about 0 F or -20 C), this isn't necessary, and the water stays unfrozen inside the pack, if it's close to my body. If I need water to stay unfrozen overnight in cold temps, I can put the bottle inside the tent or even inside the sleeping bag -- but in this situation I'm probably depending on melted snow for my drinking water anyway. The most common problem I've seen during the day while hiking is that when people use platypus-style bladders with a mouth tube, the water inside the tube freezes. This is one of the many disadvantages of these systems, and it's one of the many reasons I don't use them. 

If I arrange the rope in a wrong direction, holding the rope will prevent slippage Holding the rope prevents me from getting distracted If I am not holding the rope, it makes me responsible for the outcome of any unrelated disaster It's a generalization of the principle "don't let go of the rope", which is true for sport top-roping 

(The following part describes belaying the second climber. I have never tried to belay a leader with belay device anywhere except my harness, and I suspect it's impossible.) If "belay from the body" only signifies where you attach the belay device (your harness vs the fixed anchor) - the choice is mostly a matter of convenience. It's usually more convenient to use the anchor (assuming you use a device that supports it); in some situations the "indoor" mode is better: 

There are many types of specialized harnesses, including harnesses for sport, trad, and mountaineering. Personally I use the same harness for trad and mountaineering, and it works fine. For trad climbing, you want four gear loops. Since people don't carry such heavy racks for sport and mountaineering, some harnesses specialized for those activities may not have that many gear loops. For sport climbing, there is no real need to go to the bathroom while keeping your harness on. For mountaineering and multipitch trad, this becomes more of an issue, especially for women. Some harnesses have leg loops that are easy to drop or release for this purpose. For mountaineering, you need to be able to put on your harness while wearing boots and possibly crampons. For this reason, it may be more convenient to have adjustable leg loops. For trad it's pretty common to have to hang on your harness for a long time while belaying. That's going to be more comfortable if you have wide, padded leg loops. Keep in mind that people used to just tie in with a bowline on a coil. Manufactured seat harnesses are a relatively recent invention. Some people who prefer a light and fast style of mountaineering just use a loop of webbing that they can make into a diaper sling. 

Maximum angle depends on the type of rock and on the type of your boots. There are too many factors to think about, so maybe the question about maximal angle is not useful. Consider the following: 

I never understood the reason for this technique, but let me guess. When one of the people is much more experienced than the other, he can judge where there is no risk (99% of the time), and when there is slight risk (let's say 1%). In the risky situations, short rope allows for quick and efficient belay, or even physical "help". What you usually see is the 99%-of-the-time situation, where the rope has no importance, but it's not practical to untie. 

The previous question motivated me to study this question more deeply, and to write some open-source software to do the relevant calculations. Along the way, I learned that a lot of what people believe about this subject seems to be wrong. People have traditionally tried to quantify this kind of thing using two numbers that can be pretty easily estimated from a paper topo map: the horizontal distance and the total elevation gain, i.e., the sum of all the elevation increases, not counting any of the elevation decreases. So for example, if we start from sea level, climb to the summit of a mountain that is 3000 meters tall, and then come back down to our starting point, the total gain is not zero (because we don't count the descent), and is greater than or equal to 3000 meters. It can be greater because you may do some up-down-up-down stuff rather than just steadily climbing to the top and then steadily descending back down. Using the horizontal distance makes sense, because laboratory studies of people running and walking on treadmills show that distance is an extremely important factor. It simply takes energy to put one foot in front of the other. But the total gain turns out to be a very poor measure of energy expenditure. The energetic cost of running or walking does depend on the slope i, but for the values of i usually encountered in the real world, this slope dependence is not very big. Even a trail that people perceive as extremely steep will typically have a slope of only about 0.03, i.e., 3 meters of elevation gain for every 100 meters of horizontal travel. Furthermore, most hiking and running routes are loops or out-and-backs, so that you end up at the same elevation where you started. Except on extremely steep downhill grades, going downhill is more efficient than walking on flat ground. The result is that the effects of any climbing and descending tend to cancel out unless the terrain is extremely steep. In mathematical terms, the energy cost per meter of horizontal travel is a function E(i), where i is the slope, and although this function has some curvature, the curvature is not very strong, so in most cases the average of E(i) and E(-i) is pretty close to E(0), the cost of flat hiking. Here are three illustrative examples, with energy costs computed using the data from the paper by Minetti (ref. below), for a 66 kg person: 

As you say, it's only in your head. Here are some things that may work (worked for me with various degrees of success): 

The above is especially true for belaying the second climber; it is also usually true for belaying the leader; however, when the station is very comfortable and you (the belayer) have nowhere to fall, there is little use in passing your rope through the anchor. In this case, until the leader places the first piece of protection, he most likely hits the ground (or ledge you are standing on), and the rope doesn't help. Also, you might want to help him land safely in this case (aka "gymnastic belay"), and being attached to the anchor hinders your movement. So, in this case you should not pass the rope through the anchor. 

Everybody's method is going to be somewhat different, because they're using different footwear and other equipment (such as poles vs no poles). Plan ahead and get information on what water levels are likely to be like given the time of year and the amount of snow this year. If a certain hike is likely to be impossible to complete safely, you want to know that and not do it. If I know a big crossing is coming up, I start looking for one or two good sticks to use for balance. (I don't hike with trekking poles.) If the creek is high enough or fast enough to look dangerous, I try to discipline myself to spend a significant amount of time searching around for the safest place to cross. The safest point may be 100 yards away from where the trail hits the creek, and may be invisible from the trail. The safest point is usually the widest, because the water flows most slowly there. Sometimes in 10 minutes of searching you can find a tree or rocks to get across without wading at all, or you'll see another hiker who will tell you a better place to cross. Unclip belly band and pectoral strap so that if I fall, I won't be trapped by my pack. Make sure sleeping bag, down jacket, etc., are inside a trash bag or something. I usually hike in running shoes. To cross a stream, I take off my socks and remove the inserts from the shoes, then put the shoes back on to protect my feet while crossing. Although river rocks are mostly smooth, a foot injury could ruin my whole trip, so I don't want to cross barefoot. While crossing, rehearse what you have to do if you get swept off your feet. If this happens, shrug off your pack. The big risks of death are head injuries and getting trapped underwater. To reduce the chance of a head injury, try to orient yourself so you're going feet first. After crossing, hike 10 minutes and then put the socks and inserts back in the shoes. One of the biggest problems with hiking boots is that if you wear them for foot protection while crossing a stream, they will probably never dry out, and you'll end up destroying your feet with blisters. 

The final result is illustrated here, but please disregard the part about shaking off the kinks - if there are any kinks that you needed to shake off, the rope is unsuitable for tossing. 

When climbing a multi-pitch route, suppose I am belaying the second climber, using Reverso or a similar device. It lets me arrange the rope in such a way that when the climber falls, the rope automatically tightens, and the fall is stopped without the belayer's intervention (see picture). However, some people say that I need to hold the rope anyway. What is the reason for this requirement? I could come up with the following explanations: 

The basic idea of polarizing glasses is not to block all light, it's to block light that undergoes a glancing reflection, such as sunlight coming to your eye off of water or snow from near the horizon. The initially unpolarized light becomes highly polarized by this type of reflection, so by eliminating it, you make it easier to see and be comfortable without the blinding glare, while still allowing a lot of the unpolarized light that you want to see to get to your eye. A polarizing filter can have varying degrees of effectiveness at various wavelengths. An ideal polarizing filter would block 100% of the light with a particular polarization, regardless of wavelength, and would block 0% of the light with the other polarization, regardless of wavelength. In reality, polarizing filters have efficiencies that depend on wavelength. This article has a graph for polaroid film, which is just one type of polarizing filter. It shows that in the UV band, the filter is almost perfect at blocking the polarization it's supposed to block, and that furthermore it blocks about 70-85% of UVB polarized the other way, depending on the exact wavelength. So if you have sunglasses that have this specific type of filter, then it's going to do a very, very good job of blocking the highly polarized UVB that comes to your eye from glancing reflection off of water or snow, and furthermore it will be at least somewhat effective in protecting you from the other polarization as well. But this filter all by itself will not do a super-great job of protecting you from unpolarized light, such as light that comes directly from the sun. For these reasons, if you're going to be on glaciers for many hours a day, in bright sun, it would be preferable to have not just sunglasses that have a polarizing film, but also a highly effective special-purpose filter that blocks UV in general. Complicating all of this, we have several factors: 

If you can grab your current hold with both hands: do a pull-up, as high as possible. Then release your feet, in any convenient way. While your body starts swinging, reverse the pull-up, so your arms reach fully extended position when your body is roughly vertical. Then try not to lose your grip while your body continues the swing. The idea here is that somehow your angular velocity is getting eaten up by your body straightening, like in the example with the spinning skater (I cannot really explain it physically). With less angular velocity it's easier to stabilize your body with your feet in the air. Not sure you can apply this in your specific situation.