First, the Soviet Union and Germany never agreed to attack Poland or share it. They agreed on spheres of influence, which would come into play with 'border changes'. Said 'border changes' did not mean an invasion. Hitler had accomplished much without war and there was little reason for him to think he would not get away with victimizing Poland with no real consequences from the western allies, especially if he could get a pact going with the Soviet Union. Secondly, the Soviet Union, or more specifically Stalin, had no idea that Hitler would be invading Poland. They waited to see what would happen knowing that if territory did start getting detached and passed around, they would get theirs (similar to how Poland received a piece of Czechoslovakia). Now, in the case of no non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union, German plans for an invasion of Poland were already 'set in stone'. The invasion would have commenced with or without Soviet 'cooperation'. Hitler was a gambler, he would have gone ahead with the invasion betting that the western allies would do nothing of worth against Germany. 

No. Knowing how 'close' they were would mean knowing what variables would be needed to bring them over into collapsing. Only conjecture exists in the form of taking Moscow in 1941 or the Caucasus in 1942. Comparable is the idea that the Germans were defeated before the war even began due to their lack of planning and foresight, as well as their failure of securing the encirclement at Smolensk spelled their eventual defeat. 

This is a very hard question to answer for numerous reasons and one that will never be answered to everyone's satisfaction. Here are some things to consider and some problems that frequently come up when you're dealing with Lend Lease. First off, significant Lend Lease aid was not felt until 1943. The Lend Lease that arrived before was nowhere near enough to make a decisive difference on how 1941 and 1942 turned out. There are some articles/arguments that have recently come out which attempt to argue that the Lend Lease tanks that did make it in 1941 played a decisive role in the defense of Moscow, but I don't believe they are conclusive enough (see the following article: British “Lend-Lease” Tanks and the Battle for Moscow, November–December 1941—A Research Note). Secondly, the immediate problems that come up when attempting to qualify Lend Lease are the following. Just quoting numbers of what was sent is not enough. One needs to account for what was sent, when it arrived (and how much arrived), and when it was actually incorporated into the Red Army and used in the field. Additionally, one has to keep in mind that the Soviets began to scale back production of certain things because they knew they would receive them through Lend Lease. One example is trucks. The Soviets were producing practically none because they knew to expect them through Lend Lease, but that doesn't mean they couldn't produce more if they needed to. Many former truck producing factories were switched over to light tank production. Since the Red Army moved to relying on medium and heavy tanks, light tanks were something the Red Army could in theory do without or with less of. This type of analysis needs to be applied to everything the Soviet Union received. Specifically, what they received, if it was not coming through Lend Lease what were the alternatives? Meaning could they produce it internally or import it from another state/country (England, Canada, etc.). The Soviet Union did not just receive Lend Lease from the US. Finally, the Soviet Union participated in reverse Lend Lease, sending back materials to the US. All of the above is just the tip of the huge iceberg that studying Lend Lease means, it's simply impossible to account for all the variables. 

The same methodology could be applied to predict the collapse of the Shah's government, the 1970s stagflation in the US, and the fate of oil producers in general. Hubbert published his method in 1956. 

$URL$ Aqueducts did, in some cases, freeze over. Aqueducts were built underground in the northern provinces to even out the temperatures over the day, and this helped a bit. $URL$ $URL$ Flow rates are 5 to 70 L/s on modern models of Roman dropshafts. However, you can't prevent water from freezing over long distances just by increasing the flow rate. Presumably there was no running water if it became too cold. 

So let's tentatively estimate 10,000 surviving works from the Library of Constantinople and other European sources plus elsewhere, and see if this makes sense. Since less than 2,000 Chinese works likely survived, let's just focus on the European corpus. $URL$ $URL$ Ancient Rome had roughly 100 million people, of which roughly 10% were literate. $URL$ $URL$ Countries the size of the literate population of the Roman empire publish at least 10,000 books a year. Given the explosion of low-quality ebooks, its probably safe to halve this number. Over 500 years, the demographic peak of the Roman civilization, this would come out to 2.5 million works. If 0.4% of these survived, it would accord with the 10,000 estimate. It is below the 1% survival rate cited above, but within an order of magnitude. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Joan of Arc entered during the Siege of Orleans, in which the French already had the advantage by defending a well fortified position. Her assault on Paris failed and the city was only taken by diplomatic means. Besides this, there were two major battles in the final stage of the war: $URL$ $URL$ They were fought with equal numbers on both sides. However, the English made tactical mistakes and lost both battles. 

Mussolini was basically someone Hitler bribed to stay on his side. Italy was probably a net burden to the Axis; its main contribution as an ally was as a buffer. Mussolini himself has been survived as grandiose and egocentric, and his rule eventually destroyed Italy. There's your paragraph. Germany sent at least a quarter of its oil production to Italy just to keep Mussolini afloat. Germany also sent some token forces to Africa to delay the British from taking over the African colonies, even though British blockades made this difficult. Eventually Mussolini was overthrown and the new government switched sides. After this point he had little impact on the war and was eventually captured and shot by partisans. The aftermath of his rule was that Italy was totally wrecked and defeated. The only brilliant part is before the war, when he achieved power with his political goalpost shifting and charisma. Some more reading - $URL$ 

First thing you need to look for is the bibliography and endnotes/footnotes. Archival research is a must for professional historians when they are writing their dissertation, which eventually becomes their first manuscript/book. As well, they have to discuss and incorporate theory and methodology. Later in their careers they can, if they so choose, write books mainly based on secondary literature. Such books can do one of two things; they can challenge an accepted narrative/paradigm or simply create a general history for those interested in a specific subject. Most authors who write about history but have not been educated at the graduate level in history will not have a good grasp of theory and methodology and will, unfortunately, add little to nothing to our understanding of specific historical events/ideas/people/etc. that they choose to write about. 

All three had specific reasons for appearing in military uniforms if and when they did (keep in mind that they did not regularly or always wear them). Stalin utilized the victory in the Great Patriotic War to establish his demi-God status throughout the Soviet Union and portray his actions in the 1930s as necessary for the war's outcome. He used the war as a tool and himself, or rather the idea of 'Stalin', as the ultimate genius behind the victory over Nazi Germany. Khrushchev allied himself with the likes of Zhukov when he was attempting to take over after Stalin. It was under Khrushchev that the first military memoirs about the war were published (Stalin refused to allow much to be written about the war for fear of anyone asking the wrong questions). Khrushchev was a commissar but never really held any position of importance. Finally, Brezhnev jumped on the 'War Cult' bandwagon because he tried to use the war to excuse previous failures and attempted to utilize the deeds of that generation to inspire the current and future generation(s) by having veterans visit schools to talk with students, by making May 9 a national holiday (it took 20 years for that to happen), etc. He was also a commissar during the war, lower ranking than Khrushchev, and his claim to fame was 'Malaia Zemlia'. This was an operation in the latter part of the war where a diversionary operation was so successful that the main operation was called off and all the forces earmarked for the main offensive were instead switched over to Malaia Zemlia (it was an attempt to liberate Novorossiisk in 1943). Brezhnev never played an important role, but if you look at the literature from the time period, he was apparently pretty damn important. And in that picture, you can see that he was only one of 4 people in the entire Soviet Union to receive the coveted 'Hero of the Soviet Union' Gold Star three times (the other three were Zhukov and two of the highest scoring aces in the Soviet Air Force). 

Here is a diagram of a typical battleship, an Iowa class. As you can see, there's only armor over critical areas like the engine and armament. A shell hit anywhere else isn't going to need to penetrate much steel to deal damage. The cruiser San Francisco actually was disabled by HE, and barely escaped before AP shells could be loaded. Wiki link 

The definition of "democracy" used today is generally "whatever the US state department labels as a democracy". Hunter gatherer groups usually practiced some sort of democracy, but this isn't considered "democracy" in the academic sense because there is no state. If you are interested in looking into these sort of loose federations which operated on democratric principles there are several examples, such as the Bhagdana and Nok cultures. I direct you to: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

In Dante's Inferno, the eigth circle of hell is for insincerity, which includes politicians. The second pit in particular includes the prostitute Thais from classical mythology, who falsely aggrandized her lover. But these aren't real people. I think that the lack of historical figures displaying sycophantic tendencies shows either the ineffectiveness of this tactic, or conversely, its extreme prevalence and lack of notability. 

Oil. $URL$ Bond yields are correlated with long run expectations of energy prices. A momentary spike in real energy price - such as occurred in the early 30s or late 2000s - will correspond with a small spike in yields, while a more lasting increase as in the 70s and early 80s will be more noticeable. Conversely, in the 40s when oil was replacing coal and prices were expected to stay low, bond yields were low as well. 

HE had little to do with the outcome. Japan failed mainly because of American air power and Japan's refusal to press the attack. 

"Country" is derived from the Latin term for "land across the river". Thus, in history, nobody really talks of "countries" if they can avoid it. But we can talk about "states". $URL$ The claim that Andorra became independent in 805 could easily be a myth created to justify sovereignty. The Andorran government claims to have the charter of independence locked in a safe. We have no way of knowing what happened. If the earlier date is wrong, we know it became independent in 1278. 

$URL$ Up until 1943 the Wermacht was only 20% motorized. However, this understates the importance of mechanized transport. Consider that a significant fraction of forces were held back for defending and occupying territory, and you'll see that the percentage of forces actually in combat or leading important offensives at any given moment had a greater mechanized component. Generally, motorized forces led the advance. Infantry units stayed behind to encircle and mop up behind the spearhead. Thus the percent of divisions motorized, or even the total volume of cargo moved by horses, doesn't capture the importance of the motorized forces. There is no absolute answer to your question but it's clear that the early German offensives relied heavily on armored spearheads and both mechanized and non-mechanized transport played different but important roles.