and here's another, more info here. The largest of these maps is some 520 million light years across, so this is just a tiny part of the entire known universe, which (depending on how you measure) is either 27.5 billion light years across or 84 billion light years across. It's worth pointing out, I haven't actually answered your question, and that was deliberate, cause I think the nearest 520 million light years is enough and it's all we have a really good picture of anyway (as far as I know). The farther out you go the more holes and inaccuracies there will be in the map. There's also some closer stuff that's blocked by the Milky way so we can't see it, like the great attractor. No worries about superclusters eating our galaxy one day because dark energy expansion keeps these super-clusters from merging most of the time. Andromeda will merge with the Milky way in about 4 billion years though but we're not expected to ever merge with the great attractor, even as it pulls our galaxy towards it, the distance between us is growing. 

It's a good question. The simple answer is that Mars cooled first and Mars (likely) had oceans first, so it's a better candidate to have developed life first though extremophiles can live in hot oceans, so . . . time will tell. 

Now, this paragraph is particularly devious. El Nino's tend to warm the earth, La Nina's cool it. The effect is temporary and not huge, but enough to cause yearly variation. A strong El Nino drove the big spike in global temperature for 1998 and we're in an El Nino now (edited my answer, since 2014 they've been talking about entering an El Nino, I gather it's officially started now). We had more La Nina years than El Nino 2006-2013 with the only small El Nino coinciding with 2010, which set records for temperature. A lot of the hiatus in warming that is often talked about is related to there being only 1 small El Nino over 7 years. Predicting 2017 as the time when the cooling will "begin" is devious because that could be around the time the El Nino has ended and the oceans could switch back to a La Nina (which usually follows El Nino). This will create a temporary cooling for a year or two, which he, no doubt, will take credit for if it happens. Now, he also predicts 2021 which could go either way and he gives an amount, but that doesn't change the fact that he's making a prediction and hoping the El Nino of 2015 will end and make it prediction look good. Real global warming or cooling can't be measured in 1 year anyway, unless, maybe, if it's ocean current and the occasional mega-volcano adjusted - then, maybe you can get some measure of warming/cooling based on one year, but it's still only one year. That's a really really short period to make any predictions on and not something I'd trust very far at all. and on the "scientists have predicted a mini ice age in 2030", that's not actually true. There was a study on sun-spots and they predicted that we could see a sun-spot low period around 2030, perhaps similar to the Maunder Minimum that may have caused the mini ice age, but the scientists who predicted that were very clear that they were not predicting a new mini ice age, they said the effect would be smaller than the effect of CO2. Here's the mini ice age prediction, which a few people made (but not the scientists who did the research). Here's an article that explains why it isn't true. So, there's a lot of bad and a handful of false statements in that article you quoted, which, granted, wasn't written by Dr. Evans himself, but still, it's hard for me to take it seriously. Until he publishes his results, he can't be proved or disproved but based on what I've read, I find it hard to take him seriously. My hunch is, he's not trying to reach scientists at all, but he's trying to reach his target audience. Those who question climate change and he gives them a name and an alternate argument that they can stand on. An argument doesn't have to be correct, it only needs to sound correct and with that, you can usually convince a percentage of people to agree with you. Not sure how much that helps, but that's my take and I went through and tried to clean up my long answer a bit. If you'll forgive me, it reminds me of the the old joke. How can you tell Dr. David Evans is lying? He's talking or writing. :-) 

A simple (2-5 inner, 3-5 outer) won't cut it if you're looking for accuracy, but you might be able to run some models, based on how much you (randomly) decide that the gas giants move around and how much material you randomly give the planets. Heavier planets would need more space around them. As for mining. Venus would be a nightmare - too acidic. Water worlds I would think would be terrible. No solid platform to build on. Ice worlds also not great. Planets with past volcanic activity would be ideal and smaller planets are probably best, as most of the energy with mining probably goes into lifting the material into space, not actually the mining part. Smaller planets could more easily build a space elevator. Mars (volcanoes), maybe Mercury would probably be the best mining planets in our solar-system, unless you're mining for 3-HE, in which case, I'd look at the gas giants. The moon is (I think), a terrible place to mine 3-HE, it's got so little of it, but the Moon's advantage is that it's close. All that said, I'd just look up 6 or 8 fairly well studied solar systems and build based on those, add some common sense, like a hot Jupiter would remove half the smaller planets, and go with that, because there is no real knowledge on what the most likely scenarios and probabilities are. Too long? / too many guesses?. I think about exoplanets a lot. It's one of my favorite subjects. I'm very much looking forward to the James Webb Telescope's launch. 

There are star systems with several stars, but they are either unstable or contain significant differences in mass. The gravitational structure applies for large planets the same as it does for stars, and there's an article about that here. You can create stability by having 2 objects orbiting each other and a 3rd massive object quite distant. (Alpha Centauri is that kind of set-up though Proxima Centauri is quite a bit smaller, but it's the same system). You can even create the heirarchy where you have 2 objects orbiting each other and then 2 more, orbiting each other, but distant so the 2 co-orbitals orbit around each other, and if you do this enough times, you can kind of create enough planetary mass where a more massive star could distantly orbit the entire thing, but it gets very structured and very distant. It's not what I'd consider a normal orbit. You could also cheat and have several planets in a wildly unstable general proximity orbit and have a star some distance away orbiting the chaotic mess in the middle, but it wouldn't be stable for long. 

Some basics: Whether we listen for or send signals into space, something to keep in mind is that space is full of EM radiation of all wavelengths, from very long wavelength background radiation, to a range of microwave, infrared, visible and UV light from stars to gamma-rays from accretion disks and collapsing stars. Any signals we send and perhaps any signals we could receive would be like raindrops in an ocean. There's an obvious range to listen called the hydrogen line, which is the emptiest region of EM radiation in space. Even so, across light years, signals would still be faint, so the first signal that's sent needs to be an easily recognizable signal and math is very good for that. Pi in binary or a series of repeating prime numbers wouldn't happen naturally, so signals like that are a great way of saying "We are here". Once the first signals of prime numbers or other math are exchanged, and we see what direction the signal comes from and we know where to listen and where to send, then the communication can begin, presumably using more traditional language. 

It sounds more like world-building than astronomy to me, but since they punted it here, I'll give a crack. There's a few ways you could approach this and stay within good science but making change relatively quick is difficult. This might be possible if the planet is in a situation like mars, with no moon and between two more massive planets, so it's more vulnerable to orbital perturbations. Mars axial tilt is believed to have changed quite a bit and fairly quickly. While the total solar energy is constant, a variation in axial tilt can lead to a variation in ice buildup where, generally speaking a lower tilt is better for ice buildup, as the higher tilt leads to warmer summers and that melts ice more easily. Mars axial tilt varies from 13 to 40 degrees, but that variation can take hundreds of thousands or millions of years, which is probably longer than you're looking for. Nearly any orbital change, even a rapid one would probably take tens of thousands of years minimum. Geological changes are probably a little faster. While it's still in the direction of theoretical, and I think you're right to avoid a large volcano or something like that because the effect from the volcanic ash would be greater than any long term effect from climate change. About 3 million years ago, the formation of the Isthmus of Panama is thought to have significantly changed ocean currents that cooled the Earth by a few degrees that lead to the Pleistocene epoch and ice age cycle. You'd need to get creative to figure out a way for a land bridge like that to make a radical change, but it's possible. Another method, if the oceans are shallow on your planet, you could have a valley like the Mediterranean valley about 5.3-5.6 million years ago, with a natural land bridge keeping the ocean water out. That would be a hot, dry, sandy valley. Then when the land bridge gives way the ocean quickly flows in. If your valley is big enough the oceans could drop several feet and if you have land or small islands near the poles, the falling ocean level could increase polar land which could trigger ice formation. Glaciers don't form over water, only land. This is a bit of a stretch cause you'd need two geographical oddities, very shallow oceans over the poles and a very large dry valley ready to be flooded, but it could turn a planet towards a major ice age. Ice tends to keep growing once it starts. It's a natural feedback mechanism. Probably the best method would be a passing rogue planet giving your planet a gravity assist. You'd want a larger rogue planet and it would need to pass fairly close to your planet to tug your planet into a longer orbit. You'd probably want a gas giant mass and as it passed, it would probably need to be visibly larger than our moon in the night sky. You mentioned 20 million km, or a 13% increase in distance and about a 22% drop in solar energy received. You wouldn't need that much because of feedback mechanisms. Ice ages can be triggered by as small as a 1% difference and for radical, rapid climate change, pushing your planet just 4-6% further away should be enough. You'd need to make your planet's year longer, using Kepler's 3rd law, you'd use the 3/2 power rule, so 4% further would make the planet's year 6% longer or an additional 22 days to a 365 day year. As to how fast that would make the planet cold. That's hard to say. You'd probably notice longer colder winters and frosting pretty much immediately, but for ice buildup and enormous glaciers you're still probably looking at at least a few hundred years, but that's kind of a ballpark guess. You could do the same thing with a theoretical primordial black hole but they've kind of fallen out of fashion since it's believed they don't exist. If you wanted to get creative you could have the rogue planet pass in-between say your earth like planet and a mars like planet, pulling the Earth orbit more eccentric and longer and the mars planet shorter, possibly leading to the two planets having crossing or nearly crossing orbits - which could lead to all kinds of scenarios and predictions like a possible planetary collision in 6,000 years or something or a near pass and enormous tides. It would also stir up the asteroids and comets in our system likely leading to an increase in impacts following the pass for the next 100 or more years. The rogue planet would create tides too if it appeared larger than the moon in the sky and maybe an earthquake or two, but wouldn't need to be a global disaster. Rogue planets passing that close would be very rare, but not impossible. rftwqa 

If we assume the 15 CM per year is accurate (which I'm not 100% sure it is), then it's possible to answer this. In a loose sense, yes, the pressure should move the moon away from the sun faster, but more accurately and the real answer is that doesn't happen because there are 3 bodies in play and when you have 3 body gravitation, things get a lot more complicated. First, just for fun, a source for the 15 CM. 

Just as tidal forces can push a moon outwards and over time, circularize the orbit, the planet's equatorial bulge has a similar force that draws the Moon into an orbit over the equator. This is true given sufficient time and enough rotation speed for the planet to have a sufficient equatorial bulge. For a formation moon, there should be some similarity in the angular momentum during formation naturally. Similar to an impact moon like our own where the impact sets the planet rotating. A captured moon can orbit in either direction with or against the planet's rotation at any angle to the planet's equatorial planet, at least, initially but the equatorial bulge has a tidal effect that over time, draws the moon over it. Earth's tidal bulge, that moves the moon a few cm away every year is only a couple meters high over the oceans and a few inches over land. Earth's equatorial bulge is 42.77 km. Some 4 orders of magnitude more significant than the tidal bulge. It's not hard to see how a bulge of that size, over many orbits, would influence the moon into an orbit over the equator. The same is true for ring systems, which form over a planet's equator. "Ask an Astronomer" says basically the same thing. Exceptions would be if the moon was recently captured, or if the planet rotated very slowly (Venus for example), or if the moon was close to the unstable region of the hill sphere where the object it orbits (planet) and the object that limits the planet's hill sphere (sun) both have an effect on the moon. I suspect (but I don't know how to do the math), that our moon's orbit being 5 and change degrees off Earth's equator is due to the proximity to the sun and Moon being no too far from the unstable part of the Hill Sphere. The other moons you mention are much further inside their planet's Hill Spheres and much more governed by the planet's equatorial bulge. see table and chart below.