I took out my wheel for a puncture and when the wheel went back on the bike the gears were out of line, a lot of skipping and jumping. What is the best way to get them back in alignment (must be possible at the road side)? Is there a tip on how to reinsert the wheel so it stays in alignment? Or is it a case of getting the wheel back in and adjusting the derailleur to realign? (On a road bike with tiagra rear d) 

I'd say yes, definitely take the lane. Proactive disarming of a hazardous situation is (almost) always the best way to go and taking the lane is often an effective tool. In your situation described above, if a motorists attempts to pass you and then a car comes the other way the first thing they will do is swerve back on to the correct side or slam the brakes. They won't think of/remember you in this moment and you are unlikely to be able to do anything about it, it is for your own safety too. I do this on the road all the time and acknowledge the driver when I do let them pass after the hazard, I find a quick friendly wave or thumbs up generally washes away any frustration they may have accumulated in adding two or three seconds to their drive. Unfortunately though some motorists will take exception to a rider defending their position on the road and you should always be prepared for that.** I also found it useful in the Alps when I went, people often try to overtake on the hairpins and bends along the cliff-face, another example of a blind/difficult corners, so I ended up taking the lane in that situation too! ** In the event of feeling aggrieved the motorist will likely shout some nonsensical abuse, flip the bird, or even use their car to swipe at you. The best approach is to just let them get on with it, slow down if you think they are likely to hit/swerve at you. A GoPro or similar is a good way to provide evidence to police if you want to report someone for dangerous driving. 

I use some of these if I'm touring and want to travel light, I put them in my bag but I reckon they could slip in to a jersey pocket, I'll try after work today. 

Remove the cable ends (metal cap over the end of the cable) and loosen the cable clamp bolt (bolt holding the cable tight to the calliper). Unfasten the calliper by loosening the calliper bolt (the one attaching the calliper to the frame). Take the calliper off the bike. Attach the new calliper by the calliper bolt, making sure the calliper is straight (and on the correct end of the bike) and tighten so the calliper does not move around on the frame. Align the pads to the wheel rim surface: Loosen the brake pad bolts, pull the calliper closed by hand, align the pads and tighten the pad bolts whilst keeping the calliper held closed. Attach the cable to the calliper: put the cable in to position, pull the calliper closed on the rim and release it by a couple of millimeters, while holding the calliper in that position tighten the cable clamp bolt. Cap the new cable. Adjust the alignment of the calliper position so brake pads are equidistant from the rim, double check the bolts are all properly tightened, pads are properly positioned (on the right side, straight, not touching the tire etc.), and test the brakes well before you need to use them. 

I was looking at purchasing a new cassette and chain. Looking at the available cassettes for SRAM components, there is a big variety of sizes available: 

Now I can understand why someone would choose a cassette based off of how many teeth the big gear has. Some people live in hilly or mountainous areas and desire a higher number of teeth. Some people live in flat areas where they simply won't use those cassettes with a lot of teeth on the big gear. But why would anyone ever choose to buy a cassette with 12 teeth on the small gear instead of 11? 11 teeth = higher maximum speed. I doubt many people buying a nice set of components (Shimano, SRAM etc) would ever say "I don't need to go faster so 12 teeth is fine with me." What's the point of 12 teeth when you could opt for 11 instead? 

Over the past year, my road bike's crankset has gotten pretty bent up and out of wack. Not due to abuse, just wear and tear I guess. It's pretty bent and has a nice wobble that I can see as I look down at it while pedaling. So I'm interested in replacing the crankset. But I've read there are various rules of thumb to follow when replacing cranksets, chains and cassettes. When you replace one you have to replace the other or something along those lines. Something about teeth wearing evenly. Do I need to replace anything else if I replace my crankset? 

Is it possible to buy bulk amounts of shifting/brake cable for road bikes? It would be nice to just have a spool of wire that you run onto your frame and then cut off only as much as you need. A Google search for "bike cable spool" doesn't really result in much, surprisingly... How do bike shops deal with this? Surely they don't buy individual packs of cable for every bike do they? I know you can buy cable housing in bulk, so I was surprised when I couldn't find similar for just the cable... 

I'm in the middle of a frame swap for my road bike. As I'm putting the bike back together, I've been wondering what all needs lubrication? Is there a comprehensive list somewhere that explains what parts need it? My list so far: 

Someone recently told me that if I replace my cassette I need to replace my chain (and vice versa) so that they wear evenly. Is this true? And, can anyone elaborate on the reasoning for this a bit more? Why is it important for them to wear evenly? Why does this not apply to the front chainring? Or does it? 

I have Shimano Tiagra 9 Speed shifters on my road bike. On my front deraileur, when I shift up (smaller chain ring to larger chain ring), I can control the amount my derailleur moves, therefore I can use this to trim the front derailleur going this direction to remove chain rub. However, how do I trim going the opposite direction? On my shifter, when I shift down (larger ring to smaller ring), when I press the shifter, it instantly goes down to the next ring. There is no in-between and I can't control the amount it moves. Are you supposed to be able to trim going that direction somehow? Sometimes, if I happen to find myself in my larger cassette gears but also my largest chain ring and I'm not able to adequately shift to a different chain ring (maybe going up a sudden steep hill or something), then I get chain rub. But the only way it seems to be to trim the front derailleur in this case is to shift to the lower chain ring, then shift back up to the larger chain ring but don't push the derailleur all the way into place. 

I'm looking for online suppliers of carbon road framesets, the major online retailers Wiggle, Evanscycles and Chainreactioncycles don't seem to have much choice available (~<10 each) with low diversity in brands. What other (reputable) suppliers are present in the online market that have a large range of products to chose from? Or do framesets tend to be bought directly from the manufacturer? I ask because most brands are missing entirely and some (e.g. Specialized) only have one or two of their frames available through these sites, yet they don't sell them directly, therefore I think I'm not looking in the right places. (I am based in Sweden if you want to limit it to Europe/European delivery) 

How do I remove my old (Shimano Sora) brake callipers (dual pivot) and replace them with new (Shimano 105 5800) callipers? (This is the bike if you want to know more components details). 

I am trying to get hold of some figures for accident rates where either, ideally just cyclists or, just general road users & pedestrians, are involved in accidents (or reported near misses) because a motorist/cyclist has been using a mobile phone. I would like (if possible) to have information regarding Sweden and other countries where cell phone use is not banned, and in countries where it has been banned such as the UK. As a cyclist who lived in the UK and now lives in Sweden I notice a considerable difference in my "near miss" rate, and the vast majority of my near misses here come from phone users (and bus drivers, but that was the same in GB!). If I can get some statistics I am going to look in to campaigning my local politician and having cycling friends in the area note down their near miss rates (how many kilometers per evasive action). Examples of the sort of nice stats I'm looking for: xx% of accidents involving cyclists in Sweden are suspected or proven to be due to one or more parties involved using a cell phone at the time of the accident. Since banning the use of cell phones the overall rate of accidents involving cyclists has decreased by xx% in the UK, and those involving cell phones has decreased from aa% to bb% 

"The chain also jumps a lot (feels like it shifts gears without me doing anything, then stays on the same gear anyway)." Based on this I'm going to suggest that the cassette is worn (the rear gear cogs). If the chain was very worn it will have worn the teeth of the cogs to the same fit, now with a new chain they no longer align properly. Depending on the cassette model it is fairly cheap to replace, but does need a couple of special tools - your community bike repair group should have them. See here for GCN's how to replace a cassette. But you've already replaced that right? Make sure it's fitted correctly and is the right size - if you've switched to something with a lot of teeth on the biggest cog you may need a longer rear dérailleur. In the future check the chain stretch frequently using a chain wear tool and replace it when there is 1% or more wear, this will prolong the life of the cogs in the cassette and chainrings (front gear cogs). Also check the chain is threaded correctly through the drive train, check the bottom bracket by knocking the chain off and spinning the cranks, check the alignments of dérailleurs, and grease the jockey wheels. Did you use the correct size of chain? And did you set the length of chain correctly?