Ever since I've started practicing Vipassana, I'm starting to feel two distinct and diametrically opposite intentions are developing within me. The first one says "I've suffered enough, not any more! I'm prepared to do anything to experience Nirvana. Enough of supporting these cravings and desires, they have only lead to great suffering. I don't want to take another birth." Au contraire, the second one says "I want to enjoy the basic things in life. Though I've undergone a lot of sufferings, I should enjoy at least a little before leaving this world, its only fair. Is it wrong to enjoy things?" Whilst I vaguely used to feel this divide since long, its only since I've started practicing Vipassana that it has become more pronounced. Its as if like a big battle is going on between these two forces, and I'm just a spectator. Is this feeling normal, or my case is any different? 

did the Lord Buddha sad anything about magic and fortune telling, because i just want to know in this modern world every one following some astrology People (Fortune tellers) & People believe what ever these people say. media also giving high priority to them. 

A fundamental tenet of Buddhism is freedom from attachments. If that is so, what is the purpose of the Buddhist marriage ceremony? It seems to be a contradiction, a celebration of attachment within a philosophy that avoids attachment. 

in lord Buddhas time their was many kingdoms in India. these kingdoms had many kings. kings had many wives. some kings had 500, 1000 (Antappura) wives but they all have main 1 queen & other wives used for sex uses.most of these kings became followers of Buddhism & Buddha & they obtain nirvana (1st 3 stages as below) 

Do not take life Do not take what is not given Do not distort facts Refrain from misuse of the senses Refrain from self-intoxication through alcohol or drugs 

A few years ago, I read in the introduction of a Spirituality book about this story of Gautam Buddha. I've forgotten the name of the book, but this poetry has stuck in my memory for ever. The story goes something like this: The young prince Siddhartha is sitting in the garden, having felt disgusted by the vanity of the celebrations going on in the palace. That's when he hears a group of celestial beings passing by singing melodious choirs: 

Correct me if I'm wrong about my current understanding of Buddhism: There is no eternal self or essence in me, but am just a conditioned-self, an illusion created by the interaction of the five aggregates. Each time I do something, or will something, its this distorted conditioned-self in play, right? Now, I want to understand what happens to this conditioned self when we die. You say its just an illusion, but lets take a practical example: A person dies in New York, and then is being reborn in Washington D.C the next moment. So here, you want to say the conditioned-self (illusion) travelled all the way from New York to D.C. to affect his/her next birth? As a corollary to this question, I would also like to understand the technicality of . Say a person violates the precept of non-killing in New York in his/her present birth. How does the know whom to punish 50 years later when that same person is reborn in D.C.? (You may say here that there is no external law-maker, but is just in our . But that's still begging the question - How does it know whom to punish 50 years later?) 

The senses in Buddhism include not only the five generally thought of: touch, hearing, seeing, smelling and tasting, but also the mind: thinking. This means overindulgence in touching (for instance sex), hearing ( overindulging in listening to music for instance), seeing (too much focuss on beauty or ugliness around us), smelling and tasting (overindulgence in food preparation for instance). Lay people aren't expected to refrain from sex, yet they are expected to refrain from overdoing it. Moderation in this respect has become highly unpopular, with kids having sex at earlier ages every year and sexual crime becoming almost usual. To be a virgin equals being ashamed, these days. Buddhist morality is old-fashioned in this respect. The the last sense which can be overindulged is thinking or thought, or use of the mind. One often meets people who think so much, they forget to practice. Or they out-think any morality one can come up with. The mind is a highly deceptive tool and overuse makes it overly powerful over us. When thoughts start seeming real, and control ones life, beyond what is reasonable, it is perhaps time to consider whether perhaps one has overindulged in thinking. 

A mention regarding this could be found in Ashoka Vadana , a Buddhist text that describes the birth and achievements of Emperor Ashoka the great, perhaps one of the most prominent Buddhist Kings described in the literature. Though Ashoka turned to Buddhism after having seen the perils of destruction in the Kalinga war and generally followed the principle of non-violence, the text describes that Ashoka did break the first precept many times in order to fulfill his military tasks. For instance, 

So you see, there needs to be an or who needs to take the decision or make the , so to speak. As a practical example, I decide to lift my hand right now, and lo and behold! my hand is lifted instantly. So, who is this or that made the decision of lifting the hand? You say there is no self? Now saying that the made the decision is not something I'm going to buy. How can anything as lowly as an illusion, decides to take control of things and make an impact on the real world? It is just an illusion after all. That's the reason I'm unable to bring anatta in sync with this practicality of life, however hard I try. Please care explain how do you explain volition if anatta is a reality? 

Does any one know what is the exact Age Limit that Buddha can live? i heard that one of previous Buddha lives His Life for 40,000 year. 

If some person when he live's on earth His doing 50% good & 50% Bad things (theatrically). after he died what will Happen to him in next life. 1st will he effected with his good things he done in Past or bad things? 

The First Stage – Skt srotaapanna (The stream-winner) The Second Stage – Sakridagamin The Third Stage – Anagamin (The non-returner) so my question is after these became Buddhist & obtain nirvana did these kings given freedom to these Wives who use for sex uses? 

lets imagine that in all the human in earth become Arhant, so after their death they will not born again (i mean all of the humans). after this will new humans born or Not, will earth become a planet without Humans ? 

I'm just trying to understand the concept of better here. Buddhism tells me there is the concept of no-self (), and even the so called is actually an illusion that arises out of my ignorance (correct me if I'm wrong). But psychology tells me on the other hand, that there exists something called Volition or Will. From Wikipedia: 

Each time I remember or reflect upon this choir, I get a profound feeling of . I know that even thinking about this is also a sign of attachment, as even those thoughts are impermanent. But is it wrong to get energized or inspired by a choir, even if the inspiration is towards the path of enlightenment? As a side note, has such an anecdote really happened with Gautam Buddha? Is there such a mention in any suttas? 

There are two things I want to understand here. Firstly, though I'm not overly disturbed by thoughts during vipassana sitting, I just don't know how do I treat them. What I presently do is just try to ignore them and continue observing the . But if the thoughts are too strong and persist, I tend to observe them impartially until they leave of their own accord (but during this time my observance of has stopped). Am I doing this thing rightly or not? Secondly, I want to understand the reality of thoughts. I know that ultimately none of these have permanent reality, but compared to what is the ? Basically, I want to know whether they have any objective reality, or they are subjective (just things in my head)? I recently read in a book that reality keeps vibrating each and every instant, and we need to look into the arising/vanishing of these vibrations, as that is what is all about. My question is do these vibrations apply to thoughts as well or just sensations? 

if believe we can escape the suffering of this world and the limits of our material existence by observing and practicing a set of practices. for Christian, we know that the way of “escape” is only through faith in Jesus Christ as they are spiritually reborn with God’s life through the Holy Spirit? what about Buddhist? 

in Buddhas time also their was Prostitutes. having sex others (including Prostitute) beside your wife as per Buddhism its WRONG find below the meaning of the Guide line 4 

If our present existence is the result of something we could not control (from a prior life), what hope can we have related to our present situation in this life? 

is it the EARTH only Place that can give birth to a Buddha? isn't their any other Universes or worlds beside than Earth that Previously born Buddha or in the Future?