Ok, so there is a sudden upwards pressure anywhere that was mined out, as the space beneath is suddenly filled. Collapsed places shoving back upwards, filled-in places bulging outwards, maybe scree or rock torn down to get at minerals rising upwards to reform cliffs or mountains. Roadways are often dug into roads to make them level, that would probably count as "mining" out rock, that being replaced would trap, crush, or kill many. Maybe the ground is buckling upwards on the surface because there was extra material (supports, infrastructure, fill in) that was trapped inside when this refilling happened. Maybe, in active mines... people were trapped inside, too. All gone. Also, the pressure from displacing all the air in those hollowed mines probably causes a shockwave. The sharply shifting under-earth stresses (density, compaction, just movement) causes earthquakes,hills buckle upwards from pressure and maybe, with additional pressure or movement, mountains rise. Probably a fair amount of heat as a side effect, of the compression and energy and all the movement decaying into friction. Maybe volcanoes, depending on location, temperature, and the rippling of the crust. The planet suddenly got a bit more mass - maybe not much on the planet scale, but heck... the mass of everything that has ever been mined out, suddenly doubled as it was replaced in situ without vanishing from wherever it got moved too, that might be enough to set off some wobbling. I'd guess fluctuations in the magnetosphere and possibly tiny gravity fluctutations as the extra mass settles in. 

So, there are quite a few answers that deal with the negatives of capes. I had a few other ideas, but whether or not a cape is useful or practical depends on whether the person using it can balance those negatives and positives. A cape might block visual lines - not just breaking up a silhouette or using its motion in combat to draw fire away from the body (though those are also useful), but in general there might be any number of scenarios where it can be positioned or used to literally make it hard to see what the person wearing it is doing - hiding someone's hand while reaching for a weapon or tool, letting them pick something up or put it down (or tuck it in a pouch or pocket) without being seen, letting them hook their foot or brace their weight - as long as their shoulders aren't moving, it's hard to see what might be moving when the line-of-sight is physically blocked by the cape. Additionally, the person might use the cape, and their own profile, to physically block someone seeing past them (blocking their view of something or someone else). They might use the cape to conceal something bulky or noticeable that they're carrying, or just anything they'd rather not be seen with. They might hide wounds, or wear-and-tear, behind the capes - especially if the cape is used for misdirection, it might be expected to come off the worse for wear, and so even in rough shape it might not betray it's wearer's actual damage to the casual eye. Most superhero uniforms are form-fitting (for ease of movement, among other things) - so if there's anything, anything they don't want being instantly visible, they need some way to conceal it - and a loose fall of fabric will do so easily, if they should just happen to have one on hand. Of course, it isn't foolproof - a line-of-sight might not be blocked by the cape, or they may not be allowed to conceal something without being challenged, depending on the positions of people involved and the actual scenario - but having a cape means it's an option. A cape might have armor or all kinds of protection - fireproof, bulletproof, etc. Of course, there are uniforms that have those kinds of protections built in, that will give better protection and better ease of movement to the person wearing them - but what something like a bulletproof vest won't do, is let someone offer that protection to someone else, or even more than one, at least not without a lot of shenanigans (undressing and whatnot). So the superhero can wrap their cape around someone else a lot quicker and easier than trading off a tailored uniform vest - and it will give a lot more coverage that just a vest would, or even the superhero wrapping themselves around the second person. A thicker, heavier armored cape (not the thin cosmetic kind, okay) might provide additional protection by forming a kind of, makeshift crumple zone - a blow not only has to get through the cape, but also through the layer of air between the cape and the body, and then get through the protection on the armor. A tightly fitting armor, even one with layers, will transmit kinetic force through it and into the person wearing it much more efficiently than one with a gap between layers, especially one where the outer layer crumples into the lower (spending energy dragging the whole cape inwards) and fluffs itself right back out afterwards. Some kinds of blows will get the cushioning much more than others - something narrowly focused and sharply penetrating might not deform the outer layer (not using the 'crumple zone') and so the only variable is the total thickness of the armor and not whether there's space between layers, while something broad and blunt-force might lose a lot of energy being dispersed along the cape. And then there are ways a cape might be modified to a specific superhero's use - a cape weighted at the hem (for better draping) might make a kind of cloth club, or even a bola - and what is weighting that hem might itself be useful. A minimum of added framework or other modification might make a kind of glider, to slow down and control falls. It might be given some property that works with the superhero's abilities, or against a usual villain's - being able to conduct, or resist, some energy or typical combat conditions - with a bonus of being able to hold that property at a distance or quickly drop it if some scenario turns that property against them (which would be a lot harder if it was built into the uniform). It can just have all the extra pockets, since none of the heroes ever seem to need more space to carry stuff in. It maybe can be used for visual signalling (if said hero tends to work with others, and semaphore code is useful). Of course, there are the historical reasons for a cape or cloak to consider - shelter from the weather, keeping warm or dry or cool and shaded, a makeshift blanket or pad, or a bag or net to catch or carry with, or even providing fabric to tear into makeshift ties or bandages. A thinner, less armored version of a cape might be better for these uses (or, perhaps if there's a non-armored cloth lining that might be torn out). Coats are more often used for weather proofing in modern times, but a cloak or cape might have multiple uses - not the least of which is the ability (which a tailored coat may lack) to extend that protection to others. It may also be easier to adjust a cloak or cape to different temperatures - anywhere from tightly wrapped to keep warmth in to loosely draped to let heat flow to propped up to create shade, its wear can be adjusted a lot more than a more tailored coat. The simpler construction (a big rectangle, more or less) should also make it easier to re-purpose for other uses, like a blanket, or a bag, or a pad - tailoring which makes it a better coat, for example, will also make it harder to use for other purposes - and if it must be torn up for bandages or ties, a more closely tailored coat represents more lost work (to remake or replace) than a simply cut rectangular cape lining. How often your superhero might need the cape for these purposes is unknown, but the multi-purpose capability might be something they thought of when designing their costume. Really, the ability to wrap a cape around someone else seems to be a really strong benefit - your superhero only has to grab an edge of the cape and swing it around someone to protect them from fire or bullets, keep them dry or warm in poor weather, or even serve as a shock blanket - as long as it is cut large and loosely draped enough for coverage. It's a lot easier than carrying around separate protection (especially since it's easier to throw around someone in a hurry carried loose on the back, instead of packed away) - and by draping it around themselves, it can serve as an extra layer of protection when they're not using it for someone else. That might be enough for your superhero to justify having a cape even if other uses (concealment, misdirection, emergency source of cloth, makeshift shield) aren't enough to counterbalance the negatives. 

Corruption would happen in this world the same way corruption happens in the real world, when there might be unfriendly witnesses or other reasons for 'plausible deniability' - by implication and insinuation. So perhaps it wouldn't do to have outright negotiations, since those will be seen, and heard, and could be found in the collective memory. But a slightly over-generous gift, or being a little more helpful as a favor, to someone who has previously done a good turn (or is in a position to do the same in the future) - will probably be really difficult to pick out of all the similar gift-giving, or genuine gratitude. And there are limits to visual interpretation of the scene - maybe that extra significant glance means I will be grateful, or generous if you do a favor, maybe it just means I like your haircut, who can say - especially if both parties are willing to declare it is so. Being able to access what someone sees or hears is useful, but it is not at all the same thing as getting access to what they're thinking, planning, assuming Someone might be asking for a favor, and 'leaving' a gift behind. Or asking for that favor at the same time some other transaction is taking place, which ends up favoring the person being asked. It might be a little suspicious, but if a verbal explanation is offered it gives plausible deniability, even if both parties are treating it like a little bribe. Hey, I have this extra treat to give around... also I'm so grateful you assigned me this job instead of that, or else I might not have had the extra to give away, right? The shared memory might encourage a culture where favors and generosity are the norm, since it's easier to figure out what people might need - and generosity is an encouraged trait. But it is also a culture in which it's a short step from doing a little more for those who are kind and generous, and doing a little less for those who don't have something extra to offer. Bribes in this kind of setup are not likely to be purely monetary (at most, there might be some overpaying for something), but will happen in the forms of gifts, favors, or perhaps contributing to a pet cause. But it will still happen, that people will favor those who are nicer to them, which works out the same as corruption, just a bit more subtle and deniable than our versions. 

Our "towela" launcher would need to be somewhat stronger, as a wet towel will be heavy and the distribution of mass would mean more resistance - so more power needed to effectively launch the towelas. The loading mechanism would also need to be modified, towels being thicker and the connections to the weights would be wide and clumsy compared to rope connectors, making it harder to reliably grip and release the weights unless some thought went into it. It would take some practice to learn to balance factors like distance, strength, and materials to make precise effect desired, to quickly load, arm, and otherwise manage the towela ammunition, and to reliably aim at and strike the targets. Of course, since we're modifying the towelas anyway, there are some extra possibilities. A cotton towel (think tea towels or dish towels) is thinner and lighter and so will need stronger weights than a heavier terrycloth towel, but can generally act more like a bola in strength and force. If the towel is straight between the weights, it will have more air resistance, less force, and more surface area hit than if the towel is twisted (it will then act more like a rope than a parachute). The towela can be loosely or tightly twisted for further control over the force vs resistance balance. And, it may be possible to add some padding to the weights themselves, to minimize the distraction from the blow when the weights land, in order to maximize the snap-whip effect from the towel's sideways blow. 

I imagine such a civilization could become quite advanced, but not easily - and not without some truly nasty tradeoffs. So, there are ten year olds who are quite advanced, can think and plan at an adult level - but there are also ten year olds who are decidedly not. Given time, training, pressing need, and, eventually, a culture which expects them to fend for themselves, I suspect most ten year olds will be able to manage to survive themselves, and contribute to a working society. However, this will not be the case, initially. A lot of people would be lost in the wake of the disease, including a lot of children... and even after things settle down, the kids will be in survival mode for a long time as they try to survive, long before building up a new society. Getting back to the first point, those kids who aren't especially advanced (moreso emotionally than intellectually, this is about kids who can't or won't do their work, not those who can't solve complex problems) will likely not survive - and those who are, will have to let them die. It's a survival oriented equation, and kids who will survive and who lead groups who will survive are going to have to be ruthless - which will persist into the surviving societies. In any case, one point I don't think you quite see is that, your kid-civilization is going to be, essentially, domesticating the adults. They are not going to have the resources to subsidize these unproductive mouths, and additionally, are not going to see any reason why they should for a very, very long time. If they have kids who are very clear headed, long thinking, and also really well educated about reproduction and genetics and diversity, minimum sustainable populations, and a host of other stuff, they might keep food out for feral adults, or once they have surplus, keep feeding people till sixteen or so (breeding them so they will have kids in the tribe's reach), and then letting them go. Even if that means letting the feral adults starve, or be prey to predators or each other. Well, they might use them as draft animals for heavy labor, or just killing them instead, I suppose - but the point is they will be treated like, and thought of like, domesticated animals. For a long time, past the point of the kids forming self-sufficient tribes and up to the point of keeping track of sustainable numbers, the population will be surviving mostly by adopting the kids born of whatever feral adults may have survived. This means you should probably figure out how well these adults are surviving and/or capable of raising kids on nothing but instinct - after all, rabbits do survive quite handily, so it isn't impossible. Maybe the kids will keep track of, or temporarily care for pregnant women, if they know or somehow figure out they need more people in their groups, but they will not keep adults long term - they haven't the resources. And once they get to the point where they do know they need to keep the population up, they won't be caring for their adults, they will be breeding them for offspring - they will not consider them people anymore. Also, it begs the question of why ten year olds, specifically. It would actually make a lot more sense to tie this to puberty, even if you want to have the average age of puberty, or some necessary pre-puberty changes which act as the trigger, happen around ten (I think ten is actually the lower bound, so minimal handwaving if you go this route). It can make a story-point whether the oldest are kicked out before they lose their minds, or after, or are kept for some time as breeders - which an odd several-year gap between losing their minds and reproducing. Also, if it gets tied to puberty, you might end up with an odd age creep going on, where those who are late bloomers survive much better. You likely won't buy more than a couple years this way, but it will help if you get even occasional twelve or fourteen year olds in your tribes. So, your little-kid-tribes will be adopting little ones out of the wild - maybe toddler age, maybe finding abandoned infants, depending on how well your adults actually function. Little kids need care, and teaching (and this is also work). Your tribe will need people to manage the food supply - hunting, foraging, farming, they can all be options as your societies evolve. Kids will simply not be capable of the same amount of heavy labor an adult is, but with clever use of tools and draft animals (potentially including feral adults) they should be able to manage - and they will also not need as many resources as an adult would, including smaller dwellings, clothes, and meals. The amount of time left over for innovation and advancement will be small, since even becoming more responsible younger and reaching social maturity early will not give the same kind of time-span to achieve things in, so society will advance slowly - though you might, maybe, get an artificial boost from leftover teachings or materials left over from the society before the disease. And your society is going to be ruthless. Kids won't have the resources to be otherwise, especially in the immediate aftermath of the disease, and that will carry over into their civilizations. Also, kids tend to see the world in black and white - they won't have time to finish developing and get enough experience to be otherwise. So ruthless, they'll be hard on those unproductive, and unforgiving of defects (mental or physical). They will have to exile their adults, or otherwise move them from people-status to draft-animal-status - this will effect their empathy, they can't afford to be otherwise but they will also have little sympathy for those who won't, or can't, do their fair share - and will have practice at moving others from people-status to not-people-status, it will be easy for them to dehumanize others.