I think you are referring to a proposal by Moshe Dayan to Meir in December 1970 that Israel withdraw 20 miles from the Suez Canal in order to aid the Egyptians in reopening the canal and possibly averting their motivation to go to war, according to this article in the Times of Israel. Two months later, Sadat, in a speech to the Egyptian National Assembly adopted Meir's proposal, but his proposal did not include recognition of Israel or a willingness to negotiate and agree on border, two items that were fundamental Israeli demands, and things that Sadat ultimately agreed to with Begin. Moreover, the article asserts that Israel was advised by the Nixon administration not to agree to Sadat's proposal without further conciliatory gestures from Sadat. In 2013, the Israeli government released documents that in early June 1973, Israel sent Sadat a secret message through West German Chancellor Willy Brandt, proposing that Israel would be willing secretly meet with Sadat to trade Sinai to Egypt for peace. In a later meeting she described the offer, saying: "He can tell Sadat that he, Brandt, is convinced that we truly want peace. That we don’t want all of Sinai, or half of Sinai, or the major part of Sinai. Brandt can make it clear to Sadat that we do not request that he begin negotiations in public, and that we are prepared to begin secret negotiations, etc." For the original Hebrew-language document, see Document 8. Coming so closely after the 1972 Munich massacre of Israeli atheletes, Brandt was not so willing to involve West Germany in the negotiations at a high level. He sent a relatively low-level diplomat to meet with Egyptian officials. According to a 2013 Times of Israel article, Hafiz Ismail, a close adviser to Egyptian president Anwar Sadat, and relayed the Israeli proposal, advised Sadat to reject the offer on the basis that unless Israel was willing to retreat to the pre-1967 cease-fire lines, there was no point in talking directly with the Jewish state. Meir's disappointment with Sadat's failure to accept her offer to meet was reflected in her first comment to him when they met on his first visit to Israel in 1977, where she said simply, "what took you so long?" Hinn, Benny, Blood in the Sand, p. 150. 

I think the better answer would come from asking why the French Columns failed in Spain whereas they were spectacularly successful everywhere else save Russia where infantry just doesn't matter too much. I can't say I know the answer to the question "why did the French get mauled in Spain" but certainly when you're moving in a series of columns the "will to attack" can be and indeed was overwhelming...which of course is exactly what Napoleon wanted and indeed got...again and again and again...defeating entire Armies in the field and then marching into completely undefended Cities...looting, pillaging, taking liberties with the women, etc. In Spain the Spaniards seldom came out to attack the French "formally" and ominously the terrain "created" single file lines so my understanding at least is that the French were "sitting ducks" in Spain until at least they could get formed up...much as the English were in New England during the American "Revolutionary War." Eventually the losses for Napoleonic France were to great to "hold Spain" and the French were forced to withdraw. This opened the door to Great Britain and Wellington who "cut his teeth" in Spain I believe (the Peninsular Campaigns.) Of course defeating Napoleon and defeating France were two different things entirely. It's not like Wellington was marching around Paris waving the Union Jack either... 

Something like this: Romaticism in the 19th century had a strong streak of romticizing pre-christian culture. This ties in with later antisemitism, where progress and liberalism where seen as a bad, corrosive influence on the pure German people and associated with the jews. This is the type of thiinking found in the antisemite work 'The protocols of the Elders of Zion'. So far, we are not talking about a solely German phenomenon. Starting in the late 19th century, you had several occultist far right organizations like the Germanenorden and it's follow up, the Thule Gesellschaft (the latter used some symbols later to be used by the nazis, like the swastika). What is important is that these groups and other occultists did not have any direct coontinuity with pagan customs. Instead, we have (mostly) well to do folks with a christian education. They are somehow unconfortable the way western societies are developüing, and look to an idealized past. While this kind of anti-modern thinking, clad in pagan or pseudo pagan prose was (and is) part of nazism (and other fascisms, look at Julio Evola for a prominent thinker along similar lines), it would be wrong to attribute Hitler's rise to power to it. This kind of pseudo-paganism was always a fringe phenomenon. 

No, there was or is no real residual paganism, if by residual you mean that there's some unbroken continuity between pre-christian belief systems and modern pagans 

I think it's hard to facilitate an answer as so few primary sources date from that period that we know of and can actually "read" (understand.) So perhaps in the abstract we can infer but I think we'll never know. Our Western "traditions" (of communicating the past on something other than stone) don't really begin until the Greeks...and very few of the original texts of that time survive. Ironically the Comedian Aristophones is one of the larger resources. He was credited with causing Socrates to kill himself...and even made fun of that too. Far from a Biblical tale of course. 

I think I'd focus on German Uboat actions during WW2 as they had wide latitude to travel places and influence events. The Luftwaffe was engaged more fully than any Air Force in History pretty much everywhere so these "flights of fancy" are interesting anecdotally "they're not where the action was." that would be France, Great Britain and ultimately trying to save Germany itself...which it failed to do. Interestingly the Flight Ministery Headquarters in Berlin survived untouched during the total destruction of "everything else Berlin." I've seen it personally and recommend a visit... 

The easiest way is to go directly to the person "responsible" for the said "History." So your most primary source are court records of people under oath. Even this can be at quite a variance to the facts as thought to be known...although you'd be surprised at how often criminals will commit a crime then brag about it afterwards. I began my study of History by studying the History of Law itself...in other words "what are people complaining about and how?" In the "arc" of American History such a study yields a true wealth of objective data not just of the past but more importantly of "History that matters." In the case of the United States that begins with riparian rights (rights to the flow of water down a river) then moves very quickly into Railroad Law. After that "the Law" becomes rather murky until Nuremberg. But you do glean objective facts very quickly by such a study. Then of course there is biography...go directly to the people responsible for some decision or leadership role yourself...in person...and ask them questions. This is especially true if they have or claimed to have authored an "autobiography." You'll be surprised at how often the "official story" is at a variance to the plain objective facts. So after these two come "journalists" or "papers of record" such as newspapers known for their reporting of the facts. Fourth and most importantly never over think these matters. Nothing says "academic" more than "that town, City, entire Civilization was not entirely destroyed/eliminated." Basically the bulk of academia acts as the first "liar" for humanity...not necessarily a bad thing as the truth usually is quite painful...especially historical truth. 

During the 18th and 19th century, the British Navy had ships all over the world, and communicating with them had to be difficult. After all, the Battle of New Orleans happened after the British had signed the Treaty of Ghent ending the War of 1812. Although many ship captains or fleet commodores had great freedom to operate tactically within their sphere of influence, what system of communication did the Royal Navy use to pass orders and receive reports from its ships far away? Assuming that orders had to travel by courier on fast sailing ships, did the Navy rely only upon its own ships to pass messages, or did it use fast commercial vessels? Was their a back-up system in case the courier was interecepted? Typically, how long did the process take? 

On the World War 2-era WD AGO Form 53-55, which was the four-page honorable discharge form, there is a code or reference in Box 32 (Battles and Campaigns) which on my father-in-law's form says "Rhineland; "GO 33 WD 45 as amended". What does that phrase refer to? 

CDR David G. Muller, Jr., USN (Ret.) -- an intelligence specialist with the Navy and the CIA, discusses this, to an extent, in his recent memoir, "Knowing the Enemy: An Intelligence Officer's Memoir 1966-2014." (Note, I served under CDR Muller in the mid-1980s.) CDR Muller states that intelligence gathering long focused on the Soviet Union, to the exclusion of other countries -- especially within the Naval Intelligence community -- because the Pentagon needed intelligence about the Soviet threat to justify to Congress the need to appropriate money for bigger and better weapons. Intelligence reports on the Far East, or elsewhere, was in high demand by the tactical commands, such as Pacific Command, or Sixth Fleet, for example, were more likely to have to invade or intervene in wars against less-capable enemies (e.g. Libya or Syria), or terrorists threats. Nevertheless, as I understood his book to say, the CIA was completely on board with Reagan's plan to out-spend the Soviets on weapons purchases, and bankrupt the regime by forcing it to keep up its defense spending. Although Muller does not address that Reagan's "Star Wars" program, which other analysts have said was a bluff, CDR Muller once told me that he was pleased that novelist Tom Clancey had, at times, exaggerated the capabilities of US intelligence gathering and weapons technology -- "let the Russians try to replicate that capability -- they will go broke doing so," he said with regard to another area of technology that I cannot discuss further. After the fall of the Soviet Union, Muller writes that the intelligence agencies finally turned to spend resources on intelligence gathering on other threats -- something he had campaigned for since the late 1970s. The Pentagon, unfortunately, determined that the end of the Cold War and the deterioration of the Russian/Soviet Navy and other armed services, meant that scores of relatively new destroyers and submarines would be sunk or (in the case of nuclear-powered ships and submarines, dismantled and recycled) well before the end of their service lifespan. The option to mothball the vessels and preserving them for later needs was rejected as unnecessary and too expensive (plus upgrading the older ships would mean less new construction). 

I can't find link now, but prior to the first graduation towers some salines would have workers toss the brine against rough walls, to provide evaporation surface. The first graduation towers would use straw, but this would rot and foul the brine. The technology matured over a few decades. Graduation towers needed (wind powered) pumps & a large investment up front. 

So Luther was cited in antisemite propagande by the regime and was cited in debates within the protestant chruches to justify closer alignment to the Nazi regime. 

From German wikipedia on Luther's relationship to the Jews and antisemitism, translated/paraphrased by me: 

Tainter draws the conclusion that we cannot show that the Polynesians overextended the "carrying capacity" of their islands, and thus cannot prove that the Easter Islands are a case of ecological overshoot. Conclusion You can always argue that every case where another immediate cause (draught, war ...) can be identified as the culprit for the collapse of a society, this immediate cuplrit was the way Malthus harsh law manifests itself. This is not entirely wrong - there are hard thermodynamic limits on how much life (as activity, not biomass) earth can support - but in my eyes not really useful. The more useful question would be - and this is where I find Tainter more convincing than in his many quibbles with Diamond and Chew - how a society handles ressources & consumption. Diamond (in Collapse) gives a, in my eyes, instructive example from the ultimately doomed Henderson & Pitcairn islands: Archeological evidence seems to show that the islanders imported pigs, until apparently all pigs where culled - it appears they saw that raising pigs yields less food than eating the pig fodder themselves, and adpoted accordingly. So the question is would be, what adaptions are possible today? 

My late father commanded a B-47 bomb squadron from 1955-1964. The B-47 was a medium range bomber that was frequently forward deployed for weeks at a time at bases in Spain, Turkey and Libya, and kept there armed and on alert. After reading that the Air Force had declassified the list of Soviet and Warsaw Pact targets developed by the Strategic Air Command, I saw my father's former navigator and asked him whether it was true that after their mission they would fly to Turkey and eject, then walk home. He said, only, that "bailing out was definitely part of the plan." 

Many foreign navies have commissioned foreign shipyards to build warships and submarines for them. Most recently, Russia purchased to amphibious dock landing ships from France (that sale is currently suspended due to Russia's invasion of the Crimea). Also, it was reported this week that Australia is looking to foreign shipyards to build it a new class of submarines under the assumption that the Defense Ministry "wouldn't trust [Australian shipyards} to build a canoe." While it is true that the U.S. Navy has, from time to time, commissioned into the fleet captured war prizes (e.g. some gunboats captured in the Spanish-American War). Also, the U.S. Army, during World War I, purchased tanks and aircraft from Europoean manufacturers. But unlike its sister services, I am unaware that the U.S. Navy has ever requisitioned a foreign shipyard to build it a warship of any class. Is that correct? One period I'm uncertain about is the naval expansion preceding the Spanish-American War.