I have a unique perspective on this - my mother was a reporter for the Houston Chronicle, on the police beat, and as I grew older she shared with me some of the more gruesome details of her work covering Houston crime. First and foremost, a gunshot to the head is not a guaranteed kill. If the majority of the brain case is intact and the brain stem was not severed, you would be surprised what people can bounce back from. A dear friend of my mother was shot in the head by her husband many years ago, and I met her at my mother's memorial - full motor function, no visible deformities, and no impairments. It is worth noting that she lost the memory of being shot and could not testify. What you are pondering is similar to what happened to Houston many several years ago. They were working on being the murder capitol of the United States. There was much to-do about whether the budget could ever afford more ambulances and more medics to combat the casualties, when a cool thing happened - a policy changed that required firefighters to respond to scenes, and that they all be trained in CPR. Not every firehouse has an ambulance, but the firefighters themselves were usually fairly close, in small, unassuming little buildings with larger than average garages. With the advent of fire response and CPR, we didn't make the number of wounds go down, but people started surviving. Deaths from aggravated assault went down about 60 percent, if I remember correctly. Now in your case, it sounds like you'll have a miracle working cleric about 2 minutes out on standby - and that sounds neat. I doubt that ordinary civilians would have much to fear from a gunshot. 

Using these mechanisms in plot, it is now possible for a scooby gang of friendlies to find each other out, and gives the resident big bad a method of hunting down the people who keep interrupting his attempts to return to childhood with his newfound power and knowledge - perhaps something he has done several times without pain until Our Hero discovered his abilities, which disrupt his. As far as handling the timeline during a cancellation event, lets work on an example. Allen and Barry are rewinders on opposite sides of the world. Lets say our story primarily involves the life of Allen, and how Barry deals with Allen. Allen starts a rewind at 1:47 pm that halts unexpectedly at 1:43 pm, the exact moment that Barry had started to go back a year or so. Allowing branch timelines means some things have happened here. In one, Barry never lurched - he went on back happy as a clam, but we don't care about that one, or the Allen in that particular timeline. We watch the one where Allen goes about trying again so he can try a different pickup line on that girl, and hopefully undo that part where he lurched and fell on his face. Note that the only thing that matters is when Allen rewinds across the start of another rewind - in his timeline, when he starts, there may or may not be any other rewinds in progress. If there are, he'll misfire, to his surprise. When he does, he'll try again - and maybe, misfire again. It will be like two people calling each other and getting a busy signal - eventually, Allen's rewind will start first and he'll be able to continue back in his frame of reference, until he crosses the start of someone else rewinding, which could be days in his timeline. Now let's put Allen and Barry in the same room, and make one try to kill the other. Barry shoots Allen in the chest - Allen rewinds to make his way back out the door he came in and manages to rewind himself all the way to the point where (he thinks) Barry became an adversary. Things move on for Allen until Barry becomes aware again and makes another attempt, only this time Barry intentionally did six two-second rewinds right before the attempt on Allen's life. Timelines are thrown left and right, but Allen is the only one we care about, and Barry would continue in both timelines created, and each time there would be a rewind event to cancel. Following Allen-prime's frame of reference, he gets shot and attempts to rewind, lurching both of them still in the same room and cancelling that rewind. Allen runs for his life, and in a panic tries to rewind - he gets to relive the run for his life, the moment of the cancellation, and then he gets to the next to last rewind Barry did before he rounded the corner. They both lurch, but now, Allen-prime has been shot and has lurched twice, but Barry has only lurched once, still fully intends to kill Allen, and has a full clip. 

There are so many answers here, and they are all over the map. The things being covered all make sense to some point, but they all have varying degrees of problems. They are all variations of a theme, which has actually been pointed out very accurately by Schwern - we wish to take the surplus power capacity, and invest it into something that will gain us something in the future. And other issues aside, Serban Tanasa is pretty much on track with the end goal - we want to build a Dyson mega construct. I believe it is fairly safe to say that the hydrocarbon solution proposed by Green is a crucial first step in the storage and investment strategy on our way towards taking these steps. But the question is still, how the devil do we store usable energy energy in a usable form that will be useful in the eons to come? Shipping Clean Water to the Moon NASA is already very excited by the prospect of ice crystals on the moon. Because of our ability to generate fair amounts of electrical energy with solar power, we could process that ice into usable fuel to drive propulsion out of the solar system more efficiently. Ion engines are great, but if you have fuel to accelerate, the engines are far more powerful. So, what if we shipped a billion gallons of water or so to the moon? Overcoming the gravity well of Earth to place a significant quantity of usable water on the moon, or even in orbit, would present probably the most significant energy gain that we could achieve in space at this time. The storage mechanism is a bit non-intuitive, but you are literally storing potential energy in the mass of the water as you transport it away from earth. Landing a basic platform for power and food production on the moon and supplying it with copious amounts of water for fuel and personal use creates the opportunities that we would need to even stand a chance of building a Dyson construct. After we move water to the moon, we could pay the cost to move other resources. If you want humanity to leave the Earth, they'll need a preexisting sustainable food supply, and that's going to be hard. We know how to grow plants in space, but we need to get started so that when we evacuate, it doesn't kill us just by starvation. The water cycle could be self contained, but you still have to have enough water in circulation in the plant life to sustain all crops. Energy is only as useful as the things it is ultimately used on, and the creation of this potential will require the combined effort of most of the industry and economy on the planet. It will require the judicious application of almost all of the answers here. But ultimately, the final energy cost will be paid by, and stored in, going up. EDIT I have had a lengthy discussion with Schwerv, and I need to refine a few points. Admittedly, this is so expensive in terms of energy that if we could force an icy comet to land on the moon instead, we should do that. If we can field spacefaring robots to go and put asteroids on a workable orbit, we should do that. My point needs to be understood in the context that investing in a moon base as a place for those robots to come and go is a good thing if we can afford it and if it prevents those robots from having to come back to Earth, or from having to be serviced by Earth missions. This is the kind of surplus I was assuming was going to be available in short order. 

Turrets are turrets, and they move as fast as the designers can make them move, but the overall goal of getting through an AA battery is to get from one side of the arc to the other without being annihilated. The classic training for this is "low and slow," because that got you safely through the narrower part of the arc pretty quickly. But that's gotten to be impractical against more modern AA batteries. Now it's more like "really low and stupid fast," because what you have to do is stay so low that the system simply isn't aware that you are a thing that should be shot at. But there's another point to be made here - if you avoid target lock, you don't get blasted. Electronic countermeasures come into play and you start calling in special platforms that make radar do stupid things. Now, if these next generation systems move fast enough, we have some problems; but remember that basically anything that hits the laser station will basically end its role in the fight. If the optical pumping chamber can be even slightly misaligned or cracked, it's over. Shelling should do nicely, as the laser itself can't particularly stop a ballistic projectile, even if it could track it (and it probably could). 

Let's take this a step further than we already have. Let's take this where it was going - everyone has cheap power for their homes and industries, and no one anywhere on the planet has had any need for the grid in any form. In the worst case scenario, absolutely everyone on the planet has totally decommissioned their distribution grids. EVERYTHING runs on a locally installed MF - despite the wild temperatures. The whole planet literally depends on it. The solution becomes to take a step back. The basic theory of economics is the accounting for costs. There is, until this point, no one paying for the cost of the heat generation, so no one is doing anything about it. Step one is going to involve regulation and taxation. Heat is the new global warming demon. Money will change hands. Now what we need to do is rebuild the grid, but probably not the WHOLE grid. This thing is perfect for what we in the power industry call islanding - smaller chunks of the grid that can be operated separately without problems. If we rebuild the local distribution, it turns out a Megawatt of electrical power goes a long way. Lots of units would get mothballed or recycled, and Fusion Industries bails out with its golden parachute after the designs are appropriated by pretty much every government in the world, at gunpoint if necessary. Now we need to modify the way we USE that power. Here we have box that makes heat and electricity in response to being fed water. The winning design will lock this thing inside of a boiler and just let it run. 80% of this thing's output is pure, high quality heat, and it produces four times more heat than it does electricity. I can safely say recovering and delivering 40% of that is doable. I have then turned a 1 MW unit into, potentially, a 2.6 MW system, with an overall efficiency of around 52%. Limiting this to smaller scale systems and piping steam to local heating loads can further increase system efficiency, and regardless of price, would get very popular as people get absolutely disgusted every time they walk into their backyards past the little box that emits no less than 40 kilowatts into free air whenever it runs. Demonstrably, the planet has an absolutely insane cooling capacity as-is. Once we get this heat output under control, things will pretty reliably return to normal. 

TL;DR - absolutely. Evolution doesn't stop just because you're good at something. Stop for a moment, and imagine a member of your species who is a perfect physical specimen, for whatever your selection criteria are for 'perfect'. Now imagine that you absolutely cannot bring yourself to engage in conversation with this person for more than five minutes at a time. Selection pressures have guided you into a position where this 'perfect' thing was overrated, and you will reevaluate your position on the definition of 'perfect'. Similarly, the not-a-gorilla apex predator will make selections when mating, and given enough time, social dynamics come into play. Maybe it's like a lion's pride, and the strongest male gets all the dates. Maybe the female is the stronger of the species, and devours the male after conception. But one day, a not-a-gorilla is born who is different. Maybe he's just a LITTLE smarter. But he figures out that the females like gifts of flowers, or tasty critters to eat. He brings the tasty critters, doesn't get eaten and now he's very much more likely to survive to make more progeny than the ones that get eaten. And it doesn't have to be social dynamics. The point is that there are SO MANY pressures causing evolution, that simply being on the top of the food chain isn't enough to stop that, especially over the long term. The point of my earlier comments on your post is that, after enough evolution happened to create advanced intelligence, the new not-a-gorilla is probably nothing like the old not-a-gorilla, in the same way that I'm only a very tiny little bit like an actual gorilla. Minor Edit: I feel compelled to point out that when the not-a-gorilla has developed intelligence, I am in no way implying that it will be smaller, weaker, slower or mostly bald. We only turned out that way mostly by chance and choice. At some point, less fur became attractive. The advanced not-a-gorillas could have gotten bigger, faster, stronger, hairier, and more durable in the same time frame that they became intelligent. Evolution doesn't have an end game, it just comes down to who makes more and better babies. 

Let's review a little thermodynamics - all heat engines require a heat sink in which to discard entropy. If they do not discard entropy, the system runs for a bit and subsequently fails to function. This means a couple of things - for your geothermal power solution to work, you need to reject heat somewhere, probably the atmosphere far above the colony, or maybe the ocean. Assuming you got that to work, you could then overcome the next thing that's going to kill you, and that's temperature. Even with the wildest shielding, that shielding will eventually come up to the temperature of its surroundings, and your colony will get uninhabitable very quickly. The entire colony is going to have to be carefully air conditioned to prevent lethal temperatures, and the shielding should probably be liquid cooled. All of the heat absorbed by the shielding and the A/C system will have to be rejected back to your heat sink. Handling the wild pressures at depth is the next thing we need to fix. If we are deep down and still have an open air connection to the atmosphere, it will kill everyone; periodically, we'll need to have air locks between levels so that pressures can be independently controlled. This is another problem though - if we don't have a connection outside, we don't have a way to ventilate. We'll need to generate oxygen and scrub toxins and CO2 from the air. There is no better way to generate oxygen than hydrolysis of water, but we'll need to get rid of the hydrogen produced - if we try to use it in any way, we just lose the oxygen we made, which we needed. So we use compressors to pump excess, unwanted hydrogen to the surface. Scrubbing the atmosphere takes, well, a scrubber - this machine uses a heater and a catalyst bed to absorb toxic substances. For this to work for any length of time, the colony must be able to sustain itself - food, water and scrubber catalyst will be needed for continued operation. Water reprocessing is a must - your air conditioners will also be feeding into collection facilities. Crops will have to be grown under UV lamps in imported dirt. And to make your own scrubber catalysts means you'll need to be able to manufacture advanced materials underground. On the whole, this is not actually possible with modern day tech. Our deepest mines right now extend some 4 kilometers below the surface, but have extensive surface support. The entire colony would have to be built in some kind of "goldilocks" zone where it conveniently didn't take on massive amounts of toxic subsurface gases by the hour, and had a freely available, easy to access heat sink, without having to worry about said heat sink breaking through the roof over your head and drowning everyone.