As shown above, they are not calorie heavy and fat is not bad for you.Also these mentioned recipes are savory (try it) I do have tips for other meals, i have one on my mind right now: 

Sweating is generally either: genetics, or high level of stress (or both). If you have been dealing with sweaty palms for a while, and do not have high levels of stress, it might be genetics. (Some food might make you feel hot like spices and stuff, but i personally do not believe that they cause constant sweating..) I am not a doctor, but myself I have a very high metabolism and energy levels (genetics) and this makes me get overheated and sweat more than the average person on my forehead and sometimes my underarms. And during periods of stress it gets worse of course. The only Solution that kinda fixed the underarms sweat (and am not scaming you or selling you a product, i do not work for this company and I do not live in france) is a European (french) product called etiaxil. They say you can apply it on hands( if you need help in translating let me know). What i did, i used etiaxil at first 3 times a week following their instructions. And after only one month of usage, i did not have that problem for underarms anymore, even when i am on vacation in a 38 degrees celsius temperature.(too bad they don't have a product that can be used on forehead). Check it out, and most important , do no be bothered by having sweaty palms because in reality the bodies that sweat more last longer because such bodies keep on cleaning themselves from toxins with sweat. 

He has some practical applications to this muscle math, but it will at least help you understand that the path to getting stronger is not linear. In fact, I'm not aware of any biological processes that are. It definitely feels like you could keep going right now, but don't be surprised when your progress slows down. All you need at that point is a different way to manage your training volume and intensity. You should also consider that the number of people who can hit an 840 lb raw squat (i.e. no squat suit) are very few. 

It really depends on what you are after. If you are running the Starting Strength program or some other beginner program, they take the stance of take as much rest as you need--even 10 minutes between sets! The goal for those programs is to increase the weight on the bar as quickly as you can. Trade offs for Rest Times 

There is a big difference between anabolic steroids and supplements both from a regulatory standpoint and from potential risk to your body. 

I've had my foot slide out from under me due to the floor being too dusty. I train in a garage, so that's always a concern. I've also had the hamstring pull due to factors other than what's immediately obvious. In your case, a good part of it was probably due to the foot slipping and suddenly loosing tightness on one side. Paul Carter has a great article on setting up for the bench. Setting up like this will remove 90% of the causes of your foot slipping out from under you. The important parts (check list and video at the end of the article) are listed below: 

The solution here is easier than you think, i do not want to sound poetic but let me explain some important things: re-check the way you wrote your question title and details : "non-sports people (computer nerds specifically)". 

I am a programmer too, and since your more into cereal than meat in the morning, what worked for me is one of these two meals: 

Based on what you mentioned: "..over lent and I've gone forty days without meat" "..Before my break I was a pretty keen carnivore" I assume by saying carnivore it means that most of your food intake came from meat. Going with this assumption, i do not believe your stomach pain is caused by meat. 

The short answer is: You don't need to be a full time athlete, and being a web developer won't prevent you from reaching what you want to reach. I (and many of my friends) are software engineers/programmers and we are all in good shape and so you can be. What you need to know: 

From my own experience ( i lost around 60 pounds 3 years ago but not one inch of muscle lost), you have to focus on two things: 

a) How much should you eat: There are several recommendations by bodybuilders on how much to eat and what to eat, but this site summarizes it all. Taking the same example as above: you are 200 pounds ==> An estimated maintenance calorie intake of 12 cal/lb on training days (on cardio days eat less) ==> 2400 calories/day. 

To more squarely address the health of these athletes, you need to look at your health indicators. These include (but are not limited to): 

The purpose of this exercise is to get blood to flow through the joint and flush out the inflammation. It should greatly relieve the pain you have if not eliminate it; however, if you keep the same routine it will come back. Since you've had a bit of a layoff, your joints are probably not accustomed to the work you have them doing yet. Examine your routine and make the appropriate changes: 

Based on your question and the the answers you gave in the comments, it sounds like you might want to look into aerobic and endurance based exercise. 

It really isn't that big of a concern. The biggest difference in stress on the back is that the shoulders are hit slightly differently. The overhand grip spreads the weight of the bar across the whole shoulder, and the suppinated grip hits between the spine and shoulder blade. So yes, there is a slight imbalance. But a big part of it is just like your natural handedness. It's just going to feel more natural pulling with one hand suppinated than the other, just like it will feel more natural writing with one hand than the other. For most people it's not that big of a deal. As you get stronger, you will have to use different variations of the main lifts to build more strength. It's not uncommon for people with 300kg+ deadlifts to pull with straps with the bar just below the knee as one of the variations. If you are really concerned over the slight imbalance, or you develop some pain in the suppinated hand's shoulder, then I recommend the following: 

Which means it is a very good calorie level (specially in the morning and post workout) , very low in fat and very high in protein 

I am going to shift to a new diet : The Cyclical Ketogenic Diet. I read and understood in general what is it about but i have two questions: 

In general,a fast absorption into the bloodstream produces a strong release of insulin which makes your body to store fat.. BUT some simple carbs absorb at a much slower rate than many complex carbs because they contain fiber that slows down the digestion process. 

With all due respect for Doctors, researchers and professional trainers, and i do not claim to be more knowledgeable at all but...The thing with researches is that, in my humble opinion, there are too many of them and one contradicts the other. For instance, some researches say eating fat will make you fat while others say the complete opposite. Some researches say you should have a low carb diet to loose fat, other researches will say differently, etc.. I will answer you based on common logic and things we notice in our everyday lives, some facts: 

I don't know about where u live, but in Canada eggs are kind of cheap. You Can still use the yolk, a cooking technique is to put the yolk in a tupperware and freeze it. You can still use the yolk if your doing cakes or sweets or wtv.. all you have to do is to take it out of the freezer and put it in the fridge the night before use. Also, i don't know if you have this option where you live, but here we have egg whites bottles, so u can buy one of these. 

Now, before I go any further, I do want to call out that there are two major classes of protein shake mixes: mass gainers and simple protein. Mass gainers have a higher carb content and more calories, and are designed to make you gain weight. Whey protein and creatine supplements only contain enough extra to provide some palatable flavoring, but are largely protein. So when you are trying to lose fat, go for the simple proteins. Everything from this point forward simply has to do with the macronutrients. Whether you get them from protein shakes, food, or injection; it does not matter. How do we get more muscle mass? Our bodies respond to stress by making physiological changes so that it can handle that stress better the next time. That's how the flu shot and other inoculations work. The same goes for building muscle mass. You have to provide stress in the form of exercise to tell the body that it needs to get ready for heavier work. You then need to provide the body the nutrients it needs to build the muscle and help with recovery. It's a two step process. It's great that you are swimming 30m a day 5 days a week. The problem is your body will only adapt to the point it needs to handle the stress you are putting it under. Unless you do something to intensify the work you are doing, the body will simply maintain. Weightlifters do this easily by adding more weight on the bar, or doing more volume. As a swimmer you have a few options: try to get more laps in the same amount of time (increase intensity), or increase the amount of time you are working (increase effort). It takes bigger muscles to be able to sprint effectively, so shaving off seconds from your lap time will help in this situation. If you hit a speed wall, supplement the swimming with some strength training to build up weak points, or overall strength. The other part is you need enough protein to sustain your muscle plus extra so that your body can use that to build bigger/stronger muscles. For sedentary people, about .5g protein per pound lean body mass is sufficient to maintain the amount of muscle they have. Which means if you want to build muscle mass you need more than that. How much more will be in the next section. On top of that your muscles need energy for recovery. Fortunately they don't care whether that energy comes from carbs or fat. Protein: little do good, heap do plenty First, if you have renal (kidney) problems, you have to limit the amount of protein you eat. The kidneys do the bulk of the protein processing, and if they are not healthy you can overtax them if you are not careful. Healthy people don't have this problem. You have a couple of strategies for protein intake if you are not trying to do the bare minimum to maintain the mass you have. Go for 1g protein per pound total body weight which will be more than enough to increase muscle mass, provided you are increasing the intensity of your exercise. Or you can go for the higher TEF of protein itself, and aim for 30% of your Calories coming from protein. The macronutrients have the following amount of Calories per gram: 

When i first started the fat burn/muscle gain routine, i used to think of carbs as the devil and that i should train 4 hours a day. This is all wrong, you need to understand what you are doing cannot be accomplished in 1 week, and that you have to constantly challenge your muscles without overtraining (as mentionned above). Overtraining made me gain fat even with low calories level. So in a summary: 

In the article you mentioned, the trainer is dealing with models and actresses, and thus it may be that he doesn't want any smallest detail of definition on their bodies. But between that and bulk there is a huge difference. 

You just stereotyped computer lovers to lazy non sporty people. The problem and danger of stereotyping is that extremely few people on earth rebel against it. Most people accept what they are given and tag themselves into it. Explaining further, ever since computers were created and you had the image of the nerdy, big glasses,lazy anti social person given to people who like/work with computers. for example if you consider software developers , what happened is that most of these guys just accepted that label and this indoctrination was stored deeply in their mind , and many of them now have an "inferiority complex". @Berin Loristsch mentioned about the reputation thing, and it is so true since the inferiority complex makes them search to be superior in a virtual world. Myself, am a software engineer, and am very far from being a nerd, i also workout daily (heavy training). This requires lots of efforts and discipline but can be done by anybody. Thus, you have to start by not labeling them anymore and not showing them they are different. This is a small step but with huge impact and change: once they feel equal to you, they will start listening to what you say and get interested in what interests you (outside the virtual world). 

Similar studies have been used to try and promote whatever pet doctrine or diet that someone wants to sell. It is very important to understand what kind of study is being performed that the person is referencing, and whether the supposed mechanisms are the conjecture of the researchers or the result of a focused and controlled study. Many times epidemiology has provided a strong correlation, and then further controlled studies both with rats/mice and with humans have proven that there is no causal relationship. A more infamous example is the "lipid theory" which is the foundation of the USDA dietary recommendations to this day. The study which started it all was poorly done even from epidemiological standards, and data was thrown out to support the researcher's hypothesis. Several studies have come along later showing higher fat diets do not have a causal relationship with heart disease. The long story short: dietary fat does not have a causal relationship but body fat does. The bottom line: If you eat the correct amount of food, with a proper mix of macro nutrients to support healthy metabolic function, your body will be able to take care of itself just fine--even if you indulge in sugar laden foods occasionally. NOTE: carbs are neither angels nor demons. Due to the "lipid theory" being proven inaccurate in controlled studies, there are a number of people who want to throw the pendulum the opposite direction. There are a number of epidemiological studies trying to vilify carbs that were once held as the number one thing you should eat. They are looking at insulin response or affect on growth hormone, both of which are useful when training as an athlete. Just in case you stumble across it: insulin and human growth hormone do not cause cancer, but they can assist it spreading faster. If you already have cancer, you may want to reduce carb intake. If you do not, then you should eat to give your body the energy it needs to do it's job.