Because your question aims at testing different proposals for the concepts of “mental state”, I would like to attack the problem from the side of an empirical science like neusoscience and from informatics. In informatics the concept of state is fundamental for every kind of process models, like process algebras, Petri net etc. Because the brain is a distributed system, the concept of a global state will result from combining the local states of its subsystems. Hence the first step to design a testable model of the brain is a list of the relevant subsystems and their connections. One needs a wiring diagram and its translation into a net. A further step is to determine the possible states of each subsystem and their possible state transitions. As an example, input from neuroscicence for such a model would determine certain subsystems from pre-frontal cortex, from the motor areals of frontal lobe, and from the limbic system, which are relevant for triggering voluntary motor actions. Cognitive science considers the representational content as a crucial characterisation of a mental state. That’s the question for the semantics of the states. The latter representing the learned experience of the system. It seems easy to equate the semantics of the states of the motor cortex with the activation of certain muscles. But in case of the upstream systems the question seems much more difficult. One kind of test would be whether the model reproduces some well-known stimulus-reponse behaviour under a given, but fixed subset of local states. So far sharing some thoughts of a layman in neurocience. I wellcome any feedback from the experts. 

The answer to this question is given by the parable of the sun in section 508d ff. from Plato: The Republic. Like the sun makes all things visible and keeps everything alive, so the idea of the good makes all other ideas recognizable for the human mind. 

As far as I understand the whole passage chapter 2, 19ff. speaks about Atman, not about matter. E.g. see the parallel between Katha Upanishad 2,19 and Gita 2,19. The Gita says: 

The Kantian term trascendental means to refer to the conditions of the possibility of a science or of a priori knowledge. The term must not be confused with the term transcendent, which means to surmount our empirical experience. 

See the comment of Dave concerning contemporary followers of antique Greek gods. Quine's opinion concerning the predictive power of Homer's gods: Quine does not make any quantification of the predictive power of Homer's gods, notable he does not quantify the degree of their predictive power. He prefers physical theories to explain our expericence - but that's what everybody would expect him to do. And he states that both concepts physical object and Homer's gods are theoretical concepts. 

I presuppose the references to SEP for the definition of abductive reasoning. A typical example of abductive reasoning is to make a conjecture from the symptom of an disease to its possible causes. This kind of reasoning is formalized by the mathematical model of Bayesian nets. A Bayesian net has the possible causes and theirs symptoms as vertices and a directed edge from a cause to each of its symptoms. The edge is weighted with the probability that the cause induces the symptom. Due to the Bayesian formula one can invert the probabilities and compute the conditioned probability that a certain observed symptom is induced by a certain cause. Bayesian nets are used in diagnostics, in a medical as well as in a technical context, e.g. in the domain of automotive. 

Already the question about the existence of existence is based on a delicate linguistic expression: Primarily single objects exist. Everybody understands a sentence like: There exist people from Norway. But already the question, whether abstract concepts exist, and if yes, in which sense they exist, is debated. E.g., in which sense exist "humanity" or in which sense exist mathematical objects? I consider existence and non-existence an abstract concept, namely a property of possible objects. Then one can deal with the question of the existence of these two properties in alike fashion. Of course this approach does not answer the original question. But as stated above, the question has no generally accepted answer. For more information cf. the philosophical terms nominalism versus realism. 

According to the law of non-contradiction your proposition is false - just by formal reasons, independently from the content of the special A. 

The view changes when you consider the whole exponential function in one, namely exp: Real numbers ---> Real numbers, defined as exp(x):= e power x. Apparently that's a continous and even differentiable function defined for all real arguments. But even more: Without any problem you can extend the domain of definition to the set of complex numbers, e.g. by considering the power series expansion of the exponential function. Hence, what one considers plausible, depends on the level one has already attained in the field in question. I do not consider complex numbers artifically defined. And for me it is not necessary to legitimate complex exponentiation by reduction via exp(iz) = cos z + i sin z to trigonometric functions. I consider it a deep insight of Gauss that solely by introducing a single imaginary number 'i', complex numbers derive as z = x + iy and each polynomial gets as many zeros as the degree of the polynomial indicates. Mathematics is not self-evident. Because evidence always depends on the degree to which one is familiar with the subject and on the depth one has penetrated the given problem. Why mathematics fits to solve real-world problems, is still an open question, see Wigner's paper quoted in Alexis' comment. 

Part 4 of Nietzsche, Friedrich: Thus spoke Zarathustra contains a section entitled „The Higher Man“. Here Zarathustra addresses the higher men (paragraph 11): “Ye creating ones, ye higher men! One is only pregnant with one's own child.” 

An integer x is considered an even number when dividing x by 2 leaves rest = 0, it is considered an odd number number when x dividing by 2 leaves rest = 1. Now: 

A single microcosmic particle is suitably described by a quantum mechanical equation like Schroedinger equation or Dirac equation. The equation is a differential equation for the time development of the state function, in general termed psi-function. The time development is deterministic, but the state function is considered a probability. The collapse of the wave function is the brutal name for the fact, that observations on the mesocosmic level terminate the unitarian development of the state function and project the state function into one distinguished state, often belonging to a discrete set of possible states. This model (Copenhagen interpretation) solves the problem how to apply quantum mechanics, but it does not explain why nature acts according to these two incompatible descriptions. In the last decade the effect of decoherence seems to establish a smooth transition from the microcosmic to the mesocosmic description. Continous interactions of the particle with its environment reduce and finally erase the possibility of the state function to interfere with itself and to realize different possibilites. Apparently, this kind of interaction is not bound to the interaction with a human observer. Hence decoherence also holds for particles traveling through the interstellar space, which is not empty. For a gentle introduction to decoherence see the chapter "Decoherence and Quantum Reality", p. 208ff in Greene, Brian: The Fabric of Cosmos (2004). For a textbook with contributions from several experts see Giulini, D. et al.: Decoherence and the Appearance of a Classical World in Quantum Theory (1996). 

Translation due to Stephen Mitchell. Putting in parallel the verses of your post one recognizes three well known, concrete examples illustrating the general, but abstract claim in the end. Concerning the interpretation of the abstract claim the editors quote the following interpretation of Marc Watts: The strategic advantage of recognizing the value of space is not only practical, however, because the bowl, representing space, is also a metaphor for the vessel of consciousness, and what is true of a ceramic bowl is also true of the mind - it works best when empty. 

The title "Tractatus logico-philosophicus" indicates the strong affinity to logic. In my opinion Proposition 1 means that Wittgenstein considers the world - or better a logical model of the world - as the set of all true propositions. In the most simple case a compound proposition is a conjunction of component propositions. Wittgenstein assumes a decomposition into independent component propositions. A priori, each of these component propositions can be true or false, independent from each other. Apparently, if the compound proposition is true, i.e. it refers to a fact, then also each component proposition must be true, i.e. refers to a fact. And vice versa. 

Of course also philosophers are interested in the interpretation of quantum mechanics. But in general, there task is to collect and to survey the interpretations developed by physicists. E.g., see the book by the philosopher of science Esfeld, Michael: La philosophie des sciences. Une introduction (2009) Well known interpretations of QM have been developed by working physicists like Bohr, Heisenberg, Everett or Rovelli. I do not know about a non-physicist who developed a new and important interpretation of QM - even Hans Reichenbach is no counter example. All of them considered their interpretation part of their work in physics. 

Anthropocentrism of a statement or a theory means that the author takes the view point of human beings. A typical example are the first chapters of Book Genesis: God creates the world and in particular the sun, the moon and the earth in order to serve a particular need of mankind. A non-anthropocentric view is taken by today's cosmology which explains the world by general astrophysical laws, without any reference to human beings. When judging the anthropocentric view of a certain theory one can ask, whether this view point is induced by the object of study or by the author's prejudice and limitation. Accordingly I consider Aristotle's or Kant's anthropocentric view point, expressed in their political or moral writings, largely induced by the object of their investigations. The same holds true for many studies from the humanities. But even in the humanities it can open up a new horizon, to deliberately abandon the anthropocentric stance: Which similarities between human societies and animal societies exist? Which principles hold for both? 

I do not know the Enchiridion of Epictetus. All other books are readable also by a beginner in Philosophy. My personal choice and order from the named philosophers would be: 

Apparently O’Collins has an affinity to big words: 1) What does he mean by „a totally spiritual, non-spatial, non-temporal Being“? 2) Where does he know from that the concept from 1) refers to God? 3) Which God – Egyptian, Jewish, Greek, Roman, Hindu, etc. - does he mean in 2)? 4) Where does he know from that the God from 3) has created the world? 5) Where from does he know that the creation from 4) has been made out of nothing? I do not find the answer to these foregoing questions in O’Collins quote. But before these preliminary assumptions have not been confirmed in a positive way, I do not see much sense in searching for an answer: First the data, then the explanation of the data. Not the other way around. Questions alike to the question from your post are treated in courses on Christian theology, see the title Fundamental Theology. I problematize the question: The only totally spiritual, non-spatial, non-temporal beings I know, are ideas. But ideas are not agents in the physical world. At best, they motivate agents in the physical world. They themselves do not act physically. Hence I doubt already the premiss of the question. 

I do not see any similarity between Kant's noumenon, taken as the thing-in-itself, and the empty set from mathematical set theory. Kant and science in accordance with him hypothesize the existence of objects in the real world. According to a constructivist epistomology we do not have direct access to these objects (thing-in-itself). But that hypothesis is the easiest hypothesis explaining why we make sensual experiences. And why the latter serve as input to our cognitive information processing. In the field of mathematics you are free to create arbitrary ideas as long as they are free from inconsistencies. Mathematical concepts do not necessarily relate to the real world. The empty set is a clever concept from set theory. E.g., it is useful to define the intersection of two sets even when they are disjunct. Moreover the empty set is the basis of von Neumann's construction of natural numbers. Different from the things-in-themselves there exists only one empty set. I would not name neither the concept of the thing-in-itself nor the empty set a principle. Possibly you can explain a bit why you consider both similar regulative principles. 

The religious formula in question could be the view that a person will be accepted by God not because of his works but because of his belief. This view is expressed by the Christian apostle Paulus in several of his letters, e.g., Galatians 2.16, 3.10, Ephesians 2.8-9, Romans 4.4-6. Nietzsche applies the formula without its religious context. He does not propagate belief in God but belief in oneself. 

Parmenides is considered one of the most dark philosophers of the Pre-Socratics, while Hegel is considered one of the most dark German philosophers. Having said this I can only make a guess concerning the answers: ad 1. Fr. 6 does not support replacing "Nothing" by "Void". The result would be "There is no vacuum". But the context shows that the vacuum is not the topic of Parmenides. Also Fr. 6 does not talk about causal effects of existing things. Instead, Parmenides is reasoning either in the domain which today is named ontology or in the domain which is named logic. A much discussed interpretation of Fr. 6 and similar passages reads: Parmenides states as his basic alternative the tertium non datur: Either it is or it is not. If this statement is not taken in an ontological sense, but as a logical claim, then it expands to "Either a property holds or the property does not hold, there is no third possibility." This interpretation has been promoted by Ernst Heitsch, see his edition "Parmenides, München 1974 (in German)". Plato lived more than 2 generations after Parmenides. The Platonic dialogue "Sophistes" contains a discussion of Parmenides' basic alternative (Soph. 241d ff). Plato sets out to show that in a certain sense - contrary to Parmenides - also non-existent things exist and existing things do not exist. ad 2. Hegel explains that both being and nothing are indeterminable. He concludes that both are identical because they share that same negative property. I consider his reasoning exceedingly problematic. E.g., first he nominalizes an affirmative verb and the negation itself. Secondly, he compares both with respect to a property they do not have. And thirdly he concludes, that both are identical therefore. ad 3. I'm not able to compare two statements which both are unclear. 

Model 1 occurs in Hindu mythology and in loop quantum cosmology (Bojowald, Martin: Once Before Time: A Whole Story of the Universe. 2010). Model 2 occurs in the Jewish mythology It is also one of the cosmological standard models. Model 3 is one of the cosmological standard models. Ad 1. Hindu mythology considers the world as an infinite sequence of creation, existence, and destruction. The model is sometimes illustrated by the cosmic dance of Shiva. Differently, each of the three phases is attributed as a seprate task to the three main gods Brahma (creator), Vishnu (preserver) and Shiva (destroyer). Model 1 has been picked up as a hypothesis by the German philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche under the title „eternal recurrence” in central parts of his philosophy. Ad 2. In a religious the model is always combined with a personal creator. The model has been packed up by Christian mythology. In cosmology it is one of the favoured models since the investigation of the accelerated cosmological expansion. The latter is ascribed to the “dark energy”. Ad 3 and 4. I do not know a representative of this type of model. 

No law-book includes the right to break the law stipulated in the law code. But there may exist law codes on different levels of a hierachy. Here the law of one level may contradict the law from a different level. In general, law of a higher level breaks the law of the lower level. So far the principle of positive right. The situation becomes more complex when considering natural right, not fixed by a law code. 

The first attempts to explain the world around are not due to science, based on observation, experiment, and mathematics. The first attempts are speculation and metaphors taken from every-day experience. In Europe metaphysics started with Plato and notably with Aristotle’s lecture notes, later named “Metaphysics”. It is the attempt to find fundamental principles valid for all sciences. Science knows it boundaries. But human thinking likes to go beyond all boundaries, not only concerning questions, but also concerning answers. On the opposite, science accepts that today not all questions can be answered. Hence questions must be left open and answers must be postponed to future generations. Caveat: I expect that your position and my answers to your three questions will be criticized by several participants from the philosophical and religious fraction. But I will not anticipate their objections. :-)