Corrupted politicians that hoard cash inside Swiss bank or even in their home. Rent seekers that collaborate/lobby politicians that create monopoly rent seeking business with little to zero investment in innovation. Criminal syndicates, Various investment/hedge funds(e.g. retired funds) that took money from 1,2,3 execute speculation schemes. 

Only a surplus on demands will make things "valuable". So it is about the price level accepted by those who demands it, and the demands can be from essential needs to status show-off. If you read Netherland history, you will notice there is a period of non-existence luxury goods, due to the shape of religious culture that forbids show off. OTH, there is also terrible rent seeking like monopoly that make essential goods pricey. 

Subsidies used for dumping to further corner the market Cause monopoly to reject innovation to reduce production cost, since there is no incentive to do it 

Currently, the practice of economics is similar to weather broadcast: there is many technical limitations that you must overcome and choose the best tradeoff. It is possible to put intangible value into any economic model, but it is technically impossible at the moment to simulate the time, spatial and subject changes. IMHO, your idea of "economics values" is rather flawed. Economics itself is about human activities on trade. The term "values" is heavily diluted by the popular media and popularism association with monetary activities. Take Charles Dickens's "A Christmas Carol" as an example, the books change modern Europe/US society values about Christmas and associate it with altruism (and also Turkey). Those are "trades" that is impossible to measures. 

The deadweight loss of a monopoly is depends on the game changing competition demands, not the monopoly itself. The essence of the monopoly is always about its rent seeking nature to maximise it profit than investment on cost. Without a carrot and stick model, subsidy always increase deadweight loss: 

The argument will fall apart when you inspect it with common sense and simple terms. Tax is anything but "COST" to company. The argument is all about removing such "COST" and convert to "PROFIT GENERATING INVESTMENT". Sound great, but it is anything but playing with sentences. Let me explain why. Most people think investment is all about "putting money on create new stuff to generate profit", but there is a hidden investment in modern society : : education, utilities, road system, regulation, security, law enforcement , etc. Zero corporation tax advocate selectively skip cost on , they keep pretend infrastructure are pop up from nowhere and cost nothing. On the contrast, such infrastructure and bureaucratic are not free, even is not efficient, it is still cheaper than ANY corporation "invest" in such infrastructure. If all corporation exploit on the collective "infrastructure investment" to generate profits, but nobody pay "cost" (AKA TAX) , then who is going to pay for the such "investment"? In entrepreneurship, we call the cost that pay to use some other facilities as "rent", which is categorised "cost". OTH, Tax is anything but actually a "rent". Ironically, corporate tax are somewhat "generous" in a way that base on "profit". Argument may continue and say the "tax"(AKA rent) not justifiable and proportion to the facilities consume. I will say , we are not living in a perfect world. 

Actual inflation is about chain of effects, depends on the magnitude of money entering the market and how fast it is consumed by goods and services, according to the price accepted by the market, it is not about affordability nor rationality of individual. And impact of inflation is all about essential goods/services/rents price paid by the individual against their saving. In a market with limited choice (i.e. protection policy that curb alternative) and fix demands, suppliers that monopolize the market can increase the price anytime they want to a level that the market accept till they see a sales drop. The hypes price increase bubble will burst when alternative (cheaper and better due to increase of efficiency on production, or innovation) introduced to gain of share of the profit; or in worst scenario, the people income diminished when all their saving is depleted to acquire the required goods. Any country that suffered significant inflation impact, there is a significant roles play by government protectionism towards its cronies related to particular industries. This is proven by USA Quantitative Easing(QE) begin in year 2008, which sometimes is called "exporting USA inflation to third world country". Because US market is pretty open and competitive, there is little for the QE money able to play significant roles on rent seeking speculation. However, most third world country run by corrupted government with favourism is a easy target for such price rent seeking. When third world country start increase money supplies to cope for the "inflow hot money", those countries policies just promote speculation of price than help increase efficiency. (p/s: don't expect a neo-libralism "free market" is going to help those 3rd world country with corrupted institution.) 

Anyway, this is a not a answer for "success factor", merely "possible factor". Currently, there is not a single economist ideology able to bring a conclusive proven model. Most of the factors mentioned are not replicable due to variable in those details. 

I think you are looking at the wrong direction. Short selling only happens when agents in between guaranteed to be paid, where the commodity values are within a controllable margin. 1 Bitcoins can fluctuate more than 30% in a day, and the real world currency is subject to the bitcoin merchant payout cut. Due to bitcoin cartel like exchange medium, there is no incentive (and high risk) to perform short selling. 

In addition, influence factors such as inflation, hot money also come in play. For example, during economy bubbles, people don't mind paying extra $100. However, once the market shrink, you will face a huge retract of revenue. Worst still, the manufacturers need to served bank debt because they borrow money to expand the business. Even items like EDM ticket may jack up the price(due to annual scarcity) , it may risk of losing patrons in bad time; too profitable, it will attract competitor enter the market. 

In fact, currency doesn't need to be "approved" by any government. In fact, currency is just a trade medium, in some scenario, it becomes commodities, viable for speculation. A game like "Monopoly" already introduce its own currency. Players mutually agree on the currency "collection" and price on the market. Just imagine, if the game issue extra $200 to first player, I can assure that nobody going to play the game. Historically, there is worst market situation, where enclosed society controlled by monopolies may "enslaved to use something like Company scrip . 

Maintenance cost, e.g. electricity, replacement parts, cleanup/lubricants. Should you rent the machine? The cost of the machine in the 1 year time spend versus outsource the products. Or can you do otherwise, take others people outsource to make full use of the machine. Upgrade and obsolescent 

@VaddadiKartick : NEVER underestimated human being abilities to exploit the system, especially those with resources. The financial world already invent something like hedge funds, future trading, CDS, sub-prime loan. It is not difficult to invent "Assets future trading" , "assets hedge funds" if 100% tax writeoff is allowed. When USA implement tax credit transfer incentive, corporate already exploit the loophole of buying company to get tax credit. Acquisition no longer on the merit basis, but also base on exploitation of loophole. 

Simple : inflation. The model of create deficit budget to enact infrastructure to increase production that lead to higher tax collection to offset the deficit doesn't hold. Because there is no guarantee of return (no mater how long the term are). There is government that enacting infrastructure/spending on the wrong place. Corruption, grafting are norm in all government institution. By slowly supply more money into the system, it will dilute the value of interest served. And this the reason of why some country bonds are deems "junks", due to the inflation factor. If the production able to absorb the additional money(where people buy goods and services instead of hoarding it), then you will not see goods price increase. "Income growth" are ambiguous term. It is relative to inflation level. Imagine a country print trillions of notes and give them 10,000 to every of them, does this denote "income growth" or worst "GDP growth" ?(also imagine this money are given to cronies) 

Ironically, lower working hour to prevent immediate layoff works on the bureaucrat, e.g. many developing countries are using such strategy to prevent immediate cut down of the workforce due to automation task, cutting down of red tapes. However, this comes into expenses of tax payer money. Some countries even resort to printing money to support such policies(i.e. the infamous Zimbabwe). For developing countries, the "head count" subsidies are done by creating various grants for research and developments. But this depends on the socio-economy-knowledge structure, i.e. you cannot create a grant that one doesn't have enough knowledgeable personnel(with related knowledge on such fields) to move around. 

Amazon cloud platform(AWS) is Amazon real cash cow, publishing contents is anything but just leveraging its advantages on cloud usage and contents distribution. On the other hand, Netflix started as content publisher and online contents streaming. Bare in mind that, Netflix is using AWS as its digital distribution backbone. It is Amazon competitive pricing that cause Netflix decide to move their distribution channel over there. Overall, this is way out of the league of both economy model you just mentioned, because corporate-competitive co-exist. 

IMHO, details real world example falls under TL;DR; category. There is countless global example. A large company stock can be jack up by speculation. Say a company issues 10 millions stock with face values. If a willing buyer trade 100 stocks with , and subsequent buyer keep buying 100 stocks and jack it to , it doesn't mean the company "values" sudden shoot up from to . This WILL NOT create extra to the economy, nor to the money supplies. Without government money supplies and cheap loan rates, it is impossible to create such speculation. In addition, without increase money supplies, not hot money flow into a country, foreign exchange will always stay in a stabil level. Example of high stock values and insane inflation 

It is possible to define a clear CPI when you interconnect all the above factors, but information is not free and clear. At the moment, there is no good way to produce a reliable housing price index. 

There is no direct relationship between profit maximisation and cost reduction. A monopoly can set the profit as high when there is no competition, with little caring of the cost. In addition, policies incentive may even prevent cost reduction. Product obsolescence will also make cost reduction meaningless. However, capital and forecast will affect the desire of cost reduction.