Without a video of your form, really difficult to give you a straight answer. Assuming your form is on par, try what Derek mentioned. I tend to use some long soccer socks or thick, long socks so the bar doesn't rub to much against the shins. You can also try wrapping some type of padding around the bar where it meets your shins. 

If you having sticking points, do what Greg suggested. Working on getting the lower back stronger and overall core. Otherwise, you are just setting yourself up for disaster on that. Implement more heavy bar holds without straps and some specialized grip training. You can try wrapping a towel, squat pad or anything that can increase the thickness of the bar to get some good grip training in. 

Since you can do only a single pull-up, I would suggest more reps with some sort of pull-up progression. Some examples are: jumping pull-ups pullups with your feet on the ground in front of you, leaning backwards assisted pullups (from a machine at the gym, with a rubber band, or by tying a rope to a weight that goes over the bar) Finally, you might look into kipping pull-ups, which require a little bit of skill, but allow you to do more repetitions, and therefore improve your dead hang pull up as well. You can use the same sort of rep scheme that you would use for any other lifting exercise. Dead lifts and lat pull-downs may help as well, but the above will probably be more effective. 

If you need to improve off the floor, rack pulls definitely help when you set the height just below the knee. Using chains, bands & other tools can definitely help as well. As Berin mentioned, taking a video would definitely give some more visual as to how you are pulling. 

This is a matter of personal preference but I train without a belt on lighter sets and use one on heavier sets. Most lifters tend to use belts all the time, everytime. That ends up lessening core strength due to over-reliance on the belt. If your core is weak, I would advise to train without it and start implementing more core work to build up a stronger base. 

I know that the key to success in weight training is consistency and regime: never skipping a workout and so on. I manage to be consistent sometimes, sometimes not (and these tend to be periods of 4-6 months). When the real life breaks the balance and consistency, I don't manage to be get to the gym for 1.5 hours 3 times a week, sometimes it's two times a week with 5 day interval, sometimes skipping a week and so on. While it's obvious that any really good results can't be produced during such periods, what could be the best approach to the training in such circumstances? Focusing on few base movements like squat and press and doing all of them each time? Or trying to do as much different exercises as possible for less sets? I'm not looking for a definite silver-bullet solution, but what are the options which make sense? Thank you all. 

Crossfit seeks to increase fitness in many domains simultaneously. This includes training different metabolic pathways and increasing overall strength and agility. Crossfitters would say that an elite marathoner who can not lift an average amount of weight is not really fit. Similarly, an elite weightlifter who has trouble with a 5k is also not fit. Although it isn't mentioned as much these days, one of the driving ideas behind crossfit was how to get as fit as possible with the least amount of work. By changing the workouts constantly, crossfit hopes to gain from physical adaptation before you become really good at something, your body is more efficient at it, and it takes more time to make smaller gains. Crossfit tends to turn people into very good generalists who can do well in most situations. Crossfit is not a methodology which creates elite athletes in a particular discipline by itself (though it is used by olympic rowers, UFC competitors, NFL athletes, and others) because it is not specific. But it does help provide a very strong base to build upon for practically any sport. There is not an official template on how to do crossfit, but an average 1 hour class might be made up of 30 minutes of focused strength work (squats, dead lift, press, olympic lifting), followed by a metabolic conditioning workout that combines multiple types of lower weight work. The strength portion of the workout can follow methodologies such as Wendler 5-3-1 or West Side barbell. Sets and reps at my gym might be 3x5@80%, 3x3@85%, or 5x1@90% with timed rest between sets. The metabolic conditioning workouts will range in length from 2 minute sprints to 60+ minute endurance workouts, which intentionally train different metabolic pathways and different aspects of muscular strength, power and endurance. These are timed workouts which are compared for improvement by either the increase in weight used, the number of reps performed, or the time to completion. Some classic workouts include the couplet 21-15-9 95lbs thrusters/pullups, 3 rounds of Run 400m/21 kettlebell swings/12 pullups, 1 mile run/100 pullups/200 push-ups/300 squats/1 mile run. Good crossfit coaches keep up with current exercise research and use cycles to build a base, increase strength, increase speed, and deload. This is both a strength and a weakness of crossfit; because coaches have control over methodology, they can adapt and improve, but bad coaches can also do a poor job with programming. 

When fat is burned, it just goes away. What could be hanging out is excessive skin that is left if you lose fat very fast and/or have skin elasticity issues, but it's not your case. The effect of "hanging out" on 2nd picture could be explained by different level of tension in you ABS, the position that you would feel as "relaxed" is nonetheless different depending on how did you exercise lately, what time of day it is, how much did you eat etc. As it was said in previous answer, belly is usually the last thing to go away. How much did your weight reduce? You should probably just give it some more time. 

Agree 100% on the answers above. Number one issue I definitely face is sweating palms & hands in general. This can definitely put your grip in a compromised situation when you are looking to pull an illusive 500 lb deadlift. One thing to also implement as mentioned already is to avoid straps. Straps limit your grip strength if you become to over-reliant on them. Start incorporating more grip training like using those nutcracker devices, heavy farmer walks and deadlifts without straps, pull-up bar hangs and also plate pinches. You can use thicker bars or if your gym doesn't have one, use those squat pads around the bar or even a towel. Fat gripz is another tool which pretty much accomplishes the same thing. 

Weight gain and loss are controlled by hormones. Eating more does not cause children to grow, the fact that children are growing causes them to eat more. You can stunt the growth be restricting the food of a growing child, but first the body will try to compensate by lowering metabolism, causing the child to feel tired and move less, and increase their hunger, making the child want to eat more. Adults are still affected by hormones. In particular, insulin tells the body to store fat. Most people understand that if you eat a lot of carbohydrates, blood sugar will go up, which stimulates insulin, which leads to fat storage (and more hunger). If you eat carbohydrate and try to restrict calories, the body will respond by making you hungry and depressing your metabolism. Animal protein stimulates insulin directly without increasing blood sugar. This can potentially cause you to store fat even when you are trying (and failing because your body is preventing you from doing so) to be in a calorie deficit. This is probably what people were talking about with meat causing weight gain. For most people without metabolic problems, protein is satiating and does not stimulate insulin enough to be a problem. However, for someone who is obese and has insulin resistance, eating too much protein can stimulate enough insulin to prevent weight loss or even cause weight gain. That is where the low carb, high fat (LCHF) diet comes in. It lowers carb, obviously, but also keeps protein at a low level. There is more that happens with ketosis, but that's out of scope here. While it may be true strictly speaking that the weight you gain or lose is calories in minus calories out, your body regulates both input and output in ways you just don't have mental control over, and which is very affected by the foods you eat. If a calorie is a calorie, then eating ice cream is the same as eating broccoli is the same as eating tire rubber. We all know intuitively that is not the case, and your body does too. Trying to defeat your body's hormonal system with self-control is a losing proposition for most people. It makes much more sense to understand that what you eat (and when) can effect your hormones in ways that can make your goals easier or harder to achieve. 

I'm currently doing 3x week strength training using New Rules of Lifting: Supercharged workouts which promote full body training approach. My plan is to add running training to it in order to improve cardiovascular endurance, lack of which I feel both in daily activity and during strength workouts. Having a strength training as a first priority, question is how to combine both. Some of my thoughts follow, I would appreciate your help to sort things out. At the very first stage (first 2-3 weeks, probably), running workouts will probably look more like learning to run rather than any serious load that could affect other training, so I suppose that I could keep 3 strength workouts per week and combine them with 3 short (15-20 minute max) running workouts. Is it better to have 6 days of trainings, with just one type of activity at each day, or to have two workouts per day sometimes in order to get more days of rest? At some point, I suppose, running could start to affect the recovery between strength workouts and more options arise: 

Soreness is a symptom, rather than the risk itself. One possible consequence of going too hard before your body is prepared is Rhabdomyolysis, where damaged muscle enters the blood stream. Although it is rare, it can be life threatening. Preventing it includes lowering weight, as you have done, lowering volume, and reducing intensity to start. You probably aren't experiencing rhabdo, but you should probably slow down and reduce volume until you understand the current condition of your body better. 

If you have access to cable pulls, you can do one arm cable pulls from overhead all the way down to your side, simulating the full muscle-up movement (you may need to sit). This is a great option because it allows the same sort of progressions you would use with other weightlifting, such as 5 sets of 5, rather than trying the max effort it takes most people to do a single muscle-up. By increasing the weight over time, combined with the false grip described in many other places, you will be able to build to a "strict" muscle up with no swing. Strength is not necessary though, for kipping muscle up, given the proper technique. When you train on the rings, the purpose of the swing is to raise your center of mass before rotating around it. If you can swing high enough (hips to the hands) and time your rotation correctly (the kip), you can raise yourself to the top of the rings almost effortlessly. Combining some strength with a decent kip is your best bet rather than having either part be flawless. 

Keep full body strength workouts but reduce load to 2x per week, alternate with 2-3 running workouts with higher intensity than on first stage; Keep strength workouts at 3x per week, but change to lower/upper body split - train legs 1x per week and upper body 2x per week - should give legs a chance to recover better and compensate the load on upper body; Leave strength training unchanged but have less running workouts than on first stage - 1-2 per week but with higher intensity. 

Obviously, all these options are legit and I should probably try them all, but I'd like to receive some feedback on how this works if someone has tried it, or some other options that I could use, or, also appreciated, some advice on what I definitely should not do.