Rainfall in Banff/Lake Louise is pretty low in September. Thunderstorms are much rarer in the Canadian Rockies than in the rest of Canada. I've lived in Banff for six years and there have only been thunderstorms three times in that period. That said, avoid high mountain-exposure in the event of a thunderstorm. It's pretty much guaranteed to snow at least once in September, especially at altitude. It never stays though, usually either a dusting or a few centimetres that melt within 48 hrs. I've seen it happen in the first week of Sept and be 20c two weeks later. 

I can only speak having done alpine mountaineering in the 10,000ft range, but I would expect it to be doubly important in your case. 

At the federal level your best bet is either Parks Canada or the Canadian Forest Service, which is part of Natural Resources Canada, which also has tons of other relevant areas such as maps and map data. At the provincial level there is a whole gamut of environment, forestry and fishery departments. 

I enjoy being alone, but I'll bring a book and some music for when I'm in my tent. You'll definitely get the "gee I wish someone was here to see this with me" moments, but you also get to avoid waiting or being waited upon by others. Setting your own pace is a great way to get to know yourself. If you get hurt badly I'm guessing being alone makes things a great deal less enjoyable. Stronger in that you know you've done it, I suppose. I'll tell you this much, last time I was 3 days in the backcountry without seeing a soul and when it was time to eat I was scared of bears and there was nothing I could put my back too, so I just sat there, ate, and tried not to be too paranoid about things, well that was special. 

The boots remain stiff, but the liner inside and the footbed all adjust to your feet. You can definitely get away with not breaking them in, but if you're going to be wearing them for a prolonged period of time the first time you use them you might consider breaking them in a bit or bringing along some second-skin in case you encounter hot spots. 

Final thought: don't wait until a rip happens to discover whether your technique is viable, set aside some time at your staging camp to test out which techniques work best. 

The best whistle is one you don't forget. The last two packs I've had included whistles built right into the chest strap clip. 

Granite, marble and jade are all common stones used for mortar/pestle combinations. There are probably many other stones that are safe, but you want to avoid the following: 

I use a down sweater in a stuff sack. It means one less thing to carry, and the down has more loft/comfort than using clothing in a stuff sack. A lot of sleeping bag liner carriers also work as pillow cases by having fleece on one side. 

Go for a tent without a floor. High traffic causes wear and tear and you're likely not going to expect people to take off their shoes as they come and go, spillage becomes less of a problem, and putting down chairs and tables doesn't risk tearing the floor either. 

Small punctures and tears: use a cold weather tape such as Echo All Weather Repair tape which can still form an adhesive bond in -30°C. Apply it to both sides of the tear. Don't bring the whole role, instead bring several metres rolled onto itself or wrapped around something that can easily placed within your coat to warm up if necessary. Larger tears: Either bring a metre square piece of material set aside for repairs, probably the same material as the fly, or if weight is your primary concern have a strategy where you can repurpose something you've already got on hand such as the top portion of your bivvy sac, the cover of your sled, or a goretex shell. Cold weather tape could again be used to seal the edges and the rip, but you'll want a more permanent bonding agent that adheres in cold temperatures and remains flexible. Look for silicone glues which are rated to -30°C or lower. 

I've gone 3 days with eggs in the backcountry but I live in the Rockies where it stays cool in the shade and night. I've been told if you keep a few eggs in a tin of flour that they'll keep for a week. 

After a month my beard got long enough that it started catching liquid in it the same way a rag might, so as much as I thought I'd escape the mundane task of grooming, I still have to trim my upper lip, usually on a weekly basis. 

Having said all that, the best time for conditions, at least for Banff/Jasper is the last 2-3 weeks of August. It's when all the alpine flowers are blooming, it's warm at day and at night, and precipitation levels are at their lowest. 

Depending on the park there may be a woodpile next to the kitchen. Food storage lockers are also dependant on the park and the wild life situation (e.g. bears, racoons), and are more likely to be found at backcountry or walk-in campsites. The kitchens themselves are open concept, usually about 10m X 5m in size with a wall that's about 1.5m high and then open space until the roof, which means a lateral wind will blow into the kitchen. This is to stop people from sleeping in them and to avoid smoke problems (a lot of people don't know how to work a wood stove). 

I use alcohol based napkins (aka wet-naps/handy-wipes). They are individually packaged, light in a cinch, come free with a lot of fast food (fried chicken, ribs, etc.) and the packaging is usually pretty robust a protecting the contents from being compromised. I also use them for cleaning my hands, face and pits in the field. 

If you want to store your hiking poles on the outside of your pack I find a carabiner works quite well as a stirrup for holding the lower parts of the poles. I also put a lot of my loose items on one in the top pouch of my pack including, headlamp, lighter (on a keychain ring), multi-tool, flashlight, keys, etc. Easier to add/remove items than on those little plastic clips, and less likely to break. 

This allows each team to further break down responsibilities (you do salad, I'll do dessert) but more importantly it creates the conditions for a calorie complete meal (ever have a team bring some instant soup and say that's supper after a long day?), it offers variety for the picky eater and eliminates the risk that a 1 dish meal fails (burnt, missing ingredients/fuel, over salted, poor cooking conditions, etc.) which would leave everyone hungry. One of the other crews volunteers to do dishes/cleanup afterwards. The team that cooked the meal packs out the leftovers/garbage, putting better emphasis on portion control. 

The American Alpine Club and the Alpine Club of Canada each have local sections that offer regular skills courses in ropes, weather, orienteering (map, compass, GPS), climbing, mountaineering, avalanche safety, glacier travel, backcountry cooking, ski touring, how to lead groups, and more. Membership is usually very affordable (around $50 a year) and many courses are free at the section level. 

I've been testing these for about two years now and I'd say it's close to 100% accurate (tested in Canadian Rockies but the original source was not location specific). It's gotten to the point where I see clouds in photos and right away predict the weather. It can't be unseen! 

Nordegg has a via ferrata that was set up by COE, the owner Mike Adolph "...recommends anyone using the via ferrata to do so through a guide, although if a climber shows up with a helmet and the correct harness and clips, they could go solo." Mt. Nimbus, BC has a via ferrata run by CMH. CMH says that "while the public could, in theory, access Mt Nimbus, it would be difficult." CMH also runs a via ferrata in Bugaboos Provincial Park at Trundle Ridge, which in theory is accessible to anyone, but good luck finding it without a guide (and a helicopter). 

If the snow is thigh-high, then you should be either using touring skis or snowshoes to "float" over the snow. You'll expend way less energy. Seriously, I can cover probably 10x-50x the distance (or more) with alpine touring gear or snowshoes in the same amount of time as someone without, and that's regardless of the angle of slope. Retracing your trail only matters if there is only "one safe way" through a route. Event then, it's probably not worth it. The beauty of snow is that you can create an optimal trail each time, so perhaps you're doing large switchbacks as you ascend, and then something much more aggressive when descending. If there is high wind then the trail is going to be lost and you'll spend more time looking for it than simply blazing a new trail. If you want a secret for finding trails in the snow: bring a dog. I've travelled in 12ft deep snow where the dog was able to find the trail underneath with no hassle. I rarely use the same trail descending in snow that I use when ascending. 30 degree slopes at 20,000+ altitude reeks of avalanche danger, crevasse danger, and exposure danger. I assume you're travelling in a group, that you've all taken AST (avalanche safety training), are all wearing beacons, shovels and probes, have a certified guide with you who knows how to read terrain for avalanche danger, is geared to extract you (e.g. has a satellite phone, a 1st aid sled in his pack) and that you are all tied in together?