Psychology profile - I remember when looking for my first job out of university, that some HR people may spend some time collecting enough information to give a profile of who I am, how I think and where I would fit into things. This included the questions like, "What kind of tree would you be?" and "What is the greatest challenge you ever overcame in your life?" among others. Multiple technical interviews - Other times there may separate hour long interviews with one at the beginning and end along with a few in the middle just to have people review my technical skills. In this case, I may be coding a priority queue or doing basic tree traversals on a whiteboard. This is about seeing how well can one communicate even on something as simple as FizzBuzz. 

The key is where do you want to be in the organization chart and how does it look already? Some spots may have you be a mentor, some may be more for a mentee, and others can be a position of power in a sense. 

I've seen the advice numerous times to bring a notebook with you. This is where you could put bullet points of what you want to cover, ideas to cram into your head, or other stuff to remember to mention in answering some questions as well as your own questions for the interviewer. You could write out your background's main points, some story ideas, etc. I'm not sure I'd tell the interviewer that, "Hey, I brought this cheat sheet with me and wanted to tell you about it," as that would be at a minimum questionable and at worst just silly since it isn't likely to be that impressive. 

Without knowing the fields, this is somewhat hard to answer but here is one way you could frame this: "I decided that I wanted to this other field so I applied for this job and tried it out. I learned that the field is quite different from what I had expected in this case and decided to go back to my initial field." The idea here is to consider framing why you made the shift in the first place. If you can state that you were wanting to try something out, then it may be a bit easier to justify as it wasn't a fit and that is why it didn't work out. Alternatively, you could consider a story about why you moved to your current location and thus you had to start over and thought the initial field is a better fit for you personally. Focus on which works for you rather than making either company look bad here. 

If you do talk to the directors about the new guy, be prepared for things to get spread around. I can question if you can look at this from the new guy's perspective where someone comes in late and it is just seen as fine. While you say that you know being late is wrong, do you see how the new guy without knowing your situation may see things differently and want to not stay in the dark? Does the new sales guy have an equity stake in the company that would make him part of the management that could be how he'd claim a right to know about your medical condition that is being accommodated? That would be another point here. While there may be human rights councils or labor boards in your area where you could try to file a complaint, I'd be careful about how much of your past would have to be disclosed and if there were procedural points that you bypassed here. I'd suggest leaving quietly is likely your best option at this point. 

What is the reputation of this firm? Would they want an exclusive contract or could you use other recruiters? How much work do they provide in terms of interview preparation? There is still work to do here as different firms work in different ways and I'd say if you don't do your homework here then you may get burned. Are you to search through their job board to find positions that work for you or will they tell you what works well? While I work in IT I have seen recruiters of each type here. For others, consider what are the kinds of roles you want to have as there are more than a few different areas in financial services: 

While you could have coffee or other food and drink engagements, I'd focus more on the conversation, action items and other stuff to deepen the relationship. Perhaps you could ask him for little things to do to show your skills? Perhaps you could offer assistance on things to demonstrate your value? 

Depending on how you want to define correct and hold, probably. 1 month should imply that if you resign on day X of a month, then you work until the X of the next month with a few exceptions, e.g. if you resigned on January 30th then there isn't a February 30th though one could work out roughly what is 30 days later. Also, don't forget you don't state what jurisdiction you live and this is a global site as I'm in Calgary, Alberta, Canada for what it is worth. Their Math would be the 17th of August plus one month is the 17th of September while you have the expectation that 4 weeks would be the equivalent but that isn't quite true. 12 months at 4 weeks a month would imply 48 weeks to a year which isn't correct. Thus, you are ignoring the additional days that should be added here as unless you resigned in February there will be extra days to factor here. 

Other than tuning it out, not really as you don't know what is going on with the other end which is something to consider here. 

If one attends trade shows or conferences, you are representing the company on the whole trip. Thus, if one is bad mouthing an employer this could reflect quite poorly on the company which may give the company cause to sue the person for ruining future business prospects. This would include the hotel, transportation to the event, and meals that may be done while one is known for being from "that company". If there is a group from the office that goes out for lunch together, this could also be a workplace situation as business may be discussed or the group could be known as coming from a specific workplace. 

They want to know how to categorize you amongst all the other people that they have on file. Are you an intermediate developer with technologies X, Y and Z? Are you wanting to be a manager or an architect next? These are questions that only get answered by asking them directly after reading the resume. 

Which of these do you want and for the first 2, do you have people in mind that you'd propose go instead? Otherwise, I question what is the point of telling the story here as I could expect some managers to respond with a, "What do you want me to do about it?" and that is the big question you have to be prepared to answer here to my mind. I'd also question whether or not you'd be prepared to support your story as your manager may ask for proof so that you aren't the one spreading gossip and rumours here which this could look like from the outside. There is a, "Why are you bringing this up now?" question where is the event a big enough deal that you'd have concerns about the other person representing the company? Why wouldn't you have come forward sooner? There are lots of questions that could be asked and thus this may seem like an interrogation if the can of worms is opened. 

The question is how specific do you demonstrate meeting the requirements for the position. The cover letter lets you show how your background and skills fit the role well without adding extra stuff that may be the case with a resume that may contain a few other bits of information. 

There can be the whiteboard programming question that while the problem could be as simple as reversing a string, the key is your ability to communicate how are solving this, how are you catching mistakes, how are you clarifying requirements and other things that could be the minefield that these can be at times. In the case of reversing a string, if the string is empty then what does your code do? If the string is odd length, does this work? What about even length? Does it do it in place or do you allocate new strings each time? There will likely also be various behavioral questions I'd suspect. "Tell me about a time when...." questions that show how you handle conflict, failure and other things that can help separate you from others. At the same time, there can also be the question of what questions do you bring into the interview to show that you've done some work to know the company and want this job? 

First, let's back up on what is meant by "customer." To my mind, this is anyone using the products and services that my team provides to others. If I'm in the IT department that works on internal applications, I still have customers that are the users of the system. This could be the general public or fellow employees of the company. You never know who will have some customer facing situation. For example, there may be times where even though I'm in the IT department, I still have to talk to customers or other individuals with important relationships to the company and explain what is being done to fix an issue. Let's take your list and consider when could these happen within a team within an IT department that isn't expected to often deal with individuals outside of the company: 

First of all, there is something to be said for different kinds of learning. If I'm learning the state capitals of New England, I'm pretty sure I don't need to visit each one to remember them. Thus, beware of what context you have as some information can be learned without any hands-on stuff. Second, how much experience are you claiming to have with these skills and technologies is going to be the important point. Do you have a couple of weeks, a couple of months or a couple of years? Each is a different threshold as there is something to be said for something you explored but ultimately didn't use and something that you used for a number of years. If you recently learned the technology, how are you not a newbie to the technology? Seriously consider how you'd want to answer the question as if you were exposed to it for a couple of weeks, I'm pretty sure you'd still be relatively inexperienced with it unless you are working 16 hour days everyday using it all the time. 

Consider what specific changes do you want in your work environment. The idea here is that you may tell your boss you have social anxiety and his response may be something like, "So what?" as it doesn't tell him what changes you want to accommodate you. Do you want to be left alone most of the time? Do you want to be able to leave if things get a bit tense? The history of your condition isn't that important here to my mind. What is important is to communicate going forward that this is what you have, here is what you may need, and what kind of arrangements can be made. Think more of the future and less of the past. Scheduling a meeting with your boss would be a good idea once you've finished the first suggestion. If your employer is large enough, there may well be people in HR that may be useful to know in terms of handling the changes and handling possible blow back that may happen. 

When you say "you do exactly as he says", is that to denote that you blindly follow orders and follow things to the letter? As an example, if someone told me to take care of their cat for a couple of weeks, would you think this meant: 

For very specialized jobs, I'd say yes though this is worth understanding that the specialization here means that you are looking at what a rather small percentage of people would have. A .Net Developer may be sufficiently common, however someone that can build graphics, build games in XNA, develop in .Net and handle all the security of things would be a bit more specialized. 

Communicate, accept that you will make mistakes but this is part of learning. After all, were you the kid that crawled, walked and ran without ever falling down? Chances are you did fall but either don't remember or don't want to remember them I suspect. 

Because if the receptionist is away for a few days, someone may be called in to take over for that time period. Do you have a solution for what a company should do when the receptionist wants to take her week long vacation and everyone else is already busy with projects? Note that receptionist here is just a specific example. There can be others where temporary workers may be used on short-term placements because something has to get done that may not last more than a few weeks. 

For somewhat documented, I'd consider updating the documentation and adding more checks that may be useful for the important stuff. In a way this is similar to people that would suggest waiting a handful of seconds before proofreading an e-mail you want to send so that it doesn't have typos in it that can be a useful tip in some cases. 

What are the labor laws of your jurisdiction and are there unions that already exist that may assist in forming a new union? What working conditions are the cause of the fight to form a union rather than remain individual workers? What are the barriers to entry for replacement workers in this field? If the barrier is sufficiently low, a union may not work as unemployed people may come in to take over the jobs.