People have an interest in keeping their interests at the forefront of society's priorities, and these people aren't going to be alive in 500 years, so what do they care? 

Nails -- These were hard to make -- A box of 5000 would be a good bribe for certain groups, especially smiths for shoeing horses (although this may require specialty nails) Nail usage in the middle ages 

Something that might be considered -- Slightly improper reassembly -- On the order of a few cells per transport would die because something wasn't put back where it was supposed to be. I might not notice it on my test subjects, say, an apple or a squirrel. I might not even notice it past human trials. This wouldn't really affect regular cells, most of them get replaced fairly quickly; however brain cells don't. If I transported to work every day for forty years though, my brain might be ever so slightly less robust than it would have been otherwise. You can scale the inaccuracy if you so desire. 

The count down is to give cinematic tension. That's all. I can see that if the self destruct was not instant (like bombs planted throughout the ship) that the power plant destabilization might, on it's own, trigger warnings. Also, if it is an instant destruction device, you may wish to give your crew time to evacuate. Otherwise, it is like putting an LED timer on a bomb. Who, other than an infantile, grandstanding moron with masochistic tendencies, would let people know how long they have to defuse a bomb? If I ever had a character put a visible timer on a bomb, I'd have the bomb go off when there was still 12 minutes and 34 seconds left on the timer. 

Politics. My answer is similar to Dunk's comment to Red Sonja's answer. I think that RedSonja's answer is plausible on a national level but not on a global level. This answer also has similarities to David Fass's BLS answer and o.m.'s educational reforms would help as well. Stagnation is generally sought by those already in power. It helps them keep what they already have. Change is always dangerous for those in power. Look at most eras of world history and you will see that the powerful generally seek to maintain the status quo. The idea of "fairness" spreads throughout the world. No one is allowed to receive more than anyone else no matter how much they work because it isn't fair that someone has a bigger TV than his neighbor just because he worked harder. This is implemented through several methods: 

Society would be completely utterly, unimaginably different No surprise there, but it can't be stressed enough. It's not just that crime wouldn't exist as we know it or that people wouldn't know how to lie, most of our social conventions would never have arisen and the species would have developed along completely different lines. Let's take a few of the implications of this power and the effects they might have had when humanity had just left the trees for the savannahs and started spreading. Humanity would be extremely violent... or peaceful Competition for resources would still be real. But now, human tribes know exactly what their neighbors have and where they are hiding it. Confrontations would be frequent and go roughly like this: The group leaders invade each other's minds and size up their relative strengths as well as desires. They zoom in on a conclusion, aided by their awareness of the counterpart's same process. Within seconds or minutes, they know whether there will be a fight or tribute will be given. The weaker gives tribute, tries to defend itself or runs, depending on how murderous or forgiving the stronger leader's intentions are. Ironically, the most violent and the meekest of groups survive. The latter being so convinced of their weakness that they hold no hostile intentions anymore. Eventually, one violent group will exterminate all other violent groups and enslave the meek. Within that group, the violence will become highly ritualized. While it would be in a leader's interest to kill any youths that hold ambitions towards his position, this is easily detected by the other adults and prevented or only allowed in ritual duels/competitions after the youth comes of age. (Groups that don't do this will become weak and die out) Slaves that have any hostile intentions are killed without a second thought, leading to selective breeding of a low-testosterone passive subspecies of humans that is predisposed to obey. As nations of strongmen grow and encounter others, they pursue the same bloody strategy, but leave the slaves untouched as they offer only obedience to whoever is in control. Advancement of knowledge and science would be dizzying "Fire warm, fire good! How Grognak make fire without thunder!?! ... Oh, that good way." If one human thought of an idea or invention (and survived), any other human focusing on the same problem would be able to access the first's knowledge and experiences. Essentially, humans would have an always-on Stack Exchange available. This would accelerate the development of technology immensely. On top of that, curious minds could visit each other regardless of location, means or age. Philosophers and scientists would be able to call on all of human experience to refine their theories. Children (from the moment they learn to control this ability) would learn from elders who guide them through memories to learn things by complete immersion. Ironically, the ones to develop the furthest from this would likely be the slaves. While forced to work all their lives, their minds would be free. They would also be the most disposed to absorbing other people's thinking and would survive wars among the strongmen, just getting a new master now and then. Much earlier than in our world, weapons technology would come to the point of mutually assured destruction. The difference is that all sides will know exactly what the others are capable of and willing to do. This will mean world peace from that moment on, or the destruction of most of the world if one side has the advantage. The endgame If humanity survives that point, it settles into a stable situation, with the dominant strongmen engaging in endless rivalry and competitions to gain prestige and mates, while the submissive meeks avoid all that and spend their day jobs dreaming of cool new technologies. Attempts to overthrow the status quo never make it past the intention stage. Congratulations, you have created the world of Jocks and Nerds! 

You can't without losing the battleground. You have to make the battleground lethal through chemicals or radiation (anything that produces continuing lethal damage). That way they can die and respawn continuously. Eventually, the enemy will stop sending troops into your area. So, they would just go around unless you completely surround your self with a thick band of lethal land. I don't know if I would consider that a win. 

They would give no advantage but they also wouldn't cause any significant disadvantage. So, there would be no survival pressure against them if they showed up. If they were considered fashionable, eventually the wealthy and powerful would all have pointed ears. 

You would need another 2 solar masses since the minimum size for a neutron star to collapse into a black hole is about 3 solar masses (2.7 to 3.2 solar masses as far as I have seen). The density of the potato isn't the issue, just the mass. The main problem that I can see is that you would have to act fast. As the potatoes burn up, they will be "poisoning" the Sun with carbon. When the ratio gets high enough, the carbon will get in the way of too many hydrogen or helium collisions. The might lead to a premature death of the Sun. 

Lets assume you are travelling at an appreciable fraction of C. Chances are you have some sort of shielding so the front of your ship (and then the front of you) doesn't get abraded away by the interstellar medium. Could you figure out some sort of measurement device that uses the activity of that shield? Could you then combine that with a known density of the interstellar medium? 

Reread your story, and it sounds a lot like the climate debate, which is obstructed by approximately 1/2 of the United States. With such a "far off" and possibly "based in science fiction" problem, you're not gonna get any action. 

If you're working in a high radiation environment, it's likely that there is going to be strong EM interference. While we commonly think of radioactive waste giving off Ionizing radiation, they also give off other types of radiation as well (RTG's rely on this). There may just be too much interference in the environment that these robots exist to rely on radio communication. 

I'm gonna say it wouldn't happen, at least on the computational level. While a doctor, jeweler (for making the scalpel, needle, etc), geochemist (for mining and refining the materials needed by the jeweler), microbiologist (for penicillin to fight infections) and textile factory worker (Where do you think you get the threads for stitches?) may be able to get together to make a Kidney transplant happen, computers would be way more complicated. Every CS college grad at least in some way understand Turing machines and bit-wise operations, but the entire computer science industry is standing on the shoulders of giants. If you got the right group of highly advanced specialists (Manufacturing, hyper-mathematics, programmers, system designers), it could be done, but if you just took an average sampling of people, I'd be highly incredulous if you said you got the right people to build a computer. 

A common language would be based on the language of either the historically dominant people or the most expansive and trade-oriented people. Depending on the extent of the contact between all peoples involved it might grow into a simple trade language only used for traveling and trading, or a complete one usable in every facet of daily life. With slow travel and no mass media, the odds of a common language being spoken by every random villager is very low in a medieval type world, as there just isn't that much contact outside one's village. Along trade routes and especially in cities with mixed populations, the common language would be more well-known. For people to know a second language, the following need to be true: 

In a nutshell: You carefully construct a public "you" for whom all of those ventures make sense. From hobbies/passions to defining moments, you engineer the story of "you". Buying into Tech: it's your passion! Fortunately for you, Silicon Valley has brought the world a string of high-profile tech billionaires that sink their money into ambitious projects out of passion. All those private space companies are a great example, and education is in the news all the time at the moment, but don't discount the forays into humanitarian aid, disease eradication efforts, etc. Use this as your reason to get into advanced tech beyond the robotics/automation/communication that make sense for your business already. Think back to what inspired you when you grew up, and tweak that story to fit your target tech. Practice speaking about this with your most trusted advisors, until it sounds natural and you can express the feeling (think of your real invention/inspiration and you'll radiate that passion). Buying into PR/Lobbying: you had a defining moment! This is the hardest one, as you need to plan, prepare and execute one or more events in your life, without that being detected when reporters inevitably start digging into your life and background. You'll need some tragic event that made "you" feel it could have been prevented if only some law/policy/public opinion were different. "You" then set out to make that change by hiring a PR Company etc. If something tragic already happened in your personal life that fits the bill, make full use of that. Uncle got shot in a robbery? Sick parent got bankrupted by hospital bills? A friend got assaulted because of their (...)? Of course, odds are that nothing quite so useful happened... yet. Time to prepare something of your own then. 

If technology developed alongside magic, I can see a world where Insulars and Mages coexist. In this case, magic just provides alternative solutions to problems (need to get somewhere: fly or drive; need to hurt someone from a distance: zap with spell or shoot with gun). In this case magic can make quick, one off changes to the world but would not benefit from economies of scale. You might be able to summon an item but summoning 100,000 items would be harder than tooling a factory to produce them. Unless Mages are prevented from using technology, Insulars are going to have a distinct disadvantage. If a Mage can carry a gun, the Insular isn't much more of a threat than a Mundane. Insulars would have to relay on the slower healing times of real medicine. However, Insulars would make great cops and first responders. If some idiot Mage summoned demon, send in the Insulars. If some mage is growing senile, give them an Insular caregiver (who will not get turned into a toad). 

I think that the tetanus and strychnine are the best. However, I thought that I'd point out another possibility. It's so odd that I wouldn't have believed it if I hadn't had a landlord with this condition. Something causes his muscles (when he is under stress) to absorb all of the potassium in his blood. This causes all of his muscles to constrict, paralyzing him. When I stayed there, I had a key to his apartment so I could drag him out if there was a fire (his biggest fear). Also, after the incident, his blood would be almost completely depleted of potassium. I suggested bananas to supplement his potassium levels. He just laughed and showed me a bottle of pills that each contained a "very lethal" dose of potassium that he took twice daily. In your story there could be a gas or indigestible that could trigger the potassium uptake. This would be for a shorter term, non-lethal version.