There are pictures of bobcats climbing on top of really tall cacti, the one story I read says that the reason the bobcat climbed the tree was to get away from a mountian lion who was trying give it a hug eat it. Would a bobcat climb a cactus if it wasn't being chased by a predator? 

Basically, it is using compass headings and distance traveled to navigate to points without intermediate known locations. For instance if you were to start from camp and travel directly east for 4 hours in the middle of the night at a pace of 2 miles per hour, then you could look at a map and say that you are now 8 miles directly east of camp. 

Another option is to protect all exposed skin with a headnet, long pants, long sleeved shirt and gloves. For ticks wearing long pants and preventing things from crawling up them with duck tape or blousing straps can help. Also, avoiding long grass will help with the ticks and staying in windy areas will keep the mosquitoes from landing on you. 

It looks like what you need is something hot enough to melt the sides of the Mylar bag together to seal it. Two DIY options are a clothing iron or a hair straightening iron. If using the clothing iron, a flat reflective metal surface underneath would probably help. In either case it would probably take some experimentation to get the settings just right. For more information I would suggest these two links. $URL$ $URL$ 

Source When people talk about bear spray being more effective in studies they are usually referring to this one Efficacy of Bear Deterrent Spray in Alaska and yet, 

I did decided that I didn't want to camp anywhere close to the thing. Does anyone know what kind of bug this is? 

I often use Google earth to plan trips. One part of that is marking paths and seeing how steep they are. However Google Earth severely underestimated the steepness of slopes. For instance here is a line drawn up the Glacier Point Apron in Yosemite Valley that Google Earth estimates at a maximum steepness of 99.4%. Having been there, I am certain that it is much steeper than 1 ft up for every 1 ft forward, which would be 100%. How can a person correct for this? 

Image Source as you will notice, there is no belay loop at all. This is how the directions show one belaying with it. 

While the overall deaths are low being above treeline or in open fields greatly increases your risk (Roy Sullivan was struck by lightning 7 times). The other thing is that for example just because there were 3 rappel failures out of 43631 climbers in a study(Source) that doesn't seem to mean that rappelling is safe (people die rappelling) but rather that most climbers take the appropriate precautions and do it safely. Would the statistics of how frequent crime happens(if comprehensive and accurate) be an indicator of how safe a trail is? 

Either small leaks or changes in atmospheric pressure. However if the bubble is less than 1/4 inch across it won't affect accuracy. 

I have had this happen to one of my compasses, and it seems to happen more frequently to the cheaper versions. 

Make certain that you are part of the solution and not the problem, never leave any of your own garbage behind. As people are less likely to litter a clean area, remove as much of other people's trash as you can. Document and report violators to the authorities. 

If you had a climbing rope anchored above you on either a sheer cliff or a really steep incline, what is the minimum amount of gear that a person would need to ascend the rope without assistance from above? 

One a rounded hill, if you have an altimeter, you can take a bearing directly up or down the hill and find where that bearing runs perpendicular to the contour lines and crosses your current elevation. 

There are a now quite a few of these applications by a number of different companies. Its worth pointing out that the coverage can vary by area. 

Source Yvon Chouinard who is one of the most famous American climbers/mountaineers/ uses a tumpline. 

In addition to sizes for different sizes of people, backpacks also have a volume size, usually given in liters or cubic inches, as a measure of how much stuff the backpack can hold. How can I determine what volume size I need, for a given time frame, from say a day hike to a multi-week backpacking trip? 

The biggest distinguishers of moose scat from elk and deer are size and color. Moose scat is significantly bigger than either deer or elk scat around the size of a very large grape and usually reddish brown instead of black like deer or elk. Notice both the size in comparison to the boot tracks and the reddish color, 

There are few feelings worse than hiking deep into an area that should be pristine and finding garbage. What are some steps that I could take to help prevent or lessen this? 

One of the arguments made against PLBs is that people will use them in non-emergencies and put rescuers in unnecessary peril. This definitely does happen from time to time as in this case in the Grand Canyon, 

So a estimate of 18,000 SAR operations per year aiding lost individuals. As far as statistics on how many people go missing and are never found or found dead, the only statistics that I know of are from Off the Wall: Death in Yosemite which only has statistics for Yosemite National Park. To summarize those statistics from 1966 to 2005 on page 575, 

If the snow was hard packed enough that a self arrest is not possible, and there are no intermediate anchors, then if one person falls, they can take the whole team down with them. If that was the case then what they should have done is to have the first person place anchors as they went up, either snow pickets or ice screws depending on the conditions. The anchors are clipped to the rope and passed by each climber in turn. The last person in the group picks them up as they go, and when the leader is almost out of pieces, they create a bombproof anchor, bring the entire team up to it and get the pieces from the last person. Its identical to simuling while rock climbing, just on snow/ice. Beyond that, I am not certain of what else they could have done, other than not being there. It is possible that a different time of day would have made for better conditions, but that is hard to say from the image. 

A tent would protect you from rain and snow, and it would keep you warmer since it will create a warm pocket of air around you. It would also keep the bugs away. However, if rain and/or snow and bugs aren't an issue, then I would totally recommend sleeping outside without one, because then you can see the stars and shooting stars and its a way cooler experience. Just make certain that your sleeping bag is rated for that temperature. 

I would just use eclipse glasses. As they are safe to look directly at the sun with, then they should be fine to look at the bright spot caused by the magnifying glass. Just make certain that they are certified and not rip-offs and then you should be good to go. They meet all of your requirements and would be no more trouble to take with you than a pair of sunglasses which you probably already have. 

That definitely looks like a Cooper's hawk. First consider this picture of a Cooper's hawk that looks remarkable similar. 

So it is probably true. I did find a report that said that cows that die of nitrate poisoning will have elevated levels of nitrate in the fluid. I also found a song about eating buffalo eyes in the Nebraska historical record. People will still eat animal eyeballs (gross pictures) today. 

There is a method of finding north by aiming two sticks at a star and then tracking the star's movement to find which way is north. You can read the full description here. However, there is the a debate in the comments (with 6 upvotes) about whether or not it works the exact same way in both hemispheres specifically in reference to this to this image which demonstrates the relationship between the movement of the star and the direction one is facing. 

Aiders/Etriers are standard equipment for aid climbing, what qualities should I look for when purchasing a pair? I have used them before, but they were always borrowed from other people and I am looking to get my own. 

550 Parachute cord is a very small kermantle rope (has a core and an external sheath) as you can see in this image. The minimum breaking strength of the cord is 550 pounds, hence the name. 

As it is the time of year when carp spawn and are in close to shore, I have been seeing people along the lakeshore with archery equipment, bow fishing for carp. If one were to already have a bow and arrows, what additional equipment would be needed to go bowfishing? 

Source The abbreviation for Halbmastwurfsicherung is HMS and that is why the large/pear shaped carabiners are called HMS carabiners. 

It depends on whether the cat is a member of the Panthera (cubs) or Felinae (kittens). This Panthera is the big cats, 

In some of the Horatio Hornblower novels, when they want to get the last bit of speed out of a sailing ship, the crew will wet the sails down in order to go faster. For a real example consider, 

Yes, there are certainly areas where there magnetic anomalies. There is on in the Kursk area of Russia that is caused by a very large iron deposits. There is also one in Africa that they are not certain of the cause, but the effect on a person's compass is described as, 

Of course, this will depend on the person and on the weather conditions, and a scale isn't practical for the field, but at the same time knowing your sweat rate under certain conditions will help you determine how much water you need to drink. Also see 

It looks like there is some truth in it. I don't think that it has to do with the sheep so much as it does with their grazing habits. 

In mountaineering, the turnaround time is the point in time at which the party will turn around and head down the mountain regardless of how close to the summit. This is typically done to make certain that everyone is down before afternoon storms roll in and put the party at risk. If I am preparing to climb a mountain, how do I determine what the turnaround times and from that what the start time should be? 

Source As you wanted to know what the timelines were, I would suggest the charts starting on page 5 of this study. If you are looking for more information, I would suggest these resources, 

I would say that the more widely spread the better, as that decreases the visual impact. I would certainly commend you if you chose to pack the ashes out, but I don't think that it's strictly necessary. 

Some revolvers like the earliest Colts do not have top straps, and that is the easy way of telling them apart from the early Remingtons or from any modern revolvers. What exactly is a top strap on a revolver? 

The rope goes from the object to a caribiner that is hooked into the anchor. Then it goes back down to where a prussik and a caribiner have been hooked to the rope going to the object. Then you take the rope through the caribiner, back towards the anchor. To make it easier one could use pulleys instead of caribiners. For safety the one should use two opposite and opposed caribiners at each point, just as if your were setting up an anchor. It is also possible to add another prussik to capture the progress, 

Most of it will come from having done hard things together. Just being together, say in a classroom, isn't enough, there has to be an element of difficulty. The extreme example of this is men who have served together in combat, which is described extensively in this book, Tribe: On Homecoming and Belonging. Nothing that intense should ever happen on a backpacking trip, but going through difficult stream crossing or long days of hiking or getting low on food will create a sense of community that an idyllic walk in the woods will not. Some example of things that can be done to encourage it are, Everyone cooks and eats together. There is something special about breaking bread with one another that will really bring a team together. Years later no one is going to remember what the food was or what it tasted like, but they will remember if they felt like part of the team. When disagreements arise they need to be brought up and discussed, not hidden away. You can't have people secretly hating each other. Look out for the weaker people on the team, they should never be at the end of the line. This way they won't be left behind and someone will always be ready to help. It also helps the more people know about each other and so games that get people to share are a good idea. Having them tell their life story in 5 minutes is one idea. 

Mountain lions are rarely seen by humans, but their tracks can be much easier to find. How would one find and identify mountain lion tracks? 

Here is what I have found for a very basic set up with a cheap water bottle. The water will be pored through the top through gravel, sand, charcoal and finally either a screen or another mechanism like a hankerchief to prevent the filtering substances from getting into the water. Like this, 

The very first skill I would learn is to keep putting one foot in front of the other. Most of the turn arounds I have seen while mountaineering have been from people not willing to do so. It amazing what can be accomplished simply by keeping on keeping on. Beyond that it never hurts to be in better physical shape and when starting out as a rock climber the biggest improvements come from getting over the mental hurdles. Finally, just get out there and do it. 

Would it be possible for a compass be affected by its surroundings, such as a large iron deposit or other rocks to the point where it is not working correctly? I am not talking about declination but rather a change that is specific to a local area. Is this possible and if so, how would one detect it? 

You want to go after they have dropped their antlers and before the grass has really started growing again in the Spring since that will hide the sheds. When they shed can vary depending on the area and the year, 

Source As far as how long you could live, Over the edge: Death in the Grand Canyon has data from as study called Physiology of Men in the Desert by Edward Adolph and the estimates for time until death starting from a properly hydrated state are 

To see what type of rocks a color represents, you simply have to click on it. For instance the lighter orange is volcanic and the lighter green is glacial deposits. Would there be any practical uses of a map like this for a non-geologist hiker or backpacker? 

Source As for how close, that depends more on how good a shot you are. What I would do is make a circle that is the size of a rabbit's head on a target, and then see from how far away you can consistently hit it. I would doubt that it would be over 50 yards if that.