"Carthage must be destroyed." The removal of the one serious competitor on the three continents before it grew too big and strong. By hammering the idea into the Senators' heads each time he made a speech on any topic, Cato succeeded in persuading them Rome would not be safe until Carthage was gone. He was actually correct, for all the wrong reasons. Here's a Wiki article on him: $URL$ 4. The benevolent attitude towards Greece and all things Greek. The Greek (or Hellenized, anyway) territories covered a lot of land and water, including Egypt, Syria, Northern Italy, etc. Rather than suppressing the culture, the Romans merged it into theirs as they took over those territories. Once conquered, the Greeks had little reason to resist Roman rule: the Romans did a better job preserving their traditions than the Greeks did themselves. Greek was widely recognized as the language of culture throughout the Empire, the educated class making it a point to be fluent in it. There is a hypothesis that all of the Greek achievements in architecture, literature, philosophy, and sculpture and science would have vanished without a trace if it weren't for Rome. Far-fetched as it sounds, the assertion is amazingly difficult to refute. After the fall of the Western Empire, the Greek-speaking Eastern part hung onto power for many centuries. The Republic of Venice was more Greek than Italian long into the Middle Ages. The Greeks had spent themselves laying the foundation for the Roman Empire. Why didn't they build it themselves? They were too set in their ways. To do what the Romans did, they would have had to rebuild their entire society from scratch. Not happening. 

It would be inadequate if there weren't so much data collected over the centuries. The Roman Empire is a very well documented period. There are detailed price lists on what the Romans thought was essential, very similar to ours. There is also plenty of information on how much they had to pay for lodging; clothes; books; as well as horses, private houses, and good wine. Real estate values are well-known as well. The average income of a Roman citizen belonging to this or that milieu is also known. Here's an interesting link that has a few tables (prices and incomes of various Roman professionals): Ancient Roman prices and salaries 

The training was too expensive. A gladiator, especially a good one, was a commodity; a valuable asset to his owner. For the duration of their gladiatorial careers, gladiators were viewed as their owners property, and few owners would give them up to the army just like that. The gladiatorial version of martial arts emphasized visual effects: more like stage combat than actual combat. Also, it was believed that a layer of fat can protect a gladiator (somewhat) against deep wounds. Soldiers were trained to be quick and efficient killers; gladiators were trained to be showmen. Few gladiatorial fights ended in death or even just injury: again, they were assets, too expensive to waste. About twenty years ago a former heavyweight champion decided to join the Marines. He asked to be honorably discharged after about a week. There were, of course, some exceptions. The Wikipedia article on gladiators has a great deal of fluff despite its brevity, but here's the link anyway: $URL$ 

Okay, so, even if Paris still consisted only of the walled Cité and the population was fairly small (a few hundred people, perhaps?), traveling to Champagne and then coming back with eleven (!!) barges is still a pretty monumental task. How can you sneak that many barges in without being seen? How can you sneak them out again? Or did Childeric allow it? Take a look at this picture: 

It stands modestly to the left of the cordonata and you might even miss it when you ascend towards the plaza. 

No. Burning of temples is pretty much "sticking it to their gods," and avenging it is "sticking it to theirs." The idea of sacrificing one's life for one's faith was originally a Hebrew thing, later picked up by Christians, and later still by Muslims. Judeo-Roman wars weren't strictly religious wars: Rome disputed, not the Jews' right to worship God, but rather some of the Jewish laws that came with it that had a bearing on Roman jurisprudence. The first true religious wars were the Crusades, the idea being to reclaim places sacred to all Christians from the Muslims, who by then also regarded many of those places as sacred. The minor clashes between the Catholics and Orthodox Christians came later. The concept of religious faith as we know it is an intrinsically monotheist concept. That is why pagans have neither saints nor martyrs. 

The story so far: Historians tentatively agreed that the city of Troy should be sought at the south end of the Trojan Plain. Schliemann, a wealthy businessman and Homer enthusiast, in collaboration with Frank Calvert, another enthusiast, began digging at Hisarlik, convinced that some of the lines in The Iliad pointed to that location. He was able to unearth something. This something was subsequently ridiculed, labeled fake, etc., by historians, because nobody likes a smart ass. Schliemann's methods and believes have been repeatedly vilified by academia. Today, folks seem to agree that what Schliemann discovered was not Troy, but its predecessor; and that his methods were so crude that the actual city of Troy, sitting higher than Schliemann thought, was destroyed during the excavation. However, there seems to be an agreement that Schliemann's choice of location was actually accurate. (A side note: I've read The Iliad too, but in all honesty I wouldn't know where to start digging. Why Hisarlik, especially? Why not a hundred miles south of it?) It is said that the reason for the siege, apart from the kidnapping and adultery, was that Troy served as some sort of a customs checkpoint, a coastal toll booth that charged Greek merchants an exorbitant fee for passing through. I have no idea whether this story has any scientific basis. I've looked; I haven't been able to find anything to support it. My question is: what did Schliemann discover? Is it really Troy? And if so, how do we know this? 

Urban Romans, we're told, took a bath every day. They did not use soap. Instead, they oiled themselves and scraped off the oil, along with the dirt, with strigils. What did they do about their hair, though? You can't use a strigil on your hair. Simply rinsing it in water would have resulted in plenty of dandruff and not much else: the hair would still be dirty and hanging in greasy strands. What did they use to get it clean? 

I was in Rome last week. There's a couple of mysteries I need help solving, and this is one of them. The statue looks like this: 

It was certainly one of the contributing factors, simply because India would not have gained independence without at least putting in a request for it. No independence movement is possible unless the situation allows for it. Only a couple of decades prior to the American Revolution, George Washington was a loyal subject to the British crown, fighting the French on its behalf. Prior to the 19th Century, the opinion of India's population mattered little, and no matter how strongly some of them felt about the British rule, all efforts to gain independence were easily suppressed by the British (the rebellion and demise of Pychy Rajah, for example, had no chance of becoming international news (in the modern sense). The advent of mass communication in the 19th Century enabled the manipulators of public opinion to ply their trade on the global scale, which was how the world (especially that portion of it that opposed England) learned about India's plight, and those who were in favor of her independence could now expect to be heard, at least, when they talked about it. As the dominance of the British navy became less obvious with the advent of steam ships, the talking intensified. It died down a little when said navy switched from coal to diesel and once again became the fastest and most efficient in the world. It rose up again, stronger than ever, after World War Two, which conclusively demonstrated that England was vulnerable. In addition to the vulnerability, it could no longer easily control its colonies: India's population was six times larger than that of the United Kingdom and was no longer centuries behind technologically. Whatever she lacked in her struggle against England could (and would have been) supplied by England's enemies, covert and otherwise. Last but not least, it was no longer economically viable for England to continue to hold on to India. 

How did it get there? What was the procedure? Did the Emperor or Senate send agents to the provinces to collect the inheritance tax, or was it part of the general system of tax farming, or what? How was the collected revenue transported? Were special guards appointed to protect the wagons (?) filled with gold and silver on their way to Rome? 

Before the war, the South hoped they wouldn't have to fight at all; that, upon weighing the pros and cons, the North would just leave them alone (this proved true - for a while). If, however, the North did go into battle against them, the idea was that just as with the American Revolution, when a country of four million souls took on the mighty Empire and won, the South, with over five million people, could wear down the North, whose heart wasn't in it, their superior numbers notwithstanding. The South did have the better commanding officers. However, they reckoned without the North's unlimited resources which minimized the importance of winning individual battles. Despite the South's dramatic victories, the Union Army just kept coming. The "scorched earth" tactic employed by General Sherman undermined the South's will to fight. No one in the South had foreseen that. 

We'll never know (not in this life, anyway) whether this was part of the Original Plan, but an honest historian, should he or she be faced with the task of analyzing the hypothesis, would have to categorize the preceding epochs and locations as "not ready," while labeling the subsequent ones "too busy." 

If you were an upper deck passenger, could you have a cabin all to yourself, or would you have to have a roommate? 

Recently I read Cod, by Mark Kurlansky, a poorly written yet amazingly informative book on the history of cod fishing. Among other fascinating things in that book, the Basques are mentioned as pioneers in cod fishing (and drying) in the Atlantic. John Cabot's voyage to Newfoundland is also mentioned, for this purpose: It appears (according to the author) that John Cabot, an Italian navigator and explorer sponsored by Henry VII of England, left an account of what he found containing a detailed description of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, in which he mentioned the appearance of the flora, fauna, weather conditions, as well as about 1000 Basque ships. The author of the book theorizes that the Basques landed in North America long before Columbus' first voyage but kept the information secret in order to maintain their near-monopoly on the cod market in Europe. Does this claim have any validity? 

Consider this scenario. You're a Roman patrician, born and raised in Rome. Your parents have retired to their villa in Sicily which you have personally never seen. Suddenly word arrives that they're both dead. You travel down to the villa to claim it for yourself as their lawful heir. What proof would you have to, or be able to, present, of your identity? Or: You're a patrician. Someone accuses you of being a pretender and/or impostor - or maybe even a slave. How would you contest that? What proof would you have to present of your status? 

More specifically, I'm reading "Lolita" by Vladimir Nabokov which describes in some detail the American landscape of the late 1940's. Here's a quote: 

5. No leading ethnic group. In theory, however humble a man's origins might be, and no matter where he was born, he could become Emperor so long as he was a Roman citizen. Equestrian or plebeian, Italian, Spanish, Greek, Hebrew, Gallic - it was all the same to the Romans so long as one was a patriot of the Empire and a good military leader. Here's what Cassius Dio wrote about Emperor Trajan: "An Iberian, and neither an Italian nor even an Italiot", 6. They knew how to relax. An overworked mind cannot think big; overworking one's body becomes counterproductive very quickly. Taking a nap after a hearty afternoon meal, visiting the baths, etc, was conducive to the rational approach to everything in the sparsely populated pre-industrial Europe. Italy's climate is ideal for this. Central and Northern Europe are too cold; Africa and the Middle East too hot. Location, location, location. 

Levies were put on entire provinces payable by their governors, and what they taxed and how much, was up to them. Suppose you're the governor of a province that has a large city in it. Living in this city is a wealthy landlord who owns a number of rent-paying insulii. What would your relationship with him be like? Would he pay you a tax every month? Every quarter? Every year? What would happen if he refused to pay you, citing repairs, lack of paying tenants, fire damage, etc? Would you have him arrested? Would you confiscate his property? Would you, as the governor, have accountants working for you, keeping track of all revenues? Would the landlord have an accountant? Would records of payments be kept by either of you? 

All proof is non-religious, more or less by definition. Faith does not require proof. As for the empirical evidence of the Ark's existence, no, nothing's been found to satisfy a sufficient number of historians, archeologists, theologists, etc. to be declared official. 

One incentive for wealthy Romans to finance construction of aqueducts was, of course, glory. One's name would go up on the wall somewhere, and down in history, too. However, there was more to aqueducts than just delivering water to cities for drinking, washing, cooking, and lavatory needs. For instance, hydraulic mining was all the rage in some places. One would run a spur from the existing aqueduct to indulge in a bit of ruina mortium, or hushing, to use water to bare up a gold or nickel vein. Perhaps a prospector looking for funds might approach me, offering a contract and promising a sizable cut. Or I could hire someone to do some research to see if there were any areas that had growth potential, and the one obstacle was the lack of water. Or, perhaps, the governor, or the Emperor himself, might send his agents to me, and I would promise, for a fee, to provide engineers, foremen, and slaves for an aqueduct project? 

They didn't have horses. Any culture in the course of its development comes to a point where large quantities of some product need to be transported over long distances. Twenty men carrying the same product have to share the profits among themselves. A single horse performing the work of twenty men only requires water and some oats. The same horse can drag a lot more than it can carry. It is therefore more economically viable to make your horse drag the product. Dragging is made easier (more product can be transported) by rollers (round logs that the horse's owner keeps slipping under the board, or platform, on which the product is loaded). Instead of using a dozen such logs and running back and forth, slipping the logs under the board up front and removing them from the back, someone, at some point, will inevitably take one log, shave off all the superfluous wood from it, fashion some kind of primitive suspension brackets - and voila! You've got an axle with a wheel on either end. In comes technological civilization. 

Now suddenly historians reverse their opinion on him. According to them he had a stormy affair in Poland with a woman he loved. He also loved his wife with whom he had sexual intercourse practically every night. The canard about him being gay was concocted by his slanderers. Why the sudden change? Addendum (light-hearted: pay no heed): Upon popular demand, I removed the word "gay" from the title, since "there were no gays prior to the 20th Century." There were also no homosexuals prior to 1880, and no Sodomites prior to the advent of Christianity except among the Jews; and no Sodomites anywhere before Sodom. Maybe they were referred to, or referred to themselves, as "individuals of non-traditional sexual orientation" in ancient Egypt, I don't know. The question is not about such individuals as a group; it's about Henri III of the house of Valois, no more and no less.