In the Roman Empire soldiers were often used to work on various construction projects that had military and/or peacetime uses, such as Roman roads, for example. So the earliest examples, if there are any earlier ones, would have to be pre-Roman and thus dated BC and not AD. 

The question is to what degree the romance language speaking ancestors of the Modern Romanians in Transylvania, Moldavia, and Wallachia were descended from ancient Romanized Dacians and Roman colonists, and to what degree they were descended from Romance language speakers who arrived in the 3 Romanian regions from elsewhere sometime (probably over centuries) during the Middle Ages. Those 2 possibilities are at the extreme and opposite ends of the spectrum of possible origins for the Romanians, and from what I have read Romania is deep enough into southeastern Europe that the supporters and defenders of those 2 extreme positions are often very violent supporters of their views. So it is possible that some other persons who might answer later may shed more heat than light on the question due to their strong ethnic identification with one or the other extreme view. 

Anyway, that was a quick comparison to the US. Note that even in modern times, the US spends more on defence than the next 26 countries combined. So perhaps the defence budget of the UK, France or Australia is more comparable to Roman numbers. Addition: I have now looked up the UK's 2014 budget figures, and defence spending is on the order of 5% of spending, which probably puts it at about 2% of GDP. 

While I agree with the other answer givers that you're unlikely to find reliable information on Roman imperial spending budgets, I think we can usefully work back from modern spending figures to show the disparity. For example, below are some of the major spending areas of the United States budget, and a note about Roman equivalence: 

The Jewish calendar is in year 5774 (between September of 2013 and October of 2014, it's a leap year), so the "Jewish civilization" is not in 2014. The state of Israel, which is really the only official body to recognize the Jewish calendar, determines all of its holidays and memorial days on the basis of the Jewsih calendar. However, all of the civil dates of import (school year start and end, tax calculations etc.) are all done using the standard Gregorian calendar and it's 2014 in Israel just like everyhwere else. To answer the question, there are plenty of cultures which use a differnent calendar, and are in a different year. However, the Gregorian (Christian) calendar is the lingua franca of the world, and what everyone uses when they need to be understood outside their own culture. Why this is the case probably stems from the fact that for the last few decades the world has been slowly globalizing trade, and everybody wants to trade with Americans and Europeans because that's where the money is. It is very helpful to set standards for these things, and because the American and European cultures have so much influence, it is the Gregorian calendar that became the standard. 

What Samuel Johnson, the king, and parliament all ignored was the fact that the 13 colonies, unlike later 19th century colonies or some 18th century colonies, were not part of, nor totally possessions of, the Kingdom of Great Britain. Instead they were conceived when created to be miniature Englands where the English settlers would govern themselves with colonial governors as miniature kings and colonial assemblies as miniature parliaments, and owing allegiance to the distant kingdom of England in return for (and to the degree of) English protection from outsiders. Pennsylvania was still a proprietary colony, and the governor of Pennsylvania in this case was like a viceroy for the proprietor, living in England, who was even more like a miniature and vassal king of Pennsylvania. They were considered to be fiefs of the kingdom of England, not parts of the kingdom of England and later of Great Britain. If Queen Elizabeth II and the cabinet and Parliament of the UK tried to give orders to and make laws for independent nations like Canada or Australia that would be considered an illegal usurpation of power. The case of the colonists was not that strong however. The colonies were clearly not independent nations before 1776-1783. Instead they were dependencies of Great Britain like the Island of Mann or the Channel Islands are dependencies of the United Kingdom today. It should be noted that the Queen of the UK has every legal right to use the title of Queen of France today, since the Channel Islands are parts of the medieval Kingdom of France that were never conquered by the Valois claimants of the Kingdom of France in the 100 years war or by the French Republic. Or the relationship could be compared to the present relationship between the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the United States. In any case the colonists visualized the relationship between the colonies and the kingdom of Great Britain as vaguely similar to the later relationship between the states and the Federal government of the United States. They believed that most political powers, such as the power to tax, were reserved for the colonial governments and the Crown had limited and restricted powers over the colonies. The colonists believed that the gradual increase of royal and parliamentary control over the colonies, followed by the rapid increase after the French and Indian War, was a violation of the original terms of the relationship between the colonies and the home country. 

Improvement in sanitation, based on the understanding that not washing your hands causes disease, is a relatively new concept. Ignaz Semmelweis was the first man to work out the correlation and publish data. This was in the 1840's, a good couple of centuries after most of the plague had gone from Europe. It's not just that he was the first to discover it, he had to fight the medical establishment of the day to get his data accepted and understood. Basically, sanitation as a health issue was only accepted in the mainstream near the end of the 19th century. 

This is mostly about urban planning, and how much change the local government can or will be able to make to the existing streets. In London, the central parts of the city (Westminster and the City) still have their street plan from medieval days, as the 1666 fire didn't burn the foundations. The streets there are far too narrow, and the buildings too important or politically unchangeable. When industrialization came in the 19th century, the trains couldn't go all the way into town. If you look at today's mainline rail maps, all of the stations are at the outskirts of the City. The only remaining way to get trains in and out of central London was to put them underground. That said, once you get out of central London, the London Underground trains run overground, and occasionally on elevated tracks. Once they were out into the suburbs, it was possible to get planning permission for tracks and stations above ground, and that's what happened because it is much cheaper. The same is true for Paris, Moscow and New-York. In all of these places, the city existed long before the trains did. Because of that, the trains were built in afterwards underground. Since Chicago grew into a city after (or at least during) the industrial revolution, the city was planned and built to include the trains, or at least space for them to pass through where no historical structures stand. Because the trains weren't added to the city, but planned into it, they had the option of building them above ground. 

To add my interpretation. Political and ecclesiastical ranks in the later Roman Empire: A civitas or city state - usually based on a earlier tribe - was ruled by elected magistrates. In the fifth century an imperial official with the rank of comes "count" was appointed to supervise each civitas in the western Empire. A bishop was in charge of the parish clergy in each civitas, and a civitas later became known as a diocese. A province contained several city states and was ruled by a rector or governor - governors had several different titles. The bishop of the capital city or metropolis of the province became the metropolitan or archbishop of the political province. A group of political provinces would be a political diocese ruled by a vicar. A political diocese would thus be 2 political levels above a city state which would later become a ecclesiastical diocese. The political dioceses were under the four praetorian prefectures ruled by praetorian prefects, which were thus 3 political levels above city states. The emperor of part or all of the empire would be above all the praetorian prefects within his territory. In time the senior bishop, metropolitan, or archbishop within a large region would become known as the primate of that region. For example, the medieval Archbishop of Canterbury was the primate of England which roughly corresponded to the vicarate or political diocese of Britain. I think that the four praetorian prefectures were so large that it is unlikely that there would be a primate for a territory equivalent to any of them, though I doubt that the area of every primate corresponded very closely to a political diocese. Several senior bishops and archbishops became known as patriarchs by the 6th Century AD with some authority over the bishops, archbishops, and metropolitans of their areas. They were the bishops of Rome, Constantinople, Antioch, Jerusalem, and Alexandria. So the political and ecclesiastical organization of the later Roman Empire would be: Civil civitas and ecclesiastical diocese: Count and Bishop. Civil and ecclesiastical province: governor and metropolitan or archbishop. Civil diocese: Vicar. Civil prefecture: Praetorian prefect. Jurisdictions of ecclesiastical primates (if they existed yet) and patriarchs often differed greatly from the borders of civil dioceses and prefectures. 

The phrase "green on blue" originates from the colour assignments for the various forces in a theatre of operations as shown in the tactical displays. These displays are now all electronic, but this holds true for older systems of markers on paper maps as well. Red traditionally signifies danger, and is therefore used to show the enemy. Both green and blue were used for friendly forces in the past. However, with the proliferation of UN "peacekeeping" missions in the 1970s and 80s, the blue was used more for UN forces. This is because UN troops always wear a bright blue helmet or beret due to the UN needing to have it's forces clearly recognizable as UN rather than any one nation. UN vehicles are usually white with the letters UN marked on them, for the same reason. From this, "green on blue" has come to mean "friendly forces firing on the foreign international peacekeepers". 

In 1938 the Germans occupied Czechoslovakia, and civilians were free to settle there under the "Lebensraum" (breathing room) philosophy. The occupation was (at first) of an area populated mostly by ethnic Germans, but legally at least that doesn't matter. The Chinese occupation (and annexation) of Tibet, in which people who are ethnically Han Chinese are settling in areas of TIbet for many years now. If I remember correctly, they are now about 50% of the population. Israel again, this time in the Sinai peninsula. The territory was conquered from Egypt in 1967, and civilian settlements were built in the 1970's. The settlements were entirely (and forcibly) dismantled as part of the Begin-Saadat peace treaty in 1980-82 and the territory was handed back to the Egyptian government. 

It may be noted that although popular US history often describes Great Britain as the mightiest power in the world at the time, Britain was rather puny in the size and power of its army. The Chinese Empire and some other Asian powers had armies in the hundreds of thousands, and at least four European powers, France, Russia, Austria, and Prussia, also had armies in the hundreds of thousands and far better trained and equipped than Asian ones. Thus the major military powers of Europe had armies at least four or five times larger than Britain's. Minor powers like the larger German states often had armies in the tens of thousands, and thus roughly in the same league as the British army. Landgrave ("count of an entire land") Frederick of Hesse-Kassel sent the largest contingent of "Hessian" allies, but there were also troops from other states. They included Hesse-Hanau, ruled by a son of Frederick of Hesse-Kassel, the Margravites ("border counties") of Brandenburg-Ansbach and Brandenburg-Bayreuth (ruled by a cousin of the King of Prussia), the Principality of Anhalt-Zerbst (ruled by the brother of Empress Catherine the Great of Russsia), The Principality of Waldeck, the Duchy of Brunswick-Wolfenbuttel (ruled by a cousin of King George III), and the electorate of Brunswick-Luneburg (Hanover) where negotiations were made easier by the Elector being King George III himself. What the British really needed was to ally with one of the major military powers, such as France, Russia, Austria, or Prussia, to get a really large reinforcing army, but that did not happen. The French were soon allied with the Americans, the Austrians were technically allies of the French and might possibly also have supported the Americans in slightly different circumstances, Austria and Prussia were distracted in 1777 by fighting the brief "Potato War", and the League of Armed Neutrality in 1780-1783, protesting the British searches of neutral shipping, eventually included Russia, Sweden/Finland, Denmark/Norway, Prussia, Austria, the Ottoman Empire, and both Sicilies, almost every major European state that wasn't already allied to or at war with Britain. 

That's all I can come up with in the time available, I'll edit the answer if anything more comes to mind. 

Christianity and Islam The obvious candidates are Christianity and Islam, both of which are clearly monotheistic. However, both of those religions can be said to have "learned" their monotheism from the Jews. For Christianity, we have Jesus, who grew up as a Jew in Israel, and was brought up montheistic. Islam, for its part, recognizes both Moses and Jesus as prophets of God (Allah). For true parallel development, I would nominate the religions of the Indian sub-continent. Though, in all honesty, I'm not quite comfortable calling them religions at all. Hinduism Calling Hinduism a religion is a little misleading, as it is a set of schools of philosophies and practices. Some of these believe that all spirits are part of Bhrama, which is close to the Western concept of God. Trying to use the terminology of Western theology, they would have one God, and many saints and prophets. Of course, other schoold of Hinduism are fully polytheistic, having many and various gods. However, there are some who see all of these gods as avatars or incarnations of the same single God, basically having a properly monotheistic religion. Buddhism Once again, there are many schools of Buddhism. I think there are at least some schools which can be fairly defined as monotheistic, and others which are basically atheistic. Mostly, Buddhism teaches that there is a divinity (which can be thought of as God in Western terms) of which everyone is a part. It also has various Buddhas, who are indeed worshipped. However, there is no dogma that requires this, and becoming a Buddha is something to aspire to become through enlightenment. I would equate the worship of Buddhas in Chinese Buddhist culture more to the worship of Saints in Christianity than to believing them to be gods. It is clear that Buddha was indeed a person, not divine. In other schools of Buddhism (perhaps the Japanese Zen Buddhism is a good example), there isn't really a divinity as such, merely the universe in its entirety as a singularity. This is, in my opinion, quite close to the oxymoron of an atheistic religion. Others Unfortunately, I do not know enough about other religions and belief system in the world to make any further actual knowledgable comments. However, I do think that the Australian aboriginal beliefs of Dreamtime are an interesting candidate for this. Perhaps someone with a better understanding can add something in a comment or a separate answer.