How is it measured? It's mostly straight mathematics, say if the earth is 10% nearer to the sun it casts a larger shadow into outer space and collects more solar radiation. This figure is developed from A.L.Berger, 1978, Long Term Variations of Daily Insolation and Quaternary Climatic Changes, Journal of the Atmospheric Sciences, volume 35 (12), 2362-2367. 

If The moon's movement relative to Earth is due to it's residual rotation rather than due to the effect of the pacific, the residual rotation would be decreasing similar to a pendulum thats almost still, imagine you are swinging a pendulum around, so the moon's movement is probably a flat ellipse, a figure of 8 or a resonating spirograph. When the moon formed from an accretion disk, it's material was less spherical and more fluid and under the influence of our gravity. If it did manage to keep a rotation at that stage. Perhaps there isn't a measurement of the moon's rotation, because it's difficult to measure, and it may in fact be a slow rocking motion due to the pacific rather than residual motion from it's formation. To measure the movement of the moon is technically challenging, perhaps you would have to place a camera on the moon and take a photo of a place on earth at the same time every day and then see if the variation is due to the pacific or the residual rotation. perhaps the cheapes way to measure it's movement is to measure the length of the flagpole, or to send a digital flagpole there. The shadows of the moon shift so much, it's not practical to use it's topography for reference. 

Find a spherical object and imagine it's a celestial sphere with the world at the middle... consider the daily rotation of the sphere around as a spinning top, and a yearly tilt through the constellations which is the same as an unstable spinning top which is about to tip over. Now, rotate it and dont spin the days, and only spin the sphere for the yearly seasons. How fast are all points on the sphere rotating as it tilts, same as a spinning top is not straight, and omitting the individual rotations? All points on the sphere are going at the same speed, the top of an orange describes a 1cm axial tilt, and the sides of the sphere also describe a 1cm axial tilt... put the orange sideways and tilt it again, the rind is at the same speed as the side whichever way the orange is viewer. How to combine the slower star speed of rotation in 24 hours with the equal star speed of rotation through the seasons? The previous theory didn't give two speeds and axes of rotation. So, the 7 heavens other than the stars can be described as an epicycle on a 2D, as a turntable and epicycle. For the stars, the 2D epicycle is more complicated, because it has to account for two speeds of rotation, the constant one around the seasons and the one that is slower in the middle. The epicycle geometry breaks down in 3D as a sphere, and only a sphere can explain the two types of rotations in the stars, and the 2100 year one. Copernicus said: A sphere cannot move as an epicycle. Take an orange and try to move it as an epicycle. 

There are 1000,000 >1km comets that cause eclipses of average m20 stars, and there are 100 times more m20 stars than the m15 ones, that's 60mn star dimming events at m20. Conversely, We can perhaps divide that number by 100 (difficult figure to know) for a static view, but you would have to run very fast with your telescope to see 60 million star dimming positions every year, Can we keep the figure at 60mn or is it logical to change that to 0.6? I must have misjudged it by 1-2 orders of magnitude, multiple times less for velocity or something. Can we surmise if it is 60k or 60million at m15 and m20? If a comet of 11km at 40AU's travels through the disk of the galaxy, it can hide stars for at least 0.5 seconds. If the stars are N times distanced than the comet's diameter from a perspective, the comet would hide two stars every NxN frames, so for N = 5, a different star would dim every 25 frames. What is the real maths to say what the figure N is at the disk of the galaxy for something like Halley's Comet at m15 and m20? this page sais: $URL$ In reality there are probably hundreds of asteroid occultations every night. However many cannot be observed for practical reasons (e.g. star too dim, event duration too short, etc.). 

It depends where you are standing, which altitude and longitude. The nearest the equator and the higher altitude, the clearer the stars are. 

This is a video attempting to illustrate the view under the sun: $URL$ This is a virtual simulation of them. The versions are wildly different: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ here is a speeded up video of some sunspots: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

Here's a bunch of pictures by a guy called Cohen who alledgedly calculates his exposure time. I can confirm that the countryside in France, the sky is looks like that when your eyes are used to the dark. At Lattitude zero degrees on the equator you can see at least twice as many stars as in France, on top of of an equatorial mountain like mount Bromo, you will perhaps see 5 times as many stars as in temperate climates, so the MilkyWay is 5 times more visible than in our best conditions, elsewhere. 

Do high velocity stars decelerate if they transit at 300ly per million years? What kind of forces can decelerate them and in what kind of time frame? What about ordinary stars which travel at 70 light years per million, i.e alpha centauri? How often do they change direction and do they end 1000ds of light years away after a billion years? 

You'd be converting some images from spherical coordinate system to cartesian coordinate systems. You can find a texture mapping environment which can do the maths for you. I'd use Unity3D. You are converting spherical coordinate graphs to XY graphs. I think polar is XY and spherical does distance from origin so XYZ, X is the lattitude, Y the longitude. perhaps check this. The equations are 1 line of code. I learnt it myself having had 2/10 at my school maths exams. it's a copy/paste kind of equation written in every programming language. It's vaguely rated to orthographic projection. You can say you are doing the inverse of spherical texture mapping. You can search for resources to convert the map of the earth to and from a sphere and a square. You can check cubemap.skybox projection. spherical texture mapping You will probably find many many programs that can do it, mathsworks, unity3d, blender, mathcad, texture mapping apps for games designers and cartographers, and they'll have different memory management, image conversion from bitmap/rgb32 and so forth and you'd find which is ok for your images. 

It would be good business for the news industry: sky lights, plane crashes, exploding grid transformers, city blackouts, satellite damage, long, electricity-carrying wires would spark, start fires and and send signals when they are switched off. Burning buildings, dead people, everything. big flares occur about every 100 years. the last was the Carrington event in 1859. It triggering telegraph malfunctions (even giving operators electrical shocks) and caused some telegraph pylons to suddenly spark and catch fire. A surge in solar wind can blow out power transformers by melting the coating that insulates copper windings and by melting the copper itself, especially in highly interconnected regions (i.e. the East Coast), transformer failures can trigger cascading effects, spreading power outages over wide areas. a flash of light is seen from the sun 17 hours in advance of the magnetic storm, and sunspots are monitored for activity. If a massive CME were spotted, 3-day forecasts give us some lead time: there are some measures electric utilities could take to protect their equipment, such as quickly disconnecting transformers. Polar flights, which travel at the highest altitudes, could be rerouted to avoid contact with damaging solar particles, and some satellites could be switched into a safe mode to minimize damage. Here on Earth, at the very least, we’d have some time to prepare for potential power blackouts and other problems. Given the scope of our current technological infrastructure, it’s been estimated that the next Carrington-scale event (which happens roughly once every 100 years) will cause upwards of $2.6 trillion in damage across the globe, and require four to ten years for complete recovery. Scientists studying tree rings found a sharp increase in the amount of radioactive carbon-14 recorded in the rings of ancient Japanese cedar trees between 774 and 775. Carbon-14 can be created by cosmic ray particles arriving from space, and the 774 incident could have been a solar flare. there is a list of big solar storms here: $URL$ 

The colors here are red to green based on real radio wave length according to the researcher, however i think it's a compilation of multiple images of different radio periods. source is 70-230mhz = 1.2meters to 4meters 

There's a detailed graph of it here: $URL$ What is the most precise reference for your query is the Time-Frequency graphs in black and green, also called waterfall graphs, spectrographs, sonograms and so forth. On the Y axis, the width of the green smudge is about 30-50Hz, That's the frequency-uncertainty for the TF graph for a single one of the roughly 10 waves that make up the signal. That's the actual real measurement that LIGO returned, and there are idealized versions here with an uncertainty range of about 5Hz. Perhaps the gravity waves continue far beyond the 250Hz range, except that they become inaudible, perhaps someone here knows? If you are interested in sound theory, you can research about Wigner-Ville TF graph, which is the most precise sound analysis mathematics known, and which uses quantum uncertainty estimates to minimize the quantum uncertainty of placing single audio waves in time at a given known frequency. As an synth-reverse-engineering sound scientist, I have to say that the precision of the wave is incredibly clear, it's the same as recording an individual bird chirp from 20 meters away on a clear microphone. Gravity actually has sound, like a bird call, except it's not carried by air compression it's carried by space time at c. $URL$ 

Show him water in outer space. The water doesn't fall down onto the floor. Show him astronauts flying in outer space, they have no fall up and fall down. Tell him that we would fall off if there was a bigger planet under the earth, (like a pea on a melon) otherwise we fall towards the mass of the planet. the planet also falls towards it's own center, that's why it's round. 

It has been tested as being from the sky, by blocking the signal from all other directions than that being measured, by comparing results of directions and by triangulating output form different receivers. When testing a directional signal, changing the direction of the receiver is in effect blocking the signal from the entire sky except for one aperture. They then compare 1.5 years of results. Different observations have correlated the same patterns in the same zones of the sky, so it's the same as pointing two cameras at the same object and questioning if the object exists or if it's an artifact of the camera. what is interesting is to wonder what the sea is like, if our own CMB is only one atom of the sea. The receiver equipment was also carefully calibrated using this kind of terminology: Planck 2015 results. V. LFI calibration(150 additional authors not shown) We present a description of the pipeline used to calibrate the Planck Low Frequency Instrument (LFI) timelines into thermodynamic temperatures for the Planck 2015 data release, covering four years of uninterrupted operations. As in the 2013 data release, our calibrator is provided by the spin-synchronous modulation of the cosmic microwave background dipole, but we now use the orbital component, rather than adopting the Wilkinson Microwave Anisotropy Probe (WMAP) solar dipole. This allows our 2015 LFI analysis to provide an independent Solar dipole estimate, which is in excellent agreement with that of HFI and within 1σ (0.3% in amplitude) of the WMAP value. This 0.3% shift in the peak-to-peak dipole temperature from WMAP and a global overhaul of the iterative calibration code increases the overall level of the LFI maps by 0.45% (30 GHz), 0.64% (44 GHz), and 0.82% (70 GHz) in temperature with respect to the 2013 Planck data release, thus reducing the discrepancy with the power spectrum measured by WMAP. We estimate that the LFI calibration uncertainty is now at the level of 0.20% for the 70 GHz map, 0.26% for the 44 GHz map, and 0.35% for the 30 GHz map. We provide a detailed description of the impact of all the changes implemented in the calibration since the previous data release.