The joy of having your basic needs satisfied (food, shelter, safety). The (higher) joy of material comfort and sensual enjoyment. The (even higher) joy of professional/creative realization. The (very high) joy of helping society: teaching, healing. The (highest) joy of Enlightenment. 

This doubt is a byproduct of really paying attention to details. As you pick up bits and pieces here and there, some of them don't fit together. So you put them aside and keep going. Then, later, some of them fit together, but others still don't. You have great faith in three jewels, and great resolve to walk the path. At the same time you have no choice but to suspend your judgement on some things that don't make sense. The further you go, the more this happens. But only if you really pay attention, and only if you don't get discouraged by logical inconsistencies, and only if you are determined to follow through. Somewhere along the way you get unwavering certainty on some points, even if they contradict other, equally authoritative points. Because you are certain about these things, you can give up some other things you would never have dreamt of giving up, even though your heart sinks as you do it. You keep doing it in the name of "no hope, no fear" until you lose all ground and fall through space. This is the great doubt, the flip side of your faith and determination. It's not the goal, it's a thing you have to go through. It's not something that can or should be induced artificially though. As Master Bankei said: 

There are those traditions that disregard pursuing an "ultimate reality." In Tools of Perception (and mp3), Thanissaro says: 

There is no benefit to accrue to anyone except personal actions that lead to the ending of suffering. Someone killing a pest doesn't "benefit" you, it gives you some short-term sensual pleasure--the pleasure of being outside and feeling a cool breeze without a determined gnat landing on your face. Or the pleasure of eating food/drink without having to pay for it. But these are certainly not permanent pleasures, nor ultimately fulfilling. Instead of worrying about who did what action and what pleasure resulted, try thinking about why you think superficial pleasures like these are beneficial? So long as a mind thinks these are good things worth pursuing, it will pursue them. And for the comment underneath you, also about killing insects: 

The term Hinayana's usage is confused at best. It's mostly used now as a synonym for Theravada along with some other early Buddhist schools, but some people think Theravada needs to be specifically excluded from that group. From Pali Buddhism, Hoffman/Mahinda: 

The first paramita in Mahayana is paramita of generosity. And what generosity could we talk about if we are keeping our merit to ourselves? As many Buddhist practices, this transfer of merit thing works on multiple levels. One of them is prophylactics against spiritual materialism. You don't want to get caught up in the idea of accumulating anything for your ego to feed on. In some sense Satdharma is about becoming a very decent, very sane person, like a very lucid grandma. This grandma does not dream of career or wealth or popularity anymore, she does not want to learn Haskell because it's so cool, she just clearly knows that to be a decent person, rather than being full of yourself, you have to keep your eyes open and only do what makes sense. So instead of assuming this notion of accumulation, you could say: "Ok, what else do I need to drop?" Aside from giving away one's merit there is also a parallel practice: of taking on blame -- if you pay attention you can feel how both of these relieve the energy tension. You could say these two are quintessential Mahayana practices towards starving the ego. The same idea is utilized in Tonglen meditation: we breath in all the suffering of the world and breath out happiness, for all sentient beings to enjoy. Another similar practice is e.g. when you're cold, to wish that you are taking on a piece of suffering some unfortunate beings experience in the Freezing Hell, and when you are spacing out in front of the fireplace to send that happiness to all spaces and times that need it. This is all part of Bodhicitta, generating Buddha's mindset. 

I feel it's probably true that only some portion of the people throwing around the term Hinayana actually intend it to cause damage, the rest use it because what other term could you use? You can't just use "Theravada" for everything non-Mahayana and non-Vajrayana. I find myself coming around to the view expressed at the end, of viewing the term without the derogatory baggage. Because people often translate Hinayana as "inferior" vehicle, and of course that was the original intent, but I believe it literally means "smaller", which doesn't have to be an insult. The Buddha's concern in the Pali Canon does seem to be individuals, personal action and personal liberation from suffering, not the grand salvation of the universe, extraterrestrial Buddha fields, cosmic Buddhas, etc. It is indeed a smaller vehicle by comparison. 

Then there are other various holidays and festivals. I'm not sure if any of the other holidays involve increased practice or not. Some seem like they would just involve paying respect to the Buddha (Vesak) or monks (Kathina Ceremony). 

The way it's used in Buddhism, sati/smrti means continuously remembering something, being mindful of something, continuously keeping something in mind. The traditional metaphor is the mindfulness of hunger -- when you are very hungry you don't forget that you are hungry. If I remember correctly, before Buddhism, in Hinduism (or whatever that conglomerate of teachings and rituals can be called) smrti used to refer to rote learning. So basically, you repeat some Vedas text until you memorize it by heart. Here we have two components: keeping something in mind, and repeating something until it sinks down. This is basically what smrti is. Specifically, kayagata-smrti -- mindfulness rooted in the body -- is continuous awareness of one's bodily sensations, first and foremost somatic components of emotions. ana-apana-smrti -- mindfulness of breathing in and out -- is continuous awareness of the breathing, again mostly because breathing is always the picture of one's state of mind. Both of these can be both meditation as well as post-meditation activities -- and it is the post-meditation that is referred to as smrti, because the challenge is not to forget it, as you are walking about your business. Again, the important thing to remember that smrti is never just mindfulness (as in, open-ended awareness) -- it is always mindfulness of something. It does matter what we are mindful of, because whatever it is, the more you feed it the stronger it gets. Usually in Buddhism we train to remember whatever our teacher deems useful for us to remember at this particular stage. It could be the lower abdomen, could be the diaphragm, could be the face, could be the hands, could be the feet, could be the head and shoulders, could be Buddha-Nature, could be Emptiness etc. More broadly, at "hinayana" stage the training is focused on very low level immediate experiences: so what you are "remembering" (paying attention to) is the whole phenomenological setup -- bodily sensations (heartbeat, breathing, face muscles, posture), emotions (somatic projections aka chakras), and the state of mind (excitement level, scattering level, dimness level, viscosity level etc) -- as a whole. So basically we are learning to be more self-aware, to have a better insight into our internal condition -- via all kinds of hints and symptoms. At this level it's not just being aware though, it's fixing whatever looks unskillful/unhealthy. Noticed the heartbeat increasing -- stopped arguing and switched the strategy of persuasion. This kind of stuff. Even more broadly, smrti means remembering Dharma at large, as the all encompassing context of our trainee's life, as opposed to letting one's inner frame of reference be force-switched by the circumstances. This mastery over one's context is developed through five levels (panca bala): faith, effort, mindfulness, concentration, and wisdom. 

But what I found was that after considering this table of past lives, I would see an insect landing on my face (trying to collect water, I guess) and I would instantly think "this is what I may be born into" rather than "what an annoyance this is." So I think this kind of experience has to do with the Buddha wanting you to view every kind of sentient being the same as any every other kind of sentient being. This is contrary to what we tend to do, which is separate beings into various kinds of classes of beings, some of which are acceptable to kill with a fly-swatter and others, which aren't. 

Take a look at Ajahn Lee's autobiography, page 16 and onward. His practice slackens, he grows disillusioned with being a monk, and he begins an obsessive debate within himself about whether to disrobe or not: 

Big long word happily rendered as "beer-cider-carelessness-intoxication-condition" by Kare. This is talking specifically about fermented things like beer, wine, etc. Neither coffee nor tea are fermented, nor do they cause heedlessness. I've heard of monks drinking tea. (I've heard of monks smoking too, which I think isn't forbidden by this rule, although perhaps by others) It's all well and good to look past the behavior prohibited by the precepts to see what further kinds of attachments you have that can be abandoned, but not, I think, at the cost of going back to change the meaning of the precept. But I do occasionally see attempts at redefining the precepts to be stricter than they are. Take Sulak Sivaraksa's reinterpretation of the five precepts: