Its all about keeping matters civilized and polite so that you can co-exist and all get the best they can(you get your 2% almost all the time, they get their 98% uninterrupted). 

First of, I find it very good to think of the future and go for a change of career when you still have the luxury of choice and its not a matter of utmost importance to support yourself financially in a dire way. That being said I would still consider if my current line of work is welcome in another firm before I did something radical, unless you really dont enjoy it either in which case; move on. About the pay issue, its perfectly normal to say you didn't enjoy your last job or want a new "challenge" as the reason you re changing and as such you recognize you may have been fairly specialized in your last line of work(and equally well compensated- do NOT mention you think your pay was overly high even for that) but seeing you consciously looking for a change(which will come with a learning period and all) and that you will accept a pay cut in the process of switching careers and having to start lower.I wouldn't insinuate necessity as the reason for this change as it may play against you during such a negotiation. 

I would not include the fact that you started programming at age 8 on your resume. Every item you list on your resume should be something that demonstrates your value as an employee. You list your previous jobs because it demonstrates that you are experienced, you list your certifications because it demonstrates that you are knowledgeable, you list your work organizing a charity drive at your previous job because it demonstrates that you can take initiative and be a leader, etc. With that in mind, you need to consider what you are trying to demonstrate by mentioning that you were 8 when you first learned to code, and also what prospective employers might perceive that as demonstrating. Presumably you see that fact as demonstrating that you have a lot of experience around programming and are good at learning things on your own. However, as Vietnhi Phuvan's answer shows, prospective employers might interpret that fact differently. Given the potential for potential employers to draw negative conclusions from that fact, I would not include the fact that you first learned to code at age 8, but rather find a different way to communicate the values you wish to demonstrate. 

I have a different point of view here. It sounds like lighting ergonomics are a significant factor in your problem. You should never have screen glare or the sun reflecting off your screen! I don't know what country you are from, but surely there are laws governing ergonomics in the workplace. Blinds on the windows, anti-glare screen covers, lighting requirements etc. If you can solve the screen glare issue so that the sun doesn't reflect off the screen, then you won't care any more about people touching your monitor and you can better get on with your work. Talk to your supervisor. 

Always invite criticism. You're trying to better yourself and asking for other's input, as long as it's constructive, will go a long way towards that. Be sure of what you say, and back it up with your own knowledge and expertise, but shape it as an idea or suggestion and invite input from others. If they don't have anything to say, it's safe to say its a good idea, or they don't have a clue. Don't put yourself down. You are a human being with thoughts that exist for a reason - don't be afraid to show others that reason, life is too short to worry about that. 

As is the case with requesting anything from an employer, you need to show your employer how it is to their benefit to give you what you are asking for. In this case that means that you need to demonstrate to your employer that getting two more weeks of work from you will benefit them less than letting you go immediately. The main benefit that the employer gets is not paying you for two weeks worth of work, but the fact that you have this job means that in general the employer views the work that you do as more valuable to the company than the money they pay you. So in order to convince them otherwise, it seems to me that you need to make it clear that the work you will be doing in your final two weeks will be of lower quality than usual, and thus is not worth the company's money. In other words, I don't think there is a way that you can get your employer to let you go immediately without burning bridges. 

Many companies provide an introductory or probation period. This is for both parties to ensure they will be a right fit for each other; that the new employee will fit in well with the rest of the team and the culture, and that the new employee is happy doing the job they chose. These don't tend to last more than 6 months, mine was only 3 - but you could (and should) use this time to determine whether or not you feel the company is a good fit for you. It's an "above the average salary range" position. Take the job. If it doesn't work out, it doesn't work out - that's what the probationary period is there for. If there isn't a probationary period - I suggest asking for one to be placed in your contract to ensure both parties are happy with the arrangement. As for being worried about getting laid off - ask what the staff turnover typically is for the company. If it's rather high - there must be a reason. Assuming there is a probationary period, you could take the job, try your best, and keep an eye out for other jobs (you should really be keeping your eye on the market anyway).