Are such accusations of science justified and arise due to its inherent nature, or are they instead based on a misunderstanding of it? Phenomena such as warmth, awe, wonder, inspiration, fear, hope, meaning, love, grief etc. are the domain of our primary subjective experience. Scientific understanding can be interpreted as a move from subjectivity towards objectivity; in the process, our subjective experience is abstracted away. Science doesn't attempt to explain the world as it is to us, but as it really verifiably is. Scientific approach to understanding the world as it is to us refers merely to understanding of why and how the world is to us as it is (e.g. in neurobiological terms), but in a universal manner agnostic of individual experience. Thus, science objectifies nature, or in more romantic terms, depersonalizes it. The move away from subjectivity can be understood as a reduction of experienced warmth in some sense of the word. This is probably why Edgar Allan Poe calls science “a vulture, whose wings are dull realities” (2). For example, consider a relationship someone has with her loved ones. This relationship is significant to the person because it involves shared experiences, appreciation of character traits, etc. The loved ones are appreciated as individuals. Thinking of them only in terms of organized organic matter that is perceived as appreciated due to evolutionary benefits is a dehumanizing abstraction. Similarly, contrast marveling at a magnificent old tree that has provided shade to generations and withstood decades of storms to viewing it in terms of biophysical interactions. What about the argument that scientific understanding enhances our appreciation of perceived reality, instead of diminishing it? This is the problem that Richard Feynman talks about in (3): 

First of all, you interchangeably use expressions "consciousness" and "artificial intelligence" while it is an open question wheter the latter one must come with the first or not and how they are related (check out for example Searle's Chinese Room : $URL$ Secondly, let me use another anology to the computer science: you can write some code in an advanced programming language, handling difficult computations, database queries, sending graphical output and reading input of all sorts etc... But any software you write is actually compiled to some binary code: a bunch od 0's and 1's with nothing else, which then are represented in hardware as different levels of voltage (I'm simplyfing it a bit). The way one can look at it: as a binary mess or as a great piece of code is just the case of perspective. We can tell that the computer is brilliant, because it can do such things, or we can tell that computer is just doing what a simple voltage detector had told it. However, we usually do not make assumptions such as that a computer has a soul or awareness (or do we? again - Searle's Chinese Room). It is just a machine that works well. What's more - if it didn't work well, we would have invented something better. The point you make is that the whole is greater than just the sum of parts - but it can also be applied to the computers, as an analogy to the hardware. The magical mist fades, because we know that the computer is nothing else, but the wires, transistors and some other stuff. Certainly no-one puts a soul inside a computer! Surely, we can tell that a computer is greater (understood as more valuable) than just the parts we used to build it. That is true, because there has been some research and effort put in sticking those parts together and making it work. We can underestimate the pieces and praise the whole. But in a society, especially since the World War II, I would say that such a statement is "highly deprecated". Impersonating a society is highly essentialistic, can lead to devaluating a person in general in comparison to a society, and therefore brings a threat of totalitarianism. The procedure of destroying the myths of the past and replacing them with new myths covered in a quasi-scientific vocabulary is widely discussed by the Frankfurt School, especially by T.W. Adorno and Max Horkheimer in their Dialectics of Enlightment. To sum up, a society is indeed a great and valuable human invention and surely deserves the highest appreciation - but never at a cost of underestimating the individual. 

What is the basis for the definition of logical connectives? Are they just arbitrary convention? Or does it depend on the meaning of the constituent propositions? Does the individual meaning of two propositions determine or constrain what kind of logical connectives can be formed between them? In other words, are the definition given to logical connectives based on empirical observation and logical necessity or are they just arbitrarily defined concepts and rules(Axioms)? To give a context for this question, I provide the following statements from Mathematics texts and my commentary of them: In a discrete Mathematics book, the following definition was given to conjunction and implication. (I)Conjunction- ''Let P and Q be propositions. The proposition ''P and Q'', is the proposition that is true when both P and Q are true and is false otherwise''. Comment on the above definition: As per the above definition, I can consider any arbitrary pair of propositions and connect it by the ''Conjunction'', since it does not impose any constraint on the meaning of P and Q. So according to the definition, both of the following two examples seem reasonable. Example (1). P=This car weighs 50 tons. Q=This car is green in color. P and Q = This car weighs 50 tons and is green in color. (2). P= This car is green. Q=The milky way galaxy is 100,000 light years wide. P and Q = This car is green and the milky way galaxy is 100,000 light years wide. As per the definition, both examples are valid cases of Conjunction. But it appears that both the examples do not have the same empirical and\or logical footing. In the former case, it is easy to see that the region of the Venn diagram corresponding to P and Q, is made of points corresponding to individual physical objects(car), that possess two properties: Weighing 2 tons and having a green color. In the latter case, however, the region of the Venn diagram pertaining to ''P and Q''is supposedly made of points, each corresponding to two distinct objects possessing two distinct properties. From an empirical standpoint, the second example looks artificial while the former looks more ''natural'', in the sense that there are arbitrarily many conjunctions that can be formed from any random pair of propositions but only a countable number of conjunctions formable from propositions corresponding to the properties of a Physical object. Definition of implication from the same book (II)Implication-''Let P and Q be two propositions. The implication ''If P then Q'' is the proposition that is false when P is true and Q is false, and true otherwise''. Again this definition also does not impose any condition, based on meaning, on the constituent propositions. So the following two examples seem reasonable. (1) P= x < 2, Q=x < 6 for all x in the set of real numbers. If P then Q = If P<2, Q<6 for all x in the set of real numbers. (2) P= This box is big, Q= Tomorrow it will rain, If P then Q= If this box is big, it rained yesterday. Commentary: According to the definition of ''implication'' logical connective, both the examples could be said to constitute valid examples of ''Implication'' Consider, in particular, the second example where the ''If P then Q'' assumes a truth value of F, only if The box is big and it did not rain yesterday(According to the definition). Clearly, this second example is not both logically and empirically on the same footing as the first example. The second example seems to have been constructed '' artificially'', based on the rules specified in the definition. On the other hand, the former example seems to have a logical necessity independent of the definition given to ''Implication''. I am not completely sure if the second example in both, the case of Conjunction and the case of Implication are ''allowed''. If they are not allowed, what are the rules constraining the formation of logical connectives? It seems that the constraining rules depend on the meaning of the constituent propositions. On the other hand, if they are allowed, is not the arbitrariness (which was illustrated in the examples) troubling?