You should look at Shadiversity and Skallagrim, both are well versed in all things Medieval weaponry. But boiled down to basics? The arming sword is for personal defence (not a battlefield weapon). 

Follow these steps, and you should have your issue under control in roughly 5 years, provided there is no evil mastermind with ideal countermeasures. 

Start a market stall. If one kid can use fire, cook food. If one can conjure up water, steep tea. If one can stimulate plant growth, grow and sell fruits and veggies (even when no one else should be able to). Entertainment. It's been mentioned before, but that's what a lot of orphans do: entertain the masses to get a coin. Magic shows, singing, dancing, plays, light shows, dancing fruits, whatever gets the largest crowd to stop and look and pay. Work for someone. You have a bunch of eyes, maybe someone will pay for information (business owners that want intel on the competition, contract killers that need consistently accurate information, guards that need someone to keep an eye on a suspicious group). Grow your own food. You have the space, start a garden to feed yourselves. Learn a trade. If eating is a big thing, then you'll be motivated to learn something new, or you and everyone left alive that you care about is going to starve one day at a time. Chop chop. Learn to hunt for your own meats. The skins can be sold at the market, and some apothecaries would buy some of the body parts (rabbit's foot, spleens, livers, these might be ingredients to potions and whatnot) Another aspect of your world that has been left vague or unclear. These are orphans that need to survive. If they can do none of the above, they'd study the world around them and see what they can come up with together. Many brains, all attached to a stomach that likes being full. 

Don't be so quick to dismiss the more typical uses of forcefields. Though it can be argued that 'the best defense is a good offense', having a strong offensive game and a personal forcefield to keep you alive isn't a bad thing. 

Well, that depends on a lot of factors before you even get to 'intelligence'. First, is the world in the 'world' viable for life in the first place: 

This makes no sense. No one that lives a maximum of 80 years will tolerate this for a thousand and then get fed up. By this time, the king's ways will have been so ingrained into their culture that most will just accept it as it is ("What can you do, it's always been like this"). This is something that would have been revolted against time and again--which could be the actual problem: Rebellion has become so common, that to not be a rebel is to be an outcast. Think Timber in Final Fantasy VIII, where everyone in town is a resistance member. But how do you deal with that as a king with a thousand years of experience of surviving these pathetic little coups? For that, we turn to our Robin Hood example, and how poorly this worked out. Tax the people into the poor house. Public executions to break the spirit. And burning down entire villages that would dare harbour even suspected criminals. Why didn't this work for John? Because everyone will come to hate you, and if anything, a dictator (even a royal dictator) needs his powerbase on his side. See 3 Rules for Rulers for a more in depth explanation. So, if this king rules for over a thousand years, he knows the game, all the rules, and he's safeguarded his power structure indefinitely. So, how does he react? He's a king, micromanaging just isn't an option. He has the army and generals he needs to trust. Expect these generals to have been loyal to him for generations (father to son, most likely, simply because "if it isn't broke, don't fix it"). They'll receive orders to make an example out of these people, and make sure everyone else is too scared to help them. How to do this? Wanted posters, hanging a few people alleged to have helped the rebellion, and making sure the people know their place: beneath the ruling class's feet. Historically this has been done via warrior classes (knights in Europe, Samurai in Japan) because if you are raised to believe this is the way the world works, it is easier to shrug off having to kill innocent men, women, and even children (and yes, this has historically been the case in both Eastern and Western societies). Another option would be South Africa's Apartheid. Built upon the principle a house divided unto itself cannot stand. Keep the people segregated, keep them fighting amongst themselves, and they will never gain the strength needed to oppose the king or the ruling class. Keep in mind my third point: Socio-Economics. Dead people cannot work, so the king doesn't want to kill them, but he will if he must. He wants them to work, to know their place and make him rich, so that he can support his power bases (reference to the 3 Rules for Rulers video), so that he can continue being the king, and the status quo is maintained. Expect the state endorsed religion to support accepting your fate and devoting yourself to being a good little slave. Perhaps a belief that you'll be rewarded in the life hereafter, or perhaps reincarnation is a thing, and you'll be granted a much better life next time. Having dealt with all of that. What tactics would the king's army use to hammer down the nail that sticks up? I've mentioned a few already, but why not offer some more ideas. 

Short answer, yes. Long answer? We have so much research to do, so much innovations that will be needed before such a feat becomes even remotely possible. Why? Where to even begin... First is the most important: radiation. Because Mars has no magnetosphere, its denizens would not be protected from the background radiation of space (cosmic radiation), nor the blasts from the sun (solar winds). These are things that astronauts (and cosmonauts, and essentially any space traveler) can tell you about, and many have. They tell tales of 'flashes of light as they close their eyes', which is in fact the background radiation striking their retina. This radiation can attack DNA directly, increasing the risk of cancer. Second up is the lower gravity of the red planet. Yes, it is almost like earth, but it has 0.8G, so 20% less gravity than Earth. This would mean that our muscles and bones would be stronger than the gravity needs it to be, meaning we would lose muscle mass and bone density living there. Though the difference isn't excessive, it is important to keep in mind. Especially when people want to go from Mars to Earth -- their bones and muscles would have exactly the opposite problem. Then comes the biggest issue: housing. Mars would need a stable habitable area. Check out Mars 1 Project, seeing as they have the idea already. So, yes. This is possible, and though it is within our current technological reach, we have so much more to learn and so much growing to do as a society. Time will tell when (not if) this becomes a reality. 

So much in this block of text. The things a man can learn in a thousand years (if he's able to remember any of it, but that aside). What troubles me most, is how (or why) he would kill all of his own people to rule over others. This speaks of fear on his part, and some seriously twisted backstory that I could speculate on for hours on end (let's not go there now, in other words). So let's get to the more troubling part. 

Underground cities Short and stocky Proud, bordering on arrogant At odds with Elves Self-sufficient enough to have their own cities (first point) and trade with other dwarven cities (assumed) and some Humans settlements (assumed) A love for ale, beer, or whatever alcoholic beverage is most common throughout the world they inhabit