The reason you want to warm up is to loosen up your muscles and raise your heart rate a little bit. If you're going with the cardio way of warming up, typically you would get to the point where you start to break a sweat and maintain it for at least 5 minutes. Warm Up, Cool Down 

If you're talking about weightlifting warm-ups, then typically start light and work your way up. For example, I start squatting with the bar do a set of 10, slowly add a 25lbs plate on each side until I am sweating (No breaks). After I break a sweat, I keep adding 25lbs, but I lower the amount of reps (1-5) until my working set. The reason I keep adding weight slowly is to prevent injuries. They give you feedback on your form or your mood and boost your confidence. For myself, I never look forward to leg day. However, once I start squatting, I remember just how much I love leg day and why it's my favorite day... 

Running too hard too often can lead to problems, though there are always exceptions like Emil Zatopek. Hurt can refer to different things. At one extreme, some people have died in marathons, though that is rare. At another level, are you building the muscles of the you that you want to become. Training aerobically versus anaerobically creates different changes within the body. If you wish to build endurance, variety is good, but that variety should not be limited to just fast and then faster and harder still. Easier is beneficial also, especially if you wish to build endurance. The famous New Zealand coach, Arthur Lydiard, regularly had his runners doing lots of long, slow(er) distance (LSD) running even though they may have competed in the 5K and 10K events. That training built a high level of core endurance during the aerobic phase. But, even during the aerobic phase, there are a variety of workouts, just not at a very high effort level yet. Later phases added training for specific events at higher effort levels. Repeating those cycles of phases built very competitive runners. The combination provided the speed to compete well along with the ability to endure at the end when the competition began to fade. To determine whether you are hurting/hindering your development, first determine what your goals are. Then, you can address how best to reach them. 

Generally I think warming-up is overrated. I'm pretty sure evolution selects against people who stretch and do a warm-up jog in response to a crisis situation. If you're healthy, a spontaneous effort shouldn't hurt you. Case in point: I regularly chase my dog up the driveway at full speed after her nightly walk. I also run 20 miles a week so my legs are very used to the motions of running. I should point out that "full speed" is relative. With a bit of a warm-up, "full speed" becomes noticeably faster. I suspect that when my muscles are cold, they don't have their full range of motion and limit my stride length thus slowing me down. So warming up is good if you're about to enter a race. Warming up is also good if you're going to be doing a lot of jumping, turning, etc, as if you were playing basketball, soccer, etc. I've never injured myself due to failure to warm up. However, I have been injured from continuing to exercise on fatigued muscles. This has been both in the form of over-use injuries such as runner's knee, and catastrophic injury such as a pulled hamstring when diving after a Frisbee (but it was a highlight reel catch to be sure :-) 

After reviewing my food log, I notice that it is mostly carbs and proteins. Pretty close to what MyFitnessPal recommends me. 

I normally just leave my hands hanging on the bar while I squat, however I sometimes find myself pulling the bar downwards or pushing the bar upwards. When I push the bar with my hands, the weight feels lighter. I'm not sure if there are any benefits to this or if it is just psychological, after all, the weight is still being lifted by my legs, right? I try not to do anything with my hands, but I sometimes grind that last rep using this technique. Should I push the bar up with my hands, pull it down on my back or not do anything during a rep? What are the advantages and disadvantages of each one. 

From the 50,000 foot view, weight loss is about having a calorie deficit, so the idea that you're going to "add" a food and "lose" weight is simply wrong. If you have a calorie deficit, you can lose weight while eating Twinkies (reference: $URL$ Whey protein is good for building muscle. It digests quickly and causes an insulin spike which will signal your body to store nutrients and build tissue. It is the refined sugar of proteins. If you do strength training and have a calorie surplus with ample protein (whey or otherwise), you'll build muscle. 

Here's the secret to many of these makeovers or rapid weight loss success stories: Start with somebody who is already active and fit, but has to take some time off due to injury. Have them gain a lot of weight while recovering from the injury. After they've recovered, have them go back to their old active and fit lifestyle and add in whatever miracle makeover plan you're trying to sell. Voila, impressive weight loss and fitness improvements. 

You said at the gym, so I will start with gym etiquette. Don't reserve multiple stations, dumbbell, etc... So in the scenario, unless you use the same machine or dumbbells, the best way to organize your set is to use only one piece of equipment at a time and do whatever you want with it. Now that basic gym etiquette is out of the way. There are really two main trains of thought when it comes to "GAINZ". The first one is to trickle down from compound to isolation and the second is to start with the muscle group you want to prioritize first. If you're doing back/biceps today, in the first case you will start with your back exercise. The reason is that you use your biceps in the majority of your back work outs. Later, once you get to your bicep workout, they have already have a workout. Sure, it will be lighter, but you're doing more volume. If you were to start with your biceps, your back exercise would suffer. Now, if you work out shoulders and chest on the same day. Say you want a bigger chest, you would start off your day with the bench press. This will allow you to put on more weight or do more volume on the bench, rather than say overhead press. If you want bigger shoulders, start with overhead press for the same reason. The reasoning behind this method is that you have more energy to devote on a body part at the beginning of a workout as opposed to the tail end of one. It is pretty self explanatory. Another method you can use is just alternate between body parts. From what I've gathered, people tend to take this approach when they have a primary movement and finishers. You would start with bench, then do overhead press, then triceps. Move onto flies, shrugs and then more triceps, etc... There's no wrong order to do exercises. Some people do supersets, others take long breaks between exercises. It depends on your goals, if you need the break before repeating a muscle group, do it. If you need StackExchange to find the answer to this question, you are probably not at the point where you will benefit from this type of optimization. 

The way I look at it, walk breaks are ideal when trying to achieve an intensity level that is somewhere between a walking and a running pace. Thus, the running should be slow and the walking brisk so that both the walking and running segments are as close to the desired intensity as possible. However, if you're going up a steep hill then a brisk walk might be too intense and you'll need to slow down further. 

I wouldn't say it's first in/last out, but there are reasons why you may (or may not) put on belly fat first and lose it last. Fat cells receive a number of different hormone signals that tell them whether to store or release fat. Depending on the area of the body, the fat cells will have more or less receptors for the various messages. For example, visceral fat (sometimes called belly fat) has more cortisol receptors, so if you're stressed, your belly fat responds more than fat in other areas of the body. In evolutionary terms, during times of starvation this serves to move fat from the periphery to the vital organs. In modern times, when you're well fed and stressed, it means you get belly fat, diabetes, etc. A contrary point is sumo wrestlers. They gain lots of fat, but it's evenly distributed around their bodies, and not concentrated in the belly. References: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

So, I made the mistake of asking a random guy for a spot and letting him do a lift off for me. While I've never had any issues with this technique before, this guy clearly had no idea how to liftoff. He pulled it super high and I lost tightness, then he dropped it over my belly instead of my chest, then the bar just dropped and my shoulder made a popping sound and that was it for this workout. This is clearly my fault because I let someone spot me without establishing safety rules. Now that I'm out with a strained shoulder, I am wondering what is a safety checklist if you're asking for a spot? 

Wearing raised heel shoes and running with a form that lands on the heel first can aggravate your back. I am a software developer also (for 30+ years) and, in 2009, was 85 pounds overweight and walked with a cane due to a hyper mobile lumbar disc. An article by Dr. Rossi led me to suspect my footwear was a contributor to my problem. I switched to Vibram FiveFingers, became mobile, and put away the cane. Shortly thereafter, I started the Couch to 5K training plan. At my weight and with the switch to zero-drop footwear stretching my achilles a little, it took a little longer than planned. But, I was able to successfully complete the training plan. For the running part of this, the form that is used is important. Landing on your heels increases the forces transmitted up your body when you land. A study done by Dr. Daniel Lieberman explains the forces further. It is much easier on the back to have the knees bent when you land and to land on the mid-foot/forefoot area of the foot. This allows the springs of your feet and legs to absorb the impact of the landing. The heavier you are, the more important this is. Running form and footwear choice are factors worth considering. 

As for stretching, you don't need to stretch, some people do just fine without stretching... But later on in life, it might affect your mobility. Prevention is the best treatment. These don't have to be done right after your workout, but it is the best time to do so. You can do them first thing in the morning, last thing before you go to bed, it doesn't matter much. Do I need to stretch before exercising? 

This is Converting, not Conversing, the number of steps into Calories. Which means it is either a typo, or someone who's not well versed in English that wrong the code.