It is easy to see why Vikings would target monasteries. They were rich, isolated, and largely unguarded, or as we might say today, "easy pickings". The chroniclers who were recording these attacks were mostly monks - the very people being targeted by the Viking attacks. It is hardly surprising then that the Viking raiders were portrayed as "vicious". The early Viking raiders in England were certainly "foreigners", travelling from Scandinavia to carry out their attacks. By the mid ninth century, larger armies were arriving with a view to conquest, rather than raiding. In 851, the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle tells us that: 

The 1 million figure quoted in the figure only relates to the use of Zyklon B at the gas chambers installed at Auschwitz-Birkenau, Majdanek, and other extermination camps. Einsatzgruppen killed over 2 million people, including some 1.3 million Jews, gas vans (using gasses other than Zyklon B) were used to murder large numbers, while many others were worked to death or simply died as a result of hunger and disease. A breakdown of how and where victims of the Holocaust and Nazi Persecution died can be found on the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum website. It doesn't make for easy reading. The following breakdown of Jewish deaths in the Holocaust is taken from there. 

It goes to show that it doesn't matter how impressive the defensive structures may be, if they are not effectively manned they will be ineffectual. You can find a more detailed description of the Ne Plus Ultra line in Chapter 18 of Marlborough: The Hero of Blenheim by John Hussey (2015). In brief, 

An analysis of DNA evidence, published in Nature back in 2013, suggested that the Minoans were a local European civilisation. A few reports since have refined the details, but the main conclusion still seems to be accepted. The very latest published research that I've found (in the latest issue of Nature, dated today - 10 August 2017) shows that the Minoans and Mycenaeans were genetically very similar, having at least three-quarters of their ancestry from the earliest Neolithic farmers of western Anatolia and the Aegean. The main difference between the Mycenaeans and the Minoans seems to be that the Mycenaeans 

So it would seem that as Prefect of the Roman province of Judaea (Praefectus Iudaeae) Pilate did hold imperium, and so was entitled to sit on the sella curulis. It should be remembered that the title "Prefect" was still a military one under Tiberius. 

Firstly, I'm not sure about the source of the numbers given in the Wikipedia article. In 2007, the British Museum in London hosted an exhibition of the Terracotta Warriors. They published a book to accompany the exhibition, edited by Jane Portal, titled The First Emperor: China's Terracotta Army. It states that: 

There was certainly a system of apprenticeship in place in Ancient Egypt, although there doesn't seem to be any evidence to support the idea that people travelled any great distance to train as artisans. We have good evidence for apprenticeship contracts from the 18th - 20th dynasty Workmen's village at Deir el-Medina. There is a good overview of what we know about that site in Kathlyn M Cooney's excellent paper Apprenticeship and Figured Ostraca from the Ancient Egyptian Village of Deir el-Medina [Willeke, 2013, p145]. The workers of this village were particularly skilled artisans, and children were apprenticed to other families in the village to learn their skills. In the later periods, we have a pretty good overall understanding of the apprentice system that was in force in ancient Egypt during the Roman period. Once again, children seem to have been apprenticed locally to learn their skills. This does not mean that their training was necessarily carried out locally. Smiths and potters would certainly have been based locally. The same is probably true for boat-builders. However, masons, for example, might travel considerable distances to work on commissions, and their apprentices would accompany them. A good, accessible paper here would be W. L. Westermann's Apprentice Contracts and the Apprentice System in Roman Egypt. 

] However, the fact that the United States did not set up similar camps for American citizens of German ancestry does suggest that the phenomenon might not be a general one. At the very least, it suggests that the factors that lead to such a "witch-hunt" are rather more complex in nature. 

It was certainly customary for men in ancient Egypt to follow the profession of their fathers after coming of age, but Adam Smith was wrong to claim that men were "bound by a principle of religion" to follow the occupations of their fathers. For example, the Instruction of Dua-Khety, also known as The Satire of the Trades, shows quite clearly that sons could follow different professions from their fathers. The text dates from the Middle Kingdom, and tells us a lot about life in Ancient Egypt. It takes the form of advice from a father to his son Pepy. Unlike his father, Pepy had been sent to learn to be a scribe at the 'School of Books' [Ann Rosalie David: A Year in the Life of Ancient Egypt, 2015]. The text emphasises how much better Pepy's life will be if he became a scribe, rather than working in a manual occupation. 

The list is also one of several datasets that were used to demonstrate how metadata could be used to analyse social networks. The others are political organisations and clubs in the Boston area of which Paul Revere was a member. Most of these datasets seem to also be headings on the table you referenced. Rather than using current data about living people, the authors decided to use lists of groups from the Revolutionary War to illustrate how effective this metadata could be in analysing social networks, and identifying potential "terrorists in the American colonies". With tongue firmly in cheek, the author observes: 

For the British Empire as a whole at this period, the 1833 book Taxation, Revenue, Expenditure, Power, Statistics, and Debt of the Whole British Empire; Their Origin, Progress, and Present State by Antonio Pebrer provides valuable details. Happily, this particular volume has been scanned and made available from Archive.org. 

I found a number of sites that repeat the claim of thimbles found at Pompeii and Herculaneum. They all seem to use the same image (that image also appears alongside the claim on Pinterest) to illustrate the supposed Roman thimbles. However, it seems the picture actually shows 19th century thimbles found on a farm in Tennessee! 

From that point, life for Scots in England, probably even those prepared to declare their allegiance to Edward, would have been much more complicated. The English who were expelled from Scotland fared little better as they joined the growing ranks of the so-called "disinherited". More generally, I don't doubt that Scots living in England would have experienced at least some hostility even before war broke out in 1296. Descriptions of Scots from that period were hardly flattering! In fact, as late as the sixteenth century, English writers were still describing the Scots thus: 

It is fundamentally the result of empire-building and the conversion of "conquered" or "subject" peoples. This animated map shows the spread of religion around the world from c3000BCE to 2000CE. Wikipedia offers this page on the Growth of Religion which attempts to explain the current, rather than historic, trends. 

In terms of famine relief, Churchill initially urged Australia to provide assistance. In response, Australia promised to supply 350,000 tons of wheat. The Canadian Prime Minister MacKenzie King, also offered to provide aid, but Churchill replied that: “Wheat from Canada would take at least two months to reach India whereas it could be carried from Australia in 3 to 4 weeks.” Winston S. Churchill to William Lyon Mackenzie King, 4 November 1943. 

As you say, cremation in India is first attested in the archaeological evidence with the Bronze Age Cemetery H culture dating from about 1900 BC. This is considered to be the formative stage of Vedic civilization. Changes in burial practices are often seen as evidence for the arrival of new populations (so-called "invasion hypothesis"). The Rig Veda is one of the oldest extant texts in any Indo-European language, with philological and linguistic evidence indicating that it was probably composed between c1500 and 1200 BC. The fact that it declares that their forefathers were either cremated or buried doesn't actually conflict at all with the archaeological evidence. A useful recent (2014) text for those trying to understand the Aryan migration theory is The Elusive Aryans: Archaeological Search and Vedic Research; The Origin of the Hindus by Pradhan S. V. 

Others were portrayed or inscribed on objects like coins, or the shield presented to Augustus by the Roman Senate which, as the marble copy below shows, bore the inscription: 

This is an interesting question, and one which I have heard debated by Roman historians/archaeologists more than once. You are right that in his Life of Marc Antony, Plutarch says: 

The coin you mentioned in the question was found during a 2006 excavation in the "House of the Gold Bracelet" in Pompeii. It records the fifteenth imperial acclamation of the emperor Titus. The obverse reads: 

It is very rare for new laws to apply retroactively, even Hitler's Nuremberg Laws. In this case, the prohibition of mixed marriages did not apply to couples who were already married. However, as the paper linked above observes, the Law for the Protection of German Blood and German Honour did include one provision in regard to existing marriages: 

The "Men of the Rolling Mills" For the men working in the production of sheet steel the situation was rather different, and establishing their working hours is more complex. As Fitch observes: 

The ancient Egyptians themselves were aware of some forms of cancer. The Edwin Smith Surgical Papyrus, which dates to the Second Intermediate Period, describes the symptoms (and prognosis) for breast cancer. A number of mummies have now been found to show the symptoms of cancer. An unnamed mummy of the Ptolemaic period (known today simply as M1) is currently the oldest known case of prostate cancer. As far as I am aware, the oldest evidence so far for a suggested case of cancer in an Egyptian mummy comes from another unnamed individual, this time dated to the First Intermediate Period. This discovery was made within the last year, and the last I read about it, the preliminary diagnosis of cancer hadn't been confirmed. Probably the most famous case of a mummy that has been found to exhibit the symptoms of cancer is that of Hatshepsut, which was re-discovered a decade ago. Interestingly, her mummy was finally identified on the basis of a single tooth! It is believed that she suffered from liver and bone cancer (there is also radiological evidence suggesting that she may have suffered from diabetes mellitus). 

The Rise of Trade Unionism The earliest attempts to unionise workers were in the 18th century. These had given rise to the Combination Acts of 1799 and 1800. Those acts remained in force until the 1920s, and effectively made Trade Unions (or "combinations" of workers) illegal until they were repealed in 1924. A new act, the Combinations of Workmen Act 1825, was passed by the UK Parliament the following year. This made Trade Unions technically legal, but placed severe restrictions on their activities. Possibly the best known example of just how harsh the law could be at that time is the story of the Tolpuddle Martyrs. Despite the restrictions imposed by the 1825 act, the 1820s and 1830s was a period of significant growth for the Trade Union movement. The National Association for the Protection of Labour was an association of Trade Unions formed in 1830, and might be thought of as a precursor of the Trades Union Congress, which was founded in 1868. Many of the early unions had developed in the new, factory-based, textile industries which were such a prominent feature of the industrial revolution. People often forget how many women took prominent roles in establishing these these unions. In 1867, the UK government established a Royal Commission on Trade Unions. This reported that trade unions were felt to be beneficial to both workers and to employers. As a result, the government passed the Trade Union Act 1871 which fully legalised trades unions in the United Kingdom (more than a decade before the Bryant and May match-girl strike of 1888). 

This was used as the basis for the coronation oaths of the subsequent Tudor monarchs, with amendments to the parts of the oath that referred to the Church, according to the religious preferences of the monarch. For example, Thomas Cranmer amended the oath taken by King Edward VI in 1547, so that: 

The Persians outnumbered the Greeks by at least two-to-one at Marathon, and the Greeks were fighting without the Spartans. A "counterfactual" history might have postulated a Persian victory given those facts, and the "counterfactual" history would have been wrong. (Similarly, given the relative known facts of the armies at the battles of Crécy and Agincourt, a "counterfactual" history might well have anticipated a French victory. Ah well!) 

The method of execution Blowing from a gun was certainly used by the British in India, and also by the Portuguese and even the Mughal Empire. We know that it was used on convicted rebels in the aftermath of the Indian Rebellion of 1857. However, British Army field uniforms in 1857 were indeed very different from those depicted in the painting. The East India Company was formally dissolved, and its ruling powers in India transferred to the British Crown by the Government of India Act 1858. 

The "photograph" originally appeared in a 1941 Nazi book titled Raubstaat England ("Robber State England"). It is one of a collection of propaganda images that was published in a collection titled Visual Nazi Propaganda. That particular image, together with the text from the 1941 publication, is on page 107. I've found a number of sites, like this one about an exhibition at Tate Britain, that reproduce the picture, and describe it simply as a "black-and-white reproduction" of Vasily Vereshchagin's painting. The photogravure image used in Raubstaat England may have been taken from this print in the Library of Congress Prints and Photos Collection produced by the American Art Association of New York. If so, they were probably using it in breech of copyright, but given the scale of Nazi crimes during the 1940's ... 

I know that there was supposed to be an American plan in the 1970s to split Angola, more-or-less "along the 11th parallel" (actually along the line of the Benguela railway) after the Portuguese left. At the time (1975/76), Operation Savannah by the South African Defence Force (SADF) was supposed to be in support of this plan. The plan is mentioned by Andrew Sardanis in his book A Venture in Africa: The Challenges of African Business I hadn't heard that the plan had been revived in the 1990s, but I suppose it is possible. However, by that point Namibia had gained its independence and South Africa was emerging from the shadow of Apartheid. The first of the major peace agreements that would end the civil war and move Angola towards a multi-party democracy (initially under the supervision of the UN) was signed in mid 1991. It is difficult to see how a plan to partition Angola would receive much support under those circumstances. 

Furthermore, he noted that diverting a further million tons of grain at that time would not be practicable: 

In the early stages of the Dutch Revolt, the States General had remained loyal to the Spanish Crown. However, in 1576 the whole of the States General openly rebelled against Spain. From that point, right up until the Peace of Westphalia in 1648, at least a part of the States General was independent of the Spanish crown. 

They were printed in the UK. The Straits Dollar was initially printed by Thomas de la Rue of London at their UK plants from 1901 until 1930: