This picture is accepted by consequentialists (broadly speaking and varying by consequence of interest). But it's rejected by Kant and Aristotle. For Kant, it's something like this: Kant version: 

For Kant, "space" is a concept we bring when we experience. This is a major part of Kant's philosophy -- the idea that we do not have unmediated access to an "out there." For some people, this sounds like crazy talk; for others, this seems obvious. But the basic picture for Kant is that we bring framing devices that structure our experience of things and what we encounter is structured according to them (to get technical we bring "manifolds of sensibility" in time and space and "categories of the understanding" (12 exactly for Kant) which we use to understand objects). This highlights that Kant believes 2. To see that Kant does not believe 1, we go to the refutation of idealism which occurs only in the B version. Again, there's a helpful SEP article. The basic thrust of the refutation of idealism is that the time and space we experience really are linked to an out there and are not products of our imagination. (See this question for more discussion), but we experience them through the space and time we have as part of our knowing apparatus. To give an analogy, Kant's view is that we have an operating system that loads in "time" and "space" before we can experience anything. And then if we want to understand an object, when we try to understand something we automatically bring concepts with us. For Kant, (on most sympathetic interpretations) this is not a denial of the underlying thing behind what we try to understand but only a statement of what we bring to the task of knowing. Schopenhauer is not merely following Kant but removing the underlying realism about what is "out there." Maybe that makes Schopenhauer more consistent considering this is one of the stickiest problems in Kant scholarship. 

All of the terms on the top represent wide possibilities. All of the terms on the bottom represent limitations. In other words, as infinite beings, we seem to have no limit. As eternal beings, we will live forever, as free beings we can do what we want. As psychical beings, we can think as we will (think Descartes' Meditation IV argument about will and intellect). For him "physical" does mean having a body, but "psychical" is not at all meant as a reference to brain. The point is that we are a synthesis of the two sides in each case. We are both limited and unlimited, and the challenge of being human is to be a self that relates itself to a self and in the process relates itself to another that is the base of its power. In other words, we have a task of using our capacities to understand ourselves. When we are out of whack -- with either the infinite or finite pole of any relation dominating, we fall into error. If we are obsessed with our necessity, we cease to act. When we are obsessed with our possibility, we dream absurdly, because our dreams have no anchor. When we are overly concerned with the temporal, we are in unknowing despair. When we are overly concerned with the eternal, we are in knowing despair. When we are too obsessed with the physical, we neglect our minds. When we are too concerned with our minds, we forget that we are embodied. There's quite a few good texts on understanding the Sickness unto Death. For instance, the first two or three articles in the International Kierkegaard Commentary: Sickness unto Death are summaries of how the argument works. I've published on it as well this year in International Philosophical Quarterly. There's also a volume of essays by C. Stephen Evans from 2004 (not quite sure on the date). 

I am not at all familiar with Rollo May's work (I just looked at the wikipedia entry to get grasp on who he was). In philosophy, the term "dialectic" can have several meanings. One meaning is just two things that engage each other -- think "dialogue." Another meaning is a dialectical method -- meaning that you arrive at a resolution by the interaction of two things. Based on the general information about the author, I think that the meanings for Hegel, Kierkegaard, and Sartre will be pertinent here. 

But your question is "What kind of philosopher believes many philosophical issues can be reduced to defining words?" I take this to mean that if we get our definitions straight, then the problems and disagreements disappear. On this definition, I might say a dogmatic philosopher. But your examples seem confused as to what the domain of science is versus philosophy or theology. The question of what a scientific discovery means -- like QM and Heisenberg uncertainty, that seems to be clearly philosophical question rather than purely scientific one. Science can show what is happening in the physical world. The interpretative challenge is philosophy. If there's a group that thought everything could be solved just by getting the meaning of our sentences right, then that would have been early 20th century analytic philosophy through to the logical positivists and early philosophy of language. I take what they sought to be somewhat similar to what you're wanting in terms of approach. 

But I also wonder based on the nature of your question, if you might be asking something else about a 3rd possible definition of ethics, viz., the ethos of a society -- as in the values that a cultural espouses through its identification of certain things as good (e.g. tolerance in some modern societies, chastity in others, warrior culture [say the Spartans], etc. etc.). This might be set in contrast to the social contract that imposes obligations of a different sort on people. So for instance in the US, what is considered ethical in a conservative Muslim community (based on its ethos) might differ greatly from the rights and duties imposed by a more broad social contract that includes a spectrum of religious and non-religious views. This won't be the most common use of these terms in society, but it definitely could occur in say some author's nuanced usage. Normally, this would be spoken of as the values of the hearth versus the values of society or family versus law rather than ethics versus the social contract. 

I would say green pixels [or ink or graphite] and blue pixels [or ink or graphite] respectively are the material causes of readable words within images [or on the sheet of paper]. These pixels (plus that background color of pixels) are the images material cause. At the same time, there's a word "bam". the writing of b, a, and m as letters are the material causes necessary for the existence of a syllable "bam." But blue ink or green ink respectively is necessary for the existence of a readable image as an existing thing. Are the written syllable and readable image identical? Not in every single respect -- as is clearly demonstrated in that we can produce the same syllable differently. But that's just a feature of the general discernability of materially different things. So I take it that no material cause is an abstraction. But there can be material causes of different things (words vs. images) in the same overall object.