Unless these division names are known outside the company, you are free to represent them any way you like. You certainly could call them the "Something Center" and "Something Else Center" to avoid the impression of a typo. Or you could avoid naming the divisions entirely. There's seldom a need to indicate which division of a company you worked at - it's generally not considered important to the reader. On the other hand, if the divisions are well-known outside of the company and you feel it necessary to name them individually, you are better off writing the name that is known by others. Never change the spelling of a company name. 

It will likely give you a bad reputation at company A. It may or may not extend beyond that. I know of someone who stiffed the company I was working for by accepting a job offer, then deciding to not bother showing up the first day he was due working. His reputation stuck with not only that company, but stuck with me and many others who used to work at that company. I'd certainly never hire him, and if I hear his name come up, I always tell folks what happened. He's actually applied to two other companies where I have worked in subsequent years. 

Talk about what salary you feel you deserve and the value you bring to the company. Don't talk about what someone else made or makes - it's not relevant. Would you take less if Joe Bloggs was making less than you? No, of course you wouldn't. While in some domains, a specific number is assigned to a specific role, for the most part companies typically assign a salary range to a particular role. It's very common for folks promoted into a role to enter on the low end of that range. You have 0 months experience in this new role. Most likely Joe Bloggs had more. It wouldn't be unusual if Joe Bloggs got raises during the time he held this role. Concentrate on you, not others. 

You need to understand whatever leverage you might have, what you will be worth elsewhere, and what you will be willing to accept - before you continue negotiating. 

I never say never. (Oh wait, I think I just did!) I think this is terrible advice. I feel that honesty is almost always the best policy. And if being honest requires you to admit that you don't know, then that's what you should do. I frequently like to declare "I learn something new every day." By definition, that means for many questions, I would admit that "I don't know." 

Recruiting firms don't have your best interest in mind. And they don't have the hiring company's best interest in mind. They have their own best interest in mind, but perhaps care that you and the company become satisfied as well (since that's in their best interest). I only trust people and firms that have earned my trust over the years. If this recruiting firm can't consistently meet your needs, then I wouldn't trust them. 

Anything is fair, if it's important enough to you. Companies may make exceptions in some cases (I've gotten more vacation as an exception to policy in the past), but for other cases, it will be less likely. For example, items such as intellectual property policies are somewhat less likely to have exception cases granted. Still, if this is important to you, and particularly if it's a deal-breaker, then you should ask for an exception. Just be ready to walk away from the job if the exception isn't granted. 

Find some basically independent source to judge the achievement of the objective. For example, "project success" could be judge by the sales increase achieve due to the completion of the project, or by a customer satisfaction survey, etc. Many objective have factors outside your direct control. Unfortunately, that the way things work. Work with your Manager to come up with an approach to judging completion of your objective that you can both agree with. 

Your method of choosing such companies is clearly suspect. Three jobs in two years either means you don't know how to choose the right company, or you can't actually deliver what your resume and interview promise. If you focus on the "lack of innovation" at your prior three companies, it will clearly come across as being negative. Worse, it will reflect badly on your judgement. You make a mistake on your new company once - Ok. You make a mistake on your next company - well, not great, but it happens. You make a mistake on your third company in a row - something's wrong here, and the common factor in all three companies is you. 

Assuming this question is asked during the all-hands meeting, if you are indeed running out of money, management should respond with "Yes, we are running out of money." Hopefully management will be able to expand on that with the current burn rate, why you won't get to $0, and how you will turn things around. 

I assume you mean "What might be the consequences if they think I'm going to stick around, but I know I'm going to leave in 2 months and I do?" You'll certainly lose any future references. The company that hires, trains and pays you only to lose you after 2 months will probably hate you. And if you have good personal ethics, you'll be violating them. I think you already know this isn't a nice thing to do to an employer. You get to decide if you care or not. 

Certainly - she should have talked about this with her employer long before she decided to look for another job. Something like "Hey, boss - I was expecting to get 12 hours per week, but lately that hasn't been happening." is a good way to begin the conversation. I think she'll find that it's not unusual for this to happen in a small business with part-time workers. Part-time labor is one of the few variable costs that can be quickly and easily adjusted when there is a lack of business. 

Imagine a company announcement that basically says "We are holding a team building event - and we want you to pay for it." Now imagine how many employees would say "No thanks." Would this be a good thing? Would this increase employee engagement? I think not. 

If the question is "does anyone else feel the same?" then the answer is certainly Yes - surely some others in the world feel the same way. On the other hand I don't believe most feel this way. In many parts of the world life is far worse. In some parts of the world life is better. You seem to mostly be feeling bad for yourself. That happens to everyone from time to time. What will define you as a person is - now what are you going to do about it? Life often isn't easy. Everyone has a "situation". But you have to deal with your own reality, decide where you want to go with it, then take whatever steps you must to get there. Or you can just decide to feel bad about your life. The choice is yours to make. 

Of course you can approach her. Something like "I heard through the grapevine that you might be setting up job interviews. Can we talk about that?" might work. Then ask if she is unhappy at your company, and if so, why. She may be willing to talk about it, or might be reluctant. You might need to assure her that talking about it confidentially with you is "safe", and that you won't hold it against her or retaliate. If you state this - make sure you follow through on it - otherwise don't say it. Sometimes, people leave for reasons that are out of their manager's control - the need to relocate, the desire to change professions, etc. Sometimes, people leave for reasons that you can affect - hours, work assignments, salary (although if the "company is currently in a cost savings mode", you may not be able to help here), etc. Sometimes people leave because they don't like their manager (you). Either way, at least knowing will give you a chance. Even if this employee has decided she is going to leave, you have a chance to make it easier on her, and easier on you at the same time. Perhaps you could give her time to do her interviews, in exchange for more notice, or a more robust transfer of knowledge to whoever you choose to take over her role. It could be more of a win-win, or at least a healthier exit strategy. 

I wouldn't use the words "bad taste" here. And anything is okay, but I don't think it's a very good idea. Adding any skills that you don't really have might call into question the other skills you have listed. We all dabble in lots of areas. Some of those which are currently close to nil eventually turn into skills, others don't. Keep the focus of your CV/resume on skills that you already own and which could be used in your next job. Skills which are close to nil can't yet contribute much if anything at all. Save the "I'm learning" discussion for a cover letter or for an interview - but only when it's directly relevant to the job at hand. You want discussions with potential employers to focus primarily on what you can bring to the table now, rather than on what you currently cannot. 

I think you should have sought a job that had a more direct route to an "analytics" job. Telling an employer after one week on the job that you don't really want the role is probably a mistake. I know that if I was the hiring manager, that isn't something I'd want to hear. Since you are still in school, your best bet might be to wait until you conclude your education, then seek an internal transfer if it becomes available. If that is more than a year down the line, then it's not unreasonable to expect you might be considered. Meanwhile work hard and excel in your current role. People like to help great employees, and tend not to like to help workers who don't seem to care about their role much. 

Has anyone mentored him so that he understands what his "real" work is? This is a person who hasn't been a developer before. If you are this person's boss, you owe it to him to provide feedback about his work - both good and bad. This should preferably happen in a one-on-one meeting weekly. You may need to make it clear what he is doing well and what he is failing at. Clearly you aren't happy with his behavior. Now you need to let him know that and show him how to do better. If part of his job is studying using the resources you gave him, it should be part of his formal job duties. If developers are expected to avoid personal calls during work time, it should be made explicit. Wouldn't you do the same for non-junior members of your team? And at some point you may want to circle back on the criteria you use for choosing new junior developers. Although your sample size is currently small, perhaps this case indicates that you aren't quite using the right filters. You want to make sure your objective tests are actually measuring characteristics that predict success in your environment. As you are finding, there is more to a good developer than abilities for abstraction, symbolic math and such.