In most cases, it is impossible or impractical to find the truth 100% reliably. Sometimes it is not impossible, but impractical for me because it would take huge effort. So instead of establishing the truth with 100% certainty, or trying to do so, we often only try to find the truth with a reasonable degree of certainty, so we can make informed decisions that are not 100% guaranteed to be correct, but at least have a reasonable chance of being correct. Sometimes people reject any argument that doesn't 100% establish the truth as a "fallacy". That does to some degree miss the point. In the example, having 93% of all eminent scientists agree with a statement (and 7% disagree) isn't 100% evidence for the truth of the statement, but it makes it quite likely that I'm better off assuming it is true than assuming it is false. 

There are two fallacies here at the same time. First, taking the premise "Mr Smith is clearly irrational about some things" and concluding "Mr Smith is irrational about everything". Second, taking the premise "Mr Smith is irrational about something" and concluding "Mr Smith's claims about something must be wrong". If Mr Smith is irrational about something, then his opinion will be totally unrelated to the facts, not the opposite of the facts. (Plus the minor detail that Mr Smith might be trying to mislead you, and what he claims might be the opposite of what he believes. And since he is sometimes irrational, that's not too unlikely). 

I don't know what the fallacy is named, but you can often see it happen within marketing departments of failing companies. "Customers will do X, because we benefit if they do X". Excellent logic, except that customers don't follow the logic. "If I do X, that will be good for the company, but not for me. Therefore, I won't do X". 

Let's take your version 2 of validity "(2.) The truth of the premises guarantees the truth of the conclusion" and a tautology as the conclusion. Being a tautology, the conclusion is always true. You may have looked at the word "guarantees" which makes it seem as if the premises do something actively to make the conclusion true, but that isn't necessary for the argument to be valid. All that matters for the argument to be valid is that if the premises are true, then the conclusion is true. And yes, that is the case. The conclusion is always true. So if the premises are true, the conclusion is true. If the premises are false, the conclusion is true. If easter and christmas fall on the same day, the conclusion is true. If the premises cannot possibly be true, the conclusion is still true. But all that counts is: IF the premises are true then the conclusion is true, and that is the case. And therefore the argument is valid. The second case was that the conclusion is a contradiction. So the conclusion is never true. If the premises are true, then we have true premises and a false conclusion. So if the premises are true, the argument is not valid. However, it is possible that the premises are not true. If the premises are not true, then the argument is still valid. The requirement is "IF the premises are true then the conclusion is true". Nothing is said, and there are no requirements, for the case that the premises are true. "If Easter and Christmas fall on the same day then Santa Claus delivers easter eggs". As long as Easter and Christmas don't fall on the same day, this is a valid argument. So if the premises are not true, then the argument stays valid even if the conclusion is a contradiction. For the last case that one of the premises is a contradiction, let's look at 3 "(3.) It is impossible for the premises all to be true and the conclusion not be true." If one of the premises is a contradiction, then it is impossible for that one premise to be true. It is even more impossible for all premises to be true since we already know that one premise is not true. And it is even more impossible for the contradiction premise to be true, the other premises to be true, AND the conclusion to be not true. Therefore the argument is valid. What can be confusing is that an argument can be valid, but rather useless and pointless at the same time. "If Easter and Christmas fall on the same day then Santa Claus delivers easter eggs" - nobody will claim that this is a particularly useful statement, but nevertheless it is valid. 

A statement that is accepted as true but has never been proven? In mathematics you would call it "incorrectly accepted as true". Even in software development, where standards will be lower, nobody in their right mind would ever call any software "error-free". You may hear that software has "no known bugs" or "no reported defects". 

(a) If Carla were a Knight, then she would say the truth. Since she said that Albert is a Knight, Albert would indeed be a Knight. Therefore Albert would say the truth. Because he says the truth, and he says that Carla is a Knave, Carla would be a Knave. Contradiction. (b). Betty says there are two Knights. Either she says the truth, then since Carla is a Knave, Albert and Betty must be the two Knights. You can check that all statements made agree with this. On the other hand, if Betty doesn't say the truth, then she is a Knave, which means Albert didn't say the truth, which means he is a Knave as well. You can check that all the statements made agree with this. 

You don't use the term "null hypothesis" for pure facts. It is used in statistics, when you claim there is correlation between two events. Like "swans living near coal mines tend to be purple more often than swans living elsewhere". Here the null hypothesis is "living near coal mines doesn't affect whether swans are purple or not". 

Number 24 is wrong. A figure with four sides may also be a triangle or square (to be more precise, it may be a square), but isn't necessarily so. The "only if" is wrong. Number 25 is correct. If a figure has three sides then it is a triangle or square. Actually it is a triangle, but that doesn't make the statement wrong, because every triangle is a triangle or square. Number 26 is wrong. Squares don't have three sides. Correct would be "a figure is a triangle or square if it has either three sides, or four sides of equal length at right angle towards each other". 

"It's been argued that God doesn't exist because there is so much evil in the world. For example, suppose a person is violently murdered - an innocent child say. They argue, God could have prevented that but He didn't, therefore He does not exist. Are there any good counter arguments to this position?" That's a very wrong conclusion. "God could have prevented it but didn't" - you cannot conclude from this that god doesn't exist. You can conclude one of three possibilities: 1. God doesn't exist. 2. God exists but couldn't prevent it (unlikely for example with the Christian definition of "god"). 3. God decided that for whatever reason he or she didn't want to prevent it. Number 3 is a perfectly fine explanation. With the Christian definition of "god" it is also quite possible that god could have reasons not to prevent it that are beyond our understanding, not just reasons that we were not told about. In the end, if someone makes the assumption that there is an almighty god, then it is in principle impossible to give a valid proof that this is wrong. (Because an almighty god should have no problem creating a convincing and generally accepted incorrect "proof" that he or she doesn't exist while still existing). Re-reading this: Fourth possible explanation is that god wasn't bothered / didn't care. Fifth possible explanation is that god isn't nice at all, but evil. 

The problem is that fallacies often look similar to correct arguments (obviously depending on the experience of the person looking at it. A fallacy may look like nonsense to a very clever person, it may look like a fallacy to a reasonably clever person, and like a correct argument to someone not so clever). So if someone quotes a rule from the bible, or from any other religious text, to tell you what to do (assuming you care what the bible or other religious text says), there is no fixed rule to determine which is a fallacy and which is not; you need to examine case by case. In the example of the murderous husband, a lie saves you from being hurt by the husband, it saves the wife from being killed, and it saves the husband from being convicted of murder, so except for the newspapers, everyone would be a lot happier with the outcome if you lie. Even then, there are two interpretations: You can say that asking to apply "you shall not bear false witness" in every possible situation without examining the circumstances is a fallacy. Or you can say that that is what the rule says, and the rule doesn't allow you to lie to the murderous husband, but you decide to break the rule in this case, and if god makes a fuss about it in the afterlife, you are willing to argue the case with him or her. 

It's not a fallacy at all. A fallacy is relying on poor reasoning. A fired B without having enough evidence to fire him. Later you say A fired B with no evidence. I'd ask you to make up your mind there. Let's assume there was evidence, but not enough evidence. It is also not clear what "enough evidence to fire him" means. Depending on the country where this happens, firing someone "without enough evidence" may or may not have legal consequences. On the other hand, keeping employing someone who is suspected of behaving unethical might also have dire legal consequences. If you think an accountant is cooking the books but you have not enough evidence to prove it, firing him might still be the right thing to do. Anyway, we can for arguments sake assume that someone made a decision which based on the known information was wrong. We have no reason to believe there was any fallacy involved in the decision. A fallacy might be something "Joe's accountant took a day off, and then was found stealing lots of money. My accountant just took a day off, so he will probably steal money as well". That's poor reasoning; there is no reason to think that taking time off and stealing money is related. But this didn't happen, no fallacy. Obviously after a decision is made, often more information comes to light, which might have changed or confirmed our decision had we known it earlier, or which might have changed a decision from being right to wrong or vice versa. This happened here. But that is after the fact, the decision when it was made was wrong. Now I could think of some fallacies that could trap people in this situation, but you didn't mention any of those in your question.