So, I need to ask, why would people go back? Profit They don't know when they are going, therefore they wind up in plague-infested Europe, Rome or prehistory. If they knew when and where they were going, they could bring back facts which would profit them greatly, but since they don't, they have no motivation. Fame Unless they manage to get mentioned in a history book somewhere, nobody would know what they did. They can't take much tech with them, so acting like a God to primitive people won't work. Escape The truly desperate may wish to go somewhere where nobody can find them. Think of escaping the Mob or a hostile government. This level of desperation is close to suicide. If it's one-way, nobody would ever know the machine did anything other than destroyed the traveler. I don't think anyone would use the machine for a one-way trip. 

Start a propaganda campaign, where you 'unmask' the cute kitties to reveal the snarling, evil, hate-filled 'reality' underneath. Of course, this doesn't have to be true to be effective. Fear is much more powerful of an emotion than cute. 

What kind of resistance might this be met with? Today, despite clear and overwhelming scientific evidence to the contrary, there are those who believe the earth is flat. There are those who refuse to immunize their children for various reasons. There will be many who refuse just to refuse. There will be others that will worry about the long-term effects of the drugs. still others will resist due to moral or religious grounds. The government need not be heavy-handed. Those who refuse will be horribly disadvantaged. This will create a great deal of social pressure to submit to the drugs. The government can cite the grievous disadvantages the undrugged children will endure as a way to encourage parents to agree. I would say about 1% or less would elect to avoid the drug. 

The virus can have very mild symptoms and go away. Only a few months later, the previously infected person goes to the doctor and finds out that they have cancer tumors throughout his body. Finding the link between a very mild "summer cold" virus and this deadly form of cancer would be very difficult. The doctors would not be thinking infectious cancer and would assume an environmental cause. Only later, when the numbers of suffers dramatically increased would they realize it was spreading as an infectious disease. It would take quite a while to isolate the virus, and then years to formulate a vaccine (assuming that it doesn't mutate like the flu virus.) 

First, science will show it is impossible. You're looking for an explination which will satisfy the doubts. Question: How can Santa have enough time to deliver toys to everyone? Answer: First, let us adjust the scope. Santa only delivers toys to those children who celebrate Christmas. Many countries don't celebrate Christmas.See examples here. Second, Santa has a full 24 hours of darkness. Additionally, we know that time is not fixed. The passage of time is relative to speed and mass. Perhaps Santa's work takes weeks but is compressed from our frame of reference to one night. Question: How can Santa answer all the children? Does he know all the languages in the world? Answer: What most people don't realize is that Santa is a Hyperpolyglot. He has an uncanny ability to learn languages. There are documented cases of people speaking more than 50 languages. Since he so long lived, he has mastered many. For those he doesn't know, he has a cadre of Elvin translators to assist him. It is actually the Elves who construct the naughty and nice list for him, distilling the intelligence reports from all the Shelf-Elves and other informants (like the family pets and school administrators.) Once again, not every language group celebrates Christmas. While there are almost 7,000 languages, 94% of the world population speaks around 400 or fewer. Question: How will Santa leave presents if there is no chimney? Answer: Santa employes several techniques. First, he has a magic key. It operates like a skeleton key. He has also been known to use a window. Since the size of Santa seems to change (from tiny Elf in the night before Christmas to human-sized in every Department store), Santa may be able to alter his size to fit under doorjambs. Question: How can Santa know where to deliver, if we are not at home, and instead at grandparents' house? Answer: Because parents leave a note for Santa telling him where you are. It works like the postal services mail forwarding servcie. Question: How can he eat all stuff that we offer him? (I don't know if it's the same everywhere, but we offer some food to Santa during the night, and in the morning, the food has disappeared.) Answer: With time dilation, we don't know exactly how long it might take Santa to deliver all those presents. However, he does work very quickly and works up an appetite. Santa has been known to leave a cookie or two for dad or mom to eat if his belly was full at the time. 

Humans are very resilient and adaptable. Humans have carved out a niche in nearly every ecological environment from the arctic to the arid desert. They have done so without evolving. A Himalayan human who lived all his life in a colder, low-pressure environment could live happily and reproduce with humans living on the plains of Africa. The first generation would struggle to move for a few months. After that, musculature would build up, their endurance would increase and bone structures would adapt. They might have problems in their 40's or 50's with joint problems, vision problems, and circulation. Within three to five generations, subtle differences in heavier bone structure, stronger joints, and increased musculature. The differences would amount to a new race (as in the minor adaptations among people groups we are called races) but still human. 

If the aliens can destroy us if we stray into their territory but otherwise leave us alone, then there is no existential threat. Humanity will erect a "There be monsters here" sign, and go on. That is unless there is some resource in their territory that we believe we need badly enough for intrepid folks to risk incursion. If after each incursion, the aliens respond by taking out a city or outpost, humanity would demand their leaders to do something. The more frequent the attack, the more focused humanity would be. Just seeing technology used would focus research into that which we already know is possible. So I would imagine we would start to catch up a bit (like the Native Americans adopting the horse, or when Japan transitioned from using straw horseshoes to iron, after seen European horses with them.) 

Example 1: the NSA Currently, the NSA is vacuuming up all metadata they can for every data point they can (phone calls, email, social media, etc.) This is stored in a massive Data Center in Utah. Their concern is collection and retention. Limited number of queries from a limited number of users who can tolerate a slow query response time. Example 2: Google Google operates multiple data centers, geographically distributed throughout the world. This both reduces the lag time of a request for information by having data centers closer to the request and distributes the query load among the several centers. Each center is huge, running large banks of servers with proprietary operating systems, called , Google File System. Could you access it from your desktop computer at home? Yes, if so designed. Google is in the realm of what you're talking about, and it's used by millions every day. How long would it take to download it You wouldn't. The data would reside in the data centers. You would ask a question, the data center would perform the query, and return the result. How long would it take search through it ... for any particular person's data? If properly indexed and designed, the results could be very fast. If you wanted to do ad-hoc queries(questions the system was not designed to give a fast answer to. Say "Show me how many people, by country, right now have a systolic blood pressure above 120?"), then that is a different matter all-together. It might take minutes or days. Another issue you may not have thought of is identifying individuals. You want to see John Smith's vitals. Fine. Which of the 10,000 John Smith's you wish to access? Human Genome The Human Genome has about 3 billion base pairs. These are comprised of four bases, adenine which binds to thymine and cytosine which binds to guanine. If we assume 4 possible combinations (at, ta, cg, and gc), we can represent a base-pair with 2 bits. 3 Billion tims 2 bits = about 250 MB. 250M times 7 billion equals 1.75EB. This site estimates a $400 million cost for for a 1.8 EB data center. 

In desperation, humans will cling to any hope. The idea Thorsten S. mentioned about using orphans was spot on. There is no need to pull the children from their families when such an abundant source exists. Many of these older orphans would relish a chance to seek revenge for the deaths of their families. Although, once the new soldiers start winning, I suspect families would seek to participate. I would suggest that either the genetic changes are made somatic cells instead of to the germ-line (or sterilize the children.) Otherwise, the human race will be extinct. To sell it, promote the successes and market the program as the only hope of humanity. Celebrate the children as heroes. Interview them. Mourn when they fall. 

Yes. They plant a forest of trees ( a renewable resource) to be used only for the holy flame. Faithful can also come and throw offerings (wood, coal, hay, etc) into the fire. They could also carve prayers into the logs that will be put into the fire. 

Robots are manufactured small to reduce the amount of raw materials which need to be present at one locality. Since artificial Neural Networks takes times to map themselves, as the cybernetic mind is programming itself, the robot consumes raw material, and grows. This is accomplished by a swarm of nanites (microscopic robots) which reside inside the robot. These nanites take care of repair and replacement of defective parts, reconfiguration, and growth. These microscopic robots take raw material (metal, silicone, etc.) and grow the robot. The speed of growth, size, and shape of the robot depends upon the purpose of the robot. 

Children need to be cared for. Stable families offer great survival benefits and pair-bonds leads to stable families. Since their premodern times, one member of the pair would stay home to care for the child while the other provided. Thus, these roles would be replicated in the society. It would be my expectation that the role would be traded between them. For example, the one acting as the provider while the nurturer tends to young children. Once the provider becomes pregnant, it now becomes the nurturer, while the other nurturer becomes the provider. 

You need to revise your premise and expand the scope of the disaster. A single atomic bomb will not do what you think it will. The US dropped two such bombs in Hiroshima and Nagasaki. People live in those cities today. Wildlife is coming back today, only a few decades after the 1986 Chernobyl accident, which released 20 times the radiation of the Hiroshima bomb. Unlike in the game Doom, radiation suits do little to stop gamma radiation irradiation (they may block some, but you need more than 1.27cm of lead to stop it. You can't walk in that.) What they do is prevent the contamination of clothing and skin. If fitted with a breathing device, it can prevent irradiated particles from causing damage to your lungs and other internal organs. However, to address your central Creating and repairing technology is part of the material culture. As such, it would be passed down from parent to child. The problem is that a man might know how to fix an air conditioner, but not know how to mine iron, make steel, produce freon, or the thousands of other related steps needed to produce the technology. A Doctor could transmit her knowledge of medicine to her children, but does not know how to create antibiotics from scratch, nor does she have the electrical knowledge to create the defibrillator. So some knowledge would be preserved, but other knowledge would go away. People would still create things, but the level of technology would be about the 1800's to 1900's level. 

First, Motivation to Fight wars Almost every war is fought because of greed, hatred or fear. Either someone wants what someone else has, is seeking revenge for a perceived wrong, or is afraid that the opponent is going to attack. While the belligerents may coat the baser motivation with moral, philosophical, religious or ideological varnishes. Hitler wanted Austrian territory, so he took it. His motivation was the unification of the Germany. Rarely, religious belief motivates war. While most 'religious' wars are motivated by greed, hatred or fear, and have religon smeared over as a motivation, some Wahhabi Islamic Terrorism is motivated not out of fear, hatred or greed, but out of a sense of duty to their God. Very rarely, one nation gets involved to stop an evil (like ethnic cleansing, starvation, or some other obvious atrocities.) A nation that involves itself does so to bolster its international image, to be consistent with the view it has of itself (we're the good guys.) Culture Doesn't Matter The USA has fought wars with Germany (a western, "Christian" nation) during the two world wars, and fought a civil war, where the two sides shared more in terms of worldview and culture than they differed. Europe has fought many wars amongst themselves for centuries, despite having a western worldview and a similar religious outlook. Create an Issue You just need to define the motivation, based on greed or fear. Does nation 1 want a resource or territory that nation 2 has? Has past conflict between the two left a sense of hatred and mistrust? Is nation 2 afraid of what nation 1 is? Then you need to create an issue with which the aggressor can point to as an attempt to make the other nation the "other." Each side will attempt to justify their actions to make it sound moral. 

From the ancient Romans to the every moderate size modern nation, regardless of government type, uses some method of dividing the nation regionally. The reason is that the administration of a nation is simply too complex for a monolithic control structure. The problem is the span of control. Administering everything as one unit would increase the complexity by several orders of magnitude. Even in a small nation, that would mean administrating millions of people, thousands of cities, million of miles of roads. Besides that, regional administration is wiser because there is no such thing as a one-size-fits-all solution to governance. Consider the following.