The labels "flective" and "agglutinative" may be as antiquate and outdated as you want; however, defining a prototypical flective language (vs. a prototypical agglutinative language), on the ground of the above mentioned criteria, provides a useful analytical tool. Thus, a prototypical flective language will have: rigid paradigms defined by the cumulative marking of two or more obligatory, error-provoking, syntactically selected grammatical values, with non contextual allomorphy, semantic uniformity, no shifts of markedness, no serialisation, no optionality, and with a limited number of grammatical values. 

Your presuppositions are faulty. Sanskrit kṛtaka is exactly what it is: a past passive participle from kṛ 'to do', followed by the adjectival suffix -ka. As such, it means 'the one who has been done'. Then, depending on the context, you can translate it in a number of ways, including a simple 'done', but this does not make it an "expanded variation of kṛta". It's another lexeme, not just a word-form of kṛ. Therefore, you can't search in the Modern Indo-Aryan languages for a continuation of something that did not exist in the Old Indo-Aryan. 

By this example he wanted to show that syllable onset and coda positions produce different realisations of the occlusives, but these realisations are just positional variants of the same phonemes. I needed to present this example to my students but I realised that, while in Jakobson's times, when cock meant just a male chicken, and nothing else (at least, in his linguistic competence), this example sounded perfectly acceptable, today it would unavoidably provoke some giggles among the students. I tried to change the vowels but different profanities came out again. Could anyone help me with individuating a presentable, profanity free, minimal triplet in English? It must have the following structure: /k/ Vowel /k/ /t/ Vowel /t/ /p/ Vowel /p/ My English competence apparently is not enough. 

What you are looking for is probably the singular term, i.e. a term that inherently refers to an object, see here. On the other hand, following Frege, we have predicates (or functions) denoting concepts, and propositions that refer to truth-values (which are thought as two really existing object: the Truth and the False). Note that Frege's intention was to describe the formal language of science, where all terms are, effectively, singular and where there are no humans involved, just numbers. This is why he was able to use the German word Eigenname ‘proper name’ as a synonym for what we call singular term nowadays. 

Distinguishing between arguments and adjuncts has never been a strong point in the X-bar theory. My approach is to think about them in terms of semantic valency. Words — usually, but not necessarily, verbs — can have valences, i.e. a sort of obligatorily resolved variables. Knowing a verb implies the knowledge of its valences. For example, the verb to break has two valencies: the one who breaks and something that is broken. Once you've selected a verb, you must know who, or what, corresponds to its valencies. You cannot say Yesterday I broke without being able to specify what exactly you succeeded in breaking. Not knowing a valence of a verb makes it impossible to use the verb in a sentence correctly. Usually, semantic valencies become the subject and the direct object in a sentence (which are both complements of V, provided that you believe the Internal Subject Hypothesis), while all further information you might provide on an event goes to the adjunct area. In our example, semantically you have the right not to know at what time the breaking happened, because time is not a valence, but an adjunct, of the verb to break. The same happens to some nouns and adjectives, especially those deriving from a verb and inheriting its valences. Back to your question: the noun influence, like the corresponding verb, has surely two valences. When you use this noun, you have to know who, or what, influenced whom (or what). Therefore, they are both complements. 

This is a fundamental question in morphology that has consequences going far beyond the simple distinction between case endings and postpositions (which, by itself, is effectively quite thorny in many languages). I would say that it pertains to the problem of defining such notions as grammatical category, paradigm and fusional/flective typology in general. Indeed, in order to postulate case endings for a language we should first assure that it has nominal paradigms, which, in turn, implies the existence of inflexional grammatical categories for the noun. But how would we discriminate between flective languages (i.e. languages with paradigms) and, let's say, agglutinative languages (i.e. those without paradigms)? Some criteria can be suggested here, but the list can be easily emended or enlarged. For the sake of simplicity I am exemplifying every statement with facts from nominal inflexion, even if this approach is valid for the paradigmatic morphology in general. 

For a teaching material I needed a good example of vocalic mutation of the root, aka Umlaut, and I got stuck at the fact that, while the Umlaut is often postulated for some reconstructed languages, there seem to be few, if any, good examples of this phenomenon in some contemporary living languages. By Umlaut/vocalic mutation I mean a morpho-phonological mechanism such that the vowel of the root (or stem) is assimilated to the vowel of the ending. Note that I want the ending vowel to be preserved, therefore such examples as the Old English nom.sg. fōt ~ nom.pl. fēt are not accepted, because the ending that provoked the vowel mutation is never attested in the written sources. Curisouly enough, the opposite phenomenon, i.e. the vocalic harmony (when it's the ending vowel to change accordingly to the vowel of the root), is well attested cross-linguistically, for example in Turkish. Not sure what general conclusion can be drawn here, but still... 

By "modern IE languages" you have most probably intended English or some other of the most widespread European IE languages. But if you reckon all the modern IE languages, you can't even imagine the variety of sound they can have. Modern Dutch has many quite unique and "strange" vowels, Modern Indic languages have some weird "breathy" vowels and retroflex consonants; modern Scandinavian languages have tone-like accents; Modern Russian and other Slavic languages have rare fricatives and central vowels; and so on. Therefore, in comparison to the whole variety of the modern IE sound systems, nothing would be exotic enough. Another difficulty is represented by the fact that we don't have a complete certainty about the pronunciation of the IE reconstructed phonemes. Indeed, there are at least two different phonetic interpretations thereof: the classical interpretation postulated by the Neogrammarians and that of the Glottalic theory. If we accept the latter, most consonants will sound quite odd to an English speaker. Another famous case is that of the laryngeals: we don't have the slightest idea of how they could have been pronounced, so that we just transcribe them with numbers: H₁ "laryngeal 1", H₂ "laryngeal 2" and H₃ "laryngeal 3". Many theories have been suggested in such respect but the issue is still under debate. The authors of the movie you quote must have simply asked a specialist in Indo-European studies to give them an idea of a possible pronunciation, and then the actor has performed - with a strong English accent - something that, for the average audience, sounded like gibberish meaningless formulae. And when someone who has no special training in field fonetics hears an unknown language, he/she cannot be even sure about what sounds have been pronounced. Thus, some "normal" sounds can appear exotic because of some additional features (like tones or special accents), as well as something really exotic can easily escape the attention of an untrained listener. 

Free variability: quite often phonological systems allows two, or more, possible phonetic realisations of one and the same phoneme, and these variants can be freely chosen by the speaker. 

The phonology of Spanish might be vaguely similar to that of Japanese but the differences are also relevant. There are many consonantal clusters in Spanish and also word final consonants, and this simply cannot be transcribed in kana. By the way, this represents one of the main difficulties for a Japanese speaker who speaks a European language like Spanish. Normally they would insert reduced vowels after each non final consonant in a cluster and each word final consonant. Thus, English stop has been borrowed into Japanese where it is spelled, and pronounced, sutoppu. Moreover, Spanish has many consonants that Japanese does not have. There is no way to make the difference, in kana, among such Spanish consonants as r, rr, l and ll. Same for the dental fricative spelled c (as in cien) or z. 

The question is legitimate but I am afraid there is no convincing answer to it. Comparative Indo-European linguistic analysis is based mainly on regular correspondences among forms with similar meanings. The concept of semantic similarity is not well-defined however. Formal regular correspondences are so many and so clearly not based on chance that the difference in meaning are often disregarded as having little probatory power. In other words, if we observe words in two, or more, IE languages that patently present regular correspondences in their phonological shape, then the meanings can be also quite different, but we will consider them cognate nevertheless. The situation is especially confusing with pronominal stems: sometimes they change their reference or grammatical characteristics quite abruptly. Usually, all the meanings that are more or less related to pronouns and pronoun-like adverbs are accepted as "corresponding" meanings for some forms under consideration. In other words: reflexive 3rd person pronouns are "interchangeable" with anaphoric/demonstrative 3rd p. pronouns, which, on their turn, are "interchangeable" with adverbial meanings. 

Only in a few cases you can find a meaningful answer to a question asking "why there is something lacking in a language". Normally, there is simply no answer. For example, why did not Ancient Greek have e Locative case in its nominal declension? Probably because it coalesced with the Dative. But why didn't it have a Comitative case? There is no answer to this question, because in Proto-Indo-European there has never been a Comitative case, without any reason. Let's see whether type your question belongs to. Usually, in historical linguistics to explain some feature of a language amounts to find its origin in some proto-language. So, let's start from clarifying what we mean by "stem" in the IE languages. The average IE noun can be either a radical noun (where case endings are attached directly to the root), or a thematic noun (where between the root and the case endings intervenes the so-called thematic vowel), or a noun that has a stem proper, i.e. a root plus a derivative suffix, with case endings attached directly to this stem. Now, let's exclude radical nouns and thematic declension and concentrate on nouns with a stem. Then your question must be reformulated: "why is there no nominal derivative suffix having the form of, or ending in, an -i diphthong?". You are mentioning stems in -εύς as an example of diphthong ending stems. Now, let's exclude such words as βασιλεύς, Ἀχιλλεύς and other non-IE nouns whose origin is simply unknown and concentrate on words indicating professions: κεραμεύς 'potter' or ἁλιεύς 'sailor, fisher'. These stems are built with the suffix *ēw, which eventually evolved into something that was spelled, in Classical Greek, with the so-called diphthong ευ. But what is a diphthong? Phonologically a diphthong is hardly distinguishable from a mere sequence of a vowel plus a sonorant. In the teaching of Greek the notion of diphthong is widely used for the seek of simplicity, but it's more about spelling than about language. Suffice it to say, the "diphthongs" ου and ει are often just conventional spellings for long closed vowels /oː/ and /eː/ (outcomes of contraction). All put together, you question can be reformulated in the following manner: 

Notice that post-Trubeckojan Phonology is less strict with respect to variability. Let's distinguish three levels of variability: 

Grammaticality implies obligatoriness: cases are obligatory on all nouns in all instances. Such grammatical categories as case or number or gender can't be freely avoided by the speakers. In agglutinative languages this is not always the case: sometimes no grammatical marker is also an admissible option (this happens with Japanese postpositions, especially in the spoken language). Grammatical categories imply the possibility of making a grammatical error, since they are selected syntactically: if you say many mouse it would be clearly an error that any speaker of English will be able to emend into the correct form many mice, which fits better the syntactic context. The postpositions, on the other hand, are not selected strictly syntactically since they can vary according to the communicative intentions of the speaker. Therefore, there is no such thing as "wrong postposition" (if not stylistically). Grammatical categories imply morphological variability and inflectional classes. Indeed, in a language that don't vary its case endings, you basically can't tell the difference between cases and postpositions, since both will appear as grammatical morphemes without any variation. On the other hand, in prototypical flective languages, cases are instantiated by sets of allomorphs, which are either contextual (i.e. depend on the phonological form of the stem) or, importantly, non contextual (i.e. are lexically bound, forming inflectional classes, such as the five nominal declensions in Latin). Grammatical categories are better when they are semantically uniform, i.e. refer to a set of uniform meanings. Thus, cases can apparently convey many different meanings, but such meanings would not usually overlap with other semantic content, like gender or number or, say, tense (i.e. in languages with cases, no "feminine", "future" or "plural" case would be, normally, attested). On the other hand, postpositions can bear many different functions, from syntactic relations to honorific connotations. Cases usually belong to cumulative morphemes which also include gender, number and possibly some other grammatical categories; the postpositions, instead, are simple morphemes by definition. Some minor features can be added: