As a rule you should measure your old pads and measure the new pads and write that info down so you don't have to go searching again in the future. Compare the actual pads (or pictures) to be sure of the mounting system. When you do buy pads, buy two sets so that you aren't stuck on unsafe pads when your current set wears out. You can always upgrade the pad holders as well, but if you're unsure about replacing those holders head to a qualified mechanic. Brakes are one component you need to be totally sure about. If you're riding a vintage bike, take a look at Kool Stop's website, they manufacture a lot of hard-to-find replacements. 

Chains for modern bicycles all have a 1/2" pitch - the distance from roller to roller or from pin to pin. However, multi-speed bicycles have rollers that are 3/32" wide (or narrower), while many single speed drivetrains (fixies, track bikes, BMX) have rollers that are 1/8" wide. Similarly, there are chainrings and cogs which accommodate wider or narrower chains. Since single speeds and fixies have diverged from the world of track bikes, lots of bikes are set up with parts from multi-speed bicycles (i.e. ubiquitous 3/32" chainrings, cogs, freewheels, and chains) rather than with wider 1/8" track parts. 

In replacing a threaded headset on an older bike, there are two other considerations we need to make beyond selecting between ball bearings or needle bearings (though, IMO needle bearings are ideal for a number of reasons that I won't get into.) First, you need to measure the stack height. Stack height is the amount of space the headset takes up, not including the parts that fit inside of the head tube. If you measure the entire length of the steerer tube and subtract the height of the head tube you wind up with a difference that is taken up by headset cups, bearings, the keyed washer, and the lock nut. You can add or subtract spacers to make fine adjustments. To measure the stack height, simply measure: 

One great way to increase the reach of your cockpit would be to change your handlebars. With any changes, it is best to do things one at a time and ride on it to get a feel for the new fit. It is cheaper to work with a shop that has components to switch in and out so you can feel the difference before spending loads of cash on new components (this is especially true with stems!) If you keep your current stem, be sure to measure the diameter of the bar at the stem (bar clamp diameter.) Another consideration is the diameter of the brake lever clamps. Here is more information on sizing specifications. Additionally, your brakes are single-pivot sidepulls and require short pull brake levers (typical for road bikes.) One bar style that would fit with the aesthetic of a bike like this is bullhorns: 

What you're looking for are called Cross or Interrupter levers (i.e. they interrupt the brake cable housing--the cable passes through them. It is worth noting that in the video the cables protruding from the sides of the brake hoods are shifter cables...the brake cable is routed under the handlebar tape to the cross levers). Most setups are designed to work around short pull brakes (cantilevers, side pulls, &tc.). Long pull brakes (linear pull v-brakes, most mechanical disc brakes) require more cable to be pulled per motion of the brake levers, so it is generally not recommended to mix short and long pull components (though some report varying degrees of success). If you have cantilever studs on your frame, you can easily find a set of cantilever brakes and a cross/drop lever combination that work well together. For long pull drop levers, there are fewer options (the ones that stick out in my mind are Cane Creek Drop Vs, and Tektro RL520s). For cross levers, there is only one that I've found that has a long pull option: Paul components makes a cross lever which can switch between short and long pull pivot location. (Alternatively, there are a few "mini" v-brakes which are short pull brakes.) Your best option, given the availability of long pull road/cross levers, is to invest in something called a Travel Agent--it mounts to your v-brakes and effectively makes them short pull so that you can use any kind of road brake levers. They cost ~$20 each and are well worth it considering the headache of procuring compatible components or setting up cantilevers for the first time. If you have mechanical disc brakes (which are generally long pull), you can either invest in long pull levers or switch to the Avid BB-7 Road calipers which are short pull and work quite well. Additionally, pay attention to the diameter of the drop bar you'll be using and the levers you install! Most mountain bars have an OD of 22.2mm where road bars have an OD of 23.8mm. 

Flat pedals are great for lots of reasons, but I won't get into the virtues or pitfalls of platforms versus toe clips versus clipless systems (though I am a big fan of plain old platform pedals.) I will try to give information pertaining to the different styles and a few examples rather than an exhaustive list of specific brands and prices. There are lots and lots of different models which are mostly variations on two themes: rat trap quill pedals and one-piece platform pedals. None are perfect, but many are cheaper and easier to use/maintain than clipless pedals. 

I'm going to recommend that you NOT do this. There were in the past manufacturers of 1" steerer suspension forks - though I'm not certain that they're are still sold. It is important to note that bicycle frames built to accept solid steel forks have different geometry than those built for suspension forks. The frame is designed for a fork that doesn't have suspension travel - the head tube is taller, the down tube and top tube are welded to preserve the set geometry of the bike. Installing a suspension fork would lift the front of the frame up and slacken the head tube angles - overall, I suppose it isn't a huge deal...HOWEVER... If you're having a hard time finding bike parts, will finding a 1" steerer tube, a suspension fork that has a brazed steerer tube, a bushing that is machined to fit precisely and a machinist to make your bushing, and someone to braze this all together be any easier than finding a more modern bike frame or a used 1" suspension fork? You might be able to remove the steerer from the suspension fork if it is brazed in, but retrofitting a new steerer tube will require a bushing machined to VERY precise tolerances to allow for heat expansion and brazing filler flow. Any valves, adjusters, stanchion caps...anything not brazed or welded to the fork crown will have to be removed to prevent any damage while heating. You'll want this done professionally because a failure while riding would be regrettable. With the amount of work involved, it may be more cost effective to track down a mountain bike frame with a 1-1/8" suspension-ready head tube or just have someone replace the head tube in your existing frame. Also, it may not be too difficult to find an affordable bicycle in Argentina. Here is the distributor for Giant bikes in Argentina. You can email them at: info@giant-bicycles.com.ar. You can locate Giant vendors by province here. If Giant is represented there, you'll likely find other companies and reputable bike shops who can order you frames, parts, bikes, you name it. Added info: Here is a forum thread detailing fork building. The most important point is the fit of the steerer to the crown. If it is too tight, the brazing filler won't flow evenly and consistently, too loose and the integrity of the braze is compromised. If you do decide to do this, definitely try it more than once. The first two or three you should cut up to inspect the brazing filler flow (cut lengthwise and try to pull the pieces apart. Bubbles, seams, and burnt flux are all signs of a poor joint.) There is a comment about brake bolts and wedges being used to prevent steerers from pulling out of the crown, but I wouldn't risk it. 

The tension on that chain shifts the hub internally (rather than through a derailleur and cogset). Bike hacks with three-speed hubs are quite common, but get very complicated. Here is some information on Sturmey Archer hubs courtesy of Sheldon Brown. Below is a picture of the toggle chain and rod which is attached to the inside of the hub. Good luck! 

The construction and design of the bicycle determines how well it handles a load, either over the rear wheel, front wheel, or distributed evenly (in this case a 20-40 pound child). I'd like to compare three bicycles of roughly the same price point and frame/wheel size (~560mm, all measurements in mm or degrees). The bikes: A) Surly Long Haul Trucker--700c, heavy duty touring, B) GT Zaskar Sport--29", hardtail mountain bike, C) Specialized Allez Comp--700c, speedy road bike ((I couldn't find any geometry details on Dutch-style cruisers, but I feel that they will be more in line with the Long Haul Trucker.)) 

The friction between the bearings, pawls and lubricant in a freehub or freewheel are usually enough to turn the pedals when the wheel is spinning. If you hold onto the pedal and the wheel freewheels normally, probably there isn't anything to worry about. Of course, if the wheel stops freewheeling altogether or the friction to resist the wheels turning becomes noticeable, then inspect the freehub bearings and pawls. Increased resistance at the freehub/freewheel will often result in the rear derailleur being pulled completely taut when the pedals are stopped. 

The idea is that when you squat (sans bicycle), your hips have to move back to balance your upper body. In the above diagram, you can imagine the effect of moving your saddle back as being a similar shift in weight. To compensate for that more upright posture, you may need to change your stem and spacer orientation and setup. The idea is to bring the bars up and back (with some room for fine tuning.) Most touring bicycles are fitted with tall stems that enable you to achieve this posture. If you're refitting a bike, you may need to buy a new stem or some spacers. Many people will suggest adding padded bar tape or thick gloves. While this is a great way to relieve some of the roughness and pressure, no amount of padding will make supporting your upper body all day comfortable. The idea is to use your legs and rump to get you from place to place. Also, these sorts of issues can certainly be caused by medical complications (carpal tunnel syndrome, especially), so consult with a doctor if things start to deteriorate or worsen. Further resources can be found at SheldonBrown.com and RivBike.com (and many others.) 

Unfortunately, if you use a narrow chain on wider chainrings/cogs the drivetrain will bind up! The opposite is possible - a 1/8" chain on 3/32" hardware - because the chain is wide enough to fit over the teeth. It's possible that you bought a wheel fitted with a 1/8" cog to mesh with a drivetrain fitted with a 3/32" chain. The easiest thing to do would be to buy a 1/8" chain. There are different opinions on mixing component widths, but so long as it is adjusted properly it should work quietly and safely. Before you do anything, measure the width of your chainring teeth and compare it to the width of your rear cog teeth. 

This bike definitely has a derailleur and is not intended to operate as a fixie (i.e. something is definitely broken.) A normally functioning multi-speed bicycle has a mechanism that allows it to pedal forward and coast (freewheel) when standing on the pedals. Many older or cheaper bicycles have a "freewheel" which accomplishes this. Other bicycles have a freewheel integrated into the hub body, a "freehub." They're essentially the same mechanism - a ratchet with a few pawls. In all likelihood, the pawls inside of the freehub or inside of the freewheel have seized or have come apart. Procure a can of penetrating oil and spray the seam where the cogs and the hub meet (i.e. where it is supposed to rotate. I've included a photo with arrows indicating where to spray. Be careful not to get oil on your rims or brake pads.) If this doesn't loosen it up, you'll need to either replace the freewheel or overhaul/replace your rear hub. 

The world of brake pad inserts is sort of a crazy world. Since there is lots of info, I'll be broader than what is required for the Shimano CX70s you have... Generally, the Shimano-style system (side grooves and one set screw dimple) is the most popular. Avid also has its own system for cantilever and linear pull brakes (a ridge with two clips). Campy has their own design as do a few other manufacturers, but this will be the starting point in your journey towards madness. To complicate matters, there are hundreds of colored compounds specific to alloy rims and to carbon rims. There are grooves, channels, wedges, and fins. There are paired rims and pads that will stop your heart if you're not careful. Lots of marketing shtick that will get you nowhere for some extra cash. 

Mudguards (typically called fenders in the US) are a great feature and come in many varieties. The fenders you have are full-coverage fenders and are likely aluminum. Metal fenders are still quite common (and in my opinion, fenders are an essential addition to any bike if you live where it rains. Velo Orange manufactures many sizes and styles that are affordable.) The fenders are held to the bike via fender stays (long aluminum rods) and are mounted directly at the fork crown in the front and the brake bridge and chainstay bridge/bottom bracket shell in the rear. 

Generally, one drops a chain during a down shift. Sometimes it happens only when you shift quickly or under heavy load, but it does happen. There are a few things that can cause a chain to miss the inner chainring: A maladjusted front derailleur or shifter, a very worn or dirty drivetrain, a bent or loose chainring, or a maladjusted chainline (the line which centers your chainrings and cassette parallel to your frame.) Since your chainrings are also wearing out prematurely, it could be that everything is really dirty or your derailleur is out of whack, but these would be obvious and easy to fix (cleaning and lubing your chain infrequently should get you 2-3,000 miles of life, fastidious cleaning might get you 5k. I have had good luck with wet lubes-specifically ProGold.) Additionally, make sure that any chain that gets installed is specifically for 10 speed systems, otherwise the wider plates may rub against adjacent cogs or rings. A less obvious cause of premature-wear-and-tear-and-drop would be a bent or loose chainring, but you or your LBS will probably notice this before it totally wears out your rings. The last issue is one that I think may be worth investigating, and that is a chainline that puts your chainrings too far out. Downshifts will tend to pull the chain to the inside, especially when you are on your inside cog. This could also exacerbate wear from crossing your gears (which, on a compact 2x10 isn't a huge deal.) Any bike that is set up by a pro will spec parts that work (and even a home builder should be in good enough shape. Big problems arise for single and fixed gears, though.) All told, I can't imagine a scenario where a road frame built up with Sram Rival components would have a chainline so far out that it would wear out a pair of rings in 3-4,000 miles. This could be an issue when mixing mountain and road components. Given these instructions, I could also see someone potentially messing up a BB/crank installation. In any case, a chain keeper-a device which prevents your chain from dropping to the inside-is a small but valuable investment-though in your case not a solution.