If you've got enough details about the company and role to contact them directly (and you haven't engaged with the recruiter at all) then you aren't doing anything wrong by contacting them directly. They may still choose to have you go through the recruiter but that will depend on what agreement the compnay has with the recruiter and possibly how they prefer to go about the hiring process. If you have engaged with the recruiter at all then it gets murkier - many will ask you to agree to exclusivitiy when they start the process meaning you could encounter difficulties when going around them. Also at the very least it can look underhanded. So once you've started talking to a recruiter about a vacancy going around them isn't a good idea unless you are encountering significant incompetence from them - and ideally in such a way that you can substantiate with the company to prove you aren't just dropping them now you have what you need. As to why recruiters exist there are various reasons depending on which side you are looking at: Company Finding candidates and the initial filtering steps is time consuming if you aren't already geared up for it. Recruiters and agencies have databases they keep of CVs and contact details that would be inefficent for an employer to build and maintain unless they were recruiting all the time and hunting down candidates like this would be time spent by their existing employees on tasks other than their day job so there's an indirect cost to them there. Which of course is why they aren't just "saving" money on recruitment which they could pass directly on to your wage and since many recruiters work on the basis of a cut of your first year's wages they are only paying that cost once - an increased wage to the candidate has to be paid on an ongoing basis. To use your figures if the cost of the recruiter is $1.5k then giving the candidate even an extra $500 a year in higher wages will work out more expensive then the recruiter in just four years. Candidate Similarly hunting down openings and the right contacts etc is time consuming for a candidate, and if they are already employed they likely have a limited amount of time to spare on the job search, and that's even assuming they are actively looking! A good candidate who is employed and not looking might be tempted away by an attractive-sounding position dropping in to their inbox but they aren't going to even know about it were it not for the recruiter putting it out there. Similarly when it comes to negotiating wages the recruiter is motivated to get you the best possible wage when their fee is a percentage (obviously some work on fixed fee so this won't apply in that case) so it is in their best interests to fight as hard as they can to a) get you the job and b) get you the most money. Yes you might be able to do better, negotiating skill varies from person to person and you might well be awesome at it and you are certainly just as motivated as they are to get it right. But realistically the recruiter is doing this day-in, day-out so they are getting more practice, are more likely to be on top of the market conditions and the rates a given role or skill set should get etc. So the majority of the time they are probably going to be in a better position to maximize the wage then the average Joe Candidate who goes through this process once every couple of years. 

As Snow mentions in his answer it's likely that you (if you take the job) would be being hired to improve the app - and hopefully raise it's rating in the process. If you manged to pull such a thing off then it could be a very beneficial thing to have on your resume, and one you could justifiably use to blow your own trumpet. So can you do this? In my mind there's a couple of things to consider: 

This is much less of a "thing" than it was say 20 years ago. To someone of my parents' generation for example it was the "txt spk" of their day and would irritate them in much the same way that "txt-spk" irritates someone of mine. These days it is much more widely accepted and use of contractions in any professional context should be judged primarily on the intended audience of the writing. If it's a formal/legal document such as a contract, specification, tender - or as you specify in your edit CVs/cover letters etc then I'd probably avoid them, in general day-to-day writing like work e-mails then I don't think they are a problem. PS: Bonus points for using a contraction in the question title! 

Assuming I understand you correctly (I appreciate that there may be some info that's been "lost in translation" as it were) you are wanting them to change your existing certificate of employment so that it gives a more favorable things about your performance during your previous employment with this company. What I would say to you is what is their incentive to do this? Presumably they gave what they gave to be a fair evaluation of your work from their perspective and the only real value of a such a certificate/recommendation letter it aid you in finding employment elsewhere so you are basically asking them to make you look more attractive to other employers (which given they seem keen to re-employ you is counter to what they want) and what's more you are asking them to essentially lie in order to do so. Assuming you are happy to work with them again the logical way to see if you can get a better recommendation/certificate of employment would be to take the offer and go in and do a stellar job. Edit: As the OP points out in a comment my advice has mainly been around not to ask rather than how so with a disclaimer that I think this is unprofessional and wouldn't do this myself here's your best shot.. If you want the best chance of then agreeing to your request you need to provide them with a concrete incentive yo do so. At this point the only thing they appear to want from you is for you to work for them again. As stated in the OP there is currently an offer on the table with the exact conditions as yet undefined, so approach them with them improving your certificate as a requirement of your employment. Of course you'll then need to stay there a suitable length of time and do a good enough job to ensure that you get a good enough certificate from this employment period presumably. 

The thing is that when it comes to Java you are essentially on zero experience. Yes it is remarkably similar to C# in many ways and yes it is fairly easy to "migrate" as you put it between the two languages but that doesn't completely eliminate the learning curve, it only gives you a head start so there's no way you would be considered experienced for a Java role - neither would I and I've been developing commercially in C# for ~ 15 years, and I've got a year of Java at university under my belt as well. As the saying goes there is just no substitute for experience. If you want to get yourself into a Java role then your best bet is to do what you have been doing - learning the language now. Do as much as you can in it as your free time allows and publish anything you can to a github account (or similar) and then you will have some language knowledge and proof of that available to any recruiters for Java positions. Not to mention of course it will give you a chance at passing technical tests. Perhaps get involved in some open-source projects? Even with doing all of the above though you are going to really struggle to get anything more than a junior or more likely entry-level position. Self-learning and hobby experience definitely has some value but it's never going to be considered the same as actual commercial experience because they are very different environments. Commercial work is always going to be driven by real-world business requirements which are extremely difficult to replicate in a hypothetical environment and you have to remember that commercial work will have deadlines, other stakeholders and overall much higher pressures then home learning.