I have an older shotgun designed for lead shot, by law I can only fire steel shot. Can I fire steel shot, or do I need get a new shotgun? If I can use steel shot, what additional maintenance is required? 

Bill Irwin, author of Blind Courage found the Appalachian Trail to be a mostly enjoyable outdoors experience. While secluded with good opportunities for enjoying nature away from others. The Appalachian Trail offers some challenges. Assuming your blind friend will be with you or another sighted guide, Facilities don't need to have braille, or special maps. Anyplace wheelchair friendly is going to be fine for a blind person with a sighted guide. If not specifically wheelchair friendly. Paths that are relatively smooth and wide enough for two people to walk side by side are optimal. Rail trails are good. Farther from civilization = less background noise. Lots of stairs without kickplates are unpleasant. Many outdoors wood steps do not have a solid area at the back of the rise. If your toe does not find a kickplate at the back of the step, it is hard to gauge the depth of the step. 

I have a 1972ish sunfish I am planning to re-gelcoat the entire bottom of the hull. I made one fiber glass repair where there was a crack through the hull, I took that area down to bare fiberglass before repairing. In another area cracks in the gecoat turned out to be related to a thick layer (3/4 of an inch, 2 cm) of bondo over an old repair. I sanded that area to the fiberglass, unsure if I am going to add more fiberglass, but not replacing the bondo that thickly. Where there are scratches or spider crackes I sanded until they were gone, mostly there is still a layer of gelcoat, in few place there is a little fiberglass showing. For the most part 95% of the hull has a layer of gelcoat sanded with 60 grit. I have purchased two quarts of white exposy gelcoat, one laminating and one waxed for the final coat. Some research I have done suggest the thick gelcoat is part of the reason for spider cracks (when the fiberglass flexes the gelcoat cracks). My plan at the moment is, a coat of laminating gelcoat on bare fiberglass, a second coat of laminating on the entire hull, a third coat of waxed/final gelcoat on the entire hull, sand with 400-600 grit and put the trim back on. All gelcoat will be applied with a brush. Should I sand the entire hull until the gelcoat is mostly gone? If I consider existing gelcoat as one layer, what the is the maximum number of coats that should be applied over any area of the hull? 

I'm only a beginner, but... I found in my very first pool dive that losing my peripheral vision with a black silicone skirt on the mask gave me immediate and profound claustrophobia. I spent the whole dive stressed about what was around me. I went out and bought my own mask with a clear silicone skirt. Problem solved. From a practical PoV I'm well aware that I can't see clearly through the skirt, but then that's not the point of peripheral vision. Peripheral vision is designed to let you know that there's something to the sides. For me personally, I can't deal with not having that awareness. For other people (Cort Ammon above, for instance) it may be a distraction they actively don't want. For you it may be a no-big-deal either way. 

Comments from Aaron and StrongBad suggest this may be a country-specific thing, in particular due to being further from civilisation, and perhaps with greater public access to guns. In the UK, every walker, without exception, will talk to other walkers. To fail to say "hi" as you pass is deeply rude - and in places accessible with transport (such as the top of Snowdon) where you'll get keen walkers and day-trippers together, people blanking you is the clearest sign of whether they're walkers or they just got up there on the train. (Unsuitable footwear too, of course! :) And if you pause at a natural stopping point - a stile or trig point, say - and another walker coming past asks you where you've come from and where you're heading, again it would be seen as unusually rude to just blank them. You don't have to tell them your life story, or your full plans for the day or the next week. Partly it could be out of genuine curiosity. But partly it's a human interaction thing though. The person asking is simply acknowledging that you both have a shared interest, and that shared interest gives a common topic of conversation which otherwise you would not have. Sure, you could both talk about the weather (and that's why Brits talk about the weather - it's about the only safe shared experience we all have as a conversation opener), but you're both doing something you both enjoy, so why not chat about it briefly while you both get your breath, then move off again? I've done a lot of walking, and I rarely find people wanting to use this to show off. Show-offs don't tend to survive (often literally!) in the hills. Where you're going is purely factual. If someone is setting themselves a hard day's walking, you don't think they're boasting, you wish them luck. And if they've just got a short distance today, you say "you lucky sod, you'll be in the pub before me then". If you think they're showing off and they won't make it, you still wish them well, knowing privately that they're going to be suffering around mid-afternoon. (You can generally tell "all-the-gear-but-no-idea" folk by their pristine kit.) Mostly you won't be going in the same direction as the other person. If you're doing a long distance walk though (especially if it's a defined route), the chances are very good that you'll meet the same people as you go. Maybe you'll overtake them during the day, or they'll overtake you, or you'll just see the same people at the campsites or huts in the evenings. If you blank them during the day, things are going to be pretty damn awkward in the evening. Be human. Interact. You may not know these people from Adam, and you may never see them again in your life - but be sure that any of these other walkers will risk their neck for you if they find you in trouble. 

I have not actually had a sailing canoe in the water, but I have looked at a bunch of pictures and videos. Almost every leeboard you see on a canoe is hinged so it will raise up when there is an obstruction. When the canoe gets up any speed then the water becomes an obstruction, this video is for an add on sail kit maker for canoes. Notice that when the canoe gets any kind of speed the leeboard tilts up and is barely below the hull of the craft. Canoes being relatively narrow tend to get tilty/tippy when any side force is present. As seen in the captured image of the example video the outrigger is just barely touching the water and the leeboard is within a few degrees of being horizontal. At this point neither is really adding any value. 

Based on the answer here I would be exploring a cypress swamp in the Mississippi valey north of the 35th Parrell. If I canoe in a lake or on a river, I always have a pretty good idea where I am, and my entrance and exit points are pretty easy to identify. I have no idea about what it is like inside a cypress swamp. What is the risk of getting lost? If there is a significant risk, are there any locations or attributes that make it less likely I will get lost? 

It appears that you can accidentally & unsafely have an unsafe occurrence with a 'Flameless ration heater'. 

Camping is an outdoor sport, with many opportunities for unexpected events. Don't bring anything that can't be exposed to the weather, and don't bring anything that will cause you emotional hardship if it does not return home with you. I have been camping for years, and have never lost anything to theft, nor has anyone I know lost anything to theft. I have had things destroyed by getting to close to the fire, ruined by water, worn out from over use, lost through misadventure, left behind accidentally, or otherwise made unavailable for future use by something stupid I have done. Apply some common sense and don't leave your wallet laying in the middle of the road. But you need not be overly concerned about theft. In the US there are two very general types of camping area, Private and Public. the private places are run for profit and almost always have people who rent (or lease) the same spot for years. The public ones are government operated and usually have a two week stay limit. In both cases, there are people who spend their whole time in camp. At any one time it would be unusual for there to be more then 2 out of 3 campsites having their occupants gone. Everyone tends to keep an eye on what is going on around them. Only a few bring a television and satellite dish. Everyone knows who belongs to what campground, all of this makes for an environment that is not good for thieves to operate in. On the other hand, a common occurrence is for someone to be away from their site and have a wind come up that is greater then the wind resistance of their tent, canopy or other item. The neighbors don't just watch your tent blow down the road, they go get it and take it back to your camp. They may or may not put it back up and secure it better, but they will at least make sure it stays in your site. 

You might also consider a Z-Rest, which greatly improves on the warmth of a foam mat. It also solves the problem of condensation under your mat, which afflicts both air and foam mats, by the "egg-crate" design allowing some airflow under the mat. Like other foam mats though, it is still bulky. 

If you gets gusts and choppy water, that's what we call "sailing". It happens. :) If the gusts get severe, you reef the sails, or drop the sails altogether. Note that this is still within the normal parameters of sailing. Any competent sailor should be able to deal with this, until you get to gusts so severe that a person would have problems standing upright in the wind, until something breaks, or until your boat ends up somewhere dangerous (such as a lee shore). If the boat starts to take on water and sink though, the word is founder. You were nearly there! Mayday is a radio code indicating that you are in immediate lifethreatening danger. Pan-pan is a similar code indicating that there is an emergency but you are not in immediate danger. Neither is something you'd use as a word to describe the situation. What are you actually looking for though? If you're trying to throw words at a piece of writing to make it sound authentic, I strongly suggest you don't. Unless you know what you're talking about, you're almost guaranteed to write something ridiculous, and there are enough people with basic knowledge of sailing to call you on it. If you particularly need expert guidance on how to make it sound authentic, write normally without using jargon, and then call in a friendly expert to advise you on turning it into something which actually works. 

Limit oxygen exposure. The easiest way for the backyard/garage home repair person is to cover the area with wax paper. If it is warm and dry and another 4 to 8 hours has not caused it to set, see step 2 Scrape off the uncured gelcoat, sand and prep. Figure out what the problem was and reapply after addressing the problem. 

As other answers point out, their are issues with using your cell phone as a walkie-talkie. The answer as they point out is you, can but it really does not meet the need. Your need/desire is to communicate with cell phones when "you are too far from civilization". Depending on what country you are in and/or your desire to communicate lawfully, the solution is to build and bring your own cellular network with you. Build yourself a mobile cell tower/network, install it/them on a vehicle(s) parked strategically, or a single vehicle and a balloon. Call others in your private network, and everything works just like being in civilization, except no roaming fees, and no minutes deducted. 

Get a rail schedule, and do research to determine if it is reliable. Get a tunnel map, there are likely safety areas where a person can get out of the trains path. Learn the speed the train will be travelling when it goes through the tunnel 

Update as Bounty is posted I have continued to look for an independent comprehensive list of electrical risks associated with campers/rvs connecting to camp power supply, and have found the following issues. 

As Chris says in his answer "widest part of a van is about a third of the way up". Everything in his answer is correct. I have slept many nights in a homemade conversion van. If you are sleeping alone, then sleeping diagonally gives much more length. Useing Chris's width of 5'8' (68 inches) a width of 48 inches, and a Triangle calculator we find that the diagonal length is 83 inches (almost 7 feet) Another consideration is heat or rather lack of heat. Metal vehicles like vans, shed heat quickly. You go to sleep stretched out diagonally on a warm evening and you wake up curled up trying conserve body heat. From experience getting up at dawn, it usually feels warmer outside the van then in it. 

I have similar problems with an inflatable mat. With a foam mat, even if it gives slightly under pressure locations, you're still insulated. With an inflatable mat, any pressure location has a good chance of going straight through the mat and touching the ground - and at that point of course you have no insulation at all. For myself, I combine a Z-Lite underneath and a regular 8mm foam mat on top. The Z-Lite ensures you are well away from the ground, and the foam mat stops you sinking into the Z-Lite (the "egg crate" effect can be uncomfortable). The extra weight is negligible, and the end result is a perfectly-comfortable and perfectly-insulated night's sleep. The Z-Lite is also the best thing ever invented if you're camping on rough/lumpy ground - effectively there isn't competition, because everything else isn't even in the same race. And for bonus points, the Z-Lite also allows some airflow around the tent floor underneath you, so the normal problem with condensation building up under your mat doesn't happen. 

I haven't climbed for a long time - not since uni. Our climbing club was famous for its training though, so people from other clubs often joined us for the workout, and a fair number continued to actually doing some climbing. Having belayed a few people much heavier than me (rugby players!), my main caveat is that your belayer needs to be cautious about your relative weights. This isn't an issue if belaying from above - in that case the belayer is clipped in, and all is good. Belaying from below though, whether that's with a top-rope or seconding, they need to be aware that if you come off, they're going to be heading up at speed! With a climber significantly heavier than yourself, it's best to treat it similarly to belaying from above. Find something behind you to put a sling round, clip the sling to your belay device (not to the back of your harness!), and you're safe. It doesn't need the same security that belaying from above does, because it's only there to catch the difference in weights, but it's still pretty important. Your belayer may not have thought of this, because they're too used to catching similarly-sized gym rats. It's sensible for you to check this, just in case. It doesn't matter how strong they are or how good their technique is, gravity is gravity, and once their feet leave the ground it's Sir Isaac who decides the outcome. 

Inspired by the question Where should a person who can't hold a paddle sit in a tandem kayak? "One friend was born without arms" Many life jackets are vests that are in part, kept on the person by the arms extending through arm holes. If worn by a person without arms, it would seem likely the life jacket would easily slip off of the person rather then support them. What kind of Life Jacket for a person without arms? 

The junction between the trunks is more likely to catch water and/or debris, leading to rot that will cause it to fail (die and/or fall) earlier then it neighbors. It is very difficult to cut down the tree safely, without good access to back side of the tree it is difficult to control the direction of it's fall. Directional tree felling 

Why don't you get an inexpensive smart phone instead? For less then $100 (currently some are less than $30) you can get a smart phone at tracfone.com that will do all of that and more. Pair it with a fit bit and still be around $100 

I want to install a deck plate in the top of the fresh water tank of my camp trailer (RV) to allow for cleaning the inside at the start of the season. The product I am looking at recommends "Lubricate with Vaseline or Teflon grease". Looking around to see if Teflon is toxic I found this Non-toxic when used in quantities and applications as intended; contains no carcinogenic or hazardous air polluting (HAP) ingredients, and emits no Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) but here it is being sold as bicycle lubricant. When choosing between Vaseline or Teflon to lubricate and seal a potable fresh water tank, which is the better choice? P.S. Thanks to "RV Geezer" who suggested this in a review I found while looking for a deck plate to use for my boat. 

Strip off. Your skin is waterproof. Assuming it's warm (because if it wasn't, you'd have proper gear, right?) then you're not going to freeze, especially if you're walking. So take off everything you can afford to be seen without (because getting arrested for flashing is a downer) and stash it in your pack. When the sun comes out again, you can air dry as you go, or you can sacrifice some item of clothing as an impromptu towel. I've done substantial amounts of summer walking in the UK wearing only a pair of shorts, most notably on the West Highland Way in Scotland where it rained sideways 4 days out of 6. If your work rate is high enough, you stay warm from the inside in spite of the water running off your skin. 

In addition to the good answer from @whatsisname, don't forget about the possibility of gear and/or placement failure. If you're leading, you have precisely one piece of gear catching your fall. If that doesn't hold, you'd better hope the one below does - and that the extra slack you now have is less than the distance from that gear to the ground. If you've got a bomber gear placement, then you're probably good. If all you've managed to place is a tiny wire, and/or the rock is weak and may let your gear pull out, you need to be looking for your next placement ASAP. And don't forget that gear may come dislodged as the leader pulls the rope through. This all makes your gear placements a long way from perfect. Conversely, standard best practise for top-roping is a three-point gear placement. You've got plenty of time to choose the best places to fix your gear/slings/whatever, and you can test them to make sure it's secure. Even a two-point setup drops the risk by orders of magnitude; with a three-point setup, the risk of injury through failure of the belay itself is astronomically small. The weakest point in the link now is the belayer doing their job properly.