You're looking for a book that explains Kant entirely? Then you should read Kant's work itself. But then it won't be easy to understand. If you want to have something easy to understand, you'll have to accept it won't be complete. You have to make a compromise somewhere. Anyway... You may find this video and the others in the same series interesting: $URL$ - of course they oversimplify things. For more, Roger Scruton wrote a 135-pages introduction to Kant. Also this is not enough to explain everything, but what Scruton does very neatly, besides giving a basic introduction, is showing the modern relevance of Kant's work. If you're going to read a primary text, I would advise to read an opponent alongside. It always helps to get a better idea of the context and the issues they're dealing with. When I read Kant's Critique of Practical Reason, I read Nietzsche's Also Sprach Zarathustra alongside. 

Nick Bostrom is director of the Oxford Future of Humanity Institute, which is an interesting position in itself already. 

'x' or 'y' are just names, and they don't carry meaning. There is another rule that says we can swap universal quantifications as we like, such that the following two are equivalent: 

Then this synthesis becomes the next thesis, so that the process repeats itself, until 'absolute knowledge' is reached. Following this idea, there would be consensus in the end, where there is this absolute knowledge. However, Hegel also thought that he had reached this point already. Not many people think this endpoint will be reached at some point. Still, Hegel's idea show a nice way of looking at history. 

Yes, literally that is circular reasoning. However, it may be the case that one of the following is true: 

The concept of the Turing machine is a mathematical concept representing exactly that which can be computed (is 'decidable'). Therefore, the answer to that question depends on your worldview. In a strict scientific-deterministic worldview, the world could ultimately be modeled in a mathematical model, and iterations of that model would be well-defined. Therefore, by definition, a Turing machine could implement that model. Other worldviews may not accommodate for such possibilities. Hume comes to mind, claiming causation cannot be proven to exist. 

Take looking at a house. One could think that house is beautiful and desire to have it, but this is not the beauty Kant is talking about. Beauty in the Kantian sense is when someone observes the house and just stands there contemplating its beauty. Perhaps you can imagine this beauty occurring in an exposition, in looking at nature, looking at your spouse (which sometimes but certainly not necessarily induces desire), etc. 

There are several tools online with which you can make truth tables yourself and check the truth value of statements. This is a truth table for the correct statement: 

So, Philo doesn't really skip part of the story, he just considers a different story. In Legum Allegoriae, Philo writes how "the history of primal man is (...) considered as a symbol of the religious and moral development of the human soul." For this, the Garden story is much more relevant than the cosmological account of creation. However, not having access to the current knowledge that the Eden story only starts around 2:4, he also deals with vv. 1-3. This is described in the analytical introduction to book I (pp. 140–145 of your PDF): 

This follows from basic set theory and the notion that ∀!x&in;M M(x)  (that M(x) holds precisely for all elements in M). B If he doesn't, he is not being logical. C The argument you gave doesn't allow formalising the first sentence using a universal quantifier over all mankind as above. This is possible if X was mentioned before. So, it depends on the context. For example, if we were to say 

In the case of the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament, there is no inconsistency, because sin is restricted to humans. At the bottom of this page is a list of all HB occurrences for 'sin' (חטאת). Also interesting would be Gen 6:5 in the story of Noah: 

Yeah, he can, but there is absolutely no reason to believe it apart from the paper you got. What else evidence have you got? It's true that he can make you alive (if he created you from nothing), but you cannot say something about whether he will actually do that or not. 

I have revealed myself to so many people and spoken to so many people, that doesn't mean I ask them to offer their son. 

Philo does consider Genesis 1 in De Opificio Mundi. As a book of laws, that is "fitly prefaced by a Cosmogony" (analytical introduction to On the Creation, p. 2): 

Supposing the arguments were asymmetrical and the one form is indeed stronger than the other, we should be able to formalise them: 

This is not true because you didn't prove it for Pn+1. Deduction Deduction is rational though. It works like this: 

To prove this conditional, you need to prove {x | P(x)} &subseteq; {x | Q(x)} under the assumption that ∀x: P(x) → Q(x). To prove a subset relationship S &subseteq; T, you need to prove that for every s &in; S also s &in; T. For some v &in; {x | P(x)} we have P(v), hence by assumption Q(v), hence v &in; {x | Q(x)} which concludes the proof. Note that the expression can be slightly hard to read, because you're using both → and ⇒. It is not immediately clear what the priority rules of these operators are and thus how far the ∀ reaches (i.e., if the ∀ is a subexpression for the ⇒ or vice versa). This also could make it difficult to see that the xs on the left of the ⇒ are different from the xs on the right side. The expression "∀x: P(x) → Q(x) ⇒ {y | P(y)} &subseteq; {y | Q(y)}" is equivalent to yours. If you're having issues with that, it can be helpful to first draw a parse tree of the expression. If not, then never mind. We say that properties define sets and some people like to use the same letter for the property and the set (property P defines set P = {x | P(x)} and vice versa set S defines property S(x) = x &in; S). In that notation, your expression would be ∀x: P(x) → Q(x) ⇒ P &subseteq; Q. 

You're using two standards here. When you claim that you lied to the police, you're using that a beard which is very small actually isn't a beard. However, when you claim that you spoke truthfully, you're using that a beard, even though very small, still is a beard. Of course, when you use two different definitions, the conclusions implied by premises using these definitions don't have to be consistent with each other. You could rewrite your two statements as: 

As long as there is debate, there can and most likely will be people who don't know which side to choose. I don't think that's strange, because given that there's debate, you must conclude that it isn't just clear which side has the truth. There will be people who think the arguments of both sides may be true, or neither arguments - both situations can reasonably result in not knowing. Let's take this example with religion. To convince people who don't know to choose a side, there has to be really hard evidence, so that you actually can only 'choose' one side. So when you say agnosticism is undefendable, you'll have to argue that there is such evidence. Well, what evidence would that be? That there is a God or that there isn't one? As long as both sides can be argued for, there can be people who say they don't know which side has the best arguments, and therefore don't wish to choose a side. Besides, I don't think there is a thing like evidence possible for religion or atheism. These topics were, are and will be topics for belief and faith, not for reasonings. Agnosticism therefore was, is and will be a 'valid' position, whatever that would mean in this context. 

I'm not convinced that hearing jokes all the time would make them not funny. As long as they are original there does not need to be a problem. There's also no reason to assume we'd run out of original jokes. But if we'd assume that hearing jokes all the time implied that they wouldn't be funny anymore, then yes, the categorical imperative in that formulation tells you to never tell jokes. 

Assume for some x0 that P(x0). Introduce the existential quantifier: ∃x P(x). Contradiction with the assumption. Therefore, ¬P(x0). Introduce the universal quantifier: ∀x ¬P(x). 

The Internet Encyclopaedia of Philosophy has an entry on validity (and soundness, which is often confused). While there are some issues with the entry, as Conifold points out below, the author has the definitions right: 

You could say that a statement is not a contradiction iff there is at least one line true. However, this is a meta-theorem about propositions and truth tables, which does not give you the truth table of a negated proposition. 

What I'm trying to point out is that an action rarely has one sole goal. Often it's much more complicated. There may be different (possibly conflicting) main and subgoals. You can argue any of these: 

Thomas Aquinas wrote about five ways to God, which may contain something useful on this topic. In the second way, the way of the 'first cause', he claims that if there would be no first cause, there wouldn't be any cause: 

From this quote, it looks like he says that matter doesn't exist when it isn't perceived. Or, in Latin: 

The typical way to prove that there exists (at least) one leprechaun is by pointing at it. In the case of leprechauns that may be a little difficult. You could make a claim that they exist in your head, and therefore really exist. 

This specific case is indeed a vacuous truth. A vacuous truth is "a statement that asserts that all members of the empty set have a certain property". It takes three forms: 

1: By concrete argument I mean an argument with concrete premises, i.e. without variables. So some 'P' can only be part of a concrete argument if we know what is meant by 'P'. I will use abstract argument for an argument with variables. 2: The symbol ∴ means 'therefore' and is used to indicate the conclusion. 3: Whether or not the first premise is true is out of the scope of this answer. 

While Hebrews is a letter from Paul, verse 8:10 is a quote from something God has presumably said (8:8: "But God found fault with the people and said: ..."). The next few verses are quoted from Jeremiah 31:31-34. The verse from John is said by Jesus. In the time after Jesus' death there was a debate among the first Christians (and their communities) as to whether they were still required to follow the law of the Torah, for example concerning different prayer attributes. Paul explains based on Jeremiah this is not needed. The church website you're quoting says the same, based on Paul and John 14. You could formalise the argument as follows: