Kerosene is technically a paraffin which comes from the greek word wax. Kerosene is used as a fuel and a solvent. A waxy solid extracted from petroleum is called paraffin wax. Pouring a liquid kerosene on a chain is not going to leave much if any waxy lubricant behind. Kerosene is not a good choice as a solvent as it is flammable. $URL$ 

Have 9 speed Shimano chain that I need to shorten. I don't have the Shimano pin so I need to go buy one. Could just reuse the regular pin but I already broke one chain tool trying that. I think the SRAM Powerlink would be more convenient. Is it safe to use the SRAM Powerlink on a Shimano chain? Or is there some other reusable connector (master link) for a Shimano chain? 

So I keep my bike in the garage, in Florida where there are plenty of critters. This would include lizards and frogs including the expected insects. Heck the other day there was a bird trapped in my garage! As such I really don't like to keep water bottles anywhere but inside the house where the critter population is far more controlled. I have one of these water bottles: 

There is a strap that holds it in place that without the water bottle in place, the strap would easily fall out. Any hints on how to store the bottle and the strap so the strap does not become lost? 

With new battery technologies a new kind of "bicycle" has emerged - so-called e-bike. It usually has an electric motor on one of its wheels. The motor is powered by a rather huge (size of a small bag) battery. Pedals, star wheels and the chain are still in place, so the user can 

I haven't cycled for years, but I walk about 9,5 kilometers to work every workday (and the same distance back), so I know the problem well. From my experience the single most efficient measure is to wear shoes and pants of light colors - light gray, clay, etc, so that typical dirt is not that visible on them. This fixes the problem once and for all - I wash my sand color jeans once in maybe three weeks and I just never wash light color shoes - their outsoles get abrased to holes faster (that is in about three months). 

Have you checked the torque on the cassette? If up and down are not symmetric that could be the problem. I was exactly the problem I had and took it to a shop where they knew me and were backed up. Guy put my bike on the stand and said your cassette is loose. Sure enough he was right. Torque the cassette to spec. Some cassettes have a higher torque than you might guess. That cable setup just does not look right to me. Why a long run like that of housing in a straight like? Pretty sure the housing is not correct. You use housing to bend - not in a straight line. Zoom in in this link $URL$ You have questioned my input twice and credibility once. I gave you a link to zoom in on. Does your bike look like this? NO it does not. You have a big gap where the housing goes in the cable stop. Something is clearly wrong. What do you think that slot is for? That slot is for cable not housing. 

Recently I tried to unscrew the left pedal of a bicycle by turning it counter-clockwise with a spanner lengthened with a piece of pipe. The net result is the spanner broke apart and the pedal is still there. This makes me wonder. Is that just threaded joint or is there something else besides threading? Is the threading left-handed or right handed? Do I need anything else except what I would normally use to unscrew a threaded joint? 

Likely some coarse particles get in between the chain elements and also between the parts of the derailleur and the star wheels. After you cycle for a while those particles either fall out or get crushed into finer particles and thus the noise goes away. 

Some I am not a frightful type guy, and this is still kind of new but last week I took a bad spill and am unsure what to do about it in the future. For the record I am 51 years old and was training for a triathlon. I was just on my way back from a ride, having dealt with heavy winds on the way out. I was traveling about 20-22 mph when I went off the road into the grass. I attempted to get back onto the road by lifting my front wheel kind of a front wheel bunny hop. Instead I caught the edge of the road and rotated down. I was clipped in, so I landed hard on my shoulder and subsequently head. The resultant injury was broken ribs, clavicle and a punctured lung. I will be out at least three months. I was wearing a helmet that prevented any head injury thankfully. Frankly I am a bit scared. What should I do to avoid injury in the future? I have taken similar spills as a kid, and not really been injured. It really sucks as I am just 5 weeks from my tri, and I was going to crush my time goals. Now I will have to go back to the drawing board for training three months from now. 

From my experience riding a bicycle the fact that a bicycle has two wheels makes it rather easy to ride over minor obstacles like minor cracks in the road. Segway also looks promising in this aspect although it's rider's guide is full of "don't do this [usually refers to trying to ride over an obstacle in wrong way] otherwise your Segway looses grip of the terrain and you fall big time" phrases. Now a unicycle has only one very tiny spot of contact with the road. How does one ride over obstacles on a unicycle? 

You have three risk factors - snow, condensing moisture and tires going flat. The solution is to hang the bike and cover it from above so that it is vented from beneath. Hanging will require anything looking like two anchors and some reliable rope. Covering can be made of any strong water-resistant material. Well-vented bike covered from snow and hanging will be protected.