Yes, Sartre. Sartre was a Marxist and he took up positions close to those of the Communist Party, though Marxist determinism was not easy to reconcile with the absolute libertarianism that was the keynote of existentialism. In an effort to resolve this tension he wrote a Critique of Dialectical Reason in 1960. It was difficult to reconcile his emphasis on the individual with Marxism's emphasis on the group, his assertion of human freedom with Marxism s assertion of determinism, his conviction that our fundamental problems are existential and therefore irradicable, that is, they arise from our human nature with Marxism’s view that they are socioeconomic and therefore that if the modes of production and exchange are sufficiently altered a utopia on earth is possible. 

Why is there something, the universe or God, rather than nothing? This is an illogical nonsense question because impose an impossible explanatory demand, to deduce the existence of something without using any existential premises. The Big Bang theory is only one of possible cosmologies other is the quantum and string cosmologies. We do not know yet if the best model, but there are good reasons to think that the big bang is not necessarily the absolute beginning. The "universe has a beginning" can be a composition fallacy: “Everything in the universe has a cause or beginning, then the universe has a cause or beginning”. Everything in the universe has a localization, but the universe hasn't a localization: it is a composition fallacy."The universe has a cause" can be a ignorance fallacy too: "There is no evidence for a universe without beginning, therefore, a cause must have existed". Some have argued that because the universe is like a clock, there must be a clock maker. This is a slippery argument, because there is nothing that is really perfectly analogous to the universe as a whole, if your question is about the whole, because everything is just a part of universe.“The universe has a beginning, therefore the universe has a cause”, begs the question, a classic fallacy. Begging the question or assuming the point at issue is an informal fallacy. An argument begs the question when it assumes the controversial point not conceded by the other side. If “The universe began to exist” or not is the point at issue, not the premise.You can not give a imaginary definition of attributes of God or a flying pink unicorn, as timeless or out space being or an uncaused being, as proof of existence. If everything has a cause, then God must have a cause. If there can be anything without a cause, it may just be the universe as God. Of all the approaches to God’s existence, the deduction is the strategy that we would expect to be successful there were a necessary God. But there isn't a valid deduction of a non logical existence, then we can conclude that there isn't a necessary God. 

I think the methodology of consciousness studying is the same of cognitive science methodology. The difficulty in considering for example the theories of meditation in Hinduism or Buddhism as scientific theories of consciousness is the same difficulty that is in the origin of the scientific methodology of the double-blind trial: How to eliminate subjective, unrecognized biases carried by an experiment's subjects and the conductors of scientific experiments? If the experiment's subjects and the conductors of scientific experiments are the same person the problem is compound. Justification of a scientific theory consists in appealing to something independent: Meditation's experiences ground the beliefs implied by the meditator's sincere reports of such experiences, provided they can be said to cause those beliefs. But it may well be that the beliefs are part of the cause of the experience rather than the other way round. 

There is broad agreement that knowledge is more than just true belief. What, though, must be added to true belief to get knowledge? According to traditional epistemology, two more ingredients are necessary: justification understood as having good reasons, and beliefs that are non accidentally true. Having justified belief is not a way of possessing truth. This is because, unlike true belief, justification does not entail truth: a belief can be justified even though it is false. This does not mean that there aren’t some forms of justification that do entail truth – justification by mathematical proof might be one. Such forms of justification are called “infallible” justification. But most forms of justification are fallible: they don’t guarantee truth; e.g. justification by induction, or by the evidence of our senses. So, in general, having a justified belief does not entail that the justified belief is true. Monism about epistemic values defends the view that truth is the primary epistemic value. It would appear that we want justified beliefs because we want true beliefs rather than we want true beliefs because we want justified beliefs. This would allows us to view the truth goal as the ultimate and primary epistemic goal. There aren't any intrinsic value accruing to justified belief that would be independent from the value of non-accidentally true belief. Pluralism about epistemic values defends the view that truth is not the primary epistemic value. In addition to truth, there are many other epistemic values: for example, understanding, justification, and making sense of something. Among these, truth is not primary, but just one goal among others. Just truth, as primary candidate is unduly reductive. Epistemology is more than truth as a goal: it is the study of successful cognition. Thus the pluralist rejects the account of truth as the primary epistemic goal, touching upon such topics as the beliefs that are non accidentally true, and reliabilism. A central concept is that of the reliability of a process or method of belief formation. Is epistemology about justified beliefs for their own sake? Truth can be regarded as the primary epistemic goal? 

Observation: The question was totally changed in its meaning by someone other than the original author. I did not know that it was possible at this site. This turned useless my answer. This ability to change the meaning of questions from other people is bizarre. 

It's difficult to tell what is being asked here. Your question is if a concept without image ("Nothing") is "imaginable". Abstract concepts do not necessarily appear as images. For example the concept of causality. 

It seems monism and/or pantheism. Pantheism (All-is-God) is often associated with monism (All-is-One). The line between monism and pantheism can be blurred depending on varying definitions of God. Is God substantially omnipresent in the physical universe but also exists "apart from" or "beyond" it as its Creator and Sustainer? Is everything composed of an all-encompassing, immanent God? Is there one great reality, eternal and infinite, and everything finite and temporal is but some part of God? If yes, all forms of reality may then be considered either modes of that Being, or identical with it, there is nothing separate or distinct from God, for God is the universe. Pantheists do not believe in a personal or anthropomorphic god, and Christians generally like a personal God. God incarnation in Jesus requires both that God become human and that God remain wholly other. God incarnation in Jesus requires “Credo quia absurdum”, “I believe because it is absurd”: “the Son of God died: it is wholly credible, because it is unsuitable. And, buried, He rose again: it is certain, because impossible.” (Tertullian). The "everything theory" of fundamental physics, to tie all the known forces into a unity does not yet exist, monism is a hope. Why is there something, a God or the Universe, rather than nothing? This question imposes an illogical nonsense explanatory demand, deduce the existence of something without using any existential premises. 

A preoccupation with the next world clearly shows an inability to cope credibly with this one. If you're religious and you believe in another life somehow, that means you don't live this life to the full because you think you're going to get another chance life. We make sense of the notion of "the purpose of a life" by stipulating that the purpose is whatever inscrutable reasons God had in mind when he created us, then we argue for the existence of God because he is the only one who could have designed us with a purpose in mind. The argumentation of a person's entire life serving a purpose, above and beyond the purpose of all the person's choices, is inscrutable, circular. Did God need to be glorified by humans? Or would God need to achieve perfection with them? Do you really mean to tell me the only reason you try to be good is to gain God's approval and reward, or to avoid his disapproval and punishment? You can not admire a virtue which is based on fear. You can not admire a religion which is based on fear of death. 

I think it is "dissolved" and not "unsolved". Radical skepticism with regard to the possibility of ultimate philosophical grounding is based on an abstractive fallacy. It is somewhat misleading coherence to present the radical skeptic position in terms of an argument, because in presenting an argument one is usually committed to the truth of its premises and conclusion, whereas radical skeptics would suspend judgment with respect to them. Problems remain regarding the coherence of anyone who accepts the soundness of an argument whose conclusion is that we are not justified in believing anything. The so called Münchhausen trilemma can be overcome by recognizing that some presuppositions are necessary for the very possibility of intersubjectively valid criticism and argumentation. The “principle of fallibilism” which holds that any claim can, in principle, be doubted is only meaningful within an framework where some pragmatic rules and norms are not open to question. The Wittgenstein’s words are about throwing the ladder after using it to climb. Whereas language is a medium for the communication of thought which exist independently of language, language is a vehicle of thought. What our words mean - hence what thoughts we have - is a function of what sentences we hold true. To entertain all the thoughts we currently have, while universally doubting their truth, is not straightforward. Anything may be dubitable, but not everything at once. Ideas from Karl-Otto Apel, Wittgenstein. 

I do not know, but a good starting point is to answer why there are societies that prosper and religiosity decreases. Why is there more disbelief among scientists than in general population? 

There must exist within the community recognized and approved forums or avenues for the criticism of theories, evidence, experiments, assumptions, and inferences. The criticism must be effective in that the community at times changes its belief and practices in response to it. Criticism is not merely tolerated and ignored. As a background for criticism, the community must have publicly recognized and shared standards that provide the criteria for evaluating theories, hypotheses, experiments, data analysis, etc. These establish standards for the quality and relevance of criticism. 

Like everyone else scientists are only human after all. Thus, individual scientists may be biased and jealous; they may intrigue against colleagues, or engage in nepotism; they often are emotionally attached to their subject matter in being passionate researchers, and they sometimes do not see the weak spots, if not flaws, in their own work; in particular they are usually interested in having their hypotheses and theories confirmed, not refuted — after all, Nobel prizes are not awarded for the falsification of a theory. Research institutions including universities are now run more like businesses, so that there is severe competition for funds and a strong pressure to focus on applied science and technology at the expense of basic science. The system of logical, semantical, methodological, and attitudinal ideals constitutes the institutional rationality of science even though individual scientists may more or less often fail to behave rationally. However biased the individual scientist may be, the institutional values are the basis for the institutional objectivity of science. Rationality is present only at the level of the institutionalized community. Objectivity, then, is a characteristic of a institutionalized community’s practice of science rather than of an individual’s. There are conditions that a institutionalized scientific community must satisfy in order to qualify as rationally developing scientific knowledge: 

Answer: No. William James defends a right to let your “passional nature” decide between belief and unbelief in cases where the evidence is inconclusive. Certain beliefs meet your deepest-felt needs supplies the justification we need to adopt a believing stance in the absence of conclusive evidence. James is only interested in the practical question of what conceptions of God it would be good for us to adopt, while the question of truth is left over to philosophical investigation. To James, pragmatism can be compared to a corridor in a hotel: in one room, there may be an author writing a religious or theological treatise, while in another one somebody else is putting forward an atheistic argument. In a third room someone is working on a scientific problem, and so forth. James wanted to defend “experience”, prayer, guidance, and all that sort of thing immediately and privately felt, against ‘'philosophy” as being the real backbone of the world's religious life. James considered the question of whether a believer’s religious experience could give a good reason for his own religious beliefs, even though this reason is not interpersonally persuasive. The believer may think that these experiences enable him to cope better with the problems of life, and perhaps become a better person. Rorty’s version of pragmatism proposal is to treat religion as a private affair disconnected from public use of reason and give up normative criteria for adequately evaluating religious discourse. Rorty suggests that religious faith can be seen as resembling romantic projects linked to our “passional nature”. Although we sometimes question, for example, someone’s choice of spouse, we do not normally think that people are under some general obligation to justify such choices, we simply appeal to their passional nature to explain. Something similar is true of religious believers. It is only in public, cooperative projects such as science and politics that we should give and require reasons. Pragmatic reflection on religion's function, what it is good for, is often analyzed in individual terms. Pragmatism is not simply a philosophy of “usefulness” within our society. The pragmatic philosophy of religion accommodate the value of “useless” activities such as prayer. Engaging in such activities may for a religious person be crucial in satisfactoriness of life. We can say that pragmatists want to know what religion is good for. If we try to define truth in terms usefulness or justification within our society then the fact that it will nevertheless make perfect sense to describe a statement as true but useless, or true but not justified within our society, will immediately show that the definition of truth as usefulness within our society has failed. Any attempt to base norms on facts is a fallacy. Deriving epistemological norms from the facts of human knowledge acquisition would seem to commit some version of fallacy. The really important question from a pragmatic perspective is whether a religious believer is committed to the type of open critical dialogue that has been central to the pragmatic tradition. Pragmatists need not succumb to the normative self-understanding of religious authorities and institutions which claim that external values are completely irrelevant for genuinely religious believers. As a formal doctrine, fallibilism is most strongly associated with pragmatists. The mentality of pragmatic fallibilism oppose mentality of absoluteness, of rigid dichotomies, of moral certainty based on a religious authority and institutions. Pragmatists are revisionists rather than committed to describing religion from the perspective of believers. Philosophically may well be that the religious beliefs are part of the cause of the religious experience rather than the other way round. Religious experience does of course often take specific forms depending on particular religions or cultural circumstances. Catholic may report an encounter with the Virgin Mary, whereas Muslims, Jews or Buddhists would hardly do so. The principle of theoretical economy favors the skeptic’s explanation that religious experience provides no objective warrant for religious belief unless the possibility of a naturalistic explanation of the experience can be ruled out as implausible. Well established scientific knowledge is not so easily abandoned. 

A debater commits the Ad Hominem Fallacy when he introduces irrelevant personal premises about his opponent. Such red herrings may successfully distract the opponent or the audience from the topic of the debate. The whole point of logic is to develop techniques for evaluating the cogency of arguments independently of the arguer's identity. Is the person being criticized arguing or testifying? Are reasons being presented, or must we take the person's word for something? If the person is arguing, the argument should be evaluated on its own merits; if testifying, then credibility is important. 

There is a variety of disbelief positions with respect to different concepts of gods, but essentially atheism can be "disbelief-atheism", that consider the arguments for and against a god's existence, or can be "absence-of-belief-atheism", disbelief without any arguments at all. But if atheism is the claim that, in the absence of evidence for a god we should presume that a god does not exist, then on this definition atheism ceases to be a view, and you should find it appropriate to call a two years old child of atheist. The burden of proof lies upon a person making scientifically untestable claims, but even famous atheists like Richard Dawkins and Sam Harris feel the need to argue and defend atheism, atheism in this case would not be the same as that of children, disbelief without any arguments at all. I think "disbelief-atheism" require justification, and to consider the arguments for and against a god's existence. Disbelief in fairies and magical thinking doesn't deserve a special name. Gods are a kind of fairy tale and magical thinking, but as they are very old and insistent, disbelief deserves a special name and arguments: atheism. We are all a kind of atheist in a way. Atheists just believe in fewer gods than the believers. When believers understand why they refuse all the other possible gods, they will understand why atheists reject the myth of them too. A religion rejects other religions precisely because they are faith-based, there is no evidence for them.