EDIT: The above is how one can see that negation as suggested by Belnap and Dunn is reasonable. But I agree with the questioner that it is unclear that the logic, so described, is a product system. A bit more detail on how to see Dunn/Belnap's system (DB henceforth) as a product system: In DB we have four truth degrees: 

There is no accepted term for the study of change in metaphysics, analogous to ontology for the study of what there is, or mereology for the study of the parthood relation. Many scholars resort to the phrase "the problem of change", or "the problem of persistence". 

is meaningful under the following interpretation: would be a plural constant designating a certain plurality of kids; a plural constant designating a certain plurality of plants, and designating the relation of shouting as above. Under this interpretation would be as well formed as , when used to mean that Socrates is a man. For the notions of plural constant and plurality see this. 

So, sure enough, (4) is true: it's a material conditional with a false antecedent; nothing in s not being the case can make it false that if s then r. The puzzlement over this line of the truth table of the material conditional is recurrent at Philosophy SE. Look around and you'll find other related questions. 

So we can call the element the square root of the element . Surely this guy, , exists in the same sense that the real numbers exist...he's just an ordered pair of real numbers in a system with a funky way of doing arithmetic. Now those elements seem like they should exist in the same way as regular real numbers, but they are a bit more complicated. They need some kind of name...since they are more complicated, how about we call them "complex" numbers. Let's also mandate that complex arithmetic works in the way that I described. So we've just set up a system of numbers that we called "complex numbers" that doesn't reference things that don't exist. We just had to multiplication in a funny way. Now let's remember our old friend ...let's give him a name. I'm lazy and don't want to give him a long name, so let's just call him . I think you can see that any complex number can now instead be rewritten as . So the complex numbers are numbers of the form where a and b are real numbers and is our old friend . There's nothing imaginary about him...he exists in the same way that his cousin exists. 

Therefore A. EDIT: I see by your comment below that you are interested in question-begging arguments in general. 

I have no idea whether you are referring to this, but in medieval disputations de obligationibus, the rules of the disputation game admitted positing false propositions. In fact, the idea of the game was to make one of the players "concede" two contradictory propositions: he was obliged to admit any positio (proposition posited) as long as it was contingent (albeit false), and he then should be guided by certain principles in counterfactual reasoning in accepting other propositions. This more or less fits the description in your question. Apart from the SEP entry linked above, a very good resource on obligation games and medieval theories of modality in general is Knuutila's Modalities in Medieval Philosophy. 

is that such a statement is as hard to falsify as the original statement is to verify -- and, conversely, as easy (!) to verify as the original statement is to falsify. This point is not new, of course; it was already made by Hempel back in the day. 

I'm not sure if this is slightly off-topic, but I think the world of object-oriented programming in computer science offers an interesting perspective. In an object-oriented programming language such as Java, there is the concept of a structure called an "object" which has a number of properties. If I have variables for objects A and B, A and B are really references to the bytes in memory to hold those objects. A and B are considered identical if they actually reference the same physical bytes in memory; in Java this means the operation is true. There is a separate notion of "equality" that a programmer is free to define depending upon the type of object. Oftentimes this equality comparison is done by inspecting all of the properties of A and B; if all of the properties of A equal all of the properties of B, programmers generally declare that A equals B. In this way, although object identity implies object equality*, oftentimes objects are equal without being identical. Note also that if A and B are equal, I might later change a property of A without changing the corresponding property of B, resulting in A no longer equaling B. Interestingly, Java also has the notion of "primitive values" that are mostly used for basic numeric values. These primitive values have an ethereal sense about them and the distinction between identity and equality is lost (and of course is always true). *In Java this implication is by convention; a rogue programmer is free to declare that A is not equal to A, but that breaks the contract of the "equals" method and is frowned upon. 

Well, such sentences will be true for all precisifications, because either Andy has n hairs or he doesn't, for all n. Therefore, the sentence comes out supertrue -- this is the supervaluationist for accepting it as true. Its negation ("it's not the case that Andy is bald or Andy is not bald"), by the same token, comes out superfalse. The same will happen with every other vague sentence: the supervaluationist semantics validates LEM. Supervaluationism is a semantics that validates LEM but not PB. 

This is classical logic at its simplest. [EDIT: As Mozibur suggests, one might want to argue that a path is, necessarily, susceptible of being trodden. I am not sure about that: consider a path inside a flooded mine, for instance. Anyway, if paths are to be practicable of necessity, then there is a contradiction in that sentence.] 

It comes from Popper's work on falsification. Popper's idea is supposed to apply to all inductive knowledge. For what it's worth, most philosophers of science (as opposed, maybe, to scientists with an interest in philosophy) take Popper's views on confirmation to be wrong. 

Forget for a moment that you ever learned anything about so-called "complex" or "imaginary" numbers. Let's start with the numbers known as "real" numbers. We know how to do arithmetic on those. What about pairs of real numbers though? Suppose I had two elements, and , where a, b, c, and d were all real numbers. Surely if real numbers exist then ordered pairs of real numbers exist. Can I meaningfully perform arithmetic on and ? I will attempt to define arithmetic in this way: 

Although many people who hold the beliefs you described, many people who are anti-abortion identify with a "pro-life" movement that is also against things like the death penalty due to their "right to life" beliefs. These people would agree that the people you describe are holding contradictory views. 

My means of defining multiplication might look a little strange, but I don't think that should be a problem in understanding. So so far we've only dealt with real numbers and pairs of real numbers...certainly those exist. Let's make a strange observation about these pairs of numbers and their arithmetic: 

is both true and false. Of course, if you are to say such a thing you need to tweak logic to avoid ex falso quodlibet, the feature of classical logic in virtue of which one is allowed to derive anything from p-and-not-p. Such logics without explosion, paraconsistent logics, do exist, though, and the dialetheists that have formulated them (at least the ones I know) are highly intelligent, highly rational folk :) 

Will a proof by example do? A venerable position in epistemology, since Plato and until mid XXth century, was that knowledge should be analyzed as justified true belief. This was the mainstream philosophical position up until Gettier's 1963 paper Is Justified True Belief Knowledge?. This paper, two pages long, demonstrated to everyone's satisfaction that knowledge is not justified true belief. This is a clear example in which philosophical progress leads to the answer of a substantial philosophical question -- the question in Gettier's title. 

Yes: not everything is a bird is true if there are no birds at all; and some things are not birds is also true if there are no birds at all (and something exists). There is no incompatibility here.