Buddhas do not start a religion. Disciples who have not attained Truth, and consequently who do not have identity create one. Organized religion is a set of individuals/organizations who market Truth. Truth does not need religion but its the other way round. 

Bodily, verbal and mind fabrications can be calmed through breath watching. Humans have three centers - body, mind and heart. These centers and breath are interlinked. If your mind is at peace breathing will slow and deeper and if your mind is restless breathing will be shallow and fast. Buddha's terminology is slightly different. Verbal fabrications have their origin in mind and mind fabrications origin lies in Heart. All three fabrications can be calmed through Vipassna. But one needs to follow percepts in spirit. Trouble is lot of people are trying out meditation technique without becoming a true disciple of Buddha. Meditation is about understanding and implmenting messages of enlightened souls such as Buddha. 

Atheism is a beluef there is no God. Theism is a belief there is God. Buddha was the first inner scientist who asked his disciples not to believe but find out through experience. I think Buddha's position is unique amongst all enlightened beings till his time. His radical departure from belief being the first requirement stands apart. His point was simple - you are miserable and you need to get out. 

If I get into a habit of fighting to defend "my self" is it reasonable to say that getting into a fight and getting beat up is karma? How similar is karma to the idiom "you reap what you sow"? 

Can next path start without being skilled in fruition attainment? For example, if I am able to advert to A&P but not able to advert to fruition, is that proof I am still reviewing the last path, or can it be that I moved on too soon? Sorry if this is convoluted, I am looking for an actual answer as opposed to a non answer. 

Individuals may experience nirvāna as an object of mental consciousness. Certain contemplations with nibbana as an object of samādhi lead to the level of non-returning. At that point of contemplation if the individual realizes that even that state is constructed and therefore impermanent, the fetters are destroyed, arahantship is attained, and nibbāna is realized. With regard to nirvana, a distinction is made between a person's experience of nirvana during their life and after their death. These two aspects of nirvana are described as: 

What are the three marks of existence and where are they found in the canon? Is there any fundamental differences in interpretation among the different traditions? 

Buddha used to send new disciples to cremation ground for few months to contemplate upon death. It does not matter what you do but make sure you have something which reminds of death. For example something you can wear, even an alarm on your phone. Humans are pretty evasive when it comes to death. Any form of reminder can make you aware of impending death and hence urgency to meditate. The whole point is create a situation for yourself which reminds you of death. But please do not be stressed by it. 

Your predicament is same as majority of meditators. They all benefit from the technique. I have not found a single useless meditation technique. But without understanding the psychological aspect of any teaching, techniques(s) will not take you far. First of all within few months (maximum a year) of practice there should be perceptible change in energy levels. Your body will start getting in sync with Nature. You will tend to sleep less, eat less, senses much more powerful. Your mind's ability to focus (concentration power) will increase exponentially. If you have not got to stage one you have not understood the teaching well or there is less action. From your post it is very clear you are suffering from inferiority complex. You should not be bothered about someone making billions because that is mostly a matter of chance or inclination (some people are good at making money). Every human is unique and I am sure you are much more talented than all the billionaires. It is just that energy is not there to actualize yourself. You are attempting self realization which I find quite absurd at this stage. Modern human being is a multi-dimensional phenomenon and path to self realization is through self actualization. If you pump all your energies into realizing your potential one day you will attain peace which monks will envy. Self realization will not be difficult then. I suggest you stop all practice, focus on health (do some light exercises, yoga etc), focus on diet (light diet, detox diet etc), focus on understanding of who you are. Try to get a life which fulfills you. Then attempt Buddha's teachings. They will make sense later because even after a fulfilled life some void will be felt. Buddha is meant to fill a gap which we all perceive but do not know how to bridge. May be some other master. 

Buddha probably thought buddhism was the best approach, or else he would have spent his time promoting something else. The idea of "learning from life" makes me think of learning based on the rules of the society a person is born into. Most societies are deluded. It is more unlikely to just have an epiphany one day and realize this than it is to follow a set of instructions that have helped people have this realization for thousands of years. This way of approaching life and escaping delusion exists without "Buddhism"; someone can figure out to follow the same approach as a Buddhist without ever knowing that Buddhism existed. This is why individuals can escape samsara even when the teachings have been lost. In the same sense, a person could rediscover algebra... but think how much easier it would be to just go to school and be taught algebra. 

This is oftentimes an intensely debated precept. Yes, the fifth precept is understood differently by different people, i.e., sometimes people interpret it to mean abstaining from all drugs or all intoxicants. It usually always includes abstaining from intoxication and heedlessness from alcoholic drink though; some people may interpret this as allowing them to drink in moderation. If I had to guess, the person that was responsible for putting those Buddha statues in that bar thought they were cool and has no idea about the precepts. 

Breath watching has tremendous advantages over outer objects. First of all breath is joining point of mind-body and consciousness. No breath no life. More unruly breath is, more disturbed you are. Watching breath slows it down and bring about a balance much faster compared to other techniques. Secondly it is what Buddha taught. Ofcourse one can start with outer objects as is practiced in yoga or other spiritual sects. You can start with sound as is practiced in Nachiren Buddhist sect but I must warn you that it is not what Buddha prescribed. Buddha's techniques and teachings are far superior to any sect teachings or techniques. I recommend changing your lifestyle and even try Vipassna to increase ability to stay focussed. 

Buddha never denied nor confirmed because he never wanted his followers to believe in anything. His approach was very scientific. Until and unless one experiences Brahma, God etc how can one claim its existence. But unfortunately Buddhists around the world started believing in theories and interpretation. How does it matter whether there is a God or not? What matters is that life is one big suffering and one needs to get out. This intellectual discussion is what Buddha wanted to stay away. Nothingness is a metaphor which describes arising of coarse from finer thing. If one studies physics one will come to know that matter is not a thing. Matter is a shape which your senses perceive but in reality matter is just a condensed field. That is why when you split sub-atomic particles you get smaller particles and there is no end to it. Physicists are trying to fundamental particles but I doubt they will ever find one. 

I am not referencing any suttas for this answer, it comes from my own experiences (I am not an arahat). One who has obtained nirvana can choose whether or not to experience pain and can choose the level of suffering that is associated with that pleasure or pain. Having obtained nirvana an individual has the ability to reside beyond pleasure and pain and it also gives them complete understanding of pleasure and pain and things can not be understood without being experienced. After some research, Sakalika Sutta: The Stone Sliver talks about how buddha cut his foot and endured the physical pain. 

If an individual is suffering because they are overcoming the five hindrances than probably. If a person is suffering because they are indulging in the five hindrances than probably not. If I eat a big plate of my favorite food every night I will suffer from it because there will be times when I am not eating it, there are times I will feel sick from too much of it and many other ills associated with the indulgence. This suffering (unless it leads to the eventual cessation of desire in regards to this food) will not help my future births. If I am addicted to eating my favorite food every night and I realize how foolish it is to indulge in it, and I decided to stop, I will suffer during the process of overcoming this attachment. This suffering will help my future births. In regards to OP's comment: A person who recently got a disease would not have any more inherent suffering in their life than someone who did not have a disease given that they are clear of the hindrances. The suffering is compounded when the individual desires feeling good and healthy (sensory desire), or is worried about death or further illness (worry), or is angry that they are sick when someone else they know deserves it more (ill-will), etc, etc.... That type of suffering, the same as in the example regarding food, will not help; overcoming attachments to these hindrances can incur a lot of suffering (I am not my good health, I am not worried about "death", no one deserves anything, etc, etc...; respectively) and that suffering can help future rebirths. 

Compassion and creativity are by-product of consciousness. The more you are aware of metaphysical nature of your being more compassionate you will be. For example if you witness your past births you will understand that people are transient phenomenon. The problem is compassion is being cultivated in all religions of the world including Buddhism. It is not an intellectual affair. It is experience of higher states of being which brings in compassion. You cannot preach/teach compassion. Karuna meditation helps in attaining compassion but to become truly compassionate one needs to be enlightened. Otherwise there will always be some element of attachment. 

Past lives are seen only when 6th chakra is fully active. In tibet there are people who activate your 6th chakra directly. But its not Nirbana. Nirbana is blooming of thousand petal lotus which is a metaphor for opening of final 7 th chakra. If you concentrate on center of your two eye brows you can have glimpse of your past lives. It will be not permanent though. Only when you are pure you should attempt to open it. It is not a siddhi i.e. psychic power. Siddhis can be obtained by activating lower chakras but they are considered a distraction. If you are at 6th 7th is not far off. 

Worrying about whether something is polite or not is a hindrance. I am sure some practitioners would find it offensive but if they are offended that probably tells you all you need to know. If you have yet to obtain the Jhanas then there are probably others who are still more advanced than you who have not yet obtained them either. The way I see it, anyone who is beyond you can be a good teacher and anyone who you are beyond can be a good student. According to the Thana Sutta: 

He who has arrived in such fashion, i.e. who has worked his way upwards to perfection for the world's good in the same fashion as all previous Buddhas. He who walked in such fashion, i.e. (a) he who at birth took the seven equal steps in the same fashion as all previous Buddhas or (b) he who in the same way as all previous Buddhas went his way to Buddhahood through the four Jhanas and the Paths. He who by the path of knowledge has come at the real essentials of things. He who has won Truth. He who has discerned Truth. He who declares Truth. He whose words and deeds accord. The great physician whose medicine is all-potent. 

Meditation leads to silence (here-now) which leads to Nirvana. Therefore if you talk about goal then probably it is Nirvana. But you cannot aim for it in a direct way. You cannot work for it. It will come on its own. 

Modern and ancient worlds are not very different. If you are saying people are more selfish than they were before probably you are right. But fundamentally people have not changed for last few thousand years post civilization. It is wrong to blame current social,political, and economic setup. If you are working for basic livelihood then working for a corrupt person/organization is justified since one needs to survive first for Nirvana to happen. Its simple intelligence. But if one is working to get to enjoy Honolulu holidays and beach outings on weekends then one is asking for trouble. Most of the moral dilemma of this sort happens because the person does not know that one can survive with the minimum. But the person does not want to seen as laggard. I have been to Laddhak, a sort of mini-tibet in India. There is acute poverty because of lack of natural resources and industries but everyone is happy. Question is not about corruption outside but inside. I am yet to find a person whose actions are not guided by desires. If you do not find the environment conducive to your growth leave it. Start something of your own which is 100% clean. Do what you love to do. You will make enough to survive. Of-course you need to cut down on entertainment bills. Probably you do not want to and that is why this question arose. 

Yes, people are known to reach enlightenment and even full liberation without any knowledge of Buddhism or use of teachers and guides. In my opinion, thinking, "What I practice is the only way," is a form of pride and a way for people to hold themselves above others. 

Into the Stream is A Study Guide on the First Stage of Awakening by Thanissaro Bhikkhu The contents include: 

There are four types of Path and Fruit consciousness. A pair for each of the levels of enlightenment (stream-winner, once-returner, non-returner and arahant). Each Path moment can only be experienced once but Fruit moments can be experienced by non-returners and arahants immediately after emerging from cessation-attainment (Nirodha-samapatti). Edit: Just wanted to add that magga/phala are moments of nirvana. That is to say, the senses (physical and mental) stop coming into contact without outside objects. Said more conventionally, sense perceptions turn off. It is like blinking but with all the senses simultaneously. 

The Golden Buddha, officially titled Phra Phuttha Maha Suwan Patimakon, is the world's largest solid gold statue. What is the justification for such a statue? By justification I mean, what reasons would the Buddhists who created/use the statue give to explain why keeping gold (often seen as a sign of wealth and power) as a statue is right; as opposed to using the money from melting it down and selling it to buy meals for the homeless or others in need.