If you've read Pavel's book, you might also be interested in books by Ross Enamait. He has a somewhat similar writing style and mentality; he also focuses a lot on conditioning (which goes hand-in-hand with bodyweight exercises). I've read two of his books, but he has at least one more, Infinite Intensity, which apparently has stuff on free weights too. 

First of all, 20 pullups is quite a feat, good job! I assume you are doing them with proper form: chin over bar on top, elbows locked and body still at the bottom. If you are doing something else, or eg. kipping pullups (basically, using your momentum in any way), the first thing you should do is transition to strict form pullups. Doing 50 pullups is as much a matter of endurance as it is of strength. Personally, I've had a lot of good results doing weighted pullups, which build up strength. This will allow you to literally "fly" once the weight is off. What you want to do is to use a dip-belt and hang progressively bigger weights on it. You could also use a backpack (and fill it with eg. bags of sand) but it tends to hang awkwardly and it messes up your center of mass; because of this it also limits the amount of weight you can add. Using a dip belt takes care of all this. You should start low, a few kilograms added only (so as not to stress your joints too much). You should be able to add about 2 or 2.5 kgs every week. You can combine weighted pullups with any sort of program. As for the program itself, I've again had a lot of luck doing "ladders". Basically, do 1, then 2, then 3 up to as much as you can, and then all the way back. Add a final "max effort" series at the end. If the last series is close or above your maximum, increase the max next time. The idea is to completely slaughter yourself. Doing ladders is beneficial because it will help with both strength (low reps, especially on the way back) and endurance (the high reps). All that said, though, I don't think I know anyone who can do 50 strict form pullups, so this is all purely academic. Also, when you say you can do over a hundred with pauses, is this with hanging all the time or with letting go of the bar? If you are hanging through all this, then you are way beyond me and this advice might not apply to you at all. === Bonus: Most people will find chin-ups easiest (with mixed grip in the middle and pullups the hardest) but this depends on how well some specific muscles are developed and even your technique. They all target slightly different muscle groups, though, so for the best overall results you should probably try to use all grips (and even vary your grip width). If you must focus on one, the most popular choice are pullups. 

Eat at a deficit. You can't lose weight if you're eating too much, plain and simple. So figure out how much your body needs in your current recovery state, and eat slightly less (given the needs of your body to repair itself and the relatively little fat you have to lose, I'd recommend 250 calories per day under TDEE, which is .5lb/week loss). A calorie tracking website, such as MyFitnessPal or SparkPeople will help you make sure you're in your goal calorie range. Nourish your body. While it's technically possible to lose weight eating nothing but Twinkies, doing so doesn't do your body any favors. Your body needs specific nutrients to repair itself, both now and when you're fully healthy. The general rule of thumb is 1g of protein per pound of lean body mass (which, for your height, will come out to probably around 110-120g), this number allows your body to spare lean tissue when trying to find a non-food fuel source (in other words - it turns to the fat deposits instead of your muscles). Your carb and fat numbers will depend on the type of diet that works best for you, just keep in mind that they're both pretty much purely fuel, and that the body will choose carbs over fat when both are present. Play with it and see what works best for you. 

I'm not sure which of the books is better. I think I managed to grab more useful information from the first, but the second is better written and should probably be your first choice. Now, neither of the two is an "exercise bible", but they do provide more than enough information to train yourself without weights. 

Visualization can be an important part of doing an exercise right. I recently came upon a bit of advice on another website and I could immediately feel an improvement in my form (despite having done probably thousands of pullups before). My question is: do you know any good visualizations for doing pullups? For the record, the sentence which inspired this: During this initial movement, pretend that you are squeezing a pencil between your shoulder blades and do not let the pencil drop during any phase of the pull-up. 

You could try the Cooper test, which is basically "run at a steady pace for 12 minutes and look at the table". I've always found it sufficient for my purposes (to see how much I improved in a given time period). 

Capsicum is an extract of the compound in hot peppers that make them hot. As such it has side effects similar to that of eating a bunch of hot peppers. From WebMD "Side effects can include stomach irritation and upset, sweating, flushing, and runny nose." That said, technically speaking, any compound that causes the body to heat up will burn more calories, and no, it doesn't target fat cells in particular. However, how much of an effect is questionable. Ephedra, the active ingredient in the original Metabolife supplement (now referred to as Metabolife 356), enabled weight loss through a similar "heat the body" mechanism. Since there don't appear to be many studies on the efficacy of Capsicum for weight loss, we'll assume here that it has the same efficacy as Ephedra. You're looking at, then an extra .9kg/month loss, or about 2lbs per month. For the short term, that's great, but there's not much evidence to say that it's a long term solution, nor that the test subjects kept the weight off in the long run. Frankly, I say save your money and spend it on something more worthwhile. Try logging your food for a while, if you aren't already, to make sure you're eating how much you think you're eating, because too many calories is too many calories, even if all those calories came from lettuce. If you have been tracking, and you're within your goal for the calories, then I recommend seeing a medical doctor (especially if you're female). Many people (women, especially) are prone to a number of conditions that can make losing weight nearly impossible without medical help. Some of the conditions can lead to even more serious consequences if left unchecked (for example, anovulation, often caused by hormonal imbalances caused by polycystic ovarian syndrome, significantly increases a woman's risk of cancer; and, of course, insulin resistance by any cause very often leads to Type 2 Diabetes). If nothing else, the doctor can refer you to a nutritionist, who can go over your diet and help you improve it even further. The "quick fixes" are often a waste of money. Even if they're successful now, they won't do you good once you've lost the weight and try to "go off" the supplements. The only thing that will allow you to get to and maintain your goal weight is to make changes that you're willing to stick with for the rest of your life. As the saying goes, "it's a marathon, not a sprint." 

I like pull-ups, easily my favorite exercise and I do a lot of them whenever I get the chance. I'm quite familiar with form, do them very strict (elbow lock-out, chin way over bar etc) and vary my grip often. Still, I'd like to add some more peak power to the movement and I'm not sure how. My eventual goal is to progress to a muscle-up, but the bar in my apartment is too close to the ceiling for me to practice this. :) I guess learning to do a kipping pull-up would be a good idea, but as long as I remember I've been focusing on maintaining absolute control and tension, and a kipping pull-up is completely opposite all that. If kipping pull-ups are the answer, I'd appreciate a link to some good resources on learning to do them. While my goal is more speed-strength in general, I'd be even happier if the suggestions have carry-over to muscle-ups. Currently, I can do about 10-12 pulls without much problem. I tend to train by "greasing the groove" and doing sets of 4-6, but I also travel a lot and don't have a bar everywhere, so this isn't daily or anything. I'm more interested in exercise suggestions than full programs. Also, I rock-climb, so any carry-over is welcome (but I am looking for power outside the context of rock-climbing, too). 

Getting muscle definition (including the coveted 6-pack) requires reducing your body fat percentage. How that's done is generally two things - eating right and strength training (generally either lifting heavy or doing advanced bodyweight exercises). Most sources I've found say that you do not need to run to achieve this. However, 3km isn't much, so it probably serves as a decent warm-up/cool-down (additionally, cardio is good for the heart). Whether you drop it or not will be up to you. There are a number of programs out there that you can do to build strength. Pick one that appeals to you and that you can stick with ("the best program is the one you can stick to"). Here are some resources/options to get you started: 

Most of these programs will have either a 3x/week plan (ie - full body, three days a week, with 1-2 rest days in between), or a rotating 5-6x/week (ie - upper body M-W-F, lower body T-Th-S, day off completely on Sunday). Rest days are important! You're "breaking down" your muscles when you work out, and building them bigger and stronger when resting (the act of lifting creates microtears, resting rebuilds those and makes those parts stronger). Keep in mind, too, that getting the 6-pack is considered "80% diet." That is, what you eat matters, especially once you're body fat percentage gets down close to and into the single digits. Some tips: 

How far along in the program are you? I suggest waiting about a month and re-evaluating. Novices can increase the weight quite fast on SS (I know I did) and very soon you won't be able to recover in time, thus hurting your goals. Pushing yourself too hard might result in more downtime down the road - focus on adding weight to the three exercises you do. It should be ok, though, to up the deadlifts to twice a week (so pull-ups just once). You'll probably manage this for a good while, and once you can no longer keep up, hopefully you'll be able to replace one day with power cleans. 

Rest is as important to your progress as the exercising itself (if not more). If you added in any extra workouts you'll just compromise your progress. This is even emphasized by Rippetoe in the book. 

For climbers, it's important to train the antagonist muscles to our primary movers, to prevent injury. For the fingers, these are the extensors (as you're always flexing your fingers when gripping holds). How can I best train them? 

How do you have the activity level in MFP set up? If you have it set to anything less than "active," are you logging your exercise? If so, are you eating the calorie allotment that MFP is giving you? MFP calculates your calorie needs based on your height, weight, activity level, and your weight loss/maintain/gain setting (for those that don't use MFP, it's basically the Katch-Mcardie formula). The deficit is built in to the number it gives you, and so, when you log exercises, you'll see that number go up. That's because it's programmed to keep you at the calorie level that you need in order to change (or not change) your weight. If you spend calories by exercising, you have to "eat them back" to keep the difference from your usual calorie expenditure. Additionally, your weight fluctuates throughout the day, and week, sometimes by more than 5lbs. Judging by your name, it's also possible your hormones are at work, too. Women often retain water the week of or prior to their period, which packs on the pounds. I wouldn't worry about a 3lb or even 5lb change if you haven't been doing the same routine for more than a week or two. Finally, 5'6" and 137lb puts your BMI at 22.1, which is squarely in the "healthy" category. I wouldn't worry about your weight too much, and I recommend getting your body fat percentage checked and consider doing a "body recomposition" routine, which is designed to lose fat and gain muscle (usually in a cyclical lose fat/gain muscle manner). The MFP forums contain a number of valuable posts. I highly recommend checking out the Success Stories section and looking for the ones from women who have taken up lifting programs to get an idea of how body recomp programs affect the body.