The important question here is "what kind of uranium?". It's not a spurious question - the type and richness of the deposit determines how readily this could be accomplished - as well as its isotope ratios. Once upon a time, there was a natural nuclear reactor in Africa. Fission reactions (admittedly very limited) occurred in situ in the uranium ore, using water as a neutron moderator. This was facilitated by having the isotope ratio of U235 to U238 be higher billions of years ago than it is on earth today. So if by some happenstance your planet has a higher natural U235 ratio (likely because it's a young planet), that makes things easier. (Otherwise, you're going to have to wait until your people work out what isotopes are and how they work, in which case you're going to see a timeline similar to what we had on Earth). The other issue is extraction. Natural uranium ore is not particularly radioactive - you or I could safely hold the stuff in our hands without any substantial risk, and that's not useful from a fission perspective. Extracting useful concentrations of uranium from uraninite is not as simple as smelting base metals - generally it requires non-trivial chemical processing (sulfuric acid, special resins for solvent extraction, etc.). I don't know whether there's a reasonable science-based reason that you'd get naturally-occurring uranium ore rich enough to not require processing, but that's basically what you'd need, radiation-resistant or not, to get nuclear reactors any earlier than they were created here on earth. (It's not our lack of resistance to radiation that made it take a while here.) If you had naturally-occurring super-rich uranium ore that had a high U235 ratio, all you'd need is for someone to notice that putting enough of the stuff in water, or sticking carbon into it, caused the whole mess to heat up. At that point, you have heat generation, and mankind (or hypothetical alien-kind) is good at using heat. We've (they've) been doing it for a long time. Getting to that point in a science-based fashion is difficult, though. TL;DR Being radiation-resistant doesn't cut it for speeding reactor development, unless the "ample" access to uranium is already-refined uranium from a more scientifically-advanced species. 

Old wooden sailing ships, particularly warships, showed a fair amount of hull above the waterline, both to keep the water off the deck and to clear space for weapons. This hull would work as a sail that could potentially counteract any propulsion generated by early propellers or water wheels. Lacking efficient hydraulics or electrical systems, the energy loss from windmill to waterwheel would probably be substantial. Materials science means that the Revelation 2 can use carbon fibre blades to keep the weight down, and materials that won't tear apart in a high wind, and control surfaces that can readily reconfigure to prevent high winds from blowing the ship over. The Chinese ships would lack all of these things. Even given modern tech, a conventional sailing craft would outdo the ship in anything other than sailing directly into a headwind. Given that the blades would have to be reefed in any sort of major winds, even that advantage wouldn't be much. 

The problem with the world wars (with relation to nuclear weapons) was that they were total wars. In total war, all resources of a country are put towards the war effort - which means that it's unlikely in the extreme that nuclear weapons would be held back, particularly if one side was at risk of losing everything. Unfortunately, neither of your proposed methods of removing nukes from the battlefield is particularly likely to work in a world war situation, because even if the entire, many-thousands of weapons world stockpile of warheads were destroyed or disabled, we haven't forgotten how to make more. In fact, getting rid of the weapons would likely result in the war going nuclear faster, because whoever got first strike capabilities would have an enormous advantage. So what's the solution? Pretty simple: Give the Opposing Powers Nuclear Countermeasures This was what all the ruckus was about during Reagan's Star Wars development, and many authors have written on this subject. The way you make a nuclear war non-world-ending is to have a never- or seldom-fails countermeasure to deal with the nukes. So some scientist comes up with a mechanism by which, say, city-spanning force fields can be constructed and powered that would successfully resist a nuclear strike. Or some sort of field that totally inhibits fission within its operating area, turning any bomb that enters its region of effect into a dud. Important caveat - the development of this technology has to either be so fast as to be deployable in weeks, or a part of a multilateral development effort by the world powers before the war starts. Otherwise, you get into balance of power issues. As evidenced many times in the nuclear planning of the former USSR and the United States, if one side looked like it was on the verge of developing an insurmountable advantage, the other side would have no choice but to launch an immediate first strike. So everyone has nuclear-chain-reaction deadening fields in place over their cities and portable units for their armies and navies - and we're back to using good old-fashioned bombs and bullets. Edit: It is also important to note, however, that the conditions that pertained during the second and especially the first world war no longer do so. The major powers have enormous force multipliers that make artillery look silly and old-fashioned. Advanced fuel-air explosives could flatten cities as readily as nuclear weapons. A single advanced bomber could take out an entire production facility, where a wing of bombers (or more) was necessary before. Drones, smart bombs, orbital weapons - while the human race would definitely be likelier to survive, it still would not be a prolonged conflict. 

Delivering an electrical shock to the brain will almost certainly result in damage - ECT often results in amnesia, lowered mental capacity, trouble retaining new memories - the list goes on. More precise, electrode-like induction of seizures would doubtless be better, but the individual's ability to induce electrical currents doesn't necessarily mean that a) they know anything about neurosurgery, or b) that they can find the spot in their own brain that they need to stimulate without looking. My overall advice would be to remove both the science based and reality check tags from the question, because both common sense and science are stacked against it. 

Your best bet would probably be Dysprosium. It's barely magnetic, but does fall under the ferromagnetic category, and is less vital than pretty much any other element in that category. I might remove the "science" tag from your question, though, because "allowing organisms to use telekinesis" isn't within the bailiwick of any element's natural properties. (I should note that the atomic number of the element would have to be the same, so you'd have the same number of protons, the same electron orbitals, and presumably much the same chemical properties, if that matters to you.) 

There isn't really a law per se, but laser attenuation (due to interstellar dust/gas) and decollimation are notable over interstellar distances. The acceleration applied by the sun at 1 AU is 9.08 mm/s/s divided by the mass of the vehicle (in grams) divided by the area of the sail (in m^2). So to get a 1G acceleration for a person (approx 60kg), assuming zero weight for both the sail and the vehicle, you would need a (weightless) sail 256m on a side (for 66000 square meters), and provide the same light intensity as the noonday sun for the duration of the acceleration/deceleration. Broadly, that kind of acceleration is not generally associated with solar sails over interstellar distances, because projecting that much power over that kind of distance is expensive and impractical. Projecting less power and using that to vaporize/accelerate propellant is probably the better approach. Targeting, however, is not a problem, since NASA is already planning something using laser propulsion over interstellar distances. Interstellar travel with humans in a hard science world is generally non-viable, unfortunately. Stross's writing takes a fairly realistic view of how humans get to leave the solar system (not in a corporeal fashion), much though it upsets fans. 

Not only is it possible, the Parker Solar Probe will be doing it, and relatively soon! You just need a solar shade (as you would normally) to block direct line-of-sight between the sun and the spacecraft's transmitter/receiver. Here on earth, we're really good at filtering signal from noise (consider, for example, that we're still listening to Voyager II waaaaay out at the edge of the solar system. The fact that the noise is louder doesn't make the problem substantially more difficult, it just means we have to direct our antennae carefully. 

There are, technically, no problems with building a pseudo-Orion using conventional explosives - that is, in fact, what they did to test the concept. The practical problem, as alluded to by Joe Bloggs' answer, is the difference in energy density between conventional and nuclear explosives. Part of the reason that, say, automotive gasoline and oxygen aren't (usually) used as rocket fuel (they prefer an ultra-refined kerosene) - is that in addition to fouling problems, the specific impulse of gasoline isn't spectacular. (This isn't to say it can't be done, though.) However, all of this assumes that you're using a rocket nozzle to optimize the speed of your propellant stream. Orion didn't do that; it used a pusher plate, and (this is actually pretty cool to be able to say) a shaped nuclear charge (diagrammed here). The pusher plate (an enormous, metres-thick slab of steel connected to the ship proper by equally-enormous shock-absorbers) had the fast-moving propellant, now a plasma thanks to the nuclear detonation, hit it, absorbed the energy and let Newton do the rest. This allowed for an enormous amount of thrust, but wasn't nearly as efficient as a rocket engine. And here's where we get to the math bit. The theoretical maximum achievable efficiency of a pure-fission device (because you wouldn't want to be using fusion weapons with a Project Orion unless it was really big) is about 0.1kt per kg of mass (source). But this means that you get the explosive force of 100 000kg of TNT for every 1kg of bomb weight. Assuming that packaging and propellant are a constant and can be disregarded, that's still a lot of bang for your buck, which is extremely important in rocketry. The most powerful known chemical explosive is Octanitrocubane, which has an RE factor of 2.38, making it 2.38 times as powerful as TNT per unit mass. Pretty good, but you'd still need forty thousand times as much mass of fuel to achieve the same amount of thrust, and rocketry doesn't allow for that The more mass you require to achieve the same amount of thrust, the less you can lift with it, and it's non-linear (since you have to bring the mass with you). The Tsiolkovsky rocket equation applies here, though it's difficult (unless you're a physicist specialising in bomb design) to determine the exact specific impulse of a shaped nuclear charge's plasma propellant impacting a pusher plate. Basically, the higher the specific impulse (which is probably associated, when using explosives, more or less linearly with the explosive force generated by the bomb), the greater the initial mass of the rocket can be (assuming you're starting from a gravity well). If your efficiency (explosive yield per unit mass) is too low, you can't lift as much. So, to sum this up, if you're not using nukes, you can't use the Orion design to make a useful rocket, let alone a less expensive option. Sidenotes: 

The simplest approach would be, as far as I can tell given the tech levels, to have the robots' programming dictate that they need to use those weapons. As a potential option, have the protagonists' enclave be a reenactment park, where humans used to go to watch robots reenact scenes from the old West. For realism, the robots used live rounds, and were programmed in the care, maintenance, and manufacturing of the weapons and ammunition. With the understanding that they were fully-sentient, severe restraints were placed around their ability to "improvise" beyond these tools when it came to fighting. The park was network-isolated from other parts of the planet-city, so when the Psychosis Virus rendered so many of their kin into Nullminds, they were protected. However, now that supplies have started to run out and the enclave power system has become spotty, they've had to venture out, sixguns in hand, to see what they can scavenge. Railguns/laser rifles/etc may be difficult to maintain, but nowhere near as difficult as robotics and the kind of computers required to sustain sentience. So if you're trying for realism, it's hard to reconcile the inability to maintain complex weapons with the ability to maintain themselves unless it's externally imposed. 

Assuming that the question isn't answered by some of the existing human photosynthesis questions elsewhere in Worldbuilding, the skinny on the concept: Humans aren't particularly well-adapted to photosynthesis (since we don't do it). We don't have much surface area in proportion to our energy use, which is why we consume other things that do photosynthesis at one, two, or even three removes (either they do it themselves, or they eat things that do it, or they eat things that eat things that do it). Even assuming that your character goes nude, all they'd have is a slightly reduced appetite; they'd still need to get most of their calories from ingestion. Additionally, even assuming they were also altered to somehow got by on the very limited sugar synthesis sun-exposed photosynthetic human skin could manage, they'd still need to eat to gain essential nutrients that humans need. So, tl;dr: A human with photosynthetic skin would not have any substantial advantage over one without. (In answer to the second question, to maximize its use, they'd probably want to go nude, but there are only a limited few places on earth where humans can reliably and comfortably do that. So to maximize its use, they might also want to move somewhere consistently sunny and at a temperature where they could go nude, and with a social climate that allows them to do so.) 

Still, though, the real power of insects is numbers, and 3000 seems an arbitrarily low limit for their use. Even with that limit, though, the nastiest insects that Earth has to offer will probably turn the trick for you. 

It would depend mostly on what you mean by "cost". In Star Wars, construction occurs pretty much the way it does right now on earth - hulls are laid down, shipyard crews install additional components, eventually you have a functioning starship. Materials have to be manufactured and transported. Fuel costs are incurred, salaries are paid. In the case of the Death Star, Wookies were enslaved as construction workers, which seems inefficient, but does make the point that the Empire Is Bad. If you were building a Matrioshka Brain or Jupiter Brain, first of all, normal construction rules probably wouldn't apply. Your best bet would be to create a Von Neumann machine whose directives specify a given number of replications, construction of the computer via disassembly of available materials, and then self-disassembly as the final stage in the construction. No logistics, no salaries. So no "traditional" cost. However, you're going to use up the mass of a gas giant (or, in the matrioshka case, the mass of a solar system) and that mass can't be used for anything else. So depending on how that's priced, it could be "expensive". It's hard to imagine that a galaxy-spanning civilization wouldn't have an uninhabitable solar system to spare, however. As for its utility, that would largely depend on the speed of communication. If you're limited by speed-of-light, the utility of such a construct would be sharply curtailed, because any calculation/simulation it could perform would be badly out of date by the time you found out about it. However, speed-of-light limitations would also make it difficult or nigh-impossible to maintain a galaxy-spanning civilization. So if we assume that you have FTL communication capacity, there are all sorts of applications to which an astonishing amount of computational power could be put. Most notably, simulation. For things like protein folding and DNA modelling here on earth, we use massively parallel operations to speed the process along. Such a processor could do that trivially. Since you're clearly in the business of remodelling solar systems, you might need to do an orbital simulation with thousands or millions of orbiting bodies. No problem! Additionally, assuming that true artificial intelligence is possible, you could simulate millions or billions of sophonts to do social simulations in compressed time, or to do actual original research. As we've discovered with big data, in some cases, computational quantity is a quality all its own.