Yes Jhana is about developing concentration.But you have to ask yourself What is Concentration? Concentration has many levels,but generally it's the state of mind that isn't obstructed by the hindrances.By practicing the Jhanas you are systematically letting go/abandoning the hindrances by means of suppression and subtituting it with the opposites.We need concentration to see clearly.When you see thing clearly you realise the truth and attain liberation. 

Yes here it is. 40 Traditional Meditations Due to their complexity,some of these meditations can only lead to access concentration (upacara samadhi). 

Does Buddhism focus on suffering too much? Buddhism teaches the law of nature.That everything is subject to change. Suffering =clinging to change. ..instead of trying to enjoy the good things life can give us. Even the good things in life is suffering.Because it will end and give way to something else.You can see this for yourself.There is no happiness that you will meet that will last forever.We are always continuously trying to store it somewhere.Hold on to it.Fight for it.Cherish it...But it is nature to change. As the practice matures you realise everything is subject to change.Everything is so unreliable.So you hold on less and less.And then you realise even the self is subject to change.What you always considered your self starts to gradually fade away.And then it dawns on you..if everything changes..consciousness changes..who exactly is suffering happening to..who exactly is life happening to..who is life revolving around..every time i try to pin point it i can never seem to find it.. If Buddhism is portrayed as teaching that Life is suffering.Then the good news is there's no one suffering to begin with.No one that suffering is happening to. Buddhism shows a path where you realise for yourself through direct experience that there is no-one suffering.All there is is ever changing experiences.All there ever was was constantly changing experiences.Then you get a sense of relief.Release. 

As a beginner, I practice two forms of meditation: one focusing on the breath (typically with eyes closed), and one focusing on a colored disc (kasina), obviously with eyes open (unless cultivating the after-image). All descriptions I have seen for the former describe the arising of the counterpart sign when the eyes are closed. However, from what I have read on kasina meditation, the counterpart sign seems to arise with the eyes open. I have not experienced either of these myself (and in fact, this link dismisses its importance altogether), so I would like to ask: is it possible for nimitta to form iin either case? 

The Wikipedia article on animals in Buddhism states that animals have Buddha nature, and therefore have potential for enlightenment. I do not dispute this as I sit here petting my cat, but wonder - what are the actual mechanics of how they might go about this? For humans, the path is laid out for us in the teachings of the Buddha. But how can an animal achieve the same final goal? 

Superficially, imagination and conceptualization clearly have shared attributes and different connotations. Using philosophical analysis, a person (after a good deal of reflection) could come up with the rules that govern their application. The unconscious mental processes that contribute to experiencing them are beyond the grasp of modern psychology. Indeed, we can marvel at the unconscious sophistication and intelligence that goes into causing common experience. But these explorations are not relevant to the practice of Buddhist mindfulness meditation. 

When the Buddha talked about his death, he was dealing primarily with misconceptions of death and Enlightenment. While practicing Tibetan meditation, I received initiations that are designed to allow me to dialogue with the Buddha. This suggests he is not dead. After having practiced mindfulness meditation for 50 years, I strongly suggest you use this practice to gain insights into your own issues and misconceptions. Understanding death is not important. Maybe you could read my book on mindfulness meditation. 

Its not correct.You should not be looking for the nimitta when your practicing jhana. You should not be looking for anything or doing anything besides focusing on the meditation object. To practice Jhana means only focusing on one thing and one thing only until Jhana states form. You are basically doing ONE THING.For 1 hour,2 hours,5 hours,10 hours...etc---focusing on your meditation object---- If you even for a milli second have time to do other things,such as look for a nimitta or think about nimitta Concentration Weakens. Nimitta appearing directly correlates with how much attention you place on the meditation object. so while meditating don't focus on the breath while looking for nimitta,while anticipating a light,while...Drop these whiles. As long as these whiles exist concentration weakens.Weak concentration cannot sustain a stable nimitta. By the time the nimitta arises you will be GLUED,i mean GLUED DEAD to your object of meditation.Its like being bolted.Its not a state where you can easily shift or move around.You don't have to go looking for the nimitta,it will come to you. 

The Pali term for ignorance is avijja. Avijja is sometimes equated to delusion (moha). But this is obviously a mistake because delusion involves false belief whereas ignorance is a lack of belief. There is a vast difference between false belief and the lack of belief. There is at least some hope in finding our false beliefs because they show up when we find relevant true beliefs. But lack of belief leaves us blind. Intellectually, of course, we can find new truths (such as the Dharma) that deal with intellectual ignorance. But that is not what avijja is about. Avijja is about a lack of awareness or perceptual knowledge. Without the appropriate awareness, a person remains ignorant in the sense meant by avijja. Knowing the Buddhist teachings is a good start, but only mindfulness meditation can deal with avijja. In my own practice of 50 years of mindfulness meditation, I can look back at earlier times and realize that, even though I was very familiar with Buddhadharma, my avijja was vast. And now, even though I am now aware of the foundations of the Teachings, I know that, on the level of awareness, the universe I have yet to explore is vast. Such is the nature of avijja. 

In Suzuki's "Zen Mind, Beginner's Mind" (online copy here), instruction is given on how to form the specific hand position (mudra) when meditating. He advocates "put[ting] your left hand on top of your right." This is the position I have been using in my short months of meditating, and is the position also taught to me at my local Zen center. However, this resource, by Ven. Mahathera Nauyane Ariyadhamma, advocates the opposite: "back of the right hand over the palm of the left." Question: why the difference? and, Does it even matter? 

Well, here is a coincidence. I just happened to start reading Mahasi Sayadaw's "Practical Vipassana Exercises" and he explicitly mentions swaying: 

The term you are looking for is kamma-vipaka (karma-result). It is the result of a very rare and poorly understood causal relationship (vipaka-paccaya) between past action and future result. First of all, it must be said that we suffer plenty from poor judgement, ignorance, and unfortunate circumstances that there is no need to consider this unusual caused relationship. It is important to not confuse it with usual process of learning in which we make sense of experience through an unconscious mental decision-making (that constitutes a form of mental action or karma) called sankhara (that results in a learned disposition also called sankhara). Having learned to make sense of things in a particular way, we act in a particular way, make mistakes in a particular way, and suffer in a particular way. Eventually, we learn to avoid suffering. This kind of learning is not kamma-vipaka. Kamma-vipaka type of learning involves one’s own Bodhicitta when we happen to perform an action that is exceptionally harmful or beneficial without consciously appreciating its extreme nature. The classical example is that of Moggallāna, a major disciple of the Buddha, who had killed his parents in a previous lifetime and suffered an extremely painful death (he was killed by robbers), even though he had the psychic power (siddhi) to escape that death. He (unconsciously) allowed himself the painful death in order to unlearn his belief that killing his parents was justified (at the time). Even though he undoubtedly had understandable reasons at the time, his Bodhicitta realized how profoundly harmful it was to his parents. According to Theravadin psychology, he could have mitigated the harm to his parents by sincerely apologizing to them for his mistake, but, of course, had no opportunity to do so. (On another level of awareness, he apologized to his parents by allowing himself the pain. Hence, the act of allowing himself to experience such pain was a profound act of compassion.) Conversely, a person who performed exceptionally beneficial action in a previous lifetime may be exceptionally “lucky” or happy in this lifetime. 

This link goes into detail about how to construct and use a colored-wheel kasina device. I have been using this 'method' for a few weeks now to some good effect...there is something about being able to concentrate on a tangible visual object that makes it easier for a beginner like myself to cultivate and sustain concentration. 

Do you like the Temple? Is it beautiful in your eyes? Judging by your response, it sounds as if it is very meaningful to you. I know that when I visit my local Zen center, entering the meditation hall causes such a reaction (along with a deep feeling of peace). Crying is a natural human response to many situations and stimuli. This article offers a socio-biological reason for the crying response. Interestingly, at least according to Wikipedia, crying in Buddhism is considered unskillful, as it indicates clinging/attachment. 

From a Theravadin Buddhist point of view, a preoccupation with social media is merely a waste of time. Ordinarily, the term "addiction" is reserved for talking about a mental disorder (which consists of a profound disruption of one's life and an inability to function). You probably do not have an addiction. You may wish to contemplate the fact that you are living a trivial life that in no way benefits the people you love or care about. 

Dukkha is a vast subject. After 50 years of practicing Buddhist mindfulness meditation based upon the Satipatthana Sutta as taught by the late Venerable Namgyal Rinpoche, I am able to talk about the kind of Dukkha that mindfulness meditation deals with, along with a little common-sense. For example, mindfulness helps a person stay objective. Hence, physical pain remains simply that--physical pain without an emotional response such as self-pity or anger. Yet, it remains painful to observe a loved one suffer, for that is the nature of compassion. Advanced states of mindfulness meditation have three other general benefits: (1) It allows a person to explore the siddhis (psychic powers that depend upon previous karma), such as perceiving the nature of karma and the nature of the Bodhicitta. (2) It frees the mind to function more in accord with the awareness, wisdom, and love of the Bodhicitta. (3) It brings a person to Enlightenment and helps them to understand Enlightenment, just as the Buddha promised. Beyond that, I am inclined to agree with the Tibetan Buddhists that the true purpose of Enlightenment is to help others suffer less rather than to achieve lasting true happiness. If you want more than that, then the karma-vipaka of that wish will turn around and bite you with disappointment.