Linearity & nonlinearity can interact in quite fruitful ways. For example one can have two functions f,g whose behaviour is fractal, but performing the sum f+g is quite-straightforward. This is how linearity enters QM, the wave-functions themselves can have, and will have, pace the simple examples of QM textbooks, exceedingly intricate behaviour. Returning to Antiquity, one recalls that Aristotle argued against the atomists by arguing for infinite divisibility (this is consistent with his position on the infinite as being potential and not actual). One can say that he is arguing that the line cannot simply be made of points. It must have some kind of cohesion. At this point one can think of topology giving cohesion, or the microline, or Lawveres theory of cohesion in Topoi. Smoothness generalises metaphysically into the idea of uniformity of nature. This is a background assumption made by scientists, as Virmaoir noted: Not only are manifolds smooth, they are uniform, since any little bit looks like any other little bit. Similarly one thinks that the little patch of space I'm sitting in is similar in all significant respects to some patch near the star Betelgeuse. This is an important distinction that divides Antiquity from today. Aristotle for example divided the universe into the celestial and terrestial, and it was Newton that brought them back together again. Modelling nature is an essential part of physics. What it means to be a physical law and how accurately or how well it captures nature is a big subject in itself. The SEP carries a page on it. Induction is a crucial part of this, in fact its part of an induction and deduction dialectic. Hume quite famously pointed out that induction can have no logical validity, in the philosophical sense; it is obviously valid as it works - the question is to try to work out why. Hume himself pointed to the psychology of the human mind, and Kant probed further and put certain conceptualisations we must make to make experience even possible below the consciousness of the human mind, in fact below the unconscious, in Freuds taxonomy of the mind. He calls it the intuition. Kuhn analysed change in scientific knowledge & culture in Marxist terms, calling the crucial event a paradigm change. In this evental history of science the originary event of science that the world is rationally explicable to some degree is associated with the rise of philosophic culture in the lands bordering Mediterrenean. Its probably worth looking at larger questions connecting the social with the physical. Feyerabend, for example, a philosopher of science connected it to larger questions of politics. One might also note that we call it a law of nature. And laws of course were made by man to be enforced uniformly in a polis. 

Dawkins introduced the term meme as the corresponding cultural analogy to that of gene in biology. But is it specious? How does meme differ from belief, idea or notion? A gene is defined specifically by where it is in the dna, which is discovered byhow it expresses itself; for this reason it is an objective fact of science. Beliefs, ideas or notions are simply ordinary language describing a certain kind of thought. 

It suggests that sovereignty has to be interpreted more broadly; if sovereignty is denationalised - where does it leak to? Who owns it when it escapes? 

and that this sovereign subject is through the theorising of Ideology by Althusser via the psychoanalytic theory of Lacan, lies concealed as we are immersed in language, and by Debords, also in spectacle. Is it possible to unconceal or disclose this sovereign subject through mass surveillance of the digital economy? One might say, to construct the real subject by deconstructing the virtual economy. Frederic Jameson, in Postmodernism, writes a useful counterpoint to this: 

There's nothing in the laws of physics that prevents miracles from actually happening; they are a record of observations, closely compacted. Even physicists modify their own laws - Einstein-Cartan theory which adds torsion to gravity, speculate on particles that don't exist - the Klien-Gordan field, or dimensions that haven't been observed - superstring theory. It's quite possible to modify the laws of physics, so a miracle happens and then to restore them. Miracles, by their own nature, rarely occur, and thus aren't repeatable events that can be experimented upon, or thought on, in the same way that normal science is. In Lewis's plural worlds, he makes room for gods and miracles, the only fixed thing is rationality, ie the intelligibility of the world. 

Good question! I agree that it looks like Hegel was aiming at a characterisation whose direction approaches the human condition - but I was also struck by how he was aiming at etherealising it: from being in the round, to the flat plane and then to airy nothings, following the progressive movement of the soul from clay, to life to itself. In this it is no different to most cosmologies of religion. I think, though, it was Schopenhauer that said that music that most approached that condition though - rather than poetry. One notes that in Antiquity it was Poetry that ranked as the supreme art. Which might explain Platos antagonism to it as the new purveyors of sophia. In Arabia too, and many other traditional parts of the world poetry is still seen as the best of arts. One ought to recall though, that this is not the poetry that is printed on the page to be read in silence - but to be recited, sung or chanted. Different subject-matter calling for different meters - one sees this in the revival of the spoken word performance and urban rap. So, Hegel, seems to have the weight of history on his side. I'd also date the reaction to this - the traditional canon - back to Dada than to Warhol. Warhols innovation was the aesthetic of mass manufacture, boredom & kitsch. I say Dada as this was the reaction of at least one section of the artistic elite to the mass murder & destruction that was the second world war. Before then, at least in the visual arts, it was a period of formal experimentation of form and subject - cubism, impressionism, primitivism & surrealism pushed on by the great strides that the sciences were making at that time. Between them lay Duchamp whose introduced the philosophical gaze to Art, the playful, ironic gesture of the artist who is no longer much interested in his art and questions & undermines its own importance & the cultural establishment. The categorisation I think still works and still holds. Despite a century of iconoclasm. The arc that Hegel draws, being the arc that most religions make in the cosmos, and being itself the arc we ourselves follow points to something quite deep in the wrorld - though by its very naiveity and simplicity seems a bare coincidence and nothing much of import. 

This can't be right, for how can we measure Nothing, something that doesn't exist. It seems it must come into existence just prior to our measurement. But this means the quantum system must anticipate our measurement - which also sounds bizarre. Could we say, instead that it exists but its value is indeterminate? 

This suggests that thinking is an essential part of being, when that being is subjectivity - and this is signified by the use of the pronoun 'I'; for a stone or a box does not say 'I'. So though this isn't the contrapositive, it does retain coherence ie sense. 

Fundamentally, no; but it is a moment of change. Humans have always had to deal with information: their social environment - gossip, rumour etc; and formal knowledge - schooling and so on. One learns who and what to trust. It is institutions that verify & validate this. Newspapers, journals & universities. The internet obviously multiplies this hugely - by making information readily and globally available. A large proportion of the information on the net is not new but simply transferred from print media. Google though very powerful is simply an indexing service. But similar institutions have & will arise. For example, the SEP. Online newspapers. One can argue we have moved from oral, to print, to online. But that misses the subtle point that older forms are not superseded but added to. Online may be new but it still uses writing. And writing of course uses the same language as the oral mode does. Marshall McLuhan said - the media is the message. He is simply emphasising that a new means of communication brings change which is tied to its form as a form of communication. But I would argue against it being a fundamental change. Instead its a new harmonic added onto the fundamental tone to use a musical analogy. 

Here, she mixes what would now be called Newtonian Mechanics & Biology but for the purposes of this passage would be better called what Newton called it - that is Natural Philosophy - the Philosophy of Nature in its concrete manifestations; it suggests given the division between continental & analytic philosophy that it is this tradition that needs reinvigorating. 

Start with whose writing you find interesting, and look up who they reference. As you read & criticise - and criticism is a must and will happen naturally as different thinkers will contest the same ground, or throw different perspectives. You should begin also to find which questions interest you the most; and try to engage it with contemporary history & politics. Its worth making notes, because the process of writing articulates what has been understood and what hasn't been understood; and also its personal to you and your own thinking. The best writers will cover a range of problems will be influenced by a whole host of writers and will be influential themselves. One reason to start from the past is that posterity has already passed some measure of judgement and found there work still worth reading and understanding. Whereas the contemporary situation is opaque, difficult and confused - its in the process of being understood. One shouldn't read linearly, but on the other-hand one shouldn't read haphazardly. Find out which books in the secondary literature are worth reading that brings out new developments in an established thinker. Its not just the primary texts that are important. I'd suggest reading the secondary literature with the primary texts to hand as a possible method. I'd also recommend the arts that take the political into account. For example, political biographies - Nelson Mandelas Long Walk to Freedom, is beautifully written and places that period and site of decolonisation in personal & historical context; also political films such as Battle of Algiers or fables and novels - Fahrenheit 451, 1984, Brave New World or Doctor Strangelove. The cultural is political - apart from contemporary Anglo-American poetry that seems to have returned to the womb of subjective feelings and intensities. This wasn't always the case - Shelley for example wrote political poetry. 

That is the structural approach includes the analytic, and the analytic includes the structural. A little reflection shows that each theory includes images of itself and the other infinitely - somewhat like the mandelbrot set reproduces itself internally. Given there are now two approaches to foundations, is it arguable that the 'true' Set Theory is something that is only represented in the two approaches? In the same way say that the number '9' is represented as nine or 1001? Or is this an indication that there are in fact more than one Set Theory in the same way that denying the parallel postulate in non-euclidean geometry resulted in several different geometries: elliptic and spherical with the euclidean geometry occupying a special place because it is flat. Certainly there is a similar picture in Topos Theory as a categorification of Set Theory (this is different to what is discussed above) where there are many Toposes but again the category of Sets occupy a unique place (I forget the characterisation of its uniqueness). 

One fascinating link for me is how language itself informed early Indian philosophy; for example Paninis grammar as a form of the axiomatic, which in the Western tradition is traditionally indexed by Euclid. It is true though that Indian philosophy in the west is hardly engaged on its own terms; with even the influence that it has had as an underground influence, say on Emerson or Schopenhauer barely acknowledged; but is this also the case for Indian philosophy in India? Garfield and Bhushan for example in this essay explores the situation for such philosophy written in English taking a single exemplar, Mukherjee of Allahabad and concluding: 

I think you need to look much more broadly than mathematics if you want to ponder the difficult questions of life. Plato himself said that mathematics gives a glimpse of the eternal - in the sense its truths don't seem to vary; but he also said that as a discipline it is too narrow to ponder the larger, deeper & more difficult problems. Philosophy, theology or literature are probably better. I'm not sure just how useful mathematical philosophy is. Plato in Timaeus which describes his mature cosmology also has a demiurge to create the world and suffuse it with soul, but he also merges in Pythagorean thought (which held that the world was mathematically formed) and Democritean atomism in that his atoms were platonic solids and made up from triangles. Mathematics is there - but its certainly not the most important part of his conception. People like Spinoza & Wittgenstein are clearly influenced by its formal axiomatic structure. Descarte by his cogito looked for an irrefutable beginning to start his excavation of epistemology. Liebniz tried to reduce everything to the principle of efficient cause & non-contradiction. But also quite clearly Spinoza & Liebniz were Christian philosophers - they clearly believed in God; whereas Descarte did his best to find that hypothesis redundant to understand the world. Wittgenstein in Badiou characterisation is an ascetic mystic; Wittgenstein himself stated that the philosophy is not best way to the 'truth' but for those of us who are not genuine mystics to whom 'truth' is revealed or the veil of mystery removed - it is perhaps the only way. Kant, said the prestige of mathematics (within the right circles) led to fallacious attempts to prove Gods existence. They're metaphysical truths that do not admit such proofs. Contemporary Anglo-American philosophy is, from my decidedly faint acquaintence, strongly influenced by the positivistic philosophy that emerged from Vienna, and the turn toward language by Wittgenstein and logic by Frege. So this may be a good place to start if you're looking for mathematically based philosophy in a broadly conceived way. Its detractors say that it is narrow, and treats questions of no real substance to life. Continental philosophy is much more catholic in its influences - it permeates & is permeated by marxism, literature, anthropology, psychoanalysis & sociology. Its detractors say that its obscurantist and mystifying. Its much less marked by mathematics and formal logic; however Badiou, a contemporary french philosopher has tried to inaugurate a turn towards mathematics as an ontology based on ZFC - or as Hilbert put it Cantors Paradise, the place where he tamed the infinite by inaugurating the arithemtic of the transinfinite, and where von Neumann constructed his model of ZFC from 'nothing'. Its definitely based within the continental tradition. But quite how Badiou has overcome objections to the finitude of mathematical infinity (which was clear to Cantor but perhaps not to his impetuous followers) and the emerging sense that there is pluralism in Set Theory & Logic is not clear to me. A recent trend is paraconsistent logic which attempts to formalise dialethism - that there are true contradictions. In the continental tradition, one can consider Hegel as a dialtheist, in Buddhism - Nagarjuna and also the classic poem - The Tao. Da Costa kick-started the modern revival of formal paraconsistent logic, and Graham Priest is an able practitioner. If you're interest in Buddhism & connection with mathematics, there is a school of Buddhist logic & atomism which would be probably worth investigating. It isn't logic in the formal Freagean sense - consider for example Hegel who used the word Logic in a very different way. The Catuskoti is a logical mantra that is used by them, and in particular by Nagarjuna. The jains also have their own distinctive logic and phenomenology. Interestingly enough two of their truth values go like this: it exists and is indescribable; it does not exist and that is indescribable. I find this useful in pondering Kants noumena. Finally for mathematical philosophy orientated towards the mathematics broadly concieved, probably Lakatos, Lautman & Zalamea are your best bet.