The tensioner spring is designed to keep the entire chain under tension, even after it passes the crank. So, the symptom of a too-weak tensioner is slack in the chain between the crank and tensioner. It sounds like the distance between chain links is not quite the same as the distance between valleys in your sprockets. This is not unusual if you replaced a very worn chain (because the sprockets would have worn to match the old chain). It's also not impossible that the sprockets are worn not quite enough to match the old, worn out chain, yet still worn too much to match the brand new chain. You may need to replace the rest of the sprockets in the cassette. 

As others have noted, your brakes probably aren't set up correctly if you can squeeze the lever so far that it touches the bar while the bike is stationary. That said, squeezing the brake levers while the bike is on a stand won't cause any more wear than normal braking would [1]. If you want to determine how hard to squeeze the brakes while on the stand, a good test is this: ride at a moderate speed in a safe environment and then try to rapidly stop. Your brake levers should not touch the bars, and (obviously) nothing should break loose. A properly adjusted rear brake should be able to skid the rear wheel (but it is considered poor braking technique to skid the rear wheel). A properly adjusted front brake should should be able to lift the rear wheel off the ground (you don't want to actually lift it, so use care). Try to get a feel for how much pressure you apply to the levers when you practice a panic stop and then apply a little more when the bike is on a stand. Please note that it is unsafe to suddenly fully-apply the brakes (suddenly squeeze both levers as hard as you can) while traveling at speed. If your brakes are properly adjusted, you should be able to easily lock either wheel by pulling hard on the brake lever. For the rear wheel this is less of a problem: You will simply skid the wheel, wearing down the tire. If you do this enough, or at a high enough speed or with a thin road tire, you risk wearing down the rubber to the innertube. If that happens, the tire will rapidly deflate and you will be riding on the rim (this is bad). Locking the front wheel is a bigger problem: the front wheel will NOT skid. If you lock the front wheel, you will go over the bars and hurt yourself. [1] Within reason, of course. If you're some sort of Olympic weightlifter, it's possible that you might squeeze hard enough to damage something. Also, if the brakes are "looser" after you squeeze really hard (ie, if you have to pull the lever farther, not harder, to make the brake pads touch the rim) then you are either squeezing too hard, or you need to readjust the cable and tighten the cable clamp on the brake. 

Where is the ideal / designed location for my sit bones to push on a leather sling/hammock style saddle? (Relative positioning, that works for any saddle width) While I'm riding on my leather saddle, I notice that my sit bones seem to press the saddle very close to the rear metal part of the saddle (i.e. near the rivets). This metal bar with the rivets is U-shaped, with the tails curving forwards at each side. Are my sit bones supposed to fit within the curve? In front of it? Referring to the grid below, my intuition is that I should get a wider saddle with a wider metal U such that my sit bones are in the relative locations of: center-of (C-D,2-3) and center-of (C-D,4-5). Am I correct that the U should "cradle" my sit bones? (Also, I notice most leather saddles use 6 rivets in the rear, so we can refer to them as rivet #1 through #6.) 

I have 1990s Shiman Deore XT cantilever brake pad holder shoes with smooth studs. I believe these are "M Type" cartridges/inserts. The replaceable inserts slide in and are held in place by a screw / grub. They look like this: 

I have not tried any of these suggestions myself. You may want to look into a seatpost that is just a tube, and a seat clamp that, itself, clamps to the seat tube. All these ideas depend on sourcing parts that fit your seat tube diameter, of course: 

Use the old style seatpost that ends in a nub. Attach your saddle to an old style saddle clamp. Replace the bolt on the saddle clamp with some quick-release bolt or winged/knobbed bolt. The saddle and clamp might separate on loosening and removal, however. See if a removable seatpost head clamp would attach to a nub-ended seat tube. Maybe you'd have to saw the end of a seat tube that fits, and find a removable seatpost head clamp that fits the correct diameter. The advantage with this is that the head would clamp to your saddle separately from clamping to the seat tube. Perhaps modify the clamp so that it is quick-release by adding your own QR collar or replacing a bolt. These types seem to be related to "integrated" seatposts. Another one. Also, search for Cannondale Synapse seatpost clamp. 

The difference is simply in the number of teeth on the chainring, and therefore the distance that the chain will travel when you turn the crank. With the standard crank you will be pushing the chain further, and therefore given the same cassette, the standard chainring will provide longer gearing than a compact, and require more power to turn. There are tables available which show the gear inches for different sizes of chainring and cassette. Interestingly a 50/11 will provide a longer gear than a 52/12, meaning that a 50 tooth chainring and 11 tooth rear sprocket will be 'faster' than a 52 tooth chainring with a 12 tooth rear sprocket. Importantly, you should consider what cassette goes best with the chainset you have chosen. A 34/30 gear is a very high ratio and is similar to what you would get from a triple crankset. If you chose the compact chainset then it might be more appropriate to use a the 11/28 cassette. Choosing a big widely spaced cassette like an 11/30 means the gears will be quite spaced out and you even if you have an 11spd cassette you might find there are times you cant get a gear which you can comfortably spin, or the change in cadence required to go from one gear to another is awkward. It will also mean you will need a longer cage rear mech, as the chain will need to be longer. 

You probably need to adjust the 'top stop' screw on the rear mech, and also tighten the rear gear cable. The rear mech has two small screws. One of these adjusts how far up/inward the mech will move and the other screw adjusts how far down/outward it will move. They are used to prevent the chain dropping off the top and bottom of the cassette. Work out which one needs adjusted (trial and error should be ok) until the mech has the right range of movement to go from the biggest sprocket to the smallest sprocket (but no more). Also, you might need to adjust the cable tension, esp if the mech is not moving from the smallest sprocket when you push the shifter. You can do this normally by simply adjusting the screw mechanism where the cable attaches to the rear mech, and screwing it outward, so as to tighten the cable. Again trial and error with this should work. Putting the bike on a work stand where the rear wheel is suspended off the floor, and you can spin the pedals and wheels while shifting the gears makes this job much easier. Dont be scared to experiment a bit to figure out how things work. 

I've looked online, but haven't found one. Is there any sort of "matrix" available that puts shift lever boss type on one axis and shift lever on the other, and remarks on each pair's compatibility? Ideally, this would include bosses that include the following (and any others that might be useful): downtube braze on, downtube clamped on, barend "pods", "thumbie pods", stem-mounted. Each type on each axis would be collapsed based on same-shape/same-size with some notes on which specific items fall into each type category. So, something like this: 

You may be able to use a "seatpost shim" that converts you folding bike's seat tube inner diameter to a different inner diameter. That way you would open up options for buying a better/different seatpost that actually has a modern clamp (mounting apparatus) at the top. Your linked replacement says that post has an outer diameter (OD) of 34.1mm and 550mm long. Maybe one of these "Wheels Manufacturing" shims could fit to convert it. There is one listed that is slightly off: it is listed as 34.0mm taking it down to either 27.2mm or 30.9mm. Then, for example, there are 27.2mm diameter seatposts that are 400mm long that include the clamp apparatus at the top. (I have not tried this setup before, so do not know it will work. Also, if the 400mm long seatpost would be too short, then this clearly won't work out for you. If you had the original seatpost pushed down much more than 150mm / 6 inches then it should work. It is a big difference between 400mm and 550mm.) 

Use tubes to make U-locks (or anything) less prone to scratching your frame. My U-lock's base has bare metal which scratches my frame. I cut the circular tube to make it one straight tube. Then I lay one end along the metal of the base of the U-lock. Then I wrapped it tight around itself as if I was wrapping handlebar tape. Then on the last wrap I left it slightly looser so I could put the loose end underneath the last wrap and then I pulled it tight. It stays put fine. You can slip a section of tube over the "U" of the U-lock and then roll up the ends (like shirt sleeves) so it keeps it in place. 

As for the Hovding helmet specifically, it looks like the main selling point is that it sits around your neck while you are not actively colliding with something. Some people seem to think that conventional helmets look dorky and all helmets seem to give you "helmet hair" to one degree or another. So, I would say that this is again a case where you are paying to get a helmet that gives you more of categories 2 and 3 above. 

I have been searching for a generator or 'dynamo' (preferably one built into the hub) to run lights for night riding, but it seems that most are rated for only about 3W (presumably to meet German bicycle standards). I currently have a DiNotte 400R tail light that serves me well, running from a battery. I'd like to add a high-lumen headlight (at least 800 Lumens) and run the whole thing from a generator. I've measured the average power consumption of the 400R on one of the blink modes to be about 2W. A reasonable ballpark estimate for LEDs is about 100 Lumens per Watt, so I'd need a generator that can source an average power of at least 10 Watts for the head and tail light combined. I have some experience with electronics so an unregulated output in the range of, say, 5-30 Volts is acceptable. Storing energy to supply the power surge when the tail light is 'active' is something I'm confident I can handle. A typical cruising speed would be something like 20 mph (30 km/h). So: Generator (preferably in the hub) that can output 10 W at a reasonable voltage at 20 mph. Does anyone know of such a thing? 

I had a Trek which broke entirely through in the same place. Turned out it was still ridable, and I managed to carefully ride it the 6 miles home. The frame was several years old, had seen some heavy use, and the frame, forks and handlebars were pretty much the only original parts. I took it back to my local Trek dealer, and after a bit of debate they contacted the Trek rep and they agreed to replace the entire bike! Good work Trek. Anyway, I'd certainly take your frame back. They should replace the frame and rebuild the bike for you. I doubt they will provide something for you to ride in the mean time though. 

It depends on the frame material what effect the water inside the frame will have. A lot of frames have a small hole drilled at the bottom of the bottom bracket casing. If there is no hole there you can drill one yourself. I have done this on aluminium frames before and it is very easy. Use a 4mm drill bit and drill through till you cut into the bottom bracket void. There will be a gap internally between the frame casing and the actual bottom bracket. A hole this small in the centre of the bottom bracket casing will not affect the strength of the frame but will allow water to drain. I have found frames fill up with water even with the seat post in place if ridden in the wet, so putting a cork in the seat post hole probably won't make much difference. 

If you are able to hear it then google maps navigation will read out turn-by-turn directions to you. I found the noise of wind while riding prevented me from hearing these, but if you were riding slower, or used an ear piece this might work. The dedicated cycle GPS unit will provide the best solution, the question is whether you'd use the functionality enough to justify the expense, or can you get by with a phone.