I commute 5 miles each way to work. I live in a climate where the weather can change from decent to torrential rain and thundering within 5 minutes (i.e. the first mile of my commute). This happened on my commute earlier this week and I took shelter in an apartment parking lot that had covered parking. The "cover" was a sheet of aluminum. I can't say definitely whether this was a safe place to be during a thunderstorm or not. My question is: do you have any solid safety advice on what to do if you are on your bike and a thunderstorm erupts? 

Recently there have been an increase in the number of fixed gear bikes in my (U.S.) city. Increasingly they tend to have one or zero brake levers, justified by their ability to stop with pedal power alone. Even more recently, I've noticed even larger numbers of single speed (non-fixed gear) bikes --- outnumbering the fixed gear bikes. And they often have only a single brake lever (for simplicity or fashion?). I understand the justification for having only a single brake on the fixed gear bikes because their braking redundancy lies within the drivetrain. I do not understand why this is acceptable on single speed bikes. Is there something I am missing or is that indeed ridiculously dangerous? Are manufacturers allowed to sell bicycles with non-redundant brakes? Is this regulated in the U.S. or anywhere else? This seems like a recipe for disaster (having experienced brake failure on my bike). 

So now, considering that we have both chain rings available, you can see that at 30 kph you have 2 more possible gears. So depending on the terrain ahead, you would choose the big or small ring and the appropriate back cog. For even stronger riders, the bottom gears are only 21 and 23, or maybe as low as 25. Hope that helps! 

It depends on the how steep the hills are and how long they are. In theory, riding on the flat should be faster. But in my experience undulating terrain is the fastest. Let me explain. Using maths you can easily see that what effects your time over a course (hence your average speed) the most is how long you spend at lower speeds. So to set a quicker time we should improve our time on the slowest sections first. If the road is flat then that is hard. When the hills too steep and long it is hard also. But when the hills are short enough that I can power up them, then with extra energy expenditure I can maintain a good speed. This is psychologically aided by being able see the top and know the effort is short term. Then, after passing the crest, comes the important bit, and this is why the hills have to be short and not too steep: apply power on the way down also. If the downhill is followed by a flat section then by maintaining the effort level that speed can be maintained for many minutes. But if the downhill is followed quickly by another short hill, then the speed can be used to attack the next hill. So too steep and long means too steep to climb quickly. An example is a long shallow climb I do here. It averages only about 2% and so I can ride at about 25kph. Then I come to a 600m section which descends at over 7% then climbs at over 9%. Overall, the section rises at an average of 5%, but I average 32kph. It's psychological. 

I commute on bike and I wear jeans (which I work in). I find that after about 500 miles of bike commuting in a single pair of jeans I've got holes in my pants from the saddle-jean rubbing. My problem is probably accelerated by the fact that I have a fabric seat, the "Jamis Aurora Sport" saddle which comes stock with the Jamis Aurora. However, I'm told that people experience similar issues with non-fabric seats. Having said that, I'm trying to figure out whether I should get a new saddle (something smoother like leather or plastic), or alternatively wear a pair of athletic shorts over my jeans (easily/quickly removeable at work/ in public). At my current rate I will need to replace and/or repair a pair of jeans every 2 months. My question is, what measures can be taken to minimize the rate at which my pants wear through when commuting (without the obvious solution of having dedicated pants for cycling)? 

Trying out saddles is difficult. Some bike shops have loaner saddles but such places are rare. If you know any cyclists then ask them to led you any spare saddles they have, and ask them to see if their friends have any spare saddles. Even if none of these are comfortable they should give you a better idea of what works and what doesn't. Extra thoughts: 

Width - One thing that is immediately obvious to me is that regular width saddles are too narrow. This should be to do with the spacing of the parts of your pelvis that you sit on (and your riding position) rather than having anything to do with weight/fat. I am pretty broadly built so this might not apply to you. Quantity and softness of padding - Hard, thin padding is better. Lots of soft, squishy padding causes issues with chaffing and when you sink into it, it rises up and puts pressure on your soft bits. I think if you are overweight you need harder padding than normal since you are already more prone to issues with chaffing and because you will sink into it more than a lighter person. Also, I'd rather have bruised bones than a numb penis. Annoyingly, harder saddles are almost always narrower. Get one with a cutout - Some people like cutouts and some don't but I suspect they are necessary if one is overweight. They can have their own problems though as they can concentrate the pressure along the edges. Shape - This is really important but it is unfortunately impossible to give recommendations since it is very personal. 

Is there a reference/source/method for definitively determining the width of a bicycle tire without actually having it in hand? I ride a 2009 Jamis Aurora which came stock with 32 mm Vittoria Randonneurs. I wore the rear tire through, so I did some research on new tires and the 35 mm Schwalbe Marathon Mondial sounded like it fit my needs. Googling around forums, I gathered that it would be fine to put a 35 mm tire on the Aurora. This turned out to be not true -- it seized up against the frame right away. Interestingly, the contact was actually on the chain stay, not the seat stay. I'm a little bummed out by that, but I put the Mondial on the front (which fit fine) and threw the (formerly front tire) Vittoria Randonneur on the rear. Having now riden on the the Mondial, it makes huge difference: it feels way nicer than the Randonneurs. I want to know what I can replace my remaining Randonneur with, but am concerned about it seizing up? For the record my rim width is 20 mm. On a side note, doesn't it seems odd that a 'Touring' frame cannot support a 35mm tire? 

Talk to the rehabilitation people who (I am guessing) helped with the knee replacements. Find out if they can advise you on this, or if there is a sports physiotherapist (or similar) that they recommend. Having those people talking to each other usually fast tracks the process. At the very least I think you need to know the likely consequences of your choices. Is OK to work through some pain or discomfort? How would you know that something is wrong? The more info you have the better. Find a sports physiotherapist for yourself. If you already know one and they can't help, get a recommendation to someone who can. As a last resort, get a friend to support the bike while you test what movement you have. Make marks on the wall or use some other means of measuring what you can do without pain. Check if both knees have the same movement. If they are the same then half the distance that you measured is the crank length you can use. Make sure you understand the idea here before going further. Then go back to the shop and see what cranks they have that you could use. The idea is to have an independent idea of what you need before you talk to the LBS guy again. No matter how honestly helpful he is, be prepared to get a second opinion as well. 

I'm a similar weight to you and your description is very familiar. I'm almost certain that your saddle is angled down too far. If angling it up enough to stop you slipping causes it to put uncomfortable pressure on your perineum then you probably need a different saddle. Some people are fine with whatever comes with the bike but I've tried maybe 10 saddles at this point and haven't found one that works well for me. On the bright side, I'm slowly understanding what works and what doesn't. I'm overweight and it sounds like you are too from your question? I think the extra fat causes issues with the saddle putting pressure on the soft tissues. It also means that gravity is pulling you harder into the saddle. My poor solution for a long time was to buy a really wide saddle, point it upwards slightly and tilt my pelvis back/arch my back to keep the nose from putting too much pressure on my perineum. This isn't very comfortable though and it seemed to be hard to put out much power. I've recently switched to a bike with a more leant-forward riding position and, while it is great in a number of ways, my old solution absolutely doesn't work. Here's what I'm looking for in a saddle: 

If you must eat later than that, then eat less and lighter, such as a banana. And keep well hydrated. Sorry if it sounds disappointingly simple :-) For more info, see these links 

Pedaling while standing always takes more effort; we do it when we need the extra boost. When you were younger and rid[ing] a bicycle a lot, you were also fitter. I'm guessing you have had a sedentary job for a while, so now your whole system needs to build up again. This is, unfortunately in our modern world, normal. As with any strength / fitness program, take it slowly. It's easy to cause injuries by being over-enthusiastic. So ride regularly, gradually increasing the distances. Ride while standing from time to time, gradually increasing the number of pedal strokes or distance. When you are feeling that you have some strength and fitness, you can look into interval training, or other training methods. You can also look at our training questions for more guidance.