At the risk of offending the SE Gods - but because you asked for Hard Science: There's no cloak in space Many also maintain that there's no *stealth* in space but I disagree with the absoluteness that this is often associated with the statement. For instance, even with thousands (millions?) of telescopes and other astronomical observing equipment, astronomers are regularly surprised (only a day or two warning) by sizable rocks winging past the Earth. The point is that if we know where & when to look, there's almost no where in a billion miles that you could hide. If we don't know where & when to look a bit of sneaking is possible. Bear in mind that any high-powered interstellar or even inter-planetary drives will give away your location in a heart beat but a common Hohmann orbit transfer with the boost phase hidden from our direct observation would be quite difficult to detect. There is no reason for your engines to emit different radiation at different *velocities* Even engines like VASIMR (which can "change gears") do NOT change their radiation profile based upon spacecraft velocity. It only changes its emissions based upon rocket performance (thrust and $I_{sp}$). You can engage those changes at any spacecraft velocity that you want. Finally, the answer I didn't see any errors in the messages above, they all have valid points: 

First a brief explanation of what flickering is: Flickering is caused by transient changes in light intensity. It is much more common to see flickering in small / point sources of light (e.g. stars or planets) because very small atmospheric changes affect all light arriving from that source. Similar small atmospheric disturbances usually don't affect all the light coming from non-point sources like the moon. Causes The most simple and plausible causes of "moon flicker" (changing brightness) would fall into one of these categories: 

Let's go by a basic sound principle: higher-frequency sounds are absorbed quicker than low frequency sounds. For stealthy purposes, this means that someone in the next room is less likely to hear a squeak as opposed to a burp, volumes being equal. This is also beneficial for our spy as it means that the echoes from their high-pitched emission are more localised to close-by objects - they don't get as much cross-talk from further objects. Bats use ultrasound for echo location; I believe recorded cases of human echo location also uses high-pitched clicks. Now, is a high-pitched click appropriate for a spy? Probably not. But what were common in the middle ages? Rats. Lots of rats. And rats use high-pitched sounds themselves. A spy sneaking around and making squeaking rat sounds would probably be safely ignored - unless they had broken into the kitchen! 

We start by pointing NASA's Deep Space Network at the appropriate point in our solar system. We move them if necessary. I don't know how long this will take. Now we can measure any gravitational-signal responses send back by the aliens. Then we come to the harder part. Generating the signal. So, gravity produces gravitational waves, as we have recently proved using two interacting black holes. Now I'm not going to suggest we create two black holes in our solar system (disclaimer: OK, I was going to suggest that we did that using our wormhole-generating technology until I read the question saying that we need to stick with current tech levels). However, those black holes were far away which is why they needed to be big to detect them. Can we get a similar effect by using smaller objects nearby? I have no idea, but since I haven't been paid yet as the lead scientist on this project, I'm going to say "Yes, with absolute certainty"! We make two Space JCBs. They are load-carrying spaceships. Then we fill up their load bins with heavy things (rocks, or lead, or uranium, or asteroids, or whatever is most fun). Now, the fun part. We send these Space JCBs to the point where we detected our aliens, and get them to play Space Chicken. We get these Space JCBs to fly towards each other, leaving only the tiniest of margins where they don't crash into each other. Their masses interacting will produce a gravitational wave, which since it's so close (or possibly inside) the alien spaceships, should be Super Easy to Detect™. However, for all these aliens know, that was just an asteroid crashing into another one, or however they explain common things occurring on the Light Side. So let's do it again. And again. And again. And again. But let's set up a specific pattern: a coding, if you will. Let's do one pass. Then wait. Then two passes. Then wait. Then three, and wait. Five, wait. Eight, wait. Thirteen, wait. Twenty-one, wait. I think you know what's next. That's right, back to one. This Fibonacci sequence was getting too long, so we'll stick to repeating this sequence up to twenty-one passes. Let's do this for an unreasonably long amount of time, or until the aliens notice, and our detector picks up some sort of coded activity in the wait periods - my hope is that our alien friends will start to pre-empt our numbers by filling in the wait periods, showing us that they are receiving our signals, understanding the sequence, and able to communicate back at us. ? Profit. 

If you don't "earn your air", then you're assigned to a work detail. The assigned work detail does the scut work that has to be done but no one wants to do. If you fail to appear for your assignment or don't get enough done, then you're demoted to a work detail that does dangerous work that has to be done. If the detail to which you belong doesn't meet its quota then they entire detail must continue doing these jobs until it does meet its quote. 

There is a concept similar to this called a Nuclear Salt Water Rocket (NSWR) that was proposed by an SF writer who is also a physicist. 

Radioactive materials contributed a significant amount of heat to the Earth's interior and may have been responsible for the melting of the Earth's core. No Plate Tectonics - Earth will be colder Heat from radioactive decay provides the energy driving the planet's plate tectonics. Without plate tectonics, the Earth's water and other volatiles (like carbon dioxide) are gradually lost to the interior of the planet. Without water and and carbon dioxide to drive the greenhouse effect, the Earth would be MUCH COLDER. 

Titan is a mixed ice and rock moon. Titan is extremely cold and no liquid $H_2O$ current exists anywhere in or on the planet. You'd need to raise the surface temperature 180 C to even begin the process! If you began warming the surface of Titan enough to melt the surface ice, then the planet would start with melt pools forming on the icy surface. Arctic Melt Pools 

In terms of non-great ape animals (which I assume is not what you want, since they will basically just evolve into something that is, well, more or less like humans, probably… unless you're going for a Planet of the Apes-type vibe) I believe that African grey parrots are probably the closest in terms of having the “full package” towards intelligence, including a decent ability to manipulate their surroundings with their talons, with the added benefit that they can also fly! They're not quite there in terms of being able to use tools, but in terms of everything else, they're close to being “sapience-ready,” I think. The other contender, often overlooked in my opinion, is the cuttlefish. They have a surprising number of highly-advanced mental capacities, especially considering that invertebrates are often thought of as being universally far less sophisticated or “less evolved” than vertebrates, and they have their tentacles that they can use to pick things up and move them around… plus, if you go with the cuttlefish, you can have them evolve into a Cthulhu-like or Illithid-type race, which is a cool trope, I think! There are lots of different theories about what aspects of a creature push it more towards overall “intelligence,” as we would probably define it in a worldbuilding context. Social behaviors and ability to manipulate one's surroundings are two of the most important ones, I believe. 

It would not be possible for Earth-like life to exist there. Perhaps some kind of metallic-based organism, or something similar to a biological nanobot (an advanced type of virus, maybe?) with extreme self-repair capabilities, extreme resistance to heat and radiation, might be able to survive, especially in areas like the sides of ancient craters, where the sun never fully reaches but which aren't in complete darkness either, and which are less likely to be affected as much by new bombardment. 

Let's speed up this process The receiver should probably be used to guide the creation of the transmitter. You have a tri-state here, so I'm going to suggest: Forget about money for now. That will come later. Instead, get to poring through your research books to find the approach that works. Don't even bother reading papers. Go to a list of physics articles, and devise a scheme to map time-of-day to paper. If this isn't "normal" physics, then you should instead make an exhaustive list of the ways you are thinking of making the transmitter. We are going to use the time of data transmission as a hack to get more information, along with the bit value itself. It sounds like you are going to be able to have very high temporal precision with your data-sending, so let's give ourselves a 1-minute window. Now you have a mapping from time to "ways-to-proceed-to-make-the-transmitter". Your future-self already knows how to make the transmitter, and will have the mapping saved from his past (your present), so all you need is something to monitor the receiver and note the exact time (to the minute, or whatever temporal precision is appropriate) that the device receives the data transmission. Look this up in your map, think about it for a while, have the "Eureka" moment, then go off and build a transmitter (and another receiver). Now you can go to the casino. (Don't forget some day down to line to send a transmission back to the past to allow this all to happen!) But what if the specific breakthrough needed to make the transmitter has not yet been invented, by you or another? Well then we need to refine our process. We can send a 0 or a 1. Let's make the plan: Send a 0 if the breakthrough is from the map you created. Otherwise, send a 1 if the breakthrough is in a publication (book, article, news story, whatever) from that day - i.e., if you receive a 1, it's time to go to every physics journal, every news outlet, every book publishers, and find what was published today. Then again, have a think for a while, have your "Eureka" moment, build a transmitter (and another receiver), now go to the casino and make money. You can, of course, speed up the process by adding more receivers - adding one more receiver increases the number of items you can map to each minute from 1 to 4 (binary). Having three receivers, your map increases to 16, four receivers gives 32 items, etc. Depending on how many items you have to sift through and how fine-grained you need your guidance to be (and how patient you are), you can spend the money accordingly. 

Well, just as a simplistic example, earlier today when I was writing about this very topic, when I was saying that the technology in the time period of my world would have been indistinguishable from magic to the same extent that telegraphs, or telephones, or smart phones would have seemed like magic—each more powerful magic than the previous one—to a primitive civilization, I said, “such as pre-technological people,” meaning, not yet having agriculture, the wheel, or even complex tool use yet. I wouldn't have used like Romans or even just post-Neolithic people in general as my example. I would say, if you are holding some kind of mechanism, at least some people will not be entirely convinced that it's magic. If it's small enough to be implanted inside your body or brain and it can be powered by your own muscle movements or the planet's electrical field or something like that, I think most 19th-century tech level or earlier people, at the very least, will be hard to convince it isn't magic. Hell, there're people alive today who would be. And who's to say it's not magic? If you have a technology that can bend spacetime or hack into the laws of physics and rewrite them to your specs, is that in the category of technology or magic? I would classify it as being both, personally. 

In Warhammer 40,000, they're called cogitators. I think the word for them will probably remain the same, as long as this current culture continues to be more or less uninterrupted. If there is some major disruption, and then it changes to a completely different worldview, it might get a new name, otherwise it will probably just slowly evolve as language evolves, it will stay, most likely, with a translation of compute, computer, think, thinking machine, thinkmachine, cogitate, comprehendor, etc. etc. that same linguistic tree or whatever translation thereof in your chosen time period or culture. 

NO What is the appeal of your MMORPG - do you know this or can you find out e.g. do XY testing on popularity of limiting this behaviour? Are people drawn to the realism, and does this include the capacity for cruelty and genuine response? If so, then from the business perspective you can't do this: granting AIs human rights makes such behaviour illegal, which your MMORPG can't support. You also can't remove the behaviour, as people will not want to play. The question comes down to a matter of public perspective: "consciousness" is not as hardly delineated as we like to believe - but we do like to believe it is. If you release public statements saying that you understand people's concerns, but that these NPCs are art not people: much like a painting or statue that may inspire high emotion in people, they are designed as conduits for our own internal feelings, but not actually alive. More philosophical thoughts on "human rights" in virtual contexts (you can use this in your press release if you want) - humans are not simply a sentient mind, they are a physical body whose form, abilities and weaknesses shapes our physical minds in every single thing we do. We cannot simply be copied, backed up, reverted to a previous version, have memories deleted, etc - our physical form is integral to making our personalities, desires, phobias, mind-states, rationalities and irrationalities what they are. Being "human" is not only self-awareness (or the appearance there-of) - it is the unique interaction between our bodies and brain and the environment and evolutionary history that has lead us to our survival. Virtual minds, sentient or otherwise, could be simulated to have these feelings - but in the same way that I cannot eat the picture of food on my PC screen (still lamenting this after 20 years of internet), simulation is an inherently different process than "human experience". Note that I am not saying better, worse or other value judgements - just different, and that "human rights" are not applicable.