The formulae on wikipedia are correct. As you haven't explained where you have "80.4" from, this answer is a "best effort". The value you have calculated is close, so there may be a small error in your code. My guess is that you haven't correctly calculated the time as a Julian Day Number. The Julian Day changes at noon UT (probably as this means that the Julian Day doesn't change during the European night) Whereas most other systems of dates start and end at midnight. This can easily introduce a 12 hour error into your calculations. When you say "number of days since Jan 1 2000, are you starting your counting at noon or midnight? 

Antarctica is a good place for finding meteorites because it is undisturbed, and meteorites are the only rocks there. A meteorite that falls on the central ice fields gets covered with snow, and is carried by the ice towards the sea. They get exposed as the ice is eroded. The flowing of the ice concentrates meteorites in particular areas, and finally, as you note they are highly visible against the snow. Meteorites are also found in other undisturbed locations, such as deserts. In the sahara, meteorite hunting has been a profitable activity. These are not normally recent falls, but people are finding rocks that have fallen over thousands of years. It takes some skill to identify a meteorite. In build up areas the ground is disturbed and meteorites get lost. Meteors fall everywhere, but if a meteorite had fallen 1000 years ago near my home, it would be covered in undergrowth, covered by soil, ploughed over and then buried by houses. It is unlikely to be found. A meteorite that hits a concrete building won't embed in it. Meteorites are travelling at terminal velocity when they reach the ground, which is about 100mph: not that fast. The meteorite may shatter, or bounce off. It won't leave a classic crater as you see on the moon. 

Between September and March (ie winter, assuming a Northern Hemisphere location) The sun rises in the South East, is Due south at midday and sets in the South west. Your South facing window would get sun for as long as the sun is up. The North West facing window would only get a glimpse of the sun around sunset (and it would then be low and weak) Between March and September (Northern hemisphere summer) The sun rises in the North East, it is in the south between roughly 6am and 6pm, then sets in the North West. Your Southern window would get 12 hours of sun each day. The North West window would get some sun in the evening, and this sun would be low (weak but shining into the room) Overall the South facing window would get a lot more sun than the North West window. The reason is that the sun is always above a point on the Earth that is between 23.5 degrees North or South of the equator. For anyone in the Northern Hemisphere, the sun is usually South of them. A quantatative estimate of this could be done, but the actual values you got would depend on the Latitude and precise aspect of the two windows. However the result from SunCalc looks to be robust. The North West facing window will only get a little sun on summer evenings, and little or nothing during the winter. 

Big bang nucleosynthesis did not happen "close to the inflationary period". inflation happened at about $10^{-36}$s. Nucleosynthisis happened from about 10seconds. In relative terms, the ratio of the age of the universe now, to 10 seconds is much much smaller than the ratio of 10 seconds to $10^{-36}$s. And, significantly, nucleosynthesis occurred after inflation, so can't be the cause of inflation. As for dark energy, nobody has any real model for it. The test for any theory is how well it does empirically. As it stands you have advanced a pet theory, without any mathematical model or analysis. 

That is nearly long enough to reach heat-death, which is estimated as about $10^{10^{120}}$. What that means is rather speculative, since it depends on various events that we have never observed, such as the spontaneous formation of black holes by quantum tunnelling. Such events are utterly rare, but are predicted to occur at very long timescales. Any matter, will have at some time over a googolplex years quantum tunnelled into having enough mass to collapse as a black hole. So no matter will exist Any black hole will have evaporated in Hawking radiation. So no black holes exist. Redshift will reduce the energy of photos to the point where the wavelength is comparable to the scale of the universe. Nothing is happening in the universe. See $URL$ Now there is a: immovable object/unstoppable force paradox here, for in a universe that is spatially big enough, there are pockets of order among the chaos of heat death. 

The expression "speed of time" doesn't make much sense, since speed is the rate of change of position with time, and "time" doesn't have a position. Hence it doesn't have a speed. If you want to know the amount of time dilation at a given speed, it is answered by special relativity. $t' = t\gamma $ where $t$ and $t'$ are the amount of time that passes in the two frames, and $$\gamma = \frac{1}{\sqrt{1-v^2/c^2}} $$ At low speeds, $\gamma$ is approximately 1, and at high speeds it approaches $\infty$. To fit with your notion of the speed of time as being the relative rate of passing of time in the two frames, an expression for the speed of time would be $t/t' = 1/\gamma$, which is close to zero at high speeds, and close to 1 for low speeds. So the speed of time at low speed is equal to 1. 

There are about 5 sporadic meteors visible per hour most nights, and since thousands of people were taking photographs of the moon that night, it is not impossible that someone captured a meteor in the same shot as the moon. A couple of things it was not 

The Earth orbits the sun. The plane in which it orbits is called the Ecliptic plane, and perpendicular to the plane is a direction, known as the ecliptic pole. The direction of the Ecliptic pole is towards the constellation "Draco". The Earth's North pole doesn't point in the same direction. It points towards the pole star "Polaris" in Ursa Minor. The difference between these two poles is the axial tilt (it is about 23.5 degrees) Over time the direction of the North Pole changes, it moves in a circle around the Ecliptic pole, taking about 26000 years to complete one circuit. This is precession. The amount of tilt doesn't change much since the North Pole moves in roughly a circle. The tilt varies over a few degrees with a period of about 41000 years. The variation in tilt is not precession. So axial tilt and precession are not the same thing. One is the angle between the ecliptic pole and north pole, the other is the motion of the north pole relative to the ecliptic. 

Wikipedia actually has many pages on this subject. Transits of Jupiter, viewed from Saturn are rare. The calculations are done from the centre of the planet, rather than a moon, but the principle is clear: Transits of Jupiter are rare. The next, non-grazing transit of Jupiter visible from Saturn is in 7541. From Uranus in 2714, and from Neptune in 2188. But probably the most photogenic transit will be the transit of Saturn from Uranus in 2669. Saturn will also transit from Neptune in 2061, the only transit which we could live to see. Uranus will not transit from Neptune until 38172, and transits from Pluto or other KBO are even more rare, due to the high orbital inclinations. 

The Astronomy Picture of the day for the 23rd November 2015 has all the neblosity around Orion, in fantatic detail. The result of 212 hour exposure. 

Eta Eridani has a declination of about -8 degrees, so it is visible from most of the Northern Hemisphere. Eridanus is a constellation that is next to Orion, and like Orion, it is easiest to see during winter. The Eta Eridanids are a meteor shower that have a peak on about 11th of August. The radiant on that date is just south of Eta Eridani, at about -11 degrees. On 11th of August, Eta Eridani rises at about 3am in London, About an hour before twilight. Tokyo, which is much further south, and doesn't use Daylight saving, sees Eta Eridani rise at about 1am (local time). When you change location in Stellarium the time doesn't change. So if you change from London at 3am in August (UTC+1), the time in Tokyo will be 11 am (UTC+9). The Eta Eridanids are a minor shower with a ZHR of about 6 meteors per hour They will be visible whenever the radiant is above the horizon, but from more northern locations it is only visible for a short time. It also clashes with the Perseids. One may only see a couple of Eta Eridanids during the viewing window, which is why it was only identified in 2005. 

The reason why we centre our galactic coordinates on the sun is that is where we are. What actually is the purpose of a coordinate system‽ I'd like to be able to point to a body and say that it is at coordinates X, Y, Z (with uncertainties in each direction) Now we know the direction of the centre of the galaxy, but we don't know it's distance with accuracy. If we were to use the location of the centre of the galaxy for the galactic coordinates we could not give accurate coordinates for any of the local stellar objects. If we had a warp drive and could travel halfway across the galaxy before lunch then it might make sense to use a different set of coordinates. However, as things stand there is nothing wrong with being Earth centric. I have mentioned the remainder of the question in comments. 

We never saw a planet explosion with Hubble. To make something explode it has to produce a lot of energy in a very short time. Gravitational collapse and thermonuclear fusion in degenerate matter are two possible ways of producing enough energy to produce a supernova. These mechanisms can not cause a planet to explode. Planets are solid and supported by their own matter, so can't collapse, and they don't contain large amounts of hot degenerate matter, so don't have any kind of fusion. Planets don't produce much of their own energy, and there is no mechanism known that could cause a planet to explode. The closest you may get is planetary collisions, such as that which likely formed the moon. But these have never been directly observed. 

A bright, nearby star with a large exoplanet would be best. For example, the first star to have a transiting planet observed was HD 209458, in Pegasus. It has a magnitude of 7.65. When the large "hot jupiter" transits the star it dims by a relative flux of 0.984. That corresponds to a change in magnitude of about 0.016. I.e. it changes from a magnitude 7.65 star to a 7.67 star. If you know the radii you can calculate the relative flux during a transit by assuming the planet blocks all the light. The radius of the planet HD209458b is about 100000km and the star 800000km, so the planet has an area 1/64 of the area of the star's disc, and as expected 1-1/64 = 0.984: which is in good agreement with the light curve. That won't be noticeable with the naked eye, and is challenging for an amateur. A couple of links: 

Ultimately this is an application of Occam's razor In order for the light to be gravitationally redshifted, it would have to be coming out of a deep gravitational well. For the red shift observed in galaxies to be gravitational, you would have to suppose several things. First, that the stars in distant galaxies are somehow much denser: more than neutron star dense. (or possibly that entire galaxies are as dense as neutron stars.) A neutron star has a redshift of about z=0.35 distant galaxies have redshift of more than 7. No known object has a gravitational redshift like that. Secondly that the density is proportional to distance from us. Placing us at a special position in the universe. It is much simpler to interpret the redshift as a doppler redshift, and therefore an expanding universe 

All star names are unofficial. A few stars have ancient names (such as Sirius) all other stars are referred to by their position in a catalogue or star atlas. As well as I can tell, Al Sadira means "the ostrich", or perhaps in context "The (riverbank) ostrich" indicating a type of tree that grows by rivers (baby name sites offer "lotus tree"). There may be a list of Arabic star names that lists this star as Al Sadira(h) but the name is not in common use and won't be recognised by most people. The IAU name, Ran, from that of a Norse river goddess, is a recent innovation, and doesn't seem to be much used. The Bayer Designation "Epsilon Eridani" is by far the most well known. 

The sun does not orbit another star. A star, even a very small brown dwarf, would have been seen, if not in visible light then in the infra-red by the WISE survey. However there is no mystery about precession. The Earth is non-spherical, it is wider around the equator, and because the Earth is tilted with respect to the ecliptic, there is an asymmetry in the force of the sun, and the moon, on the Earth. This force pulls the axis of the Earth's rotation in a circle. The basic maths of this is not so hard, and is in the Wikipedia page on Axial precession. This explanation of axial precession was known to Newton. There is nothing controversial about it. The sun does orbit the galaxy it takes about 230000 years to complete one orbit. This has nothing to do with axial precession. The page you link to is worthless. It offers an "alternate explanation" of a phenomenon that is very well understood, and pretends that there is some mystery, where there is none. It the uses this to justify a lot of astrological nonsense. To repeat. 

There may be a particular effect. Smoke from wildfires or cities, fine dust in the atmosphere etc. can have the effect of making the moon appear redder. However it is most likely an example of observation bias. You noted that the moon appeared orange, and on subsequent nights you were looking for this effect. In fact it happens each moon rise. You just didn't notice it before (or if you did, it didn't make enough of an impression on you.) There are two forms of scattering that are applicable. Rayleigh scattering, and Mie scattering. There is also absorption of some colours. Rayleigh scattering occurs as the electromagnetic wave that is light causes the molecules of the air to act like little electic dipoles. The light then bounces of these electrically active molecules. Shorter wavelengths are affected more than longer ones. The light emitted by the sun is very slightly yellow. It is slightly reddened by scattering through the atmosphere. However it still contains a mixture of all visible colours, and so a prism will still show a complete rainbow. The reddening is not apparent to the eye, but can be measured by instruments. 

These processes will tend to change the surface, developing a patina on a timescale of a hundred thousand years. The surface will darken (though as marble is not a typical rock in asteroids, there isn't any direct evidence of what happens with marble. Marble is largely CaCO3, and this is in a equilibrium with CaO and CO2. At standard temperatures and even the very low partial pressure of CO2 in the atmosphere, this equilibium favours CaCO3. In our atmosphere one needs a temperature of 550⁰C to decompose Calcite. However in space there is no CO2, and so the Calcite would very slowly decompose to CaO. Calcium in meteorites is mostly in the form of CaO.