4-way DNA is also possible: substitute $\text{NH}_3$ in the diagram for $\text{CH}_4$, methane, which has 4 outer hydrogens and can thus form intermolecular bonds with 4 groups. 

Instead of thinking about how the body changes, I propose you think about how the food might change. In your world, there could have been a cataclysmic event that removed digestive enzymes from existence (what event that might be is the subject of another question...). This means that humans can no longer digest things because the enzymes that usually do it are nonexistent. The synthesised food, then, can be seeded with digestive enzymes in it. It would have to be eaten rather quickly to avoid the enzymes dying off, but it could be done. Alternatively, if you're fixed on a biological difference, you can simply have a group of humans who weren't affected by the cataclysm - perhaps they were in bunkers, or out colonising Mars when the cataclysm happened. Your type S humans would be those who were affected, and have to have their food seeded with enzymes, and the type R is those who weren't and can digest normally. Enzyme-seeded food could damage the type R humans by giving them stomach ulcers through a digestive overload - having too many digestive enzymes is a bad thing because they starts to digest your stomach lining and cause ulcers. 

All of these stars will produce helium. Not very sought after, you'll have incalculable amounts of it. 90% will produce [up to] iron. Again, not very valuable in terms of rarity. Just 10% will produce [up to] lanthanum. You're getting more valuable now. Lastly, only 3% will produce anything after that. These are the most valuable elements. 2 Therefore (in theory), in such a sector, most elements after lanthanum would be the most valued. However, in practice this would be a bit different. Let's have a look at Earth, where uranium is more common than gold, yet it's heavier so by the above definitions should be more rare. This is because the elements produced by stars in the early stages of the universe were scattered around and as such when the earth formed, it had a bit of an odd distribution of elements, and still does. 

Names are important, in fact one could argue that they are as important as the people behind them. They help add feeling to the characters and likely come from a specific cultural or subcultural group. Because of this, names need to fit in with your culture or you will have one big mess, after all, would you expect a Brit to be named Hakasaru? Or a Russian named Yoruba? It is important here that the naming customs of you culture fits in with the culture, but what is the best way to go about doing this? How can I make sure that the naming customs of my culture make sense and fit in with the culture itself? All Culturally Correct Questions 

Anyone who knows what the IPA is will know about manner of articulation and places places of articulation. Places of articulation are places like the glottis or lips, while manners are how how obstructed the air is; nasal, trill, fricative, etc. 

Compared to the vast majority of the world, North America is pretty bland when it comes to countries, we have the US, Canada and mexico, that's it. Now Cascadia, California and Texas were all at one point free, independent nations, what other section of North America could theoretically be free nations in the modern day? For a nation to count, it must be able to run independent from other nations, so Texas would count while a Vatican State rip off would not. The Alternate history must not go back farther than the 16 century. Also this ignores theoretical wars that did not happen, as to avoid broadness. 

Collapse. Gravity takes care of this. As soon as you remove the core from the Earth, you have a large void in the middle of it, and a lot of gravity acting straight towards the centre of that void. The void may also be a vacuum - depending on whether you replace the core with air or not - which will accelerate the collapse. It is worth noting that this is only possible because the mantle is liquid. If it were solid, the spherical shape would hold it together and the Earth would retain its shape. As Spacemonkey has said, the resulting loss of mass of the Earth would disturb the Moon's orbit. I'll go into some basic orbital mechanics to show why and how. The Moon has a stable orbit around Earth because as its velocity carries it forward, the gravity of the Earth pulls it sideways, resulting in a perpetual circle: 

I'm going to attempt to draw together a few ideas. 1. The Internet You state that the construction of this device is 'unintuitive'. However, think of how quickly we can communicate today, and how quickly things get leaked. Without serious government restriction, the plans for this thing will be easily Googleable within weeks, if not less. Even if your government does restrict this device, the plans will most likely still be available on the dark web. 2. Global Warming Free energy could have an effect on global warming. As mentioned in the comments, all the energy created will eventually dissipate as heat, which could eventually burn Earth to a crisp. Now, say it takes 30MJ (megajoules) to start up: $$ 30\text{ MJ} \times 300 = 9000 \text{ MJ} $$ $$ = 9\text{ GJ} $$ We get left with a 9 gigajoule output. If we take that and the heat capacity of air (which is 1.005 kJ/kg K at room temperature), we can work out the heating effect. The heat capacity tells us how much energy it takes to heat up 1 kilogram of air by 1o Kelvin. $$ 9\text{ GJ} = 9,000,000\text{ kJ} $$ $$ 9,000,000 \div 1.005 = 8955223.8805 $$ So, we can heat up approximately 8.95 million kilograms of air by 1oK. The approximate mass of the atmosphere is $5.1480 \times 10^{18}\text{ kg}$, so if the 9GJ output is output per second, then we need $(5.1480 \times 10^{18}) \div 8,950,000 = 5.75 \times 10^{11}$ seconds or around 18,239 years to heat up the entire atmosphere by 1oK (call it 18,000 to make up for my rounding). So, if you've only got a few of these devices then the effect won't be too bad (and certainly less than global warming is now), but you can see that it could become a problem. 3. Terrorism Sort of linked to the first point. If the plans for this are available on the internet, then it's a terrorist's dream come true. They can build it reasonably easily, it can be concealed fairly well (although admittedly it would get picked up at airports), and it does a fair amount of damage. If you want to put this device into a story I'd suggest rethinking the positive feedback idea. Perhaps you make it compulsory for these devices to have an earth or ground cable to siphon off the massive overload, or maybe you give each of them internal batteries to hold some charge. Yes, it could still be weaponised, but a weaponised version might stand out a bit. 

In the critically acclaimed horror film, The Thing, Blair determines that if the Thing was to reach civilization, it would take over all life on Earth in only 27 000 hours or a bit over three years. Is this number accurate? First for who haven't seen the film, a brief summary of The Thing's abilities; 

For all who are unaware, synesthesia is a condition in the brain where two or more senses are connected; for example being able to see sound or hear color. Of course they do not actually see color or hear sound, but their brain connects their sense, so they attribute certain sense to other senses. Is it possible for evolution to favor this condition and if so, is it possible for it to become not a condition, but a feature? 

How will the nations of the world(specifically Russia, America, Canada and Austrailia) react to this new threat? 

Upper part humans or Semisohominum - from Semisos meaning half and Hominum meaning human. This includes the species of; 

In my world, automation reaches a new level with the introduction of androids. Robotic human beings capable of doing any job a regular person can. The concept of these androids is that they can be used in a wide variety of jobs as opposed to simpler robotic workers. At a certain point in my world, I want these androids to be less like slaves and even gain rights and freedoms. To achieve this however, they must want to have these rights and freedoms; which means they would need to be sapient and self aware to an extent. Obviously this is a problem with the public scare concerning Artificial Intelligence. How do I justify an android being programmed with self awareness? How close can I get to justifying an android being truly human as far as the mind goes? 

If the mass of the Earth decreases suddenly, so does the sideways force on the Moon, so it moves more straight - away from Earth. As it does this, the force decreases further, so it moves even further away, and so on: 

Do the parts other people don't. If you've read a lot, you'll notice that there are certain things that often get missed out: 

The world record for breath-holding is 20 minutes 21 seconds. However, not only will he be walking (or running) while trying to escape, but likely he's not the holder of that record. Most normal people can only hold their breath for around 2 minutes. Although that figure would be reduced with physical exertion, I'll leave it at that for simplicity and cell security. Usain Bolt runs at nearly 15m/s (~30mph). Again, our wizard is likely not him. Most normal people run at around 7-8m/s, 16.5-18mph. That means, in 2 minutes, an average person can run 960m. That's a lot. This figure does get reduced, however, since this wizard isn't breathing; assuming a quadratic reduction of his speed per unit distance, we get a figure around 450m. Still, building walls that thick is impractical, but there are ready-made walls you can use: underground. Imprison him deep in the Earth's crust and fill up your access holes with cement. If you give these people access to more advanced technology, you can install a video link and microphones for communication. 

The predator becomes unable to hunt further and dies. However, since it's an effective energy conserver, it may still live for a long time and maybe even procreate. It regrows the spike. Plausible if the spike is a modified tooth and the ancestors had regrowing teeth ($URL$ Instead of regrowing the spike, the predator may pick it up and reuse, or grab a stone and hit lesser animals with it. Seems less likely than (2), but still. 

Just look out of the ship's window. Planets are brighter than most stars, and the position of any star bright enough to be mistaken for a planet (e.g. Sirius viewed from sun) may be calculated in advance. 

If scenario 2 holds and regrowing the spike is no big deal (relatively), it may become advantageous to deliberately release the spike. From here, sky's the limit: our guy may improve his own precision or the missile's aerodynamics. There are obvious problem with this scenario. How does this predator deal with scavengers? It kills the prey, but how does it keep it? Isn't it better to wait another week for a closer prey instead of all these efforts? However, who knows the exact selection pressures in our fantasy world? Not me. 

I agree with the excellent description of evolutionary constraints by @TechZen. However, there is one scenario that seems remotely plausible to me. In short, the evolution could go: Venomous spike -> Moving spike -> Spike on a spring -> Flying spike. Let me explain in more detail. The ancestor would have been an energy-conserving animal like a sloth or a python. It would lie on the ground and wait for an animal to scratch its foot on the spike and die, then the predator would devour the dead body. Or maybe it would hang on the branch and fall down on its prey. Such a creature could even evolve from something like our snakes. Next step: some degree of the spike's movement. Wiggle it a bit so that if the prey passes an inch to the left, our guy doesn't stay hungry. Key preadaptation for the next step would be muscles allowing protruding, stabbing movement. Eventually, the weapon would turn into a spike on a muscle spring, thrown for several meters. It could sometimes get stuck in the prey and torn off, with the following possible outcomes: 

To my knowledge no, while they would need long necks, the tails and skulls are not really necessary, there are alternatives. 

If the sea levels of Earth were to suddenly rise by 49 meters, or 160.7 feet, what would the world map look like? 

The Spriggan is a tree-like creature native to the Elder Scrolls, where they are often found in forests and groves. In appearance, a Spriggan appears to be made of entirely wood and a glowing source that the people claim as magic, they are also claimed to be tree spirits due to the fact that they are always found in areas that feature trees or other flora. There seems to be two variations of Spriggans as some walk on two legs, while others walk on four. Is there a realistic way that a Spriggan could evolve? Is there a reason that a Spriggan couldn't evolve? What evolutionary factors would support the Spriggan? A list of all of the Anatomically Correct questions can be found here. 

In a world I am building, the days last 9 years. One of the results of this is that many species have evolved to sleep like dolphins, one half of their brain at a time. The two sides and thus two personalities never are conscious at the same time. Everybody is like this. If such a system were to exist, how would these each personality keep track of what the other is doing while they are unconscious? 

If you're looking at a mathematical relationship, you could almost use the consequences of crimes at the moment to compute a value: $$ P \propto \frac{1}{\text{length of jail term}} $$ $$ P = \frac{k}{\text{length of jail term}} $$ That is, the number of people who can commit a crime before society descends into chaos is inversely proportional to the length of the jail term imposed as a result of committing the crime today (or equivalent jail term, if the punishment is of a different nature). The actual value of $k$ depends on a number of things, including how close you want to be to chaos at $P$. 

It is unlikely to abate then resume. Many viruses have a life of just a few minutes outside the human body; even the more deadly viruses like Ebola and anthrax (though not technically a virus) have a lifetime of a few hours. For example, the Plague did this: killed off a load of people, then died out. Admittedly it was helped in London by the Great Fire in 1666, but in many other places it just died out. 

Now I come on to the unlikelihood of this actually happening. You're talking 15th century communication, medicine, technology. So just briefly: for this to happen, all these countries (which are long distances apart) would have to communicate, agree and all carry out this plan, while maintaining a good enough population to stay populated and keep the strategy going. Admittedly it is possible, but it's fairly unlikely.