Aristotle refers to this in Politics. For example, in Book IV he states that a society with a large middle class (i.e. low inequality) is the "best constitution" of society. A quote in extenso below (from here): 

This is, appropriating something (e.g. land) is valid as long as it comes from its own work and there is sufficient left for others. The issue for which I have found no clarification in the text is the following. Say that a boat with 100 people crashes into a deserted, isolated island. Each one appropriates a 100th of the land. A few years later, another boat with 100 people crashes into the island. Since these people have no land, they must rent a place from the landowners. Yet, if the original 100 individuals would have appropriated half of the land, they would have left space for the rest to also own some land. Thus, is the original appropriation of land not in line with Locke's conditions? It might seem evident that Locke's condition about being enough for others refers to contemporary fellow men, and not a future with larger population. But can we simply dismiss the problem I am raising as such? This is, can we just say that, because a resource was divided in a time when population was small, there is no injustice in any sense by any subsequent situation where just a small proportion of the larger population owns the resource? Had Locke something to say on this respect? Maybe in another text of him? 

This proof seems quite trivial, and is incredibly convincing! But, is all we've done convince ourselves? I would bet my life that $$$$ is a theorem, but I still cannot truly say that there are no errors in our proof above. I do not see how we could know that we have properly used our rule of inference, and in particular: how do we know we are justified in using a rule of inference at all? Isn't this a hidden assumption we are making? It seems to me that there are hidden assumptions in all proofs--there seems to even be an assumption in rigorous proofs that we have not made any hidden assumptions! So, when we "prove" something, are we really just coming up with arguments that convince us, and are just suffering from "logical hubris" when we assert theorems to be true? I'm by no means a philosopher by training, so please don't assume too much of me! I hope this questions makes sense, thanks. 

My question is, do paradoxes necessarily require a successful explanation in order to be considered a paradox? In other words, is there such a thing as an unexplained paradox? Or that would be called a puzzle, a problem, or a mystery? I am particularly interested in paradoxes in science. Notice that there are of course a multitude of problems in science that have not been resolved, but they do not necessarily have to be paradoxes in the sense defined above. 

I read here and here that, strictly speaking, there are no counterexamples to Occam's rozar, because the latter implies no need for pluralism when unecessary, which is to be understood as "for the theory to be correct". For example, if a simple theory like "all material entities are composed of fire, water, air, and earth" is false (as it is), the fact that the composition of matter is more complex it cannot be considered a valid counterexample. But then, under this interpretation of necessity, Occam's razor become a bit of a tautology: "more realism/complexity is not needed unless it conforms with reality", or equivalently, "simple theories that do not conform with reality are false". Thus, how precisely one is to interpret Occam's razor in order to enable counterexamples, and so that it does not become a useless tautology? 

It's important to draw a distinction between useless and valueless. Music and art could be called "useless" in that they have no practical applications to the real world, but our lives are immensely better because of them: most people would be unwilling to give them up. A similar case can be made for modern research, especially in fields like pure mathematics, pure science, and philosophy. These fields have few (if any) practical applications to the real world, but it is absurd to say that they have no value: whether or not they are "useless", our lives are vastly greater because of them. If humanity focused solely on practical problems (e.g. building stronger bridges, finding more efficient ways to purify water, creating faster computer processors), I would be forced to ask "What's the point? Shouldn't we just try to enjoy our lives? To truly live?" For many people, solving practical problems doesn't bring joy and meaning into their lives; value comes from passion, spirituality, relationships, and understanding of one's place in the world. The world where people solely focus on practical applications isn't a world fit for humans, because it's art, music, philosophy, pure science, that tell us how we should live our lives, what our role is in this universe, and what it means to be human. So, in response to your question "how is philosophy useful?" I would say that as far as I know philosophy has at best few practical applications. But, in response to your other question, "Is philosophy really necessary?", I declare absolutely. 

(The text before the double quotes is by Burns and she gives the sources as Journals, 291, 281 and 285.) As someone who is extremely appreciative of Rand and at least superficially familiar with Nietzsche I venture to guess that they indeed both understood by that the same (and to me rather obvious) idea: That only very few people achieve great things while a majority likes telenovelas. A more well-known connection to Nietzsche can be found in the foreword of "The Fountainhead", where Rand admits to have considered putting the following quotation in her novel: 

I have a very rudimentary understanding of Locke's labor theory of property. The key argument is expressed in Chapter 5 of Book II of the Two Treatises of Government: 

Say doctrine A claims premise X to be true, and Y to be false. Say doctrine B claims premises X and Y to be true. There is some sense (I believe; you might want to confirm), in which the "burden of proof" is tilted to the side of B. This is, there is no "responsibility" for individuals in A to justify "why Y is not true" (or at least lower than that of individuals in B in justifying Y). Now, let us add a temporal dimension. Let us say that first, it was doctrine B. Then, a rupture appeared, whereas a group of individuals denied Y. Thus appeared doctrine A. Given this temporal structure, is it now the "burden of proof" tilted towards the side of A? In a sense, they rejected Y, thereby giving origin to the second doctrine. Is this the case if we focus only on the individuals belonging to A and B (i.e. those who believe in X), without requiring them to prove to the rest of the world that actually, X is true? Is this analysis of a philosophical school? Does this analysis has a name? How can I approach this question from a philosophical point of view? Any reference is more than welcomed. PS: Behind this abstract question, lays an analysis of the history of Christianty, whereby Reformation emerged primarily as a negation of many Catholic doctrines. I think the question itself is independent of this background, but it might be informative to give it anyway. PS2: I hope tags are well selected. Please change if not the case. 

I think I can contribute some points even though I have to admit limited knowledge about Nietzsches philosophy. What I do know from biographical information ("Godess of the market" by Jennifer Burns) is that she was familiar and quite sympathetic to Nietzsche in her younger years. From that biography I also have the following quotation: 

This view might be one of the crucial intersection of Nietzsche with Rand and thus give the impression of her being a blend of Nietzsche with something else. These points of contact nonwithstanding, the claim of Rand's philosophy being a blend of Nietzsche with American individualism is wrong. Since American individualism isn't an actual philosophy, it suffices to show philosophical work that has no precedence in Nietzsche. I've picked three articles that together spread over a range of fields in philosophy and should be comprehensible and intriguing. They should show that there are numerous gems of ideas in Rand's philosophical work - gems that (to my knowledge) are not of Nietzschean origin. I also made sure to pick unusual ones (as opposed to writings dealing with selfishness, capitalism and reason, which are the usual suspects when it comes to Rand). 

By our rule of inference and our axiom, we know that $$$$ is a theorem. By our rule of inference and the theorem $$$$, we know that $$$$$ is a theorem. 

In mathematics and logic, it seems that once a proof of some theorem is discovered, then it is taken to be "absolute truth" within the axiomatic system from which it was derived. My question is: are we fully justified in asserting this? For example, suppose we were to assume that the string $$$ is an axiom, and we take as a rule of inference that if a string of dollar signs is a theorem or axiom, then that string with one more dollar sign added on is also a theorem. Then, we might give the following as a proof of $$$$$: 

Marx's argument in the theory of exploitation is that capitalists do not need to sell their labour power in the market in order to live, whereas workers need to do so. As such, workers are not really "freely and voluntarily" participating in the labour market. This power differentiation enables the capitalists to exploit the worker, extracting surplus value from the latter. Yet, if a (sufficiently generous) universal basic income (UBI) were to be implemented in a given country, workers would not need to offer their labour in the market. Anyone who does so, would do it freely and voluntarily. This not only eliminates the "slavery" side of the argument but it might also reduce (albeit not eliminate) the level of surplus value extracted to the worker (because, essentially, is giving more power to the latter). Therefore, any "exploitation" in such context is entirely agreed by the worker when entering a work contract. Is this correct? Is exploitation no longer exploitation when no coercion is involved in the transaction? Would then UBI be such a "solution" to exploitation? 

I'm giving my own view of the matter which is the answer that Ayn Rand might have given. I will have to reformulate your questions, as otherwise the "without objection from anyone" will make any attempt moot: You cannot prove even the simplest and most obvious things in a way so that everyone agrees with you. But agreement isn't the standard of objectivity. Just take modern science. I'd say that having landed on the moon and created the internet with sites such as this one makes a case that at least some of the sciences have objective truth, as they are used extensively in the technology that brought these things about. That doesn't mean that no person on the planet still holds superstitious beliefs. In fact I would even claim that a great many people exhibit a strange attraction to the irrational rather than a curiosity about the unknown. The question whether morality is objective has to be asked under the same light: Not if you can convince a majority (or in fact anybody) of the objective correctness of certain moral values, but whether they are of use to you - in other words, whether they are practical. The objective standard of correctness for your science of engineering is whether you can built cars with it and airplanes - the objective standard of your science of morality is whether you are guided by it through your life on a path that makes your life good. The question of what a good life is is much harder, but in this context it suffices to show that there is something of an objective standard: To be sick, unhappy, and to die is bad, to make pleasurable experiences, to be healthy and happy is good. This goes for animals and humans alike and those things are objectively true - I doubt that anybody disagrees here. The difference to non-human animals is only that human beings have more reason, plan more ahead and thus need rational guiding principles to lead a good life. For example, if someone simply doesn't understand the concept of ownership and just takes what he pleases, he will find his victims to organize against him. This is independent of a specific legal framework and holds in modern societies as much as in the most primitive of tribes. In fact the legal frameworks in modern societies are this organized defense against (objective) immorality to a great extent. It's more difficult to give a positive example, but say someone was a curious child, learned as an adolescent, became productive, made rich life experiences, founded a company and a family and eventually died of old age among his loved ones. That's better, and fairly objectively so. If someone begs to differ even here on this last example being better than the former, he shall prove so by starting to steal. There are two more interesting concerns generally raised at this point. The first is that it's not clear what exactly constitutes "better" in many cases. Let's not be distracted by this question: It's also not clear how one would order "mistakes" in natural sciences. That doesn't mean that there is no right and wrong, no more or less fitting models of the universe or the weather. It is completely sufficient to understand that death is bad and life is good - objectively so - and that all more complex questions have an answer in between, no matter how difficult the answer might be. The second concern is regarding the clash of this view of ethics with the conventional one in cases where they contradict. For example, one often hears: "What if I can steal without getting caught? Is it moral then?" Yes. But you can't. At least not for long. Everyone needs other people, but career criminals need other people as victims: That means they need someone who doesn't benefit from this "relationship". Maybe the criminal can overpower or outwit his victims' resistance for a while, but ask yourself honestly: Given the game theoretical setup here, do you think becoming a career criminal is an intelligent career choice? At least it's obvious that most people don't choose that path. Many might claim altruistic motives for such a decision and I concede they might themselves even believe that. I would still hold that the fear that such a decision probably is a really bad idea helps them in their choice. Such a selfish motivation just doesn't sound very heroic - in fact it sounds rather cowardly - which could be one reason why people often really don't like that kind of reasoning. There are a lot more objections along that line that would justify being answered, but I don't want to make this answer excessively long. I would maintain that I said enough to make a point for objective morality. The most important thing to realize is that morality isn't just "rules we can all agree on" (although that can be a part of it). In doesn't start with other people at all. It's how you, the researcher of ethics, can improve your life - and getting along well with others will obviously be only a part of that, just as defending yourself from certain other individuals is too.