I don't know specifically about the chemicals used in naval guns, but modern handgun bullets have the oxidizer included in the chemicals inside the cartridge, so they ought to work in a vacuum. I suspect naval guns are the same for the same reasons, but I'll defer on that to anyone on here who actually knows. Even if present naval guns require atmospheric oxygen to ignite, the technology to include the oxidizer in the cartridge is clearly there, so there's no reason why it couldn't be done on a spaceship. Presumably an artillery gun would work better in the vacuum of space than on Earth, because it doesn't have to overcome air resistance. Once the projectile leaves the barrel, it will continue moving in a straight line at a constant speed until it hits something. Not quite in real life, because space isn't 100% vacuum. It will hit dust particles etc that will eventually slow it down. But it will go a long way before that makes a significant difference. If the battle is taking place in orbit, then gravity may eventually pull the shell toward the planet, where it will either burn up in the atmosphere, or not and hit the ground. I say "may" because if the shell is travelling faster than escape velocity it will just fly off into space. I don't think losing air when you fire would be a big issue. Yes, you have to open the barrel to load another shell. I'd assume this would be done by machinery and not by people hand-carrying shells, in which case the whole mechanism could be in a part of the ship separate from the crew quarters, and where everything operates in a vacuum. Or if people need to hand load it, fine, you have airtight doors on the gun barrels. They'd presumably have to be pretty well sealed anyway so the force of the blast is directed outward, to propel the shell out of the barrel, and not into the firing ship, killing the gun crew. Yes, you can have explosions in space. The key difference is that with no air, you won't produce a shock wave. If you want the shell to do more damage than just punching a hole in the enemy ship, it will have to be loaded with shrapnel. Yes, the speed of an artillery shell is slow compared to orbital velocities. But if you and the target are both in the same orbit going in the same direction, your relative velocity is zero, and so the artillery shell will have the same effective velocity that it does here on Earth. The operative question is the delta-V of the target: how fast can it maneuver out of the way when it sees the shell coming. If you're at close enough range that the shell hits within a couple of seconds, maybe the target doesn't have time to react. An artillery shell is limited in speed because all the impetus to get it moving has to come from one blast, and there are practical limits to how fast you can release energy. And even if you could impart a very high velocity very fast, the g-forces would damage or destroy the projectile. A rocket can go faster than a shell because it continues to expend energy to accelerate over time. That acceleration can add up to a higher total velocity. Thus, I tend to doubt that space war will use artillery shells. Rockets seems more likely. Assuming that overall lasers or other "beam weapons" don't prove more effective. An advantage of a simple projectile is that it is more difficult to counter. Guided missiles can be neutralized with electronic counter measures, i.e. doing something to confuse or disable the guidance system. But a simple dumb projectile isn't vulnerable to that kind of defense. If someone fires an artillery shell at you, the best defense is probably jumping out of the way. Maybe some kind of anti-missile. Oh, I presume someone capable of building spaceships is capable of building targeting systems for their projectiles that can deliver them to the desired point with a high degree of accuracy, and make due allowance for movement of the target. As long as the target doesn't see the shell coming and take evasive action, I'd expect you'd hit almost every time. 

On the one hand, I think it would not be that hard. You wear a mask, like Batman et al. So people could take pictures of you, analyze them, and say, "Ah, he must be 6'1" and weigh about 190 pounds. Even though he wears a mask we can see some skin around his eyes and mouth so we know that he's white." Maybe a few other clues. But there would be millions of people in the world who would fit such a general description. Presumably a super hero doesn't show a driver's license or his passport when he's running around doing super hero things. In that sense it would be easier for a super hero than for an illegal alien -- he wouldn't need any fake IDs. What would make it hard, though, is, sooner or later someone will try to follow you. It can't be all that tough to follow the Batmobile back to the Batcave. Now you know where Batman's secret lair is. What stops someone from waiting an hour or two and then breaking in? Or if the entrance is too secure for that, scout around and find where that might be other entrances. If the Batcave is directly beneath Wayne Manor, how tough can it be to think of the possibility that there may be a connection? Now you're not looking for anyone in the world with the same general height, weight, and build of Batman, but whether Bruce Wayne or someone else in his household fits this description. When you notice that, yes, Bruce Wayne is about the same size and build as Batman, and what a coincidence, his ward Dick Grayson is the same size and build as Robin, you have grounds for real suspicion. I'm not a big fan of super hero stories, but I've always wondered that no one seems to make a serious effort to track down the hero's secret identity. In real life, wouldn't reporters and curiosity seekers follow him back to his lair? Wouldn't there be a crowd waiting every time he came out the "secret" entrance, taking his picture and trying to get autographs? 

You'd have to know how magic works to answer. If the magic bears any resemblance to known physics, the energy has to come from somewhere. Does it come from the chemical energy in the magician's body? That would make throwing fireballs that destroy a building impossible. Maybe he uses the chemical energy in his body like some sort of catalyst to move energy in the surrounding world, like pushing a boulder over a cliff. Maybe the energy comes from a pool of mana that's just out there waiting for a magician to draw on it. Maybe there's some mechanism to manipulate mana, akin to burning oil to make an engine run. If you want your story to have magic that operates according to rational rules, you'll have to figure out what those rules are. Lots of fantasy stories don't worry about it, they just declare that the magician can throw fire balls or raise zombie armies or whatever, and that's it. Personally, I always balk at stories where the magic is not governed by any discernable rules -- other than, "what suits to the author to advance the plot at this point". I really dislike stories where in chapter 1 the wizard can throw a fireball that destroys a city but in chapter 5 he is overpowered and captured by an ordinary guy with a club, with no explanation why he couldn't destroy his attacker with a similar fireball. But maybe that's just me. If I was writing a fantasy story, I'd try to work out some "theory" about how magic works. Like let's say there's this form of energy unknown to 21st century physicists. Let's call it "mana". And let's say it can be manipulated by saying just the right words and making just the right hand gestures. Then it follows that the way for a magician to increase his power is to study the workings of mana and learn more about what effect any given hand gesture, etc, has. He could do research in much the way that a chemist or physicist does research. Once he knows the principles, he probably needs to practice and train to get the hand gestures just right. Another obvious theory would be that there are good and evil spirits in the world, ghosts or whatever, and that magic works by convincing or forcing these beings to do your will. I'm sure many other theories are possible, in the sense of, would be internally consistent and at least vaguely plausible. 

Hmm, if we use a system to encrypt the text that doesn't look like code but like plausible names, like we encrypt "Rhine River" as "Harold's Mountains", then to someone trying to read the map, it might look like an ordinary map, and he just can't figure out where this place is. If he doesn't realize it's in code, he won't try to crack the code. It would be easy enough to have some substitution cypher that treats common terrain names, like "River", "City", "Bridge", etc, as units that are transformed into each other according to some set and reversible rules. Like arrange them in a list and then go up or down so many slots in the list based on the position of the word on the map or other words around it. 

Seems to me the bigger challenge is how to PREVENT someone from doing this. We've seen it happen over and over again in history, from Julius Caesar to Adolf Hitler to, etc. How to do it? Several things come to mind. One: Incrementalism. You don't just announce, the day after you won the election with 51% of the vote, that you are abolishing the constitution, declaring yourself dictator for life, sentencing all political opponents to prison camps, etc. Rather, you take small steps. You roll back one right here and impose one new restriction there. Then people grumble about the lost freedom, but no one action is big enough to trigger massive protests or armed rebellion. Until it's too late. Two: Don't admit that you are making yourself dictator. Explain that of course you believe in all these important rights and freedoms, you are not taking them away, you have no intention of taking them away, you are just imposing some common-sense restrictions to prevent the abuse of these freedoms. Three: When you expand your power, do it on an issue where a lot of people in the country agree with you. Don't violate the constitution to ram through a policy that 90% of the country think is a bad idea. Do it on something where a majority agree with you, or at least a strong minority. Then when opponents challenge your power grab, you can confuse the issue by talking about how they are trying to block this popular policy, and divert attention from your power grab. Four: Alternative to number three, grab power using issues that no one cares about, and then next time around you can use this as a precedent. Little known fact: Nowhere does the U.S. Constitution give the Supreme Court the authority to strike down a law as "unconstitutional". Indeed this idea was proposed at the constitutional convention and voted down. The court simply decided it must have power in the case of Marbury v Madison in 1803. And the case they picked to expand their power: what paperwork is required for someone to become a justice of the peace in Washington DC. I doubt many people cared about the outcome of this case other than the handful of people who had been appointed justice of the peace and whose jobs were now in jeopardy. Five: Never say that you want to make yourself dictator because you are power hungry or want to feed your own ego. Everything you do is always for the good of the people. You just have no choice but to defy the legislature: you tried to get them to pass this vitally needed law, and they refused. You had to take action or all these terrible things would happen. Six: Demonize your political opponents. Whenever someone challenges your power grabs, accuse him of evil motives. He's opposing you to protect his own power, out of pure partisanship, because he's a racist or a Nazi or whatever insult works in your societey, he wants to oppress and exploit the people and you're trying to protect the people from folks like him, etc. Seven: Find ways to prevent your opponents from organizing against you. For example, push through campaign finance laws that are carefully constructed to make it difficult for opponents to raise money, while interfering only minimally with you. Of course you never say that the goal is to handicap your opponents, it's always to "fight corruption" and "make the system more fair for everyone" and the like. Stack the organizations that enforce the law with your partisans. Then when your friends break the law, you ignore it or give them a slap on the wrist. When your opponents break the law, you come down hard, denounce them for trying to subvert democracy, and get key leaders put in jail. Make the law is complex so your opponents can never be sure exactly what they have to do to obey the law. Eight: Get the media on your side. There are many ways to do this. In the long term, have your friends join media organizations and work their way up, until they fill the ranks. Get wealthy friends to buy important news outlets. Make friends with media leaders: tell them how important they are and how valuable to democracy and so on, give them "exclusive interviews", pass laws that are popular with the media now and then, etc. If you can do this, then you can make sure that the public hears a version of events favorable to you. When you slip up, they can bury the story. When your opponents slip up, they can trumpet it over and over. Oh, and to make this most effective, in editorial pages and talk shows, DON'T have just your side presented. Rather, have your side presented by articulate, attractive people. Then have your opponents' side presented by people who are carefully chosen to be totally unlikable, and who present the weakest arguments. No matter how fair and wise and well-reasoned your opponents are, you can always find SOMEONE who agrees with them who is ugly and stupid and selfish and so on. And if that actually gets hard, you can create fake organizations that will claim to side with your opponents but are really your stooges. Nine: Long term: Get the education system on your side. Similar to eight. Then have them indoctrinate the next generation. Subtly at first, of course. Get history classes to teach how the failed policies of your opponents did so much harm to the country. Get economics classes to teach how much more propserous the nation would be if only we had economic policies that put more power in the hands of the central government. Teach members of minority groups that they are helpless and powerless and need a powerful central government to protect them from exploitation. Etc. Well, I could go on. Note that none of this is ideas original with me. They're all things I've observed others do, mostly thinking of U.S. politics. 

We don't have to indulge in wild speculation. While there haven't been any crises that wiped out the entire world since the Flood, there have been plenty of lesser crises that wiped out a nation, like invading armies or particularly large natural disasters. And what happens? There's no reason for money to still have value, as the government that backs it is going down. But in practice it doesn't become worthless, but prices skyrocket. Some number of people will still accept money in exchange for something that will actually help you escape, but they demand huge amounts of money. I guess this makes sense if you assume that the probability that the nation will be destroyed is not 100%. If you think there's some small chance that the nation will survive and money will still have value, then it makes sense to still accept money, but the smaller you think the chance of the government surviving, the less the money would be worth. Rich people have not just cash in the bank but things: cars, planes, or boats that can be used to escape, large tracts of land to hide, shelters, etc. Sure, a mob could attack and steal these things, but the rich person has the advantage that he's holding them now. For someone to steal it, they have to know that he has, and they have to know where it is, and they have to overcome whatever effort he makes to defend it. If I was rich and I saw a global disaster coming, I'd start immediately on building a shelter or escape rocket or whatever. As long as the disaster is far enough away that people still have lives to lead in the meantime, money will still be of value to them. And as long as there is some question about whether the disaster will really happen, people who doubt it will gladly accept money to help build your shelter. After all, there have been many predictions of apocalypse over the centuries, and to date the world is still here, they've all proven false. So depending on the nature of the disaster, there may well be plenty of people who will doubt that it will really happen. In the movies, of course the disaster really does come, and the doubters are all shown up as fools for failing to listen to the warnings while they had the chance. But in real life, usually the disaster does NOT come, and the people who sold everything they owned and fled to a shelter in the wilderness are laughed at. As long as there's doubt, money will still have value. Oh, rich people often have one other asset: leadership skills. When everyone is in a panic, someone can often walk in and take charge. If you can put on an air of authority, act confidently, and have the competence to do it, people will listen to you. Lots of people throughout history have managed to convince armies of people -- and literal armies -- to follow them using the shear force of their personality.