The author is trying to argue that there is a fundamental division between act and rule utilitarians, and that these utilitarians are then further divided into flavours, such as preference and hedonistic: 

The sentence in the Wikipedia article prior to the one you cited gives a rough idea of how Foucault moves towards to structuralism. 

Foucault has clearly moved away from a phenomenological perspective if he now concerns himself with the meaning of a sign or a fact such as madness, and how that sign is defined by cultural and political agendas, rather than possessing an objective definition. Concurrently Foucault addresses the impossibility of an objective definition for such a term that is not intrinsically biased. 

This indicates already that to be any of these things, you need to think for yourself and you need to think in a certain way. Your thinking needs to become structured, not to preclude novel, out of the box approaches to problems but to enable you to understand what you are learning in your own terms, rather than simply memorising somebody else's terms. The Socratic Method is ideal because, as I said, as an instructor you will appeal to your students to think about how to solve a problem and the only way they will arrive at the correct answer is to think like a philosopher, computer scientist or mathematician. The further advantage with the Socratic Method is that you will require your students to justify their answer, so even if they happen on the correct answer or a strong thesis, they have to understand why it is correct or strong in order to be right. Thus when a student gives an incorrect answer, you reply with an explanation of the flaws in their logic and they will have a blueprint for how to improve; when a student answers correctly, they are made aware of the fact that their thinking was correct and that they should refine and apply their way of thinking to future questions. In epistemological terms, you can view the Socratic Method as a way of embedding procedural knowledge in your students, rather than making them memorise propositional knowledge. In computer science terms, you are giving students imperative knowledge rather than declarative knowledge. You are not just feeding them definitions and rules from which they would be lucky to intuit the abstract nature of the subject at hand; you are not even just giving them a recipe or an instruction set leading to the correct answer for them to analyse. You are making the students think about how to formulate such a recipe and inviting them to challenge rules, to play Devil's advocate, all for the purpose of being wrong. Obviously some people possess natural talents, truly intuitive grasps of subjects like mathematics, but the Socratic Method appeals to all students. It refines the students who are already adept and it brings the uninitiated up to speed by forcing them to make mistakes. If we do not grasp something intuitively, we learn by trial and error, and what better way to force trial and error than to ask your students to give answers before being comprehensively shown how to answer? They will make mistakes and they will learn from them. Once you have students thinking for themselves, you can expect for your students to eventually challenge you—the definition of a great teacher according to Aristotle: 

In Holland's Introduction to Schizoanalysis, the author states that Desire produces the Real analogously to the production of evidence in a courtroom: Desire structures and invests our perceptions. Consider the ardent natural scientist, completely convinced that only the hard sciences can offer 'true' knowledge. Can we accurately say that this person's reality is 'produced' in the sense of their investment of Desire into the scientific mode of knowledge? In short, does Desire produce reality in the sense of determining how we organize and percieve phenomena? 

If we resolve the problem of information overload by simply calling the BwO the 'attained' phase space or as consisting of those configurations which have been 'experienced', then it would seem we have a fairly cohesive picture: At the climax of the desiring-machine or equivalently, the experience, e.g. when the baby has had its fill of milk, the connective-synthetic bonds dissolve and their energy records a 'memory' of that experience in an (indeterminate) code of representation. Yet this seems to clash in some respects with the language D+G use to describe the recordings, specifically how they are "on" the BwO. We could instead take the BwO to be an image of the body as an undifferentiated mass, or equivalently at the point where every organ is in a state of quiescence; the disjunctive synthesis would then attach to each quiescent organ the phase space of possible (or attained) assemblages grafted onto that organ. For example, we have the series "either resting hand or hand-object A or hand-object B or hand-object C...;" all of which are written in parallel on the BwO's hand, so to speak. 

Is the presentation of the disjunctive synthesis as a series "either.... or.... or... or..." a series of equivalent means of describing the 'location' of a particular body-organization in different sign-systems? Does the illegitimate use of the disjunctive synthesis then consist in restricting such to some finite set of sign-systems? How does the unconscious contain the Body without Organs? How can it contain all possible configurations of organs, since this is of course an infinite amount of information? 

The issue is you're approaching the problem in a different direction. The theodicy you lay out is derived from these premises: 

The phrase you are looking for is the "beatific vision". It is the idea that our perceptions of beauty, truth and goodness in this world are a glimpse into a deeper reality which is accessed through the soul and self knowledge. The first occurrence I know of is in Plato's Republic, which explains how seeing the Forms frees a person from slavery and teaches them who they really are, and uses the city as an image of the soul in order to understand a correctly ordered soul. This theme is picked up by Christian philosopher theologians such as Boethius, Augustine, Justin Martyr, Bonaventure and Aquinas. It is also a standard hermeneutic principle during the Middle Ages, where the deepest meaning of religious scripture is how the soul achieves the beatific vision. In fact, it is the defining pursuit of philosophy and theology during this time. The best popular expression of this idea is the Divine Comedy by Dante, which is a story about the escape of the soul from a false understanding of self to achieving the beatific vision. 

While not a logical proof, this appears to be a practical disproof of AI. If it were possible to replace programmers, with all the brainpower and sheer quantities of money directed at computer science we'd have discovered an algorithm to replace programmers by this point. But we haven't. Instead, the number of programmers is increasing rapidly. Therefore, programmers can solve a class of problems that algorithms cannot. Since AI is a kind of algorithm, true AI that replicates human intelligence is impossible. Is there any evidence to the contrary? NOTE: Giving credit where credit is due, this argument I took from the following paper where it is argued much better: $URL$