Nowadays there are so many different high-tech materials, so I wonder if there is a suitable material for bicycle locks that would be much less heavy than hardened steel. If there isn't one, can somebody explain from the perspective of materials science why? The only non-steel material used in locks that I could find is Kevlar, but mostly just as a coating around steel, and from various reviews I don't get the impression that they are better or lighter than ordinary steel ones. My understanding is that kevlar has good tensile strength (so gun bullets can't tear kevlar fabric) but it doesn't resist being sawn or cut. Carbon fibres would presumably have similar issues, it's fairly easy to damage carbon frames if you compress them so a potential carbon fibre lock wouldn't resist bolt cutters. So are there any light materials that would have the correct properties for a bike lock? And if not, why not? 

There is no definite yes or no answer whether helmets are effective. It is a choice which level of risk you want to accept, balanced against the inconvenience. When you search for "bike helmets", you'll quickly see that the arguments are very heated without much agreement. It is true that traumatic brain injuries are terrible, and if you hit your head, it's often (not always) better to have a helmet. However, to evaluate the risk you also have to take into account how likely it is to hit your head. Traumatic brain injuries also happen with similar likelihood when walking (stumble, slip on ice and hit your head on the kerb), in buildings (slippery floor after wiping...), or when being hit by a car that mounts the pavement or indeed being hit by a bicycle. Most people don't even think about those risks and don't wear a helmet all the time when walking or driving or when wiping the kitchen floor, so it is somewhat inconsistent that bicycle helmets are so intensely promoted. The actual risk depends very much on your riding style and environment. If you ride really fast, or do mountain biking, or perhaps you are a bit unstable or have a medical condition that you may lose balance, then the risk is higher and it makes sense to chose a helmet. However, if you are a slow cyclist, have good cycle paths and are generally a careful cyclist, then the risk isn't any higher than the risk of falling when you walk, so in this group many chose quite logically not to wear a helmet. Other people may wear a helmet in winter when they know there can be icy patches on their commute, but not in summer when the risk of falling is much less. So it's really a personal choice if you think your personal risk, depending on riding style, ability and environment, is higher than the risk of falling or getting into a collision when you walk. Additional note: Be cautious about drawing conclusions from personal anecdotes. You'll find lots of stories of the type "wearing a helmet saved my life" and "didn't wear one and suffered terrible injuries". It is usually not possible to know if an injury could have been avoided with a helmet. Helmets absorb only very limited amounts of energy, so if you e.g get hit by a truck's wing mirror the helmet will do virtually nothing as the energy is just too high. 

You will not lose climbing strength if you work on your cadence; they are two different aspects of riding. My recommendation to increase cadence range is the following: 1) On a slight incline, choose a gear that is medium effort. 2) Over 30 seconds, increase your cadence until you are at your maximum smooth cadence (no bouncing). If your effort is too light, you need a higher gear; if it's too hard, you need a lower gear. 3) Hold for 30 seconds 4) Slow your cadence down for 30 seconds. Repeat three times. Do this once a week. This is primarily a neuromuscular exercise, so you don't need to do this too much. 

I've run Rubino Pros for a few years. They aren't the lightest or fastest tire around, but they last very well and are pretty flat proof for my area (Seattle). 

The short answer is "no", there are no charts or tables that can tell you this directly. There is a lot of variability that determines how hard a person can work out for a specific amount of time - a few of the factors include: 

I'll typically go a couple of hours between stops. I like to have enough food so I don't have to depend on food stops for anything (assuming it's an organized ride). I try not to carry too much clothing; I'd rather be a little cold at the start than carry a lot of extra clothing. I may wear a thin vest that collapses into a small package so it can be stuffed into a jersey pocket. 

Genetics Amount of training Type of training (if you train only for long periods, your ability to work hard at a high intensity will be low, for example). Recent training history (if you've trained a lot, you will have accumulated fatigue) Recent stress history Recent health or sickness Current mental state 

Well, the simple answer is that aerobars aren't very helpful unless you are riding at reasonable speed (say, >18MPH or so), but most people who ride at that speed would prefer to ride in a paceline, which gives more benefit than aerobars. Aerobars are unsafe in pacelines because riders cannot maneuver as well as being on the drop bars. 

RideWithGps.com does exactly what you want; you can plot a route ahead of time and it will show you the elevation profile. 

You can work on a pedal stroke that applies pressure for a larger portion of the rotation of the pedals. That will reduce the peak force that is causing the wheel to lift. 

It's fairly simple; to stop effectively, you need to apply the two controls in a different manner. When you start braking, you have a given amount of weight on the front and rear wheels. As you apply the brakes, the deceleration shifts weight from the rear wheels to the front wheels, which gives more traction at the front, and less traction at the rear. More traction at the front means that you can apply the brakes more there, less traction at the rear means that you need to reduce the power on the rear brake. When I used to teach motorcycle safety, we would say "progressive squeeze on the front brake, light to lighter pressure on the rear". 

I'm not sure weight is the main issue. There are several questions on this site from people weighing more than you, and the general advice seems to be that it should be fine. Sure, more weight puts bike under more stress, but bikes are generally fairly sturdy. But make sure that there are no missing spokes, and check regularly if there are cracks in the rim or the wheel buckles; if so, perhaps replace it with a sturdier mountain bike wheel. I don't quite understand your liner and that might well be the main issue. I would just get a good, puncture-proof tire, and a new tube, and not use anything else. My experience: I used a proper kevlar tire liner for a while, but had many punctures too. It is very difficult to align the liner properly inside the tire, and it can move and pinch the tire. After several punctures I just took it out, got good new tires, and that's it. I don't understand the way you make your own liner out of old tires, but this is really difficult to do properly and you may well create sharp edges or pinch points that damage the tube. With a good tyre, you don't need another liner between tire and tube at all. It seems that you already checked for damages in the rim or spokes that stick out, and make sure the rim tape (the plastic that goes around the rim over the spoke nipples) is in good condition. Keep the tire well inflated near the maximum (the number is printed on the sidewall). If it's underinflated, the tube can move or get pinched when you go over a kerb for example, and that will also lead to damage. Finally, observe carefully where and how you ride. Perhaps there are locations where you go over a kerb or road damage, and if you take that too fast, it can damage your wheels. 

You are going at constant speed when the driving force from gravity Fg is equal to the drag (air resistance) Fd plus friction (rolling resistance) Ff: Fg = Fd + Ff When coasting down a hill, the driving force is the component of the gravitational force parallel to the road: Fg = m g sin(a) Here, a is the slope (angle with the horizontal), m is the mass of bike and rider, and g is the gravitational constant. Slopes on roads are often measured in percent, and for small angles sin(a) is equal to the slope in percent. e.g. for a slope of 10% (100m descent on 1km of road) sin(a) = 0.1. Drag is proportional to the square of the velocity v, the projected frontal area A and a drag coefficient cd, and the density of air rho: Fd = 1/2 rho v^2 cd A The drag coefficient cd depends on the shape of the object - streamlined bodies have a low cd, but for a bicycle with rider I find approximately cd = 1 in Wikipedia. I'd estimate the frontal area of a cyclist to about 0.4m^2. Friction (rolling resistance) is proportional to a coefficient cr and the normal force (the weight component perpendicular to the road) Fn = m g cos(a): Ff = cr m g cos(a) The coefficient of rolling resistance cr will depend on the bike (lubrication, tire pressure, surface roughness etc.). For car tires on concrete, Wikipedia gives cr=0.01, so the Ff would be about 10N. That's about a tenth of the driving force on a 10% slope (see above), but on a rough road surface it might well be much more. So we end up with m g sin(a) = Fg = Fd + Ff = 1/2 rho v^2 cd A + cr m g cos(a) Solving this for v gives: v^2 = 2 m g (sin(a) - cr cos(a) ) / (rho cd A) Putting in g=10m/s^2, rho=1.2kg/m^3, cd=1, A=0.4m^2, and m=100kg (nice round number for rider and bike), I get v = sqrt( sin(a)-cr cos(a) ) * 64 m/s The rolling resistance cr essentially is like reducing the slope somewhat, so a slope of 10%=0.1 with cr=0.01 is the same as a slope of 9% on a perfectly rolling bike. So, for a slope of 10%, the sqrt becomes 0.3, and I get a speed of 19m/s = 70km/h It's not unrealistic, but perhaps a bit faster than I would have expected. However, there are simplified assumptions, friction and rolling resistance is probably higher and cd and A have a big effect, they all depend on the bike and the rider. From the drag equation you can see why the racing position is with the head down. This position decreases the frontal area A considerable, compared to an upright position, and it makes the body somewhat more streamlined (reduces cd). As the drag goes with the square of the velocity, this gets more important at higher speed.