As for his aphorisms, given their pithy and brief nature, you need to think long and hard about them, and not cave to the temptation of appropriating them out of context. Furthermore, it is beneficial to seek the expertise of Nietzsche researchers, who can better provide the context and clarity of how and why he wrote with an affinity for aphorisms. I could write on and on, but I hope this is a good modus operandi for approaching his fantastic works. Best of luck! 

If you wish to claim that, historically in the West and near East, the imposition of the will of a religious body against other actors within society has delayed 'inevitable' advancements in the technological, social, scientific, and philosophical realms, then you are essentially correct and do not need to look far for instances of historical evidence. Mind you, this is a phenomenon that is not unique to religion. Now whether or not 'religions' necessarily preclude or at least discourage secular 'innovation' is much less clear, and difficult to prove. Attempting to do so would require a massive surveying of history since early Christianity, and perhaps even before, and would become an interdisciplinary approach. Attempting to isolate the effects of religious forces on society would prove even more difficult a task, so instead I shall attempt to opine on your thoughts. Essentially, it can of course be argued from an evolutionary perspective that predominately those organisms (in this case, humans) that can change and adapt positively to the flux of the environment are better suited to survive and perpetuate their genealogy. "Innovation" is a just sophisticated term to describe the human version of this effect, that is, the engaging of the mental, physical, and sometimes social faculties in order to improve the standard of living, and therefore the likelihood of survival, and ultimately, procreation, to continue the evolutionary argument. Adopting this view is consistent with your proposal of how innovation manifests and what it entails. The difficult question I think you are implicitly posing is whether or not the ideas and attitudes that accompany (theistic) religious piety has an evolutionary advantage, or disadvantage. E.g., 

that the named bad things are actually bad that it is possible to divert time and money spent on luxuries to addressing bad things that it is important, right, or just good to stop bad things from happening 

Avoiding microphysics, let's say that a wall is a continuous surface. Let's also take for granted your suggestion that our senses are discrete, in that a neuron either fires or does not when stimulated by something like touching a wall. Now, your problem is that a wall is continuous, while our experience of it is only ever a series of on-or-off neuron firings when we encounter it. Well, we constantly sample things, and then generalize from the samples to wholes. I see one side of a tomato from one angle and I make an "inductive inference" to there being a full tomato in front of me, with many sides, filling in what I have not experienced by reasoning that there is probably a full tomato there. Similarly, if you touch a wall at number of different points, you might infer that it is continuous. It is an "inductive" inference (rather than deductive), because you might be wrong. You are concluding something that goes beyond the evidence you have. So, we arrive at your next problem: when we claim that a wall is continuous, but have only ever experienced parts of it, do we know what that means? Well, this is a problem only if our understanding of continuity could only come through such experiences. But we can also understand it by thinking about Euclid's definition of a line: a continuous series of points. We can understand that without ever having any experiences at all. And we use that concept to make sense of the wall being continuous, even though we know about it just based on a few points. Adding: Certainly serious questions remain about concepts and their relationship to our experiences! 

Of course, these three questions are just microscopic inquiries when approaching and evaluating religious thought and its titanic impact on society throughout the ages and different parts of the world. Furthermore it is important to distinguish between the individual actions and beliefs of religious folk in sometimes contradistinction to the official teachings and promulgations of the central religious body. Furthermore, are you referring to the Abrahamic religions? The Hindu religion? Those of the Far East? These are certainly big questions, but perhaps you could refine the approach and adjust the focus through one of many scientific lenses. This already sounds like a topic that would suggest familiarizing yourself with the English biologist Richard Dawkins, who has written a number of books on the matter. Best of luck. Edit: I figured I better append my response with the clarification that the vast majority of human beings are not subject to the same evolutionary forces and principles that act upon populations in the wild. But it is still worthwhile to consider how religiosity might affect the favorability of traits and behaviors. 

Having read some of Friedrich Nietzsche's philosophical works, as well as the acclaimed biography of Nietzsche by Curtis Cate (which I suggest all those who are interested in Nietzsche should read), I understand that Nietzsche did not view Plato and his philosophy favorably, specifically, the Platonic ideal, and the notion of otherworldly truth and knowledge. Whether or not there is any record of Nietzsche's specific opinion on the allegory, I am unaware of, but I shall still try to opine on the matter. Given his scrutiny of Plato however, I'm inclined to believe it is somewhere out there. I conjecture that the element of the story that Nietzsche would most approve of is the particular man's escape from the cave, and his venturing out into the 'real' world, out beyond the confines of the cave. Allegorically and in a Nietzschean spirit, the primitive and suffocating cave, and its residents, could represent the mediocrity of the prevailing intellectual and moral system, which would rather continue a fixation with mere reflections of 'reality' than attempt a constructive investigation of ethics and reality. My current understanding of Nietzsche lends me to the belief that this man, who has escaped the mirages and projections of what is real, would posses the opportunity of truly escaping "the herd" that resides within the cave, a term Nietzsche usually uses to describe the prevailing morality of the masses, influenced by Christian dogma as well as ossified by historical inertia. Thus, this lone man (the primordial Übermensch perhaps?), who has escaped (by chance, if I remember the allegory correctly), has triumphed over the rest in his opportunity to grasp the world as it really is. The interesting literary and situational parallels to Zarathustra are many to be considered. As to whether there was anything 'real' outside of the cave, I believe that Nietzsche would not deny a physical reality 'of the way things are' outside of the projections and pretenses of conventional morality, and how morality influences the worldview. After all, he believed very much so, based upon what I can gather from On the Genealogy of Morality, that science during his time was one of the factors that contributed to the abandonment of traditional knowledge and virtues, so much so that he may have feared its unintended or insidious contribution to cultural nihilism. At any rate, Nietzsche did now infamously quote "there are no facts, merely interpretations", or something to that effect, though there is a greater context to that statement within The Genealogy. Still, Nietzsche was not anti-science, and within the understanding of the allegory, the man's escape from projection and duplicity towards reality and empiricism (after all, he relied upon his senses to absorb and intake the real, outside world) would be consistent with Nietzsche's urging of 'self-overcoming', which is another related concept. 

Most of the recent discussion of this question is in Philosophy of Biology, the subfield of Philosophy of Science. Philosophy of biology asks and tries to answer a wide range of philosophical questions — questions arising from all areas of philosophical inquiry — as they concern living things and the study of living things. The broad form of the question places it in the subfield of Metaphysics, which includes the study of the nature of reality, including what kinds of things exist, and what defines those kinds. Among the problems it addresses, Philosophy of Biology takes up general questions from metaphysics, epistemology, and logic as they apply to living things and the science of them. This question is also taken up in a very different way by philosophers working in the tradition of Phenomenology as a matter of what life is for a being experiencing it, and perhaps elsewhere. However, the philosophers asking the specific questions you raise — about viruses and other quasi-organisms, artificial life (or A-life), computing devices — have been philosophers of biology. As often, there's a Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy entry on this that serves as a nice introduction: Life. 

And also, “read[ing] Nietzsche as a global anti-realist — i.e., as claiming that there are no truths or facts about anything, let alone truths about value — … has now been widely discredited.” More generally, though, consider what follows if you think Nietzsche cannot admit that any claim is more accurate than any other. He cannot say that one kind of life, for instance a life of greatness, is superior to any other kind of life. He cannot say that there are reasons that it's right to admire Beethoven and not to admire servile toadies. He cannot say that certain religious figures engage in deception, misleading their followers. And indeed he does argue those points, not qualified as merely a function of his own perspective, but as a matter of how things are. Overall, then: Nietzsche does not offer a clear positive articulation of what truth is, and is best known for his remarkable, critical attacks on how we understand and use the idea of truth, but does not offer reasons to think that he does not believe some claims are true and some are false. (Note, however, that on this point, some of the reflections in the the essay—unpublished during his lifetime—usually titled “On Truth and Lies in a Nonmoral Sense” stand in some tension with most of the rest of his work.) 

As with many instances in the progression of intellectual history, in order to understand the now, it is important to understand what has come before the now. With specificity to Nietzsche, it is important to recognize the influences of European philosophers, psychologists, scientists, and even musicians upon him (an aside, music was an important aspect of his life). Specifically, such names that come to mind are Schopenhauer, Kant, Hegel, Darwin, and who can forget Wagner! Each of these individuals, and more, produced an impact upon his thinking, whether in his approval or disapproval of their ideas, or even more analytically, a strange, sometimes ironic mixture of both. I highly suggest reading Friedrich Nietzsche by Curtis Cate, who crafts an excellent and truly enlightening biography of the personal and intellectual history of Nietzsche, which has helped enormously in understanding his later works. I think it somewhat vain for me to try to "correctly" answer how to "properly" read Nietzsche (or any philosopher for that matter), so I will outline how I approach his texts. Remember, this is after having read the biography mentioned above and having gained the reference, context, and knowledge of the milieu and events surrounding the numerous inceptions-and completions-of his many works. Furthermore, the astounding work of Nietzsche scholars (such as Walter Kaufmann) in the form of historical and comparative research has produced conveniently organized footnotes in most texts that I urge you not to ignore. This advice, I think, is also not particular to Nietzsche, but is a generally helpful and advantageous approach to reading philosophy in general. And as a final note, do not forget that the English text is and always will be a translation of the original German; take that as you will. For larger, continuous works (i.e., not aphorisms): 

The term "political philosopher" works the same way. And Assange, for his part, studied a little philosophy as an undergraduate at Melbourne, and so doesn't meet the first definition. So your question thus becomes evaluative: Does he advance thoughtful and compelling enough arguments about political philosophy that he deserves the merit-term? The answer to that turns on considering quite a lot more evidence than you've included. To answer your particular question about what philosophers offer arguments about coercion, and the state as coercive, you might start with philosopher Robert Nozick. 

No, there is no contradiction. The apparent contradiction arises from an equivocation on “value.” The version of nihilism you express, that there is no value, makes the most sense if it asserts that there is no real value in the universe. When philosophers assert that position, that is typically what they mean. The alternative, that nobody values anything, is immediately refuted by experience. In contrast, when we implicitly attach value to the assertion of nihilism in so far as we find it worth asserting, we are attributing value to that assertion. One can consistently hold that while we attribute value to various things, we do so in a purely subjective way, and not as a reflection of any real, mind-independent value, since there is no such value in the universe. I can say that I like clouds shaped like pigs, and think they're great, but it doesn't follow from that assertion that they actually have value, in an objective way. The position that does contradict itself in this way, the position that nobody ever values anything, is so contrary to experience that I have never heard anyone defend it. One can certainly argue against popular forms of nihilism, but not because of this apparent contradiction. 

"Of what benefit could Christian altruism possibly be to me?" (when it could disadvantage you?) "Why should I obey the teachings of Christ and 'love my neighbor' when he has clearly wronged me?" (when you could be physically harmed?) "What need is there for secular morality when I have the teachings of the Bible and the canons of the Church?" 

Read every word, with particular attention to unfamiliar vocabulary. Nietzsche, as a philologist, was particular about his lexical and syntactic choice, I'm sure. Performing a close read of the text will benefit you enormously, particularly when you understand the then contemporary, historical meaning of his words and phrases, for which you will need the aid of footnotes and research. Taking his words merely for granted in the modern definitions and ideations proves inaccurate. Of course, what you are reading is a translation, which I am not qualified to evaluate, but a keen attention to every word, sentence, and paragraph will fully bring you into the experience, and set you up for the next "step". Note the stylistic, punctuational choices. You will notice that many texts use italicized, parenthesized, or hyphenated text, which to me at any rate, presents a thrilling experience for reading. And this makes sense, given Nietzsche's own opinions on how to write effectively, and I believe such mechanics were present in his original drafts. Feel the words, the phrasing, the tempo, the gravitas, of what you are reading, as it will convey far more emotion and impression than a mere clinical clean read. It should 'disturb' you and make you think, which prepares you for the next "step". Read the text again, but at a different time. If you have this luxury, try reading the text after some time off, or perhaps in a different mood (one that is still conducive to reading, though). You may be surprised, offended, or confused by what he writes, which dangerously lends to the temptation of dismissing his ideas and style. Understand that he may be speaking ironically, craftily, or earnestly, but all with intent and purpose. He is not an easily philosopher to understand! Ruminate! This is the most important step, and is not necessarily the last. Think, think, think, about what you have read, and consider the implications of his writing. Nietzsche was extraordinarily productive and crams so much in so little space. Think, at any point in time in your reading or even just in the everyday, about what could have led him to write what you read, and that exactly, and not something else. Think about particular paragraphs, sentences, even words, but without forgetting an understanding of the overarching themes of his message. 

I don't have a copy of Open Society on hand, but from memory, I'm pretty sure Popper uses "oracular philosophy" as a term of abuse for a style of philosophy he opposes. Consequently, you're not going to find a literature using that term. The form of your question is then—through no fault of your own—a little like asking Is there a literature on Uncreative Philosophy or Unreasonable Philosophy? It depends on who's calling what uncreative/unreasonable, and for what reason, as nobody calls themselves that. I think what you're after would therefore be more philosophy that is critical of certain philosophical methods in which philosophers (are thought by others to) offer indefensible wise-sounding claims. Rudolf Carnap's essay condemning Heidegger is a classic in this genre, as is A.J. Ayer's Language, Truth, and Logic. However, while aspects of their arguments may be right, the standards Carnap and Ayer hold a philosopher like Heidegger to are generally considered implausible standards, because they reject much that's of widely considered to be of value. Harry Frankfurt's recent "On Bullshi*" is a more recent contribution to the genre. What this question comes down to, then, is (1) what counts as a meaningful assertion, and (2) what counts as a plausible argument for one. Those are the things I think Popper is accusing the "oracular philosophers" of missing. Those are two partly separate philosophical literatures, and they are each absolutely massive. 

It is at least logically possible that the universe be designed in such a way that the designer is undetectable. It's an internally consistent hypothesis, and it's consistent with everything we observe. However, it doesn't follow from that that it's a reasonable thing to believe. Other more radical hypotheses, like occasionalism are be internally consistent, too. The problems with admitting such beliefs to our storehouse of beliefs often lie not in that they contradict themselves or that they are entirely inconsistent with what we observe. Rather the problems often lie either: