You're describing two different types if stretching: ballistic, when you push with momentum, and static, when you push slower and hold the stretch steady for 30 seconds or more. Static is safer because you are much less likely to push too far when you know you're going to have to deal with the pain for the next 30 seconds or more. With ballistic, there is more of a chance that you will bounce too far/hard and pull/strain/tear something by going past the point your body would stop you at if you were moving slower. With static stretching, you generally stretch kinda slowly, so there's no momentum that would push you past where your body would tell you to stop. I've always been told in my health classes that ballistic stretching should be avoided unless you know what you're doing. In general, taking what is normally a static stretch and making it dynamic by bouncing, is usually not a good idea. 

As with all health questions, the answer is to see a doctor. Dizziness could indicate that an insufficient amount of oxygen is reaching your brain. Causes of that can be as benign as being very winded or as serious as a heart problem. A physical examination by a doctor is the only way to know the cause is benign. 

I've seen it stated before that strength training is primarily training your brain to more effectively control your muscles. If this is true, it stands to reason that doing high rep sets after your low rep sets shouldn't be a problem. (How could doing more sets undo/negate neuronal adaptations?) If anything, it may be useful to get that extra practice on form. (But you're already getting that with your warmup, right?) But I think the ordering is important. You want to be fresh for the high intensity because it's the intensity that causes the adaptations and your capacity for intensity will be diminished if you're already fatigued. The trade off comes in training frequency. It takes longer to recover from high volume so you can't train as often. That's why high volume programs are usually split programs, with one workout per week per muscle group, whereas strength programs are simple and high frequency, with two or three workouts per week per muscle group. As a side note, you should look into Greyskull. It's primarily a strength program, but it incorporates an AMRAP set at the end of every exercise. This means that, when you reset, you'll be getting a lot of volume on that last set. 

I'm surprised to see that there is such a debate concerning types of fats. I don't think there are really different opinion camps on this. The following is not nuance. It is just the same information that you'd get if you asked any personal trainer or bodybuilder this question. Saturated fats are from pigs, cows, and egg yolks. Saturated fats are saturated with hydrogen atoms. They are a very stable molecules that do not react very readily in the body, and are more difficult to access for energy, so they are more likely to be stored for later use. These can be stored where ever your body stores fat and can also be stored along artery walls, and can cause heart disease. These types of fats should be limited. Fats in red meat and pork products should be limited, but that does not mean it's necessary to eliminate all red meat and pork products rather limit the fat content by choosing lean cuts of these meats. Also remember that dairy products that are not fat free contain a considerable amount of saturated fats. Primarily cheese, even white cheeses contain a lot of saturated fat and should be minimized. Although some people eat cheese as a protein source, I do not believe it should be considered as such. The amount of calories from fat in cheese is well over half even in a low fat cheese. Egg yolks have notable amounts of cholesterol in addition to saturated fat. Cholesterol has been credited with increasing levels of testosterone, so it may be worth taking in a moderate amount for this purpose. Unsaturated fats are from fish and plant sources. They are called essential fatty acids because your body does not make them on its own, so you have to take them in through your diet. Unsaturated fats have fewer hydrogem molecules than saturated fats, so they will contain one or more double bonds which makes them a polarized molecule thus more reactive in the body. This means your body can break it down more readily to use it for energy. Polyunsaturated fats are unsaturated fats that have 2 or more double bonds. In addition, unsaturated fats can combine with saturated fats and pull away a hydrogen atom converting it to an unsaturated fat. In this manner unsaturated fats can help you both burn stored fat and break down fatty acids in the blood stream for a healthier cardiovascular system. I suggest taking in unsaturated fats at least once or twice a day. The best sources are nuts and plant oils including peanuts, almonds, cashews, sunflower seeds, olive oil, sunflower oil, safflower oil, flax oil, etc. You'd be hard pressed to eliminate saturated fats completely from your diet because most unsaturated fats have some amount of saturated fats in addition and vise versa. You just have to read labels and consider how much you are getting of one compared to the other. I should also include a note about trans fats which are a chemically created form of saturated fats. Trans fats should not just be limited but avoided completely. They have been proven to not only increase bad cholesterol, but to decrease good cholesterol. Trans fats can be found in icings, cooking lard like crisco, and many processed foods because they also act as a preservative. 

Whether it's normal or not depends on how significant the difference is. It's normal to be slightly asymmetric. No part of your body is exactly symmetric. If it's significant enough for it to bother you, then you should consider doing exercises that are independent for each pec muscle. This is useful because, even though you try to balance it, with a push up or barbell bench, your body can compensate for a weaker side by pushing the weak side up faster. The physics of it makes the weight shift to the lower side. With something like one arm pushups or dumbbell bench, it's impossible to shift weight from one side to the other, so you should have equal development. To clarify in response to your comment below, you should do this independent exercise equally (same weight, reps and sets) for both sides. This will be easier for the strong side and harder for the weak one, so the weak one will grow more. Not doing so could possibly create imbalances where before you had none. For example, only doing one arm with dumbbell bench could cause an imbalance in your biceps, since the biceps is involved as a stabilizer in db bench. 

I have my own method for this and I'd like either confirmation that it's an acceptable solution or a reason why it's not and better alternatives. The reason I'm framing the question like this is because I like my method. It's convenient and it allows a practically unlimited amount of force to be used. (A lot of the articles I've read say that lifters sometimes need to add more force to get their mobility to change, due to having stronger/harder tissues.) My method is to lean forward against a wall with my feet some distance behind me and flat on the ground. The greater the distance from the wall, the more the ankle has to bend to accommodate the movement. If necessary, I move my feet further back and/or push against the wall hard enough to feel the stretch in the back part of my lower leg. I definitely feel it stretching my Achilles and calf, but my concern (leading me to ask about it) is that it may be leaving out other tissues that limit ankle dorsiflexion. As far as goals go, I want to be able to squat to depth without having to be forced down by weight. I can squat with reasonably good form with weight, but I can't get close to parallel (without my heels rising) with just bodyweight. 

Like Greg said... Most ab exercises target slow twitch muscle fibers, so they can be trained on a daily basis. However, since slow twitch muscle fibers have a greater propensity to grow, they might not be what you want to target in order to get a 6 pack. Nonetheless, without decreasing your body fat, the sculpted abs will never show. When training abs, you need to remember to target the muscle group at several different angles in order to work every part of the core. 

For your quads and glutes, you can vary your squat stance between close to wide from week to week. Adding weighted lunges would be a movement that will target your glutes a little more. Plyometrics are also a great way to target fast twitch muscle groups and you can hit lots of different angles this way. I also thought that a row movement for the back was missing. What do you mean by "incline dumbbell raise" for the serratus? Did you mean a dumbbell pullover? 

In my experience, runner's high is only obtained after you "hit the wall" and get your "second wind". You have to run past the wall and hit a second wall before you get "runner's high". I always thought it was a result of the release of endorphins. In order to reach a runner's high faster, you have to run at a high level of intensity for an extended period of time. The more you train, the better level of conditioning you reach, which means you have to continue to push yourself even harder to reach a real runner's high. Evolutionarily, I think it's a survival mechanism. It allows you to push past all feedback from your body that tells you to stop, and continue anyway. 

Squat down with your feet flat on the ground, your back almost swayed in a neutral position, and your elbows on your quads a few inches above your knee. Without changing the position of your hips or arms, slowly straighten your legs at the knee. Try it...it works. 

In general, I don't think that whether you're hungry or not is relevant at all. Just because you're hungry doesn't mean that you don't have sufficient glycogen stores for a run. If you are hungry, the hunger will probably subside once you start running as exercise causes you to have an increase in insulin. Any increase in insulin is followed by a low, at which point you'll feel the hunger return. This may be after you're run, or if you're exercising for a longer period, it could be before your workout is over. Cardio for weight loss is often suggested to be done first thing in the morning on an empty stomach, that way you will start burning stored glycogen immediately, and if you're eating a low carb diet, possibly go directly to burning fat for energy. Again, whether you're hungry or not is still irrelevant. If you just ate, you will burn sugar in the bloodstream first when you run. Depending on your metabolism, and how long since your last meal, you might not even digest that last meal yet because blood will be pulled to the extremities during your run, and away from the stomach in order to supply oxygen to the muscles working during exercise. 

At the gym today, someone advised me to vary my foot position to better target the different muscles in the calf. Specifically, they advised that I laterally and medially rotate my foot. Intuitively, this seems like a bad idea, since the ankle is most stable when straight. Thus, it would seem, rotating it would put it in a compromised position, conceptually similar to squatting with bowed knees. If it matters, the specific machine I was using was the inclined leg press machine. Is there actually anything to what they said or is my intuitive reprehension correct? 

It's impossible to say nothing's wrong with you. I'm not a doctor. If you have medical concerns, see a doctor. But that aside, I would say it is normal to be out of breath after a hard set of any compound lift. Heavy squats (for 5 reps) almost always leave me feeling somewhere between out of breath and about to pass out. There are things that can make post-set exhaustion worse, like low blood glucose, dehydration, or electrolyte imbalance. So make sure you're eating enough carbs, staying hydrated, and getting enough sodium/potassium/calcium. And like Dave Liepmann said, make sure you're breathing. That sounds obvious, but it's instinctive to hold your breath when you're straining and it's easy not to notice. 

You may want to do back extensions instead. They're at least a more well known exercise that work the same muscles and are the lower back analogue of knee raises in a lot of ways. 

A normal multivitamin is enough. You should be more concerned with your caloric intake and your macronutrient split. Your caloric intake should be at least the number of calories you burn. (There are calculators for that on the internet.) And your macronutrient split is the percentage of calories that come from protein, carbs (sugar), and fat. For example, if you burn 2700 calories a day (typical for an active young male) and you choose a 40% carbs, 40% protein, 20% fat split (typical split for those looking to bulk), then you would need 1080 cal from carbs, 1080 from protein, and 540 from fat. The type of training won't change much because the underlying principle is the same: replace what nutrients you use while training so you can train again. With vo2max training, you may be burning more carbs and fats and you'll probably build less muscle, so you might take 10% away from protein and add it to carbs. In general, if the exercise is intense, then favor more carbs. If more aerobic/endurance, then increase carbs and fat about equally.