Multiplicity & Virtuality seem to be the new notions introduced here by Deleuze, the others have antecedents. Both substance & essence goes back to Aristotle. 

There is Liebniz's notion of indiscernability; in that if two things have all the same properties then they are indiscernible; but being indiscernible doesn't neccessarily mean identical; though it might do. This is qualified on several ways; in one direction by not taking position and orientation in space and time as relevant: this cup now and this cup then being the same cup. In mathematics a similar idea is distinguished as an isomorphism or equivalence. The contrapositive of this notion gives a notion of difference. 

Because Creationism is to Theology, what Alchemy is to Science, or arithmetic to mathematics or school-physics to Physics itself. Its Kant, who remarked of the 'proofs' of God, the one from Design is the one that most deserves respect. I placed the word proof in quotes as they proofs in the sense of mathematics, but as in 'argument for'. For example, Aristotle one of the founders of Science in the Western tradition treats evolutionary theory in his Physics and Metaphysics; as well as chance & spontaneity as causes in themselves (ie opposed to determinism); and this too, not just in Evolution but also for the universe itself - compare the contemporary debate as the universe starts as a quantum event - as a spontaneous event; as well as treating the theory of the One from a number of different perspectives - the Pythagorean, which is consonant with Plato; as well as his own, the Unmoved Mover, as well as an infinite principle, substantively and quantifiably; and which is distinguished from the notion of the All or Whole, understood as that without lack. This tradition should be distinguished from that of Lucretious, which itself derives from Epicurus; and its this tradition that sets its metaphysical face against that of Aristotles. So, at bottom; and when considered rightly, they are at the same level; in that they treat fundamental questions in fundamentally incompatible ways; however in the history of ideas, they are intricately interwoven (as pointed out by Hegel in his History) - and thus a dialectic; compare with Hegels notion of the dialectic of Being (theism) & Non-Being (atheism) being sublated into the Becoming of Science & Theology. 

Geometry was encoded into axioms by Euclid over 2 millenia ago. Roughly at the same time in India Panini encoded Sanskrit grammar into a set of precise grammatical rules. On the face of it they look alike - both a set of rules which one can use to reason about either Geometry or Grammar. Geometry is empirical. This is generally how Geometry was understood in Babylonian mathematics. Language too is empirical - after all one does not invent a new language - it is learnt from one social habitus. But there is of course a difference: geometry relates to the physical world which is not contingent whereas the social habitus is. In this sense Geometry and Grammar are sciences or scientia - forms of knowledge. Is Geometry an art? It is certainly used in Architecture, it is also used in perspectival painting of the Renaissance, it was referenced by Da Vinci in his drawing of Man in the Vitruvian Man, by Francis Bacon in some of his tryptychs. By Bridgit Rily in her op-art and Durer in his drawing of Melancholia. But in all this it is not mathematics as itself but something other that is displayed - either its practical sense or as symbol for reason or the perversion of reason. Certainly Geometry requires craftsmanship - it is art-isinal. To do it well requires a long apprenticeship. It requires imagination. But unlike art, it does not inquire into the tragic or the comedic, it disdains DaDa and the the surreal, it is orthogonal to the fantastic, the monstrous and the horrifying. It does not understand pataphysics or the mad-antics of pere Ubu. The trials and sorrows of King Lear leave it unmoved as does the mad and unrequited love of Majnun. There is a religous dimension to Geometry. Allah is The-One. The Pythagoreans made a cult of Number and Geometry. Fragments of Euclid was discovered together in the Dead sea scrolls. The Eight-fold way. The seven days in which the world was fashioned. Nothing and zero. Being, substance and One. But Geometry and Number is not religion, it is the law of neccessity that one sees in Geometry and Number, or that it symbolises that becomes the symbol of neccessity in the self subsisting and neccessary substance of God that Spinoza enquired after in his geometrical method. Geometry in its essence is a science though it is also a symbol for other things. The mainstream ontology of mathematics is Platonism - it takes the entities it enquires after as real in a different realm from the ordinary physical world. That is its numbers and its spheres are out there, and one discovers them. This is why some mathematicians say that certain constructions are natural or found in Nature. 

Why this need to place values in some kind of linear pecking order? Even in science the crude caricature of physics underlying chemistry which underlies biology is hugely suspect. Even a cursory examination of the historical record reveals a symbiotic relationship between various strands of science. Science is a great achievement, but lets keep some perspective. Gandhi brought independence to India, Nelson Mandela threw of Apartheid. These are great achievements. Does it mean anything to compare them, or to compare them to science? 

I'm not going to try translating the formula; as there have been good efforts by others; but I want to point out that some could be formalised by what is called a plural quantifier; and this might allow keeping some of the ambiguities in the phrase; which after all, it can be argued, is part of its meaning 

The concepts are distinct in that Sorge pertains to Dasein itself; Besorgen to activities in the world; and Fursorge to being with others. Sorge is the dominant mode of the triad, but inseperable from the other two; as a concept it distinguishes Heideggers project as phenomenological rather than objective and theoretical; our primary attitude towards the world is not cognitive as in Descartes & Husserls 'concern for known knowledge'; Heidgger indicates a temporal structure to this triad: 

The meaning of probability is an issue in QM because it doesn't appear to represent states of ignorance/knowledge as it does in the classical interpretation of probability, but is interpreted ontologically. The other related issue is that of probability amplitudes. An amplitude is squared to get a probability. Amplitudes also interfere with each other. This is at the root of the super-position of states and entanglement. Ontologically this is difficult to interpret classically. The former knocks up against determinism, and the latter against locality. I can't resist pointing out here that mathematicians have already been here before. The concept of the imaginary, as the square root of -1 was struggled with over centuries. Today, it's been settled and students are introduced to it routinely at school. Here we have the analogous phenomenon in physics, the amplitude which holds the secret and mystery of QM is the square root of probability. This too has a precursor. In antiquity, the square root of two was discovered not to be a rational number, but irrational. This had to wait until the modern era for the notion of the real line continuum when this was put into context. Today, we just think of the square root of two as just a point on the real number line. It seems every era has its trouble with square roots...! 

Thomist philosophy held that essence preceded existence, apart from God whose essence was existence; and this in line with a conception of God as the necessary being; whereas humans and all else are contingent. Mans essence being his soul; one can say that being in the world existence draws out his essence; in a similar way that in Platos a Dialogue The Theatatus; Socrates draws out what in essence was already there. An old tradition stated that through introspection one can discover the hidden divine realm; consider for example in the Islamic tradition Al-Hallajs utterance Ana al-Haq (I am the truth - truth being a name of God - for which he was executed) which has parallels in the Christian and Indian traditions. But after the death-of-god theology of Nietzsche; this realm evaporated so as Haydon explains that when Sartre looked within and 'pushing aside memory, knowledge and sensation' he found nothing; and he turned this into the philosophical concept of Nothingness. Sartres innovation is to turn turn the two terms around so that existence precedes essence; one exists first and it is through existing in the world and it's commitments that's ones essence is formed. Thus all there is is the material and the empirical; and when one pushes this aside, one does not find God as 'hidden treasure' or a 'lamp in a niche'; or as for Kant the 'moral law' but nothing, the void - a blankness. This induces nausea and vertigo. We have only the pure thingness of things rather than being imbued with something more than they are; there is no presence, just absence - or one could say the presence of absence. The non-rational is not the lack of thinking or of thought as such; but should be seen as a term placed in opposition to the Enlightments project of rationalism; hence the reactions of Romanticism and Existentialisms. As Haydon points out there is a kind of a parallel in the traditions of the East; possibly in particular the Tao, whose opening lines echo that of Sartres philosophical opus Being & Nothingness. 

In the integers:1,2,3... we can say that there isn't a largest number; but it turns out with the advent of set theory we can posit a largest number omega that doesn't lie within the integers and yet bounds them. In mathematical terms we can say that it is a limit to them. Of course, with the advent of Cantorian set theory, it was also realised that one can define and investigate larger infinite numbers, which are ordinals and cardinals (cardinals are certain distinguished points in the ordinals and are very sparse). Then one can ask the same question at his new level: Is there a largest Cardinal? Now, it turns out that Reinhardt cardinals are the largest cardinals yet defined in ZFC; To refine the question - are they provably the largest possible? Is there in fact provably, or conjecturally a largest cardinal wrt ZFC? (My intuition would say that there isn't). (Choice is generally useful when dealing with properly infinitary objects, which is why I've asked with reference to ZFC, rather than ZF); NBG, and NFU are alternative set theories that make formal use of a concept that ZFC informally uses, that is classes; as classes are not sets then formally the notion of cardinality or ordinality is applicable to them - but one could argue with judicious changes in the axioms that one could extend the notions to here; it would then seem a possibility of defining a class-cardinal that is the limit of all set-cardinals. Is this this actually possible? But then, one could argue that the same process could be iterated; in a much more profound sense the notion of mathematical infinity is always in potentia, though there are points at which we can say a certain actuality has been achieved (the limit points). Is this a good argument? 

Sacre, sacred, derived from the Latin sacrare to make holy, to immortalise and to set apart. Monstre from the Latin monstrum, a portent, warning or monster. How can that which is sacred be a monster; and how can that which is monster be sacred? They are after all, properly thought as opposites - Agamben points out this was a notion that was already known to the ancient Romans, and obscure in meaning; he quotes Macrobius's Saturnalia to show: 

Atomism doesn't require infinite divisibility; it ends in something larger than nothing - the atom. Analytically, the real number line, concieved as a set of points has infinite divisibility and ends in a point. Synthetically, it could be argued that the real line is not made of points, but of lines of various sizes - ie topology - and potential infinite divisibility is still possible - but one never ends with a point; for no points were granted - but perhaps the infinitesimal line. 

Statistics is the formal mathematical apparatus encoding the idea of the necessary, the probable, rare and impossible; plus all the possibilities in between. But note that not all possibilities can be thus encoded. For example, an alien spaceship orbiting Mars is significantly more probable than a Victorian era teapot orbiting Jupiter. 

Wittgenstein provides a logical analysis of propositions in the Tractatus; does he there admit the Kantian distinctions between analytic/synthetic and a priori/a postereroi divisions; or does his analysis apply to all without distinction? Or should we look later into his Investigations where he develops a division that resembles the analytic/synthetic distinction, in a sense: that is the notion of private and public languages? 

He's not being clear what he means by nature - it could be many things, including on average that women are smaller than men, or slighter. He's also using the plural: men and women; so it's likely he means on average - and this itself has several meanings: does he mean most frequently? And this doesn't rule out exceptions and differences that one will ordinarily see in even a small sample; or say in literature, for example Shakespeare's heroines: Portia who outwitted all the men that she came upon whilst still conforming to the mores of her society, or the fiercely imperial Volumnia who brought up all her sons to be warriors. Then again, he is focusing not in all dimensions of character and force; but only that which is brought to bear on power and force; and this I suspect is what he means by right - not rights in our sense. He does note differences - but again it is left unexplicit, saying only 'nations ... so different' And he allows for the possibility of radical differences: 

Interestingly, I recall reading in one of his popular books that Feynman worked on Wheelers theory of back-reaction but abandoned it because he couldn't get it to work. Causality is a strong constraint on physical thinking; and counter-factual or speculative thinking on this is generally only to understand this better: for example the SEP distinguishes between temporality and causality. As an additional remark on this, causal set theory is an alternative approach to QG which takes this structure as basic and is motivated by a theorem that shows the geometry of GR follows from its causal structure. 

If like is like like, then is unlike like unlike or different? And if different then Being cannot be one, an argument put by Socrates to Parmenides. But this isn't how equality is theorised in mathematics. If you're interested in the notion of how mathematical equality is thought through, then you might find it worth looking at how equality is theorised in category theory; there's a blog entry here, by Baez on his essay on 'concepts of sameness' which is exactly on this. A box is like itself - identity; and in this sense, here, says nothing; but what say we, if we see a box is not just a box by itself, but is so positioned in space? Were it positioned in space somewhat differently - say I shoved it to the left a little; would it be the same box? Obviously, yes. But this just reduces to what went before; for I took it out of space to say so - in a way, in a sense; but not actually so - for I did not; saying so, to illustrate. So to take a box in relation to space; in terms of its relation, we see that it is different, unequal; and yet the same.