Lecterns did exist, but would have been used only by the elite. Things like drawers were extremely rare and would have been unknown to the average person. The reason for this is that the kinds of modern blades and wood working tools we have today, power table saws and so forth, did not exist. Their tools were much more primitive, so to make something that required a lot of joining like a drawer or dovetail would have been fantastically expensive. 

As a matter of principle, the main weapon against a tank is another tank. Since, the German tanks were much superior to the US tanks (the Sherman), this obviously created a problem. About 3 months after D-Day troops started to get access to the M36 tank destroyer which the first weapon we had which was truly effective against Germany heavy armor. A more important weapon for US troops was borrowed from the British, the QF 6-pounder, known as an "M1" among US troops. Of course there were other anti-tank methods. P-47 Thunderbolts had a type of bomb they could try to drop on a tank, but obviously it was not easy to execute such a bombing. We also had bazookas, which were both unreliable and ineffective. In normal combat, tanks are accompanied by support troops which are supposed to prevent any enemy infantry from getting anywhere near the tanks, certainly not within bazooka range. Thus, handheld anti-tank weapons only become a factor when tanks speed ahead of their support and attempt to blitz an infantry position. Even in this situation, unless the infantry has good cover it will be hard to set up a kill position. During the North African campaign some general wanted to justify more weapons being delivered, so he asked for a report on the number of German tanks destroyed by bazookas and the answer came back as "0". To answer your question, the "real" doctrine on the ground by real soldiers was to plant AT mines in places where they thought a German tank might try to approach and to hide. In larger battles the doctrine was to counter with Shermans in large numbers and try to withdraw to positions with artillery support, such as M1s or M36s if you were lucky enough to have those. 

Wallace was the last holdout from New Deal era. Over the years, both congress and the American public became disillusioned with the social progressivism of the Democratic party and their economic policies. In the 1942 elections the Democrats almost lost control of the House and many of the losers were New Dealers. The war also caused many politicians to lose interest in socialistic causes and adopt completely different priorities. Wallace was an old school socialist who became increasingly irrelevant to current situation, which was building a huge military machine capable of defeating Germany and Japan. That being said, the most operative cause of his removal was probably not policy related at all, but more a matter of style and personality. Wallace was a firebrand with enormous public personality, but the trend in politics was towards "public servants" who quietly went with the flow and did not make waves. Wallace had personal ambition and antagonized many Washington insiders with heavy handed power moves. In particular, he started the "Warehouse War" with Jesse Jones in which he made public statements attacking Jones and promoting his competing agency. Having a sitting VP writing acrimonious epistles against other officials offended a lot of people and make them think him inappropriate for continued office. 

Bombs (or anything metal with sharp edges) naturally tend to whistle as they fall, however, in many cases they were designed to enhance the whistle to make it louder and more intense, the purpose being to terrify anyone in the vicinity of the target zone. The patent diagram below shows a typical design: 

Teaching of English became universal starting in elementary school around 1910. Here is a summary of the history: This was the situation in 1872 the year after the Daimyos were disbanded: 

The Byzantine empire did not really "decline" per se, it was degenerate from the beginning. The entire Greek world in Roman times was very rich and decadent. Greeks with any talent generally moved to Rome or Alexandria to do their work. When Rome collapsed the Greeks kept on doing what they were good at: being rich and decadent. Very little art or science was produced in Byzantium. It was mostly a trade hub. The surviving works we have produced in Byzantium tend to be degenerate scholia and Christian tracts. Most of their "scientific" enquiries were centered on determining whether certain beliefs were "heresies" or not. The only Byzantine scholar I have ever found to have produced useful information is George Syncellus. Reading Syncellus is very funny because every time he quotes old sources he makes sure to describe them as "demonic" and their writings as the "work of the devil". 

In Islamic Sharia law all people are obliged to enforce the statutes, so perforce, citizen arrests are permitted. 

It is Vespasian. In the Life of Vespasian from Chapter 18 of Book 8 of The Twelve Cesars by Suetonius, it says: 

As far as your first question, you can read the Nazi's complaints against the Jews in any number of books, such as "My Struggle" by Hitler. Regarding the second question, the identification of "non-practicing" Jews, let me first of all say that jwentings answer that they were measuring their foreheads is just nuts and has no relationship to reality. In old Germany, everyone was heavily documented and had to carry around a book with them that listed everything about them including their places of residence, their occupation and place of employment, their religion and their parentage, so it was well-known whether a particular person was Jewish or not just from their passport. If you did not have a passport, you automatically got arrested. The criteria for being a "Jew" was if any one of your 4 grandparents was Jewish. If your passport said you (and your grandparents) were baptized Christian, then as far as the authorities were concerned, you were Christian. After 1937 (I believe, correct if wrong) the Nazis began stamping passports with a red "J" right on the first page if the person was Jewish. This simplified things for police who did not need to go leafing through the passport to determine if the person was Jewish or not. Just to give you an idea of how anal and totalitarian they were about it, you generally needed at least three kinds of documents: the passport, basically containing your life history, a residency permit and a work permit. The residency permit described you physically and was needed to prove you had a right to live in a place. So, for example, if you had a residency permit for Coburg and were stopped in Hamburg, they would ask "What the hell are you doing here?" and you better have a good answer and documentation to back your answer up. The work permit (called an "arbeitsbuch") listed your employment history and any important details (like getting fired). Below is a page in an "Ahnenpass", meaning an ancestor addendum to a passport listing your ancestors: 

The daxtylos is based, like much of early Greek science, on Egyptian standards. A finger is the distance between the tip of index finger and the crease of the first joint. In most people, this distance is close to one inch. 

Chairs have always been in use. There are chairs in Tutankhamen's tomb. The Romans used high-backed chairs extensively especially by women, which were called a "cathedra." Our word "cathedral" comes from this word, a cathedral being the "seat" of a bishop. Such chairs were also in use among the Greeks. 

Believe it or not, ancient prospect was not too much different than modern prospecting. The main improvement modern prospectors have is aerial photography and the ability to bore test holes quickly. Geologic knowledge in the past was more primitive, but still effective. For example, if you were looking for lead (galena) and had a competition between a modern geologist and ancient Roman prospector to find lead just based on geology alone the ancient prospector would probably have just as good a chance against the modern prospector. In truth, geology is actually not too important in prospecting compared to surface indications, which you have already mentioned. Nearly all mineral deposits such as gold or iron are found by prospecting the surface and working backwards. When you find the mineral you want on the surface, you trace it back. For example, for gold you will find it in a stream. You then follow the stream back to find where it is getting the gold from. Typically this will lead you to a hill or mountain. Then by digging into the hill you will find the seam containing the gold. Last summer I was out in the pueblos and I heard of a prospector who had made some good money from a deposit of turquoise. The way he found it was wandering around he saw an anthill (which are abundant there) with blue specks in it. He dug down and found the turquoise. The ants had helped him. Methods like these haven't changed since the beginning of civilization. 

Yes, it was (and is in many places around the world) common for kids to be around while adults are having sex. Before 1900, most people in the Europe and the United States were farmers. So, not only did kids watch their parents having sex, but they watched the animals on the farm having sex on a daily basis. I knew a kid who came from a farm and he told me that one of his duties was to give the stallion a hand job to "get him started" in cases where the horse was bushed and was not mounting on his own. 

It is because Salzburg was the center of life sciences, or what was formerly called "natural science," in Germany. This includes the study of medicine. Paracelsus settled in Salzburg and this is the city he is associated with. The Association of German Naturalists and Physicians frequently met at Salzburg. There was a famous Lyzeum in Salzburg dedicated to medicine and natural science. Salzburg has always had a well-regarded medical school. This is not to say other places had good natural science, but basically the two things Salzburg was famous for was being the hometown of Mozart and being a center for the study of medicine and the natural sciences. In Germany under the Nazi regime it was somewhat of a fad to give both places and people nicknames or unofficial titles as a sort of a role label. The idea was that everything and everybody was to be employed in some specific way and role, noone left out. The Germans actually used to joke about this at the time and give each other silly titles, like Herr Meister Car Polisher, or whatever. 

There is no special significance to the choice of engravings other than the artistic sense of the sculptor, Charles Keck. Pegasus is the symbol of apotheosis. The martyr-like death of Long may have inspired the choice of symbology. Also, note that a giant Pegasus was installed on top of the Magnolia Building in Dallas in 1934 (the headquarters of Mobile Oil) and dominated the skyline of the city. 

The same source notes that by statute 17 states had the female age of majority set at 18. Those states were: Arkansas, California, Colorado, Dakota, Idaho, Illinois, Iowa, Kansas, Maryland, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, Ohio, Oregon, Vermont and Washington. Note that under ancient Saxon law the "age of discretion" was 14 for a male and 12 for a female and this prevailed for a long time in English Common Law, but this is only the age at which they may marry and become liable to committing felonies. Under English Common Law, to enter into a contract and be recognized fully as an adult you must be 21 and this was always the case. Here is a quote: 

Going back that far (to Mycenaean Greeks) seems kind of unnecessary (and tenuous) to me. When Alexander invaded and conquered the Levant it ultimately resulted in a fusion of Greek and Hebrew culture under the Laomedon Satrapy. For example, a synagogue was originally a Macedonian town hall, but this custom became general under the Hebrews. Many other such institutions and cultural combination occurred. 

At the time Burr was one of the best known political leaders in the country and liked across a spectrum of political tastes at the higher levels of society. Jefferson was more of populist with the support of the common farmer. Northeast Federalists who wanted to consolidate power and cut out ordinary people, deeply distrusted Jefferson and preferred Burr. Burr was also an experienced military commander and Jefferson knew nothing of warfare and the US was in the middle of a war with France. Nowadays, Jefferson is famous and Burr is disgraced, but in 1800 it was Jefferson who had the lesser fame. In fact, the only reason Jefferson got elected was that some shrewd Federalists like Hamilton knew that Burr was actually MORE populist than Jefferson, and they suspected him to be a closet libertarian-like freedom lover (which in fact he later showed himself to be). Therefore, Jefferson was actually the lesser of two evils, so when the Federalists saw they could not win, they supported Jefferson to avoid a possible Manchurian candidate like Burr who probably would have promoted individual liberties and states rights way more than even Jefferson.