It's apparently quite a popular story to "disprove doubting Atheists" regarding the miraculous crossing of the Red Sea by the Israelites during the Exodus of the Hebrew bible that in the late 1970s, archaeological evidence was found at the bottom of the Red Sea of a "chariot army." I first saw it mentioned in this documentary trailer, then googled for more specific instances of the claim, and found this one, and a few others: 

TL;DR It depends on the vegetable, and what other preparation method you're comparing it to. A study in the Nov 2003 issue of Journal of the Science of Food and Agriculture (Paywall--some key points explained here). From the abstract: 

There was some other legislation (perhaps even state legislation) which did take effect on or about March 23, 2010, which actually did affect the patient in the article, and the signing of ACA was coincidental. The patient's health providers were incredibly mis-informed, and denied her treatment without cause. The patient's health providers did actually understand ACA, and informed her that she would be denied treatment once the law took effect in the future. 

Here is a great article from the University of Michigan that covers some of the topics relevant to your question. The article deals with the Net Primary Production (NPP) of CO2 in the world related to human consumption. NPP is the amount of CO2 that is "fixed" (i.e., processed) by plants through photosynthesis minus the amount of CO2 that is produced by organisms through respiration. Therefore, to simplify things, the higher the NPP the lower the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere. The article cites the following table from Atjay et al. 1979 and De Vooys 1979 which breaks down NPP by the type of ecosystem: (The numbers in the table are amount of surface area on Earth in km2 x 106 and the second number is the NPP in petagrams.) 

One of the other huge independent suppliers of high-end seafood to the mid-Atlantic region of the US is Samuels & Son. Based in Philadelphia, they deliver to sushi restaurants from New York to Washington, DC, and are capable of delivering frozen, fresh, and even live seafood to almost anywhere in the mid-Atlantic within 24 hours, any day of the week. Specifically related to sushi, however, one should note that many of the popular fish served in sushi restaurants, e.g., large fish like tuna, are delivered frozen and will therefore not be as affected by delivery dates. Therefore, it really depends on from where the sushi restaurant is procuring its fish. But to answer your question, there are still suppliers who do not make deliveries on every day of the week. However, there are some suppliers that make deliveries 24/7, so the claim is not by any means a hard and fast rule. Anecdotally, my local fishmonger (who is not located in NYC) admittedly is only able to receive deliveries of fresh fish every day except Wednesdays, so everything that is sold on Wednesdays is at least a day old. 

I don't have any of either of these papers at my disposal to measure them, but due to truth-in-advertising laws, I'm willing to put at least a small amount of faith in this claim. But more importantly, you don't seem to be questioning the claim, but rather are asking for an explanation as to how paper with less mass can match (or exceed) the thickness of another paper with more mass. Such explanations of paper manufacturing are off-topic here. 

Your question is a bit complex: "Does the use of Roundup accumulate in mammals and cause illness?" I'm going to focus on a slightly simplified version of the question, for sanity sake: Does glyphosate cause illness? The answer to this much simpler question is clearly "Yes." But that alone does not mean that glyphosate is pure evil; many things can cause illness, depending on concentration and other circumstances. See my closing comments for more on this... 

That unsubstantiated statistic struck me as dubious. A quick Google search revealed that only about 12 million people in the world have an overall net worth of at least $1 million (that's fewer than 2 people out of every thousand). I would imagine that the majority of people making $1 million per year are likely to have a net worth greater than $1 million. For what James Touchi-Peters claims to be true, wouldn't it imply that the majority of high earners are spending/losing the majority of their income each year? Does one out of every 200 people on the planet make at least $1 million USD per year? 

Mah and Binik have an excellent survey paper on the research related to human orgasm. Section 1.3.2 is dedicated to comparing the experiences of male vs. female orgasms. While they report that most studies conclude that there is more variance in the qualitative experience of female orgasm, it is also claimed that 

There is no citation, and my attempts to find relevant studies on Google have only resulted in similarly unsourced claims, but usually in praise of team-building exercises. Are there actually studies that show that HR-style "team-bonding" exercises promote distrust? 

This image is circulating on Facebook (at least among my South African friends). It strikes me as somewhere between an extraordinary claim and a completely vague claim. To what extent, if any, is this story true? 

I recently saw this photo on Facebook. Is the contained claim true, that post offices in Singapore will attend to men with long hair last? 

This article claims that both chlorine, and chloramine, which are added to many municipal water supplies to kill harmful bacteria, can also harm the good bacteria in soil, necessary for a healthy garden. 

Now whether the nutrients studied here constitute "important vitamins" is an exercise left to the reader. According to another study from the Journal of Food Science (paywall), summarized here: 

This isn't intended to be a complete answer to your question, but my answer is a bit too long to fit into a comment, and I think this is so amusing (and informative) that it belongs here. I'll let the title and abstract of this paper speak for itself: Dov Sikirov. Comparison of Straining During Defecation in Three Positions: Results and Implications for Human Health. Digestive Diseases and Sciences, 48(7):1201–1205, July 2003. 

Feel free to modify the code, if you'd like. Here are the results: The full database has 46102 vulnerabilities. My script was able to classify 15748 of them as specifically related to open source software, 11430 were related to closed source software, 782 were applicable to both closed source and open source software, and 18142 were unclassified (I didn't have time to optimize my classifier very much; feel free to improve it). Among the vulnerabilities that were classified, the open source ones had an average severity of 6.24 with a standard deviation of 1.74 (a higher severity is worse). The closed source vulnerabilities had an average severity of 6.65 (stddev = 2.21). The vulnerabilities that were classified as both had an average severity of 6.47 (stddev = 2.13). This may not be a completely fair comparison, though, since open source software has become much more popular in recent years. If I restrict the results to the years 2003 to the present, we get: 

Note that this answer does not address the entirety of the question; this only focuses on the direct toxic effect of glyphosate on mammals; the question also makes the claim that glyphosate can destroy gut flora; this claim is not addressed, and that glyphosate can accumulate in bones, thus "hindering cellular detoxification" (whatever that means). I think those other questions could be answered (the one about gut flora in particular), but I believe this answer shows sufficiently that glyphosate does have an effect on mammalian health. If all you want is a "yes or no" answer, the answer is clearly "yes." If you want an answer about degrees to which glyphosate harms mammals, the answer is much more complicated, and then the question of gut flora, etc, may be more relevant. 

The quote appears to be referring to a previous community (or communities) which ceased water fluoridation and had a 90-200% increase in cavities. My question: Is there a documented case of a community observing a 90-200% increase in cavities after the cessation of artificial water fluoridation? NOTE: I have only found studies comparing two cities (one with, one without artificial fluoridation), or very large-scale (i.e. national) scale statistics which show an overall decrease in cavities over time, but which is too general to account for the cessation of fluoridation in individual communities. I am looking specifically for a case study where artificial water fluoridation was ceased, and cavities increased over the following 5 years, as claimed in the quote. 

The answer seems to be "it depends". Given the commerciality and competitive nature of the HVAC industry, I had a lot of trouble finding peer reviewed academic studies that test your claims. Therefore, I took a look at the patent records for evidence, which led me to US Patent #5492273. This patent, owned by General Electric, describes a variable-speed blower that can be controlled independently of the compressor. Here are some claims made in the background section of the patent: 

I haven't had time to do any statistical analysis on these results, however, it does look like, on average, the vulnerabilities affecting open source software have a slightly lower severity rating than vulnerabilities affecting closed source software. When I get some more time, I'll try and generate a graph of the running average of severity over time. 

Edit: To summarize, Payne explains his results by claiming that it is the culture of security itself that promotes actual security. While that is likely true, I think it is also important to note that, with all else being equal, the general public can't independently audit that which is not open. That study is a bit dated and of limited breadth, though. I tried looking for a more comprehensive study, but I couldn't really find anything substantive (there are many "opinion pieces" giving arguments as to why open source is better, but not much data). Therefore, I took a quick look at the National Vulnerability Database, which collects, rates, and posts software vulnerabilities. It has a database dating back into the 1980s. I quickly hacked together this perl script to parse the database: 

I know Wikipedia isn't a great source, but in this case, Wikipedia seems to have good references, so I'm going to quote Wikipedia because it's concise. John Nash never worked for the Pentagon, so he never would have had the chance to do that, as portrayed in the film. Wikipedia says this: 

I also remember reading a claim on Facebook that "studies" show that double spaces improve speed reading, but I can't find that claim any more. The first quote above seems to suggest the same, though (talking about the "quantifiable fact"). Are there any studies which actually show this claim to be true? EDIT It has been brought up in comments below that "speed reading" is not a well defined term. For the purpose of this question, I'm willing to entertain any reasonable definition of the term, even possibly including "self-identified speed readers." But I do expect an answer to specifically address "speed readers", since the claim clearly makes the distinction between "speed readers" and the implied "average" or "non-speed reader". 

From a philosophical perspective peer-review can be very effective, however, it relies mostly on the quality of the reviewer: 

The article uses these figures to calculate the amount of NPP that is currently co-opted for human consumption. For example, they assume that all of the NPP associated with cultivated land goes toward human consumption. They conclude that 30.7% of the terrestrial NPP and only 2.2% of the aquatic NPP is co-opted by humans. These numbers are of course based off of ~30 year old studies, but I think it's still safe to conclude that there's still room for more human-based CO2 production before NPP goes to zero. According to this 2002 study by Randerson, et al., terrestrial heterotrophs (i.e., organisms that need to breathe oxygen, like humans) produce 82–95% of the CO2 represented by the NPP. Let's be conservative and assume the higher amount: 95% NPP. That means that as long as the forests account for fewer than 5% of the total NPP then we should be fine. The forests produce 48.7 Pg, however, which is a little under 22% of the total NPP. But wait! 13.6 Pg of NPP associated with forests is co-opted for human consumption (e.g., getting wood for building houses, &c.). If we were to get rid of all of the forests we'd also get rid of that percentage that has already been co-opted. Therefore, if we were to get rid of all of the forests there would be a net loss of 48.7 Pg - 13.6 Pg = 35.1 Pg, which is about 16% of total NPP. That's just low enough to meet the lower bound of 82% CO2 production. Therefore, there is a small chance that there will be enough NPP after getting rid of all of the trees for human consumption, but it is likely not the case. Furthermore, if we were to get rid of all NPP producers other than grass there would certainly not be enough NPP for human survival. It's also important to note that, by far, the most productive producers of NPP are the open ocean, tropical rainforest, and temperate forest (see Figure 5 of the University of Michigan reference), so by deforesting as opposed to de-grassing we would be greatly reducing the efficiency of the global ecosystem. Also, as I mentioned in a comment above, there is also the matter of carbon storage. Trees store a good amount of the carbon from the CO2 they process in their trunks where it stays for a long time. Grass, on the other hand, releases its carbon back into the system shortly after it dies and rots away. Therefore, even if grass does produce enough oxygen for life, it probably wouldn't have the same greenhouse gas reducing capabilities as trees.