All told, I rode about 20 miles between installing the new chainring and the extreme loosening that I had this morning. Did I miss some fundamental step in this process, or was this just bad luck? What can I do to keep this from happening in the future? EDIT: Now with photos! I only removed one of the bolts because I didn't have the time to take the whole thing apart. If necessary, I can disassemble the entire thing when I have time. Also, man my bike is dirty. Outside of chainring 

TL;DR I thought I could figure out repairs myself but clearly I'm a moron. I replaced the chain and chainring on my fixie last Saturday, and this morning it got scary loose on me. I started to feel what felt like slack in the chain, but when I pulled over to check it out I noticed that all five of the bolts on the chainring were halfway to falling out. From start to finish, here's everything that I did when removing the worn ring and putting the new one on: 

But also be aware that offset is an important criterion. Cartridge offsets can vary from zero to 6-8 mm, IIRC, and you want to be within about 3mm or the cups won't be adjustable enough to maintain the proper chainline. 

The spoke wrench should be a good one. The circular wrench with multiple notches is a poor choice here, as it is often poorly made, does not get enough of a grip on the spoke nipple, and can hence can result in "rounded" nipples. Invest in a good wrench for your specific size spoke nipples: 

As a very first "thumb suck" I'd guess your "damping effect" is roughly proportional to the "footprint". And that is controlled by air pressure and tire stiffness more than tire diameter/width. In theory, as tire diameter goes up, pressure can reduce slightly for the same tire width and still maintain the same vertical compression ("squat") of the tire. Or, alternatively, the "spot" will become more oblong (in the direction of travel) for a given pressure as tire diameter increases. But this effect is slight -- if you worked out the formula for a chord of a circle I'd guess it's only a few %. Of course, another thing to think about is that the larger tire can span minor road imperfections better than the smaller one. Though again the effect is slight given the small difference between the two sizes. 

All the clamp needs to do is hold the bike securely. If it holds securely and doesn't wobble it will be fine. I use an Elite trainer and have never used the skewer that came with it as I haven't had a problem with the one I have on my trainer wheel. 

It's about keeping your energy up NOT about somehow generating 5kmph more from food. You'll go faster through training but it won't help if you bonk half way through a ride. I tend to "fuel" up before a ride then eat as I go along; usually rice cakes or cereal bars. For a bit of emergency energy if I'm flagging I'll go with a gel (some give me cramps tho) or something like shot bloks. However I can say with confidence that if I'd eaten properly as I rode, I'd never have needed them. As an aside, if your AVERAGE speed on a solo ride is 35-45kmph, I'd start racing pretty; that is pretty quick. 

Remove old chain (do not remove crankset from bottom bracket) Starting with an Allen wrench and a screw driver, I started removing the nuts/bolts holding the old chainring in place. Successfully remove three of the five. Glare at rust on threads of nut. Fight with the remaining two bolts, which seem to have seized. Add a small amount of WD-40 to seized bolts. Fight some more. Swear. Attempt to use a hammer to tap on screwdriver to loosen bolts. Lament my lack of a third arm. Swear some more. Take a break. Look accusingly at old chainring. Pretend to do something else, in order to lull it in to a false sense of security. Attack bolts without warning. Realize that the only thing I'm doing is stripping the nuts and coming seriously close to accidentally stabbing myself with a screwdriver. Admit defeat, go to LBS. Get a proper chainring nut wrench and a replacement set of chainring nuts/screws. Cackling with the newly found power of using the proper tool, removing the frozen bolts and the old chainring. Small amount of WD-40 on a rag used to clean rust transfer off of crankset, then wiped down with clean rag New chainring in place, finger-tighten new bolts In star pattern, use Allen wrench and chainring wrench to tighten bolts Repeat above for good measure One last time, just crank those suckers as tight as possible Install new chain Ride to/from work, no problems. Ride to work, almost die, s#!t bricks. 

In my experience the pedals are most likely the culprit. I've had brand-new, decent quality (well, a couple steps up from the cheapest) pedals begin clicking after only a week or two, with no rain exposure or whatever. Drives you crazy. And most pedals these days are nor really serviceable. Of course, whenever there's the slightest hint of a problem with the crank it's wise to be sure that the crank bolts are tight -- a loose crank bolt can wreck the crank arm and spindle very quickly. 

It's intended for permanent use -- it's what SRAM provides for permanently joining their chains. I've got several thousand miles on them, with no difficulties. 

There have been attempts over the years, but never particularly successful. One I recall used a 5-speed rear hub that was shifted by weights on the spokes, similar to a centrifugal governor. I expect that, with the new electric shifters, there will be some new attempts at it in the next year or two. With a computer it should be possible to be reasonably "smart", especially if mated to some sort of torque meter. 

Are the spokes correctly tensioned? You shouldn't get several mm of flex from a new wheel just from climbing or accelerating. 

They are most likely bosses for a "Crud Catcher", a type of mudguard usually clipped to the downtube. Some frames allow them to be bolted to it rather than fastened on with rubber o-rings. 

Three things to check: 1, Is the bead seated correctly. It's pretty common to get tyres blowing off the rim if they're not seated correctly. That said, this usually leads to an exploding tube rather than the tyre just coming off 2, As Daniel R Hicks said, are the rims so worn they're expanding? 3, Check the rim for dings and warping as Malarky sort of says, but not just the area for the bead. You may have a bent rim Chances are, though, that the tyres are done. The pictures would make me think they're on their last legs. I had a pair of 20+ year old ones recently that ended up in the bin as they just weren't reliable enough for me. Some things aren't worth saving a few euros/pounds/dollars over, and the contact points on a bike are some of those things for me. If the rims seem fine new tyres are where I'd go. 

I wouldn't hesitate to use the (slightly) wrong size tube for a relatively brief period, as an emergency measure, but I wouldn't regard such a repair as trustworthy over the long haul. 

First off, you need to make it clear whether this is a soreness of the skin, or soreness deeper in -- in the muscles/tendons. You can develop skin ulcers in creases in the skin due to the friction, and you often won't even notice them until you get onto the bike. (Cortisone cream will generally clear up such ulcers if they aren't too far developed.) But assuming it's soreness in the muscle/tendon, it likely represents an injury to the same. Sorry to tell you that if this is the case you likely need to rest the injured area to some degree for at least a few weeks. You can try cutting back on your effort level (gear down and up your RPMs) to reduce the stress on the area, but if the area keeps getting sorer, or doesn't improve in a few days of lighter effort then you'll probably have to quit entirely. Repeatedly stressing the injury makes it worse. (Hey! This is why pain was invented -- to keep you from making things worse!) (Injuries to muscles and tendons can come about from a single excessively stressful motion, or from repetitive strain, but muscle injury can also come about from sustained effort (tens of minutes) above the muscle's metabolic threshold. Minor tendon injuries take about 6 weeks to heal entirely; muscle injuries take closer to 6 months.) You could also, of course, have some sort of arthritic problem with the hip joint. 

If you're really that concerned, get a roll of 3M "copter tape" and cut it to the same size as the cleat. Given the cleat should never move, the most you should get is a bit of marking where the cleat sits which you'll never see as the cleat should never move (and it's helpful when you're replacing cleats) 

A generic USB cable will have the Edge switch to storage mode but I've found the Garmin cables allow charging whilst using. I have an external battery pack which I used on day-long back-country rides in the alps and could plug it in whilst on a chairlift or at a bar without interrupting the tracking. Arguably I didn't need to but it does mean that when I get a USB dynamo hub I have the cable ready to go. 

It's a Mongoose Detain frameset. Originally retailed for around 200 dollars at Walmart as a complete bike. Comparing the op's frame to the one above it's clear they're not the same if only because the backwards circle has a double seatstay sort of thing. Anyway, the frame matches a google image search so I'm 99% sure I'm right