My understanding is that meditation went through a revival in the last two centuries, in part due to the efforts of the Theosophical Society. Supposedly in the past, monks had nearly or totally stopped meditating. Can anyone fill out the picture? 

what's the distinction between Dharmaguptaka and Mahayana? I know that the former is an ordination lineage with specific vinaya as distinct from Theravada ordination, but I don't understand where Mahayana may encompass Dharmaguptaka, or where Dharmaguptaka may encompass Mahayana, or neither. I would be interested in a Venn-diagram type of answer, and similarly for the same question asked of Mulasarvastivada and Vajrayana. In the same way, is Theravada both an ordination lineage and a sect? Is the question valid? 

What's the history behind this? I am assuming non-Theravada monks eat after noon, and use money. Correct me if I'm wrong. If I'm not wrong, why do the sects differ in this manner? 

During an course I attended under the name "Introduction to Asian Philosophy", my professor explained emptiness as a flashy way of reminding us that we only define things in relation to what they are not. Nirvana is defined as everything Samsara is not, therefore Nirvana is "empty of essential qualities". Similarly, Samsara is meaningless without a Nirvana to compare it to. This logic can be extended to all entities and concepts: Without night there can be no day, without a whole there can't be parts, etc. You may or may or not you agree with this reasoning, but for me it's a practical interpretation of the doctrine of emptiness that helps us to not cling to our perceptions of what things are. In other words, as R. Barzell says in the comment below, Is emptiness ontology, or a way of seeing to free us from the bondage of concepts? Is treating emptiness as ontology missing the point? Lastly, 

in the city where i live (Toronto, although this is an issue in many cities around the world), there are people dressed as monks soliciting others on the street for donations. In return, various good luck charms are offered. The fake monks speak little English, and will try to justify their begging with the claim that donations are for building a temple back home. Is there anything I can or should do about this? Are these fake monks giving Buddhism a bad name, or at least obscuring Buddhism's true message? Are the fake monks doing an ironic good by giving people the chance to practice generosity? 

As a Western Buddhist, I'd say the advice is incongruent on the grounds of the First Noble Truth, and incongruent because child neglect and child abandonment exist in the world; but on the other hand the advice is congruent because mother and farther generally teach a lot of virtue and useful skills. Ultimately though it's a worldly matter where morality (sīla) is called for. Treat others as you would like to be treated. 

tl;dr keep pushing yourself, but gently as Paul Sasik says. Also, keep an open mind because this stuff can be very counterintuitive. Long answer It sounds like you're practicing the Mahasi Sayadaw tradition, where one notes phenomena as they arise. In this case I can answer from my own experience in the tradition. A few pointers: 

This is how I meditate on my own creative thoughts. Source: My own experience meditating in the Mahasi Sayadaw tradition, and my teacher Yuttadhammo's advice. 

The Sutta Pitaka is the part of the Tipitaka that would be of most interest to laypersons practicing meditation. (The others are the Vinaya Pitaka, the rules for monks, and the Abhidhamma Pitaka, a more metaphysical compilation). But to answer your question, the sections in the Sutta Pitaka are organized by the length of the suttas therein: 

Meditation will probably help, as it gradually helps the practitioner become free from the limitations of language, thoughts, and concepts. The better we understand the way our minds work, the less we can be obstructed by our minds. 

It doesn't really matter which object you use, but there are traditions built up around using the nose or the abdomen. The point of vipassana practice is to help you become totally aware of reality in the here and now. I'll try to answer this from the Mahasi Sayadaw tradition, as I've been taught. The confusion you experience, and the desire to practice Vipassana from the nose; this is not an accident. Vipassana practice is designed to expose these feelings. When these feelings arise, they should become your meditation object. The abdomen is just a convenient anchor that we come back to again and again; it is not special (as far as I have experienced). If you are trying to figure this out without seeing a teacher, you can probably make some progress if you understand the general point of the practice and just how broad we are being when we say to meditate on this or meditate on that. When the mind says, This is too difficult, in our tradition we meditate on the feeling by making a mental note of each experience as it arises, so if it's frustration we say to ourselves: Frustrated…frustrated… or if it's a desire to practice a certain way we just say to ourselves: Wanting…wanting… and then we return to the abdomen: Rising…Falling… My point being that any experience you're having right now―whether it's a sense object or feelings about that sense object―should be the object of your meditation. This is much easier said than done, but with persistence you will see some gains in your ability to simply be aware of each moment as it arises, instead of being caught up in concepts, or past, future, thoughts, feelings, etc. Hope this helps. 

I have noticed that Thich Nhat Hanh refers to himself in the third person as "Thay". Why is this, and what is its meaning? 

The essence of this strategy is not to get enticed by what we perceive. Thoughts aren't intrinsically negative or positive; we mistakenly understand them to be as such. The same goes for feelings like guilt, and the realization that the mind is clouded. When we see them as they are, it's easier to remain in the here and now. As for the wandering mind, I can say a few more things: 

From the viewpoint of Theravada Buddhism, we definitely do not teach this way. It's impossible to empty the mind. Thoughts pop up all the time. We can, however, train ourselves not to follow these thoughts. In other words, we want the mind to become stable and free of dependencies. Here is a basic outline of the method of Mahasi Sayadaw, a prominent 20th-century meditation teacher: 

I would also suggest to try sitting for longer periods of time, like 15 minutes, or even 20, 25, 30 if your mind can tolerate it. 10 minutes at a time may not be enough for your back muscles, or for your mind, to really get the point. Don't take my word for it anyway, as I'm still learning and we all have to figure this out for ourselves. Hopefully this is helpful. 

Bells seem to be pervasive throughout Buddhist ritual. I get the impression that many monasteries ring a large bell in the morning, and other monasteries still ring regular bells throughout the day to encourage mindfulness. Most meditation apps on smartphones have a bell-ringing sound. Where did this come from? What other usage do bells have in Buddhist ritual? Are there references to bells in canonical texts? Answers from all sects appreciated. 

I would say it depends on the tradition you follow. In general, it probably means to focus your mind on the word, phrase, or feeling, to the exclusion of other mental phenomena. Coming from the Mahasi Sayadaw tradition of vipassana meditation, we might read a scripture, and make a mental note "reading... reading..." While reading, we may get a pleasant or frightened feeling as we learn something from the text, so we then make a mental note "happy... happy..." or "fear... fear..." As we go back to reading, we might come across a passage that we don't fully understand. Then we can make a mental note "confused... confused..." and so on. The example I have given may or may not be helpful, since in our tradition we only meditate on directly observable phenomena as categorized in the Satipatthana Sutta. Overall, if you don't have much experience with meditation in general, I would suggest to find a teacher, and learn what you can. After you have gained some experience with meditation, then applying the teachings in daily life will be a more intuitive and less confusing task. As for Yoda, all that I get is confusion so I say to myself (mentally) "confused... confused..." 

Based on your list of details, I can share some of your experiences. I meditate in Burmese position, I get pain in my mid-to-lower back, and I also have poor posture in general. So here are some suggestions: Hard Carpet My preference is to meditate on a hard carpet and you might also find it beneficial. Cushions and thick carpets can both throw off our balance and cause us to over-exert the back or some other set of muscles. And on the other hand, meditation on a hardwood or worse, concrete floor presents its own set of problems. Next, we have a pretty standard approach to back pain: Apply the meditation practice to the back pain. This is sort of like powering through it as you suggested, but it's powering through it with the right set of tools. You don't want to make yourself miserable. For example: Usually pain arises first; then we identify with the pain; disliking arises; then we identify with that; thoughts, narratives, stories arise; and it keeps going on and on. The untrained mind creates suffering out of a natural phenomenon. So try to catch it at the very beginning: Observe the pain as pain. Should that fail and you move on to disliking, observe the disliking. If you move on to anything else, observe that, ad infinitum. While this doesn't seem to address the problem of how to avoid back pain, it actually does in two ways: 

The author is, in my estimation (I have no familiarity with the book or the author), doing one of two things: 

Question in the title. I'm looking for answers citing either canonical scripture or the position of any particular school of Buddhism. The inner monologue in the question could also be read as mental chatter; mental noise; superfluous thoughts; extraneous thoughts; or the unnecessary thoughts that normal people have every moment. And I mean when the inner monologue has stopped for good; that is, the case when it never comes back. Another way to read this question might be, Do arahants have an inner monologue? 

One particular place I remember from going there repeatedly is the Mangala Sutta, or Discourse on Blessings. It's in: Khuddaka Nikaya > Sutta Nipata > Culavagga > 4th sutta. This is just a quick summary gleaned off accesstoinsight.org. The website explains in further detail. 

That being said, a beginner should have the guidance of a skilled teacher. Here is a meditation manual in the Mahasi Sayadaw tradition, by the Venerable Sir Yuttadhammo Bhikkhu.