I'll quote only two paragraphs more and I'll leave the rest to you, if you're more interested in the trade with Islamic World in overall, not only from the point of it's connection to religious problematic. 

According to Polish and Russian Wikipedia, between 1909 and 1912 gen. Brusilov was a commander of the 14th Army Corp, which was quartered in Lublin. Later in 1912-1913 he became a vice-commander of Warsaw Military District, under Georgi Skalon. Skalon himself was a commander between 1905 and 1914. This way when Brusilov joined him, Skalon already had 7 years to chose the people he wants to cooperate with. Especially that in 1905 Skalon introduced martial law in order to deal with Revolution, which also took place in Kingdom of Poland (read about it here). Note also that Skalon was not even of German origins. His family came to Estonia (where he was born in Tallinn) as huquenots from Sweden. But they weren't even Swedish - according to one of Polish language historical boards, his ancestor George Scalon came to Sweden from France in 1685, after the Edict of Nantes was withdrawn by Louis XIV. Now we need to look into an additional source material. What I've found is that Brusilov was not the only one, who noted such coincidence. Roman Dmowski, one of the most important Polish politics of those times, wrote in 1925 in his book "Polityka polska i odbudowanie państwa": 

As for the next part, between Warsaw and Gdansk, this map of German railways in 1899 can provide some details: 

In England it was illegal to translate the Bible from Latin into English until the 14C when when John Wycliffe campaigned to have this situation changed. I have often heard that the Qu'ran is untranslatable; or rather a great deal is lost when this is done; has there ever been a country or a period when it was illegal to translate the Qu'ran from Arabic? 

The Black Hills Lands Claim is an ongoing land dispute between the US Government and The Sioux Nation. The treaty of Fort Laramie protected the hills from white settlement, but the discovery of gold on the land led to its defacto seizure in 1874, and officially by a congressional Act in 1877. The legal struggle for the return of the lands started in 

Japan is well known for being a highly industrialised and technologically sophisticated East Asian country; if one was to say that Japan owed its technology to the Greco-Roman influence of Europe this would miss out the large contribution that modern Europe has made to both science and technology; likewise with Islam in relation to Europe. Karen Glasner wrote the following in her introduction to Averroes Physics: 

In a word - prestige; and thus legitimacy. Its a similar sentiment that revived the Roman Empire after its dissolution, first by Charlemagne in 800 AD and then an aborted attempt by Hitler (The third Reich) in the early 20th Century. In contemporary politics one can view attempts to establish the Islamic caliphate in a similar light. 

It was Gassendi round about the same time that Hobbes was writing who made atomism respectable again in early modern Europe: 

You should also read another website, containing local press articles in which Galician citizens write about their road to USA. The first one (1902) was written by journalist who focuses on the ship itself, but the more interesting is the second relation (1903), describing how emigrants from Galicia were treated in Germany on their way in trains and in the ports. And third press article, from 1890, describing relations from port in Bremmen, how Polish emigrants were treated. I suppose it would be similar in Gdansk. And finally the book by Martin Pollack, "Ceasar of America", describing Galician emigration to USA before 1918. Originally it's in German, it was translated to Polish and it's possible that to English too. 

At the beginning of 20th century, large masses of black people were migrating to North or between districts of the same towns (like in New York from Tenderloin or San Juan Hill to Harlem, previously occupied by Italians and Jews), because of lower real estate prices, economic crashes, worsening of conditions for blacks elsewhere and anti-black riots. Several black real estate entrepreneurs, like Phillip Payton Jr, took big part in organization of such moves. I wonder if it had any reflexion in architecture of such districts, except for probable more thrifty use of ornaments, what I believe would clearly result from lowering the price of newly created buildings. I compare it for example to Jewish settlements in Europe or United States, where their own culture was strongly reflected in local architecture. But while there were plenties of Jewish architects with proper education and unique style that developed through centuries, with its own symbolic, I'm not aware of anything like that in Black American culture, except for so called shotgun houses. How did settlements of Black Americans reflect the local architecture? Was there anything like Black American architecture style or symbolic in the beginning of 20th century or later? 

The successor to the Roman Empire is the Roman Catholic faith. Christianity began in an obscure corner of the the Roman Empire, eventually made it self a home in Rome, converted the emperor and 'spiritualised' the Empire by which it loosened its attachment to actual physical geography and temporal power and refocused it on the spiritual. The popes official residence remains in Rome and he is the head of the Roman Catholic community worldwide. 

The Awami League, the largest East Pakistani political party, led by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, won a landslide victory in the national elections in 1970. The party won 167 of the 169 seats allotted to East Pakistan, and thus a majority of the 313 seats in the National Assembly. That they were blocked from doing so led to the 1971 liberation war of Bangladesh. Did they win any seats in West Pakistan? 

I think it goes throughout history, and I'm inclined to include the examples that you've excluded that is European Christiandom and the Roman Empire. They're notions of continental unity on the ecclesiastical and political level. Periodically there had been revivals of the Roman political project, for example by Charlemagne. The roots of European culture is generally seen in three different orientations - the Hebrew prophetic tradition, the Roman civic tradition and the Greek philosophy. The EU was concieved as a project to prevent inter-state aggression within Europe following the catastrophe of the first two World Wars. The strategy one discerns was initionally economic (the Union was originally confined to multi-lateral agreements on Steel and Coal) and then political. Of course, Turkey has been petitioning the Union for incorporation for at least the last decade. Historically, the roots of the Greek philosophical tradition (usually known as the Pre-Socratics), lay in the Greek periphary - the Colonies; Miletus materialism was formulated in the Colony of Miletus a colony in what is now North Turkey and via Lucretious De Rerum Natura (Newton had a heavily annotated copy) is one of the roots of modern science. 

"The best thing that Euskara could contribute to the humanity is to die out" - Miguel de Unamuno Euskara, Basque language, is a very interesting subject. It survived on two time levels. First, being an ancient language which is still in use, and now, being a minority language which is still in use in 21st century, where we have to deal with stronger and stronger assimilation of weaker cultures around the world. On the other hand, there were only two times in history (both during Middle Ages) when all the people speaking Basque language on both sides of Pyrenees created common country - Duchy of Vasconia in 7th century and Kingdom of Pamplona in the 11th. Both of them had the opportunity to use Basque language as an official, but what's strange, in both situations, Basque language haven't been used in their official documents. So if we're speaking about how Basque language survived the times of Roman Empire, when most of the others were forgotten forever, the main reason is quite simple - a longtime alliance between Basques and Romans. While Romans continued extermination of other tribes, like Celtiberians, Basques could easily settle on their lands. This way their culture and language were saved to medieval times. Of course, as you've mentioned it, we can't forget about geographic location of Basque Country. Situated in mountains, far from trade routes and without good land for agriculture, it didn't have much importance for ages, so the native culture could freely develop. That helped f.e. when almost all the peninsula was conquered by Arab people, or when there was a strong pressure from Christian, Latin culture against Basque speaking pagans. In the contrary, right now Basque Country is known for being among those regions of Europe which are the most religious, with the difference that now it's helping to preserve old traditions. From the late Middle Ages it was also a good thing for Euskara that thanks to politic reasons, even when Spain became important kingdom, it still remained multicultural. Later, it's worth to point out the neutral status during World Wars, which was also partly connected with geographic location of all peninsula. When many other cultures suffered from oppressions, the people of Basque Country weren't affected at all. Right now, I'd also count a longtime support of Spanish government, regarding cultural differences and minorities. This way people in various regions of Spain (Catalonia, Galicia) speak different languages as their main one. Of course I can imagine a Spanish historian arguing with the last paragraph, but in comparison with other European countries, the situation of minority cultures in Spain still looks much better.