It is really a planet? I'm thinking of David Weber's Mutineer's Moon. (There are other stories in the series but this is the relevant one.) It turns out Earth's moon was actually destroyed 50,000 years ago--what we see in the sky is a starship on long term picket duty that was concealed by peeling off the outer layers of our moon and covering the ship with them. There was a mutiny, the ship was severely damaged and remains there to this day inhabited only by the now-sentient computer core. The gravitational anomalies we see on the moon are really the result of the mass distribution of the underlying starship. While it does nothing that changes the gravity of the moon it certainly would be capable of doing so. 

Simplistic answer: Your underground bases run on nuclear power. They have enough fuel stockpiled for a long time. Nuclear power run lights, thus agriculture. More complex answer: They die. The problem is you have too small a population to maintain all the skills needed to keep the society going. 

Simple answer: Everything--including yourself when you die from a lack of oxygen. If you wear a rebreather you get a bit more time before you die of overheating. (You can't simply wear an oxygen tank as the exhaled air has no place to go, you would quickly be crushed.) In what time you had left you would not be able to see or hear anything, nor could you move. (Moving a time-frozen atom takes infinite energy.) Now, for something that actually might be useful, look at one of Larry Niven's stories whose title eludes me at the moment. It's a murder mystery involving a guy who has a device projecting a time-speeding field (anything in the field operates at a much faster time rate.) While obviously the field itself is handwavium he otherwise tried to do it with hard science--after all, it's a mystery, the reader should be able to solve it. I do not recall him addressing the consumption of air in the field, though, I think he missed that one. It's set in his Known Universe, early on, one of the Gil the ARM stories. 

A bit more tech than you're envisioning, but look at the Hammer's Slammers novels. The basic force driving this is a universe with a large number of small combatants. Most of the time they have little if any military, it's a better deal to shell out a whole bunch of money to hire mercs when needed than to maintain a standing army of anything like their firepower. It gives a good basis for why you could have mercenaries being the primary combat forces. The universe has a bonding commission that ensures the mercenaries actually do the job they're paid for and since it's high tech warfare it generally becomes clear that defeat is inevitable before large numbers of casualties are sustained--and thus the loser usually doesn't get torn up too badly. 

Keyword: One. In practice you will have a big problem when you try this--interceptor #1 engages inbound nuke #1 and destroys it. Fine. 30 seconds later inbound nuke #2 sails through the area of ionization and isn't intercepted because the interception radar can't see through the ionized area. 

Another thing you can do if you're interested in good works without personal benefit and have already built up some money: Flaunt it in a restricted fashion. Build a 1GW powerplant out in the middle of some wasteland, power for sale for 1 cent per kwh. (Looking at the big nations of the world I see plenty of suitable ground in the western United States, much of Canada, much of Siberia and western China and other areas that aren't so tied to countries like the Sahara.) Anonymously announce the existence of the powerplants, the terms of using them are the government will not tax them and will administer an account for you--the money received from the power goes into the account, money will be disbursed in accordance with messages bearing your PGP key. Non-compliance or meddling means the plant shuts down. They are warned that the plants use antimatter and have anti-tamper systems--they don't really have antimatter (big safety issue!) but will blow up spectacularly if anyone or anything enters without the system being turned off first. Build for minimal maintenance and all maintenance is performed off-site--you simply lift the whole plant out with a space vehicle. Once you have built one you'll have no problem getting government cooperation to provide all the supporting infrastructure you need for others--simply announcing one is ready for placement will get you governments falling all over each other to help. The 1GW is simply a starter--make the later plants much bigger. Also, water--offer cheap desalinization. They built everything but the filter itself. I expect someone in a repressive regime will test the anti-tampers, after one plant goes sky high and they don't get any more for some years I don't think there will be any more problem. This allows you to do a lot of good before you reveal the technology. You can't actually make any money this way, though--for that I like Marv Mill's suggestion of salting mines. 

If you don't have enough gravity to hold your creatures then you don't have enough gravity to hold things together, period. However, if all you're after is a zero-g environment there's another answer: A gas torus being pulled off a world. I'm not sure of the environmental requirements here. Things are held together by tidal forces and will slowly bleed away. If this route interests you I suggest reading Larry Niven's The Smoke Ring and The Integral Trees. 

Plenty of math in kingledion's answer supporting his answer. Unfortunately, it's based on a false assumption--namely, that he can't jump higher than the rock under him can withstand. This is false, he's going to be able jump considerably higher. I originally thought he could jump right off the planet but now I realize he can't--no matter how fast he jumps drag is going to bring him to a stop well before he leaves the atmosphere. The thing is, so long as he jumps fast enough the strength of what he's standing on isn't the limiting factor. Rather, Newton's third law is at work. The rock under him is destroyed by the jump but it still has mass. It goes down, he goes up. Lets suppose his legs go down at 70% of lightspeed. Draw lines downward from his feet, converging at a 45 degree angle. Any mass within that area has no way to escape (it would have to exceed lightspeed in order to do so) and thus must be pushed down. I don't have the time to try to figure the trapped volume, but my gut says he ascends at at least 1% of lightspeed. However, no matter how fast his jump he's going to come to a stop when he's displaced as much atmosphere as his weight. (Note: 70% was simply picked to make the 45 degree angle. Different velocities give different angles.) (There is a way he can jump off the planet, though: Jump very, very hard. Drag brings him to a stop and he falls back to his jump site. Now, however, there is a huge shock wave pushing the air away from his location and the upward path from it. He jumps a second time, this time in near vacuum. While the problem says he can survive the jump no matter what, after he jumps there's going to be an incredibly destructive blast wave that will catch up with him. Does he survive the blast wave and radiant energy of a multi-gigaton blast?) 

I disagree with the accepted answer. Survival is possible albeit extremely unlikely. There are two aspects to the survival: 1) Surviving the fire. This is not going to be possible for anything that we have currently put into space but you are indicating a far greater space presence. There might be something big enough to shield you on the way down--say, perhaps, a piece of radiation shielding made from mining slag? 2) Surviving the landing. There have been cases of wreckage-riders that survived landings at terminal velocity, albeit with serious injuries. There has also been a case of a true free-faller surviving with apparently no injuries. (He was injured when he jumped and had blacked out on the way down so we don't know exactly what happened. It appears he hit a pine tree just right and then deep snow.) Thus your protagonist could ride a piece of radiation shielding through the fire, then fly away on his own (note: this assumes he has skydiving experience!!) and get extremely lucky in where he comes down. (I'm saying to get away from what you rode down because it's going to be much harder to slow down. The pine tree that saved the tail gunner above would be of no help if you're riding something big.)