Layering clothing is a smart idea if you live in cooler climates, or where the weather may change suddenly [A]. 

I find that compression shorts help me reduce chafing when biking. The spandex in the typical ones tend to wick away moisture to keep things dry enough to minimize chafing. I've been obese enough that just ordinary walking would abrade the hairs off my inner thighs. 

You are a programmer like I am; that means that your most important feature is your brain. "Oversleeping" is not a problem. Overweight is a problem. Insufficient sleep is a problem. Sleeping is very important for keeping your brain working properly. Without your brain, you have no job. That 10-15 hour sleep on the weekends is your body's way of recovering what you've cheated it out of during the week. Sure, I'd love several extra hours per day, who wouldn't? You and I have the exact same 24 hours per day that every other human has. There is no other way around the fact that we're both meat bags and the bag of meat requires maintenance. Yes, we can be a lot more productive with 25+ hours per day, but reality doesn't allow that. My body prefers 9 hours of sleep per night: my lifestyle requires that I get 6 hours of sleep per night. Both things cannot be true - something has to give. For me, the weekends are for recovering what I can't get during the week. As you age, you will realize that your body is more important than your desired lifestyle. Get the sleep your body wants. 

Yes, walking will help lose weight. As you get older, you may find yourself able to run less and less (before the onset of knee pain), so continuing walking will be helpful as exercise. I find that the difference between daily 30-45 min of walking (I have a desk job) and 0min walking is about 5-7 pounds (or maybe you'd rather prefer this explained as "if I walk 30-45 minutes per day, after about 2-3 months, my baseline weight is about 5-7 pounds lighter than when I have no time to walk at all"). When I was carless, I had to walk about 90-120 minutes daily as part of my commuting and was about 20 pounds lighter than when I later got a car and was able to drive everywhere. Your experience will probably be different. 

When my work out begins, I normally begin strong. For example, I can lift up to 30 Lbs doing bicep curls, I can feel the burn, but it's not difficult at all to do the curls in good form; but as the workout progresses, I find myself having to lower my weights in each set. For example, by the second set of bicep curls, I have to lower the weights to 27 Lbs to maintain good form. By the third set I'm doing 25 Lbs, and so on. It's not that I start feeling tired, low energy or anything, it's just that my muscles simply can't take it. What am I doing wrong? I was hoping I could maintain the same number of pounds throughout the entire workout. What do I need to change? Should I start with lower weights even though they'll feel too light? 

Back 1 Back 1 Back 1 Back 1 Back 2 Back 2 ... Biceps 1 Biceps 1 Biceps 1 Biceps 1 Biceps 2 And so on. 

So let's say today I'm doing back, and biceps. For simplicity, let's assume I want to do 3 different exercises to target by back (Back 1, Back 2, and Back 3), and 3 different exercises to target my biceps (Biceps 1, Biceps 2, and Biceps 3). Let's assume I want to do 4 sets of each exercise. How should I arrange them? Right now, I'm alternating the exercises to give my muscles a rest. For example: 

However, I'm noticing some people at the gym who instead just do all four sets of one exercise at once and then move to the next. For example: 

I'm a 25 year old male weighting about 165 Lbs. I'm trying to lose some body fat, but I'm still going to the gym 4 days a week to prevent as much muscle mass loss as possible. I'm consuming slightly more than a gram of protein per Lb of body weight, but I'm concerned that this protein might be going to waste because the body might not have the calories to properly repair muscle after a workout, resulting in a net muscle loss. I'm currently consuming about 2,000 calories on workout days, and about 1200 calories on rest days, for an average of about 1,800 calories a day. Is it at all possible to lose muscle like this? Does my concern have any grounds? If so, how can I prevent it? Fat loss is my priority right now, but I want to lose as little muscle as possible. 

I recommend stoicism. One light read on the subject is Stoic Warriors: The Ancient Philosophy behind the Military Mind. 

Riding to the university will be far more physical than taking the car, but the physical exertion will be dependent upon the speed you ride. A leisurely speed of 10 mph will not break a sweat, while a speed of 20mph will get your heart rate into the exercise zone and keep it there. As some examples, I can ride all day at 15 mph. At 18 mph, I can last about 5 miles. At 22 mph (the speed my co-workers prefer to pace themselves at), I can last about a half mile before I bonk. Tour-de-France riders average 30-35 mph over each day's stage. 

In my opinion, it is a throwback to the fashion from the movie Rocky. Although I like Christopher's idea of heat conditioning [B]. Notes: A - I live in Denver, CO. We can get some very severe weather changes. Also, with the altitude and humidity here, it is possible to get 50°F (28°C) temperature swings during the day. B - Summer highs (here) are frequently over 100°F (38°C) for extended periods. During heat waves, the night time lows are rarely 20°F (11°C) cooler. 

I don't like short socks. My ex was a dancer and she hated long socks (she'd wear ankle length ones). Most of my socks don't quite go halfway up my shins, but I have some that make it to my knees, and those are hiking socks (and are for a small amount of padding in case things go up one's pants, or you're banging into things with your legs). For sports like footy/soccer/rugby, the length of socks is more like part of the uniform of the sport, like basketball shorts are for basketball.