The examples provided are not retribution but are matters of equity & justice. From a Buddhist perspective, one should proceed in a manner that does not harm oneself or the other. Focus on protecting oneself & one's assets rather than hurting & punishing the other. 

Yes, you probably should smile, say you are fine & offer an easy explanation, such as you are training yourself to work/do things with calmness & without stress. As for the essence of the Lord Buddha, this was explained in MN 37 as: 

In Buddhism, 'mindfulness' does not mean to meticulously 'observe' things. Instead, 'mindfulness' means to 'bring to mind' or to 'remember to practise' the Buddhist path. When washing dishes, mindfulness does not mean to observe & feel the water, dishes, etc, but, instead, mindfulness means to wash the dishes with a mind free from greed, hatred & delusion. Therefore, the practise of Buddhist mindfulness in everyday life is to do things with a mind free from greed, hatred & delusion. In other words, Right Mindfulness is do things with Right View, Right Intention, Right Speech, Right Action & Right Livelihood, as explained in the Maha-Cattarisaka Sutta. 

You are stuck with those aspects of Buddhism because you have devoted your life to science rather than to meditation. If you meditated more & attained stream-entry, all doubts would vanish. 

Samatha (tranquility) meditation using anapanasati (meditation with in & out breathing) can be used as a method to overcome loneliness & distress. 

Generally, most sutta teachings about giving are about giving to family, relatives, monks, deities, noble beings, etc. For example, well-known suttas about giving & benevolence, such as AN 4.61, AN 8.33, AN 8.35, AN 9.5 & DN 31 do not mention giving to the poor. Since Buddhism emphasizes personal responsibility, including responsibility for society by earning income ethically, righteously or blamelessly, which includes responsibility towards employees, servants, local community, etc, it seems an emphasis upon the existence of a pool of chronically poor people is something Buddhism would prefer not to encourage. For example, since Christianity strongly emphasizes giving charity to the poor for rebirth in heaven, it seems Christians have a vested personal interest in maintaining a pool of poor people, otherwise they would have no path to heaven; in the same way many left-wing government bureaucrats have a personal vested interest in maintaining social need in order to maintain their jobs. The above said, after searching & searching just now, I found this sutta: 

Therefore, is there a contradiction in the translation of the Bhūmija Sutta where the "proponents of kamma" are refuted yet essentially the same doctrine of 'self-generated-kamma' is translated as the doctrine of the Buddha? 

As I posted, this does not necessarily occur with the mind because results of kamma are extremely varied thus cannot be quantified using the precise mathematical laws of physics. 

The terrorists are funded by US political allies & both the USA and the terrorists have caused a refugee crisis in Europe from lands (Libya & Syria) destroyed by the USA, NATO, its Wahhabi allies & the terrorists. Yet most Western people still believe the terrorists are Muslims that hate the West. 

The doctrine of (Inter) Dependent Origination is solely the doctrine of the Buddha & unrelated to the Vedas. If it was related to the Vedas there would be no Buddha and no Buddhism since the term 'Buddha' solely rests on the premise that the Buddha 'discovered' or 'was enlightened' to the previously unknown truths that lead to Nirvana (here-&-now perfect peace & freedom of suffering). There are some secular scholars such as Joanna Jurewicz, Linda Blanchard & possibly Richard Gombrich that claim Dependent Origination is related to the Vedas in that: "the 12-nidana chain mirror the creation myth involving the deity Prajapati & the Buddha repurposed the Brahmanic creation myth ". This view is wrong & primarily arises from a misunderstanding of the term 'nama-rupa' (the 4th link in Dependent Origination). 'Nama-rupa' is a term that originates from the Vedas however the Buddha redefined the term to mean 'mentality-materiality' ('mind-body') instead of the Vedic 'name-form'. Unfortunately, the majority of official Buddhist translators today, such as Bhikkhu Bodhi & Thanissaro Bhikkhu, while not sharing the Vedic views of Linda Blanchard, etc, also mistranslate 'nama-rupa' in Dependent Origination as 'name-form'. This mistranslation occurs because there are contexts in the Buddhist scriptures where the Buddha is answering questions to Brahmans who have no understanding of Buddhism thus in these contexts (but not in the context of Dependent Origination) the translation of 'name-form' is appropriate since it has the same meaning as found in the Vedas. The real origin of Dependent Origination is described in the Maha Sakyamuni Gotamo Sutta, where, before his enlightenment, the Buddha-To-Be was searching for how suffering occurs. The Buddha-To-Be asked himself: "Why do people suffer?" He replied: "People suffer due to change & loss; due to aging & death"...he continued...Why does aging-&-death occur? Because of 'birth' ('identity'). People self-identify themselves to be 'of this clan', 'of this family', 'this self' or 'this person'. Why does 'birth' occur? Due to becoming. People 'become' what they believe themselves to be. Why becoming? Attachment. The mind attaches to sense objects & pleasurable feelings. Why attachment? Craving. The mind craves for sense objects & pleasurable feelings. Why feelings? Sense contact. Why sense contact? Sense organs. Why sense organs? Having a body & mind. Why does a body & mind exist? Due to consciousness. Why does consciousness exist? Due to having a body & mind. Why is the body, mind & consciousness not at peace & primed to create its own suffering? Due to 'sankhara' ('inner formations'). Why sankhara? Ignorance. In summary, those that claim Dependent Origination has its origin in the Vedas cannot be Buddhists (since they deny the Buddha's enlightenment) and simply do not understand how suffering comes to be & how suffering is extinguished (which is the sole purpose of Buddhism). The Buddha declared: "What I teach now as before, O monks, is suffering and the cessation of suffering". Thus, the Buddha did not teach from the Vedas. 

As for 'abhava', I do not currently know what it means in Pali Buddhism. 'Abhava' appears to not have the same meaning as 'abhavissā', which seems to mean: 'if was' or 'would have been', as found in the 2nd sermon: 

You should learn about what 'skilful karma' is and then examine your own behaviour & the behaviour of others according to what is skilful. 

'Chanda' as an 'iddhipada', translated as 'zeal', 'desire', 'will', 'love'. I prefer 'devotion'. Some suttas: SN 51.15 and SN 51.20. 

Therefore, when the mind without delusion is discerned, the effort is made to maintain the mind without delusion, which requires governance or supervision by mindfulness. 

Developed in discernment (wisdom) means developed in Noble Right View rather than attached and burdened by the ignoble right view of reincarnation, as explained in MN 117. It follows a trifling evil act done by this sort of individual is experienced in the here & now and, for the most part, barely appears for a moment. 

The Buddha did not teach 'kammic-retribution' & 'non-attachment' together. 'Kammic-retribution' is a moral yet defiled & mundane teaching; based in the ordinary view of 'self'. 'Non-attachment' is a supramundane/transcendent (lokuttara) teaching; based in not-self (anatta). Please refer to MN 117, which distinguishes these matters. This being said, any important & essential relationship in life must be looked after, for example, the relationship an enlightened monk must have with laypeople. The Buddha taught 'non-attachment' rather than 'detachment'. The advanced Buddhist practitioner learns to have metta without attachment. Having metta will look after/safeguard any relationship. 

There is a series of suttas at the very end of the Samyutta Nikaya, namely, SN 56.114 to SN 56.131, which appear to state 'hell beings', 'animals' & 'ghosts' can realise the Four Noble Truths. 

Your idea about "One's Dharma" is Hindu & not Buddhist. Equally, your concerns about helping the world are too far ahead in respect to priorities. A monastic life (which does not necessarily mean official ordination) is the formal opportunity to final personal inner peace & contentment. In Buddhism, developing inner peace is the primary responsibility. Monasticism is the ideal mysticism. If personal liberation is a person's path, this person will find themselves in a monastery. When I was 23 years old, I found & lived my 1st year (as a non-monk) in a monastery, where I meditated around 8 hours per day. This was the most beneficial year of my life. As for the world, it is certainly increasingly corrupted & little can be done to help the world at the current time. 

The mind & body is disturbed, with agitation & stress ('hell'). Friends may be lost or social status (such as a job) may be lost, which results in deficiency & need ('hungry ghost'). Shame & regret will eventually arise internally (if the mind returns to a normal or 'human' state). 

Latching onto the breath is not exactly easy, even if the mind has non-distraction, i.e., is free from hindrances. This is because watching the breath with an ordinary mind causes the breath to calm so, very soon after, the breath is often too calm for the ordinary mind to discern or "latch onto". Establishing the mind on an external object, such as the posture & parts of the body (arms, legs, hands, head, etc), can assist here because it can keep the mind both clear and, in particular, open. In fact, in the Anapanasati Sutta, the instruction literally begins with the words: "the meditator sits with spine erect establishing/maintaining mindfulness in front of one's face". In my experience, I have found that maintaining a clear & open mind ('externally') has resulted in infinitely better breath meditation (better than deliberately attempting to 'inwardly' watch the breath). The more I deliberately attempt to not watch the breath, the more clear the breath is in the mind. I play a game of 'reverse psychology' or 'play hard to get' with the breath. Please remember, the ultimate training in Buddhism is abandoning craving therefore the less craving the better. 

This website is the best study tool because if you ask about a certain sutta I can explain it for you. 

Stream-entry is to have verified confidence in the Dhamma, which is seen here & now, timeless, inviting verification, pertinent, to be realized by the wise for themselves. What this means is to fully realise the abandoning of craving, attachment & self-view brings peace (and the opposite brings suffering & disturbance). 

In other words, 'death' ('marana') & grasping the aggregates as 'self' are the same thing, which is why grasping is called 'Mara' in many suttas, for example: 

Space does not exist independently of kamma & cause. By kamma (action), space can be filled, such as filling a hole with soil. Or by cause, space can be created or removed, such as a volcanic eruption creating a cave with space but filling space in a crevice. Or when sickness blocks the space in the nostril. The Lord Buddha said the realisation of space is conditioned & not Nibbana. Nibbana is dispassion; Nibbana is non-attachment; Nibbana is the destruction of craving; Nibbana is the absence of greed, hatred & delusion. Therefore, a mind abiding in Nibbana can walk & talk. Where as a mind abiding in space cannot walk or talk. That is why the Buddha rejected the dimension of the infinitude of space as Nibbana; because the dimension of the infinitude of space is limited, bondage, conditioned & not freedom. 

The difference is 'difference' or 'change' or 'transformation' of 'mind'. Buddhism does not teach about 'incarnation' or 'soul'. Possibly you are asking these questions on the incorrect forum. 

It appears the Lord Buddha criticized natthikavādaṃ (moral nihilism) because it is doctrine based on grasping (upadana). In other words, the Lord Buddha appeared to not criticize natthikavādaṃ because of disbelief in an afterlife. 

The Pali suttas (SN 37.3), which were relevant to the Buddha's society, describe certain difficulties peculiar to women, namely: 

'Re-birth' is merely the re-arising of the 'self-belief' or 'self-concept' (in this life). To quote: 

Yes. This question is on the wrong track because Dependent Origination is only about the 12 conditions that result in suffering, i.e., sorrow, lamentation, pain, grief & despair. To quote: 

Not all monks are virtuous. Not all monks follow the Dhamma (teachings) & the Vinaya (social discipline). This one monk & temple will not threaten the survival of Buddhism.