Essentially, bicycle frame sizing is inconsistent and possibly insane. Try the bikes out. Don't rely on a single number for the size. Theoretically the size given is the length of the seat tube, but there's a lot of inconsistency in how that's measured. Usually a frame size given in inches is a mountain bike frame and a frame size given in centimeters is a road bike. A mountain bike frame will have a higher bottom bracket in order to clear obstacles better, and may also have a lower seat tube (to lessen the odds of your crotch colliding with it when dealing with rough terrain), so you can't simply convert one number to the other. If you look on that chart and compare the "hybrid" sizes to the "road" and "mountain" sizes you'll see that hybrid cm is close to road cm and hybrid inches is close to mountain inches. Even within a single basic bike type there can be a fair amount of difference in the bottom bracket height, which directly affects standover height. Basically, mountain bikes and road bikes have two different sizings and you need to find out the appropriate size for you in each. Hybrids seem to sometimes be sized like road bikes or like mountain bikes, but the frame geometry probably doesn't really quite match up to either style of bike and they may report the sizing as what matches the other style or as the actual measurement. There's a lot of variation in hybrid geometries because there's a lot of different sub-types of hybrid intended for different kinds of riders. Because the manufacturers aren't consistent, you really need to try the bikes out to find the right size bike. Two bikes of the same basic type may be the exact same height but have different top-tube lengths and therefore fit you differently. If you're an experienced rider you might be able to work out what you need to know for a bike given the full geometry information that many manufacturers publish, but the single number size will never be enough. See also: $URL$ 

"Heavy bicycle traffic" is also probably a good chance to draft and go faster with less effort. "Heavy bicycle traffic" makes you much more visible and potentially a lot safer. "Heavy bicycle traffic" might some new friends that you meet on the ride. Typically the route has actually been tested out. No nasty surprises. Typically the route is marked. Harder to miss the turn when there's a color-coded arrow on the ground for you and you just saw 50 riders ahead of you take the same turn. Typically there's rest stops with food and beverages. You don't have to carry any of that with you or worry about the next place you can find water. Typically there's vehicles following along that can fix your flat, help with other mechanical issues, or even pick you and your bike up and drive you to the finish if you can't make it on your own. Often at the end of the ride there's secure valet bicycle parking. Typically there's food and beverages at the end of the event. Often you get a meal and a beer included in the ticket price. Sometimes they'll have arranged road closures so that you don't have to stop at a bunch of stop signs. Maybe only at the start, maybe for the whole ride. Many of these rides are raising money for some good cause or another. Probably most of the money goes to making the ride happen, but some percentage might go to a charity of some sort. 

Personally, I do #1 and #2, and have considered investing in #3. #3, #4 and #5 all make your bike harder to work on, but at least #3 bike shops are used to and you just make sure to bring the special tool with you all the time. 

For the tool based approaches, I would be very tempted to work out some way with a vice or two to hold the lock and bike steady, to minimize the chances of damaging the bike. Thieves also use leverage based attacks, but I believe those risk damaging the bike. And, of course, having proper proof that the bicycle is yours is a good idea, too, since all those attempts to defeat a lock look suspicious. 

Early generation belt drives have guides on both sides of the sprocket to keep the belt from sliding off. This can definitely lead to snow, mud or other debris getting trapped in the sprockets, getting packed in tighter with every revolution, and eventually rendering it inoperable. Later designs started compensating by adding mud ports, a guide on only one side of the sprocket (with other guide on the other side) and other mechanisms to allow snow or mud to be squeezed out of the system. The most recent design has a guide that runs down the center of the belt instead of on either side (so the teeth on the belt have a gap in the middle), which should squeeze snow or mud out the sides of the sprocket and belt. From what I've heard, this is supposed to be the most difficult to clog design. 

Also, from the stuff I saw, a helmet meeting the old standard will still be perfectly legal to own or wear, will still be allowed in organized races for a while, etc. I think the 300g to 250g change is the big one. The g forces imparted to your head in a collision directly translate to how much damage your brain is going to take. They're taking a weight shaped like a human head, strapping it into the helmet and dropping it onto various "anvils" and measuring the impact. This is a laboratory test of what would happen to your head during a collision wearing that helmet. Note that the tests are simply pass or fail. It's entirely possible that there's helmets certified to the old standard that would pass the new standard (or parts of the new standard) but those models weren't tested to it. Personally, I'd be likely to pick up one of the old standard clearance helmets and not worry about it. Maybe get something a little nicer than I'd normally choose to afford. If I was planning some riskier riding I'd probably choose something certified to the new standard. However, I'm opposed to adult mandatory helmet laws, so my personal opinion should be taken with a grain of salt. My personal opinion is that it's 90% silly bureaucracy and 10% actually making your head safer. 

One bad spot can ruin a route. All perfect smooth bike lane except for that intersection that you feel like you're going to die in half the time? Terrible. Try a route that avoids the bad spot. Avoid bad road positions. For instance, a busy narrow 55mph road that's one lane in each direction with no shoulder would be bad. But if it's plenty wide with a wide shoulder that would be fine. Or a narrow low-traffic 25mph street would be fine. Avoid difficult turns. Needing to merge across multiple lanes of busy fast traffic is what I find the worst. There's other ways to make a left turn, but they're usually slower. Avoid long waits. Signals that don't pick me up (or just have a very long cycle), stop signs facing busy road that doesn't have to stop. Avoid annoying traffic patterns. Signals or stop signs that always have a long line. Places where everybody makes a right turn and I want to go straight but it's hard to merge into traffic, etc. Avoid difficult hills. I don't return home on one road that I love for getting to work because it ends with a short steep hill with a left turn. I prefer long gradual slopes over short steep ones, but you might find you have the opposite preference. Find bike lanes. Or a good shoulder with not too many right turns across your path. I believe most of the US classifies these into 3 classes: class I is dedicated bike-and-pedestrian-only ("bike path"), class II is a bike lane, class III is a route/suggestion (but might have sharrows or other measures). I usually prefer class II, since class I usually involves dealing with pedestrians and most of the class III stuff around here is a joke with better side-street options. Find smooth pavement. Avoid potholes, badly maintained road, etc. Hopefully obvious why. I find sometimes the pavement going one way is much better than going the other. 

† In most of the US, left hand straight up (palm forward) and upper arm straight to the left to signal a right turn is a legal alternative or the legally preferred signal, but many drivers will misinterpret it. I highly recommend using the right hand straight out to the right version (either with palm forward or pointing with your fingers), since many people are either unfamiliar with the left-arm-straight-up signal, or misinterpret it (perhaps even as a rude gesture).