I always thought that a low saddle height was used in BMX because there is no suspension so the legs have to absorb all the impact whereas on a downhill bike the massive suspension should mean the legs need to absorb very little. I am not a regular downhill rider but have done it occasionally and I think that letting the suspension do the work is key. Although if you are crushing your under-carriage into the saddle it does suggest that something isn't working right. Maybe by releasing the pressure on the bike (pedals) by trying to absorb too much of the impact you are stopping the suspension's natural dampening. 

Will you damage components? Probably, if this is a repeated pattern, yes. When standing to climb you will be in a higher gear than when seated climbing. This means the cadence of your legs and pedals is slower. Add to the slower cadence the fact that you are powering down hard to accelerate uphill and there is significant power going through the chain and derailleur over a chain moving too slowly. If you are hearing loud clunks, that is unlikely to be good for your bike's components. It may not result in immediate failure, but is increasing wear and could result in failure later on. Rather than chain stretch, you may get a link failure and chain snapping, or you may damage parts of the derailleur if you do this regularly under high power. An alternative approach to changing gear while standing Once you have got the bike moving at a speed where you feel the cadence is too quick standing, try going back to a seated position. It will probably now feel too slow to change up. This will also allow you to use different muscles. If you can still accelerate up to a speed where the cadence is too fast and you want to change up, then do so with the pedals spinning quickly but with a moment where you apply slightly less power. General advice on hill climbing As you change up, move to standing to maintain momentum and to account for the lower cadence of the higher gear. If you can still accelerate in the higher gear - repeat. You may also find this article on How to Climb a Hill on a Bicycle a useful reference. Although he concentrates on maintaining momentum and the theory of when to attack to optimise energy efficiency through the hills rather than how to change gears.. 

I don't know either of the bikes you mention, but the main thing to measure is the inside leg measurement, not the total height of the child as this is the most critical to get right for the bike fit. One UK company which specialises in children's bikes is Isla Bikes. Their website has some very good measurement guides that ensures a good fit. If your child has set their heart on one of the bikes you mention, I would recommend taking them down to the LBS to try them out for size before purchasing. There's no substitute for trying it out. 

I'm not sure there is a good answer to this question. It probably depends most on what type of shoes you wear. Have you tried using trainers/sneakers with a rubber sole? I wouldn't want to try and modify the pedals as you may risk damaging them. If you want a really good reliable pedal connection on the platform side, I reckon the Shimano M324 pedals are more likely to suit. 

I have a topeak rear rack the mounting of which is interfering with the operation of the rear brake. Unfortunately, my frame (a 2009 Scott Sportster P4) only has mounting lugs on the outside of the seatstay meaning that the rack's mounting arms just touch the outside of metal sheath around the brake cable. The brakes still apply but the cable is not free to move as it should be. A pretty standard V-brake setup. Does anyone have any good ideas for a mounting solution that would enable me to mount the rack in such a way that the mounting arms bend in more quickly to avoid the brakes? I'm tempted to heat up the arms and bend them with a wrench - any concerns or recommendations? 

I have to change the rims of my bike and I have to choose between 32 or 36 (or 48 or any other variation). I never thought about this until now and I feel it's kind of a dumb question, but I don't have a clue if this has any perceptible impact or not. So far, I understand that more spokes means a stronger wheel, but also more spokes means a little bit more weight. Despite that, a spoke weights almost nothing so I think that's not a practical difference to take into account. Is there anything else? I ride a single speed bike mainly for city commuting, so is there any practical difference between choosing 32/36 spokes (or another number)? Thanks a lot people! 

Be prepared to fall, at least mentally prepared. There's 2 types of city cyclists, those who have fallen and those who are about to fall. There's no way for you to escape of this, you are doing it at some point, it doesn't mean it has to be a bad fall, but you are going to do it for sure (don't be scared about it, just be cautious). Do a test ride the weekend before your first commute. Plan ahead your route and then test it, go and ride all the way to your destination to check how long does it take you, how do you feel after the ride and also to check possible troubles on the way (detours, works on the road, etc). Is PRETTY IMPORTANT to try to use the same route always!! This improves your safety since after a while you will be able to spot the problematic parts of the road, where is common to find people crossing, where there are dogs that might chase you, which traffic lights are short, etc. Don't under estimate this, I think it is one of the most useful tips about city commuting using a bike. Check tire's pressure. The softer they are, the harder the ride is going to be. Check your brakes, no need to explain. 

Finally I would say "just go and do it". It doesn't matter if you can't do the whole hill in your first try, just do what you can and walk the rest. Maybe just half of a quarter is ok, then after a week you'll be adapted to your bike and you might be doing half of the hill and next week 3/4, and before you know it the thing is going to be just part of the road. Hope this helps. 

Buy a helmet. Despite you can find several discussions about what is the real effectiveness of a helmet, it's never bad to wear one. Buy lights, a white light for the front and red to put back. I would suggest at least two red lights, one to put in your bike's frame and one to attach to your helmet (or maybe your backpack or jacket). Buy gloves. This is not a must, but they will improve your comfort and also they will help when you fall. This will be is especially important if the weather is cold, in that case riding without gloves might be pretty unpleasant. Buy a windbreaker jacket, it will really help when it's cold. Don't go out with a ton of clothes because you are going to boil in there. It is best to go out with a shirt and a windbreaker jacket, and feel a little cold for 2-3 minutes until you warm up. If you can, buy a rack or some panniers. This is just optional, but you will really feel more comfortable if you ride carrying your things in a rack than in a backpack on your back. I would suggest you to ride the whole first week with just a backpack and then check if you want a rack or some panniers. 

A CX bike does make a great commuter. It is stable and strong and still pretty efficient on the road. Just put some touring tires on it. So your question boils down to a CX bike that has mounts for racks and fenders. You don't find many racing bikes designed for racks and fenders. Would never actually race with fenders or rack. You almost never see rack mounts on carbon bike (road, mtn, or CX). So you are limited to aluminum, steel, or titanium CX. I know of just a few true CX bikes that come with rack and or fender mounts. Moots is a high end semi custom that you can order with mounts. The titanium La Crux comes with mounts (see picture). The Cross Check has mounts and is a designed as a CX but I have never seen a Cross Check in a race as it is heavy. Given not a lot true race CX have mounts then you can open up your options by looking at CX like commuter bikes - drop bars and take CX size tires. Look for a compact crank (34T or 36T small). You might be giving up some ground clearance compared to a true CX but as a beginner you are not going to be hopping obstacles. CX or commuter look for a bike that will take 38mm tires. Higher end riders are on 33mm but start with big and soft. If you have only ridden a borrowed road bike those down hill switchbacks are going to be scary. Unless you are Cat 1 or 2 road or mountain racer you are not going to be competitive your first season. Focus on having fun and getting better. You will see people riding mountain bikes in local races - I get beat by mountain bikes. Until you develop technique you are probably going to be faster on a mountain bike. That Crossrip Elite would not be a bad starter CX. I has a CX type geometry and will take CX sized tires. This is a legit CX racer I use for commuting on the off season: 

Consider you are not finding what you are looking for for a reason. A larger tire does not necessarily have a lower rolling resistance. A the same pressure a larger tire actually has a lower rolling resistance. Over city terrain I would take a 28 mm or 30 mm over a 23 mm for rolling resistance. For ride and flat resistance I would definitely take a 28 mm + over a smaller tire. Racers go with a narrow tires more for wind resistance. On a hybrid you don't have nearly the aerodynamics of a road bike - you are taller and wider. What you pick up on a small tire on hybrid is just not worth it. You already have the wider fork and rear hub. Putting smaller tires on it is just not going to change the aerodynamics much - especially on the rear. I would stay in the right sizing for your rims and go with a low resistance road type tire. You probably have like a 20 mm that will take 28 mm tire fine. If you are bigger than 20 mm you can find CX 135mm wheels as low as 20 mm. On the front you if you are dead set then you could find a road wheel for the front. But I still don't think 23 mm is going to make you faster than a 28 mm on that bike. If you really want speed then I would put that money into a road bike rather than a custom wheel build. 

NO The derailleur holds chain tension. At a minimum your would need a chain tensioner. And it would need to line up with A gear. Single speed and fixie have horizontal dropout to adjust tension.