When wind is guaranteed but rain is unlikely you might decide the extra weight is worth it. But good layering with a hard shell that is breathable and has underarm zips can be quite comfortable while saving you the weight of the soft shell. This is my preferred option as the times I get too hot are generally when it's raining. Wind blocking fleece is an alternative too. 

The gasifier probably produces a different mix than cooler processes in your other answer. Heat wood enough without oxygen and you get mainly hydrogen and carbon monoxide, leaving behind charcoal. The H2 and CO mix is a fuel. 

1 Wikipedia cites RSPB Birds of Britain and Europe, Rob Hume 2002 (ISBN 0751312347), which is where I'd read about this peculiarly localised aspect of behaviour. 

I haven't seen a part like that in a tent before, but you might try calling it a boss or a hub. It might be located at the apex and take on that name. 

If you carry the right layers and adjust them well, you can often get away with cotton with no discomfort let alone danger in benign conditions. But we shouldn't plan for only benign conditions and nothing going wrong. An example: If you're delayed and the weather changes for the worse, you could end up with cotton under waterproof layers just as the temperature drops. You're likely to get cold. If the delay means you're static outside you could get very cold. So what should have been an uncomfortable few hours caused by a fairly minor injury or a trail blockage gets dangerous. You generally have to draw a line between a hike and a casual stroll where you would be very rare to have any difficulty in jeans, trainers and a cotton t-shirt + fleece/waterproof. This line isn't always obvious. I understand your desire not to wear a plastic bag - I used to share some of your scepticism about synthetic base layers. But only the very worst feel like plastic against your skin - and arguably those aren't fit for use as they feel like that because they don't wick. There's always merino, but my base layers need too much washing for it to be a good option so I haven't tried it. 

You won't find enough continuous forest for what you want in southern England. But (about 20 years ago) I walked and wild camped (actually bright orange bivvy bags) a fair stretch of the south downs way. It was late December but colder than the weather we've been having recently. I got there by regional train from London. I've also wild camped in the Ashdown forest, but that was a matter of hiking through it with an overnight there - it's not big enough for a 2-day hike. Again it's easy from London. If you want to wild camp you're much less likely to get caught at this time of year as you'll almost certainly stop hiking after dark and people will be indoors. But it's basically not allowed. 

One unusual thing about robins is that they're territorial all year round. Combined with the way they sing from prominent spots to mark out their territory, this makes them really rather obvious in the winter, when other birds are quiet and inconspicuous. Robins, as well as being plentiful, are also quite confiding around humans, mainly in the UK where we lack large wild herbivores to turn over soil and expose insects1. While mainly insectivorous they'll happily take seed and other food from human sources, meaning that when food supplies are low they come to gardens. Once there, as they're so confiding, they often feed closer to people than other birds, coming for food almost immediately. It's not unknown for people to hand-feed wild robins in the garden. Overall if you hear a bird singing around Christmas it's probably a Robin, and the song will draw attention to a bird which is after all quite striking for something so common. Their habit of perching on artificial structures for some time (and returning to the same song posts) also makes them easy to observe, and paint/draw/photograph. 

I've never had too much trouble with a double cuff - a velcro or (better) elastic inner cuff and a loose outer. In the worst conditions, an elasticated inner cuff under a goretex glove with long elasticated wrist seals was good for anything short of immersion. In the worst case a watersports dry cag would solve this. They have latex or neoprene wrist seals. They're also rather impractical as rain jackets. Using them for inspiration instead might be better. My dry suit had slightly slack wrist seals for me. By cutting rings of spare latex wrist seals (like fat stiff rubber bands) and putting them over the top, the problem was solved. In fact just rubber bands would help and is an old-fashioned solution. If you have thin wrists or a bike with fat tyres, some bands of old inner tubes would do the trick. They could overlap the end of the sleeve and any glove as a sort of wrist gaiter. Any tight wrist seal will make you hot. 

It's highly unlikely that using poles will make anything worse. You still have to place your feet as carefully and in the same sort of position (training for technique/precision). Your legs still do most of the work of lifting you up on an ascent, which is when they work the hardest (training for strength). I descend more slowly with poles, and slow, controlled lowering of weights is good training. You could even argue that if using poles protects you from hurting your knees or ankles on the way down, you'll be in better training through not having to take a recovery break. As trekking poles can be collapsed you can choose when to strap them to your pack. Plenty of people use them mainly for descents and the sort of path where you can really get into a striding rhythm, then put them away for steep bits where they might want their hands. 

Putting a bed above the wheel arches is common, with storage underneath. The width you get is similar to the width behind the wheel arches, and that's often specified (it certainly could be found for the transit when we were looking). But I'm well over 6ft and when we bought our transit for conversion we looked hard and found there was no sensible sized van that would take even a 6ft bed across with insulation. You would end up using a lot of length to make a comfortable bed diagonally across the van (you should start with how tall you are and then work out how big a bed you need rather than the other way round). If you're putting in a double bed you can save a little by sleeping staggered. In fact the insulation doesn't make much difference because of the structure of the walls. We went for a slide out design sleeping along the van and fitted a decent kitchen plus a toilet cubicle in a medium wheelbase transit. The bed goes away easily but you can cook with it out. A major reason for this design is that there's a full length gangway up the middle in which I can stack kayaks. I've had 4 in there with room to spare. Or if can take bikes inside for when they're at risk on the rack outside. I recommend going to a place that sells the sort of van you're considering, taking a tape measure. We looked at a few before settling on the transit. 

Isolated clouds are going to be easier to judge than gradually thickening cloud cover, as cloud height is important. I assume you've already established that the cloud is approaching you, though you might still be lucky. Heavy rain is often visible as distortion of the view below clouds at some distance, particularly if there's something distinctive that gets obscured (like a tree line, hillside, or prominent building). Lighter rain appears more like a faint mist. This can help you judge when the rain is going to arrive as well, from the rate that features are obscured. Pronounced darkening of the ground below an approaching cloud is another sign of heavy rain. But if you're uphill from what you're looking at, the rain is likely to get heavier, or even start from a cloud that otherwise wasn't producing rain. 

Quite often you'll have an ice axe with you in glacier country. That should be quite effective. If not, tent pegs, especially rock pegs or v pegs make decent chipping tools even for soft stone. You may need to hit them with a rock. Aluminium pegs are probably too soft; plastic ones definitely are. 

It's perfectly possible for both to be true: it moistened your mouth but doesn't help with hydration The act of chewing stimulates saliva production, so your mouth is less dry. But that wastes a little water as you exhale. It also diverts ways from keeping you hydrated. These are both small effects, but by masking a major sign of thirst or can make you drink less when water is available. 

Keeping it low down against the bottom of the car and insulated is best. The spare wheel well is ideal (and used when you get a can of tyre foam instead of a wheel; they have similar limits) or those compartments you sometimes get under the boot floor. These places are much cooler than the rest of the car, especially with the parcel shelf closed. If they aren't an option, under the front seats with insulating material on top is probably your best bet. Also do what you can to keep the car cooler - reflective windscreen covers etc. 

Having learnt this years ago, I can thoroughly recommend that when you're in a suitable spot with a group you practise. The rest of the group can observe your form, keep an eye out for hazards and generally stand around looking unconcerned. A suitable spot is reasonably deep snow that naturally flattens out, free of rocks and trees. This may also give you a range of slopes, but anyway don't start too steep. Don't pick a ski slope or popular off-piste run. You could choose to wear ski goggles but 20 years ago we didn't. Make sure everyone keeps warm. A refresher at the start of the season isn't a bad idea; we once had enough snow in a sloping local park. If you're hiring a guide, discuss in advance the possibility of them choosing a spot and doing a brief practice session. (This is meant as an addition to the other answers but grew into too much for a comment)