Also if I look at some of the various definitions of Kleshas (defilements) then sometimes it's listed and sometimes it's not. If the list is detailed then it's a 'separate thing', if it's a shorter list then I think it's just included (presumably along with Taṇhā/craving) in the category of Lobha/desire. 

It is harsh because it hurts the other monk. The second sentence is true. If we apply the logic you use to any situation, I can justify most of my harsh speech away, removing the actual need for practicing Right Speech. Furthermore there is no clause in harsh speech to justify abusive speech for the sake of helping other beings Well it might hurt the monk's pride, or something, if not the monk himself -- or "refute his argument" (if arguing is what they were doing). It's a fairly extreme example, if you look at the previous paragraph to the one you quoted: 

There are maybe 80 questions about 'parents' already but perhaps this one hasn't been asked. What are a Buddhist's responsibilities or duties towards their parents? 

I guess a simplistic (or "simplest possible") answer might be that we do things out of ignorance, greed, and (maybe) aversion too. And maybe other motives are identified, in the Opposite wholesome qualities: 

Maybe that's illustrated by the answers to "How are 'conceit' and 'identity-view' not the same?" A "view" is a belief, I think it's relatively long-lasting, it's taking something to be true. Whereas "thinking" is more like the arising of a thought, maybe relatively short-lasting, perhaps more like an experience (experiencing an emotion or experiencing a thought) than a semi-permanent belief. 

Sometimes it doesn't work very well: there are examples of reincarnations who behave badly. And they must make it work: for example the current Dalai Lama wasn't keen to study, when he was young, his teacher had to make him study by threatening him with a whip. At Home With the Dalai Lama 

is a belief in rebirth and karma what distinguishes the Buddhist from the materialist view on no self? The definitions or differences that I gave above don't mention karma or rebirth. So I (personally) don't usually regard the doctrines of karma and rebirth as essential -- or at least as not essential for explaining the difference between Buddhism and materialism, although the doctrine of karma is useful for other reasons. But they are part of the Buddhist doctrine. I don't disbelieve what you quoted from Wikipedia, i.e. that annihilationism is considered wrong view because it's conducive to immorality (i.e. annihilationism gives no argument against immorality, which the doctrines of karma and rebirth do) ... but I haven't found the reference to that argument (against annihilationism) in the suttas. Instead I think that annihilationism is wrong view because it's a self-view (a view about self). 

Note that alhough it's true to say (i.e. it agrees with the suttas to say) that the Buddha "didn't originally allow", it's not true to say that "he didn't allow", 

I interpret this as a modern science question about nutritional completeness (so I don't see how adding "from a Buddhism perspective" changes the the nature of the question). Some lay Buddhists prefer to be vegetarian, in which case I could recommend Wikipedia's Vegetarian nutrition article as an introduction to the nutritional aspects of that choice. In summary, some of the nutrients which a naive vegetarian/vegan diet can eventually lack include protein, iron, zinc, vitamin B12, and calcium. You may find that you must deliberately include, in your diet, substances which the average person is warned they have too much of: for example (iodized) salt, and oil. Conventional scientific advice includes that you should have a varied diet (even if that diet is vegetarian). IMO, beware that the diet which sustains you for a week or month or year might not be adequate to sustain you for decades. Vitamin/mineral pills might help. If your doctor knows you're vegetarian, he/she may help to monitor your health (e.g. measuring serum ferritin and whatnot occasionally). The dietary rules for monks might be different (e.g. perhaps they eat whatever they're given). I suppose there are other aspects of diet that are important: 

Even if a few words (details) of that translation are debatable, the overall message seems to be clear -- metta seems to mean "wishing well" (e.g. "I wish you well"), also known as "good will" or "benevolence" ("good will" and "benevolence" are the same word, one with Germanic etymology and the other with Latin), especially in a negative sense ("absence of harm" and "absense of malice", and not e.g. "given wealth"), though it may be active (intentionally not causing harm). I'm not sure why but there's some other version[s] of the text, for example: 

To an extent that's true, but maybe that's a good thing. I.e. everything which exists is "conditioned": for example a feeling, a person, a table, a mountain "exist because of" (or "dependently co-arise with") this and that, and will cease to exist when those conditions change (all things are conditioned and impermanent and unsatisfactory). Whereas "enlightenment" is supposed to be none of the above: i.e. it's unconditioned, timeless, and satisfactory. 

Only just pre-1950s, the current Dalai Lama was born in 1935. Starting half-way through this page, At Home With the Dalai Lama, is an account of his learning to meditate (and probably of being forced to learn to meditate), at age 8. 

I think you might find theoretical or scriptural justification for both/either course of action. Also apart from these two courses of action, is there a third, or a compromise? E.g. offer to share the cost of repairs? Or ask your lawyer's opinion? 

That feels abnormal though, an effort to breathe extra deeply and extra slowly. Anyway, maybe what you're missing is the pause between breaths. IMO if I didn't pause (when I'm at rest) I'd hyperventilate. You can vary the duration of the pause. The trick is not to begin to inhale, until you begin to feel that you begin to need the next breath. If you wait until you just begin to need to breath, don't worry: because you're at rest you'll easily be able to satisfy your need with just one breath, maybe two at most. Sometimes there's a sudden urge to take an extra quick inhale. If that happens then just let that happen. Also you wrote, "an awkward cycle of holding breath", as if you're pausing with your lungs full. I pause after each exhale: 

The dictionary definition lists a lot of places where it's used in various compounds, (possibly describing various types of wisdom or insight) -- including the bhāvita compound, which is used in for example SN 35.127 (in summary, immune to sexual desire, and guarding the senses) and AN 10.24 (in summary, immune to various unwholesome mental factors). I'd say these describe the effect of wisdom rather than describing the object of wisdom -- but, that's not surprising because what it's describing is "developed wisdom" i.e. the effect of having perfected wisdom. I guess you'd have to look at other places pañña is used by itself (to find a description of pañña itself), and/or other pañña compounds (for descriptions of the various types of pañña).1 Wikipedia says it means "insight into the three characteristics": quoting Gombrich and others. It's one of the several perfections (i.e. virtues which can be "perfected" or completed).