I am seeing odd traffic to my web site. On occasion, probably a few times a day, I will get a flurry of requests for the same URI from the same IP address for several minutes, at rates from maybe one per second up to hundreds per second. Other than the timestamp, the requests seem completely identical. There doesn't seem to be any pattern to the URIs or the IPs or any other aspects of the requests other than being identical within each individual flurry. Notably, it seems to encompass all browsers. At first glance it would appear to be a DOS, but, most of the time, it's really not enough traffic for that, and there are some other characteristics of the requests that lead me to believe that it's not a malicious attack, including the fact that many of them are from authenticated users and all of the ones I've investigated seem to happen inside what otherwise looks like a normal session on the site. I've pretty much come to the conclusion that it's unintentional. But that leads me to believe that either there's something on our web site that confuses browsers into making a multitude of requests, or there is some user behavior that is creating the flurries. That raises these questions: 

The problem is that the system temp directory is required when machine installs updates first thing after a restart. My RAM disk, however, starts through , which is probably read later in the process. My question is this - is there a way to redirect the system temp directory to a RAM disk in a way that this redirection is realized before windows installs the updates after restart? Use case: I have installed a RAM disk that gets initialized on startup. Everything works fine, including rebooting the server (it is possible to save the RAM disk image, making it survive the reboot). However, when I reboot the server as a result of Windows Update the update is undone, because Windows is unable to access the TEMP directory - the RAM disk has not been loaded yet. Truth to be told the problem is only with the system TEMP directory and there is not much harm not to redirect the system TEMP and leave it as is. Still, if I could load the RAM disk before the Windows Update resumes then I could place the system TEMP on the RAM disk as well. My question - is it possible? 

It sounds to me like IIS is expecting a "Host:" header from the client that it's not getting. Is the URL you're using a hostname or just the IP address? 

I don't see that there is any way to do that by filename. You could set an attribute on the file you don't want copied that you "know" isn't on any other files in the source tree and then use /xa to exclude files with that attribute. Failing that, though, you're going to need to use another tool. This will work: 

A few hours later, "Extend Volume" became active. The tech that performed the extension didn't look at the partitions before he did it, but now with the extension complete, it shows the same mystery partitions, with #4 "magically" relocated to after the extended #3. The only thing that any of us can think of that was done to the system was run a "Rescan Disks" from Disk Management. (The space extended into was created only a few hours earlier — I probably should have mentioned that — so this might be relevant.) If and when this happens again, I'll try and remember to update here. If anyone can confirm or deny if they're in the same situation, that would also be helpful. 

Alright, so I found the answer, after 2/3 of a day. Apparently as of php 5.3, php no longer uses the msql.dll extension when operating on IIS. Now, it uses something called sqlsrv.dll in its place. Also, with this new extension, comes the need to use the sqlsvr api from php available Here. So in essence, I was using mssql_connect, when I should have been using sqlsrv_connect. That still doesn't solve my issues with error logging, and I still can't connect to the server, but that is due to a bad username/pwd combo. So thank you all for your help, hopefully someone finds this useful sometime. 

The main thing you're going to get from Apple is integrated hardware/software support. You might get something similar if you buy a Linux server from a vendor that supports Linux. I've not used an Apple server in well over a decade, so my assumption about their support might be off base. The main things you're going to get from Linux are compatibility (most open-source applications are geared towards Linux, and any problems you run into will likely be compounded by running a different OS — and, yes, this is a gross generalization), and lower cost. I think the biggest factor would be what his current shared server is running. If he replaces it with the same OS, he's likely to have fewer migration headaches. 

I have a MAAS installation with it's interface at 10.12.1.3/MAAS. It is responsible for DHCP/DNS and the configurations are as follows: ip: 10.12.1.4 subnet mask: 255.255.255.0 broadcast ip: 10.12.1.255 router ip: 10.12.1.1 ip range low: 10.12.1.10 ip rane high: 10.12.1.100 I am booting virtualbox machines on the same machine as the cluster controller/region controller, and they enlist fine. I change their name in MAAS, accept, and commission them. The enlistment and commission process take a very long time (just food for thought). Once the machine has been commissioned, (it says ready in MAAS nodes list). Run JuJu bootstrap. Juju has the following environments.yaml: 

In my experience, files that have the file descriptor of in output are the executable file itself and shared objects. The man page says that it means "program text (code and data)". While debugging a problem, I found a large number of data files (specifically, ElasticSearch database index files) that reported as . These are definitely not executable files. The process was ElasticSearch itself, which is a java process, if that helps point someone in the right direction. I want to understand how this process is opening and using these files that gets it to be reported in this way. I'm trying to understand some memory utilization, and I suspect that these open files are related to some metrics I'm seeing in some way. The system is Solaris 10 x86. 

I have an on-premises server and an Azure MSDN account. I heard that Azure supports the concept of a hybrid cloud where some server may be on-premises, not sure if I understand it correctly, though. For example, I have a few on-premises servers and I wish to have a dashboard with their performance. Basic stuff - CPU and RAM. To be able to configure thresholds and alerts. Can I sort of "on-board" these servers to some kind of Azure Monitoring solution and get all that? EDIT 1 This is what I can see: 

Okay, it looks like I'm going to have to implement this myself. So far I have a crude perl script (that uses a lot of system calls to ghostscript and netpbm) that determines the color- or black-and-white-ness of each page of a PostScript (or PDF) document: 

It should be pretty easy to do this once manually, as cjc suggests, but I assume that you're wanting to do this a number of times, otherwise you would have just done it. If you use Kickstart, you can specify a filesystem usage type in the "part" declaration by using the flag. Usage types are actually built into and are controlled by . Check out their man pages for more info. It would be nice if Kickstart would allow you to just pass arbitrary options to the command, but it doesn't appear to. 

over and over again. I am using the 12.04.4 MAAS ubuntu install, and Juju version: 1.18.1-precise-amd64 The ssh keys have been generated, uploaded to maas, re-generated and uploaded to MAAS again. Also, the machine that juju is supposed to build will finish building (status in MAAS changes to "Allocated to bla") despite the environment bootstrap failure, and then it will power off. The status in MAAS goes back to "ready" and if I turn the virtual machine back on, it seems to go back into enlisting. Anyone know what could be going wrong? 

First, your conclusion that there are two processes is wrong. There's one and one in your output. Next, you say that the quoted file is in your root crontab. What you quoted says that it's in . So, is that the contents of or ? Those are two distinct things. If it's both, well, then you're telling it to run those things in one place and then in another place, so twice. You probably want to remove it all from root's crontab. 

Rebooting makes the problem go away for a while. This most recent time it took six days to come back. I'm not sure if that's consistent or not. I had initially suspected that the problem might be related to the nVidia video driver module, but I shut down X Windows and removed the module, without change in the symptoms. There is nothing in dmesg or /var/log/messages that seems remotely relevant or in any way coincides with the hiccups. It does not appear to be an issue with a hard drive, as I would expect iowait to be prominent during the unresponsive period if that were the case, but it's not. It feels unlikely to be a hardware problem, as the hiccups are pretty regular. I've been unable to time them down to milliseconds, but it's a pretty consistent 30/4/30/4/30/4. Any ideas?