I live in an area with small hills. How do I make the most of these hills when training for a trail race with much larger hills? One of my favorite races is a 15-mile trail race with 3000+ ft (900+ m) total elevation climb. There are three big uphill segments, 1–3mi (1–5km) long, 500–800 ft (130–230m) climb with grades of 7–10+%. I'd like to improve my hill training in preparation for this year's race. The best two options I have in my area are: 

Are repeated climbs on a small hill comparable to a single climb up a larger hill, in terms of training for miles-long climbs in the race? 

Multiple hills with comparable or steeper grade, but much shorter: maybe 200 ft climb max. I can repeat these hills in quick succession. This trail is just a few minutes from my home and I can visit it several times a week One large hill, 500 ft, but it is much steeper (15% grade) and more technical, it's a good challenge uphill but seems difficult to run back down it in a safe matter. I spend a lot of time walking on this hill. I can only make it to this trail occasionally 

A trail race may have hills that are too steep to run up easily. Or, one may choose a strategy to hike all significant climbs early on in a long distance race. When choosing to hike up a hill in a running race, is there a specific form or technique that is optimal? For example, what sort of posture should one have? Is there a specific stride length/cadence to aim for? Should you brace your hands on your knees to "push" uphill? etc. Is there a simple rule to determine when it is better to hike rather than run up a given hill (in terms of energy conservation/recovery/not wasting time)? Or if there are multiple hiking techniques or speeds that apply to different situations, is there a strategy for knowing which to use in a given situation? 

A technique that has proven useful to me is to run barefoot on pavement and gravel. The roughness of the surface maximizes the sensory input to your feet, and the hardness of the surface calls attention to any excessive impacts or inefficiencies further up the foot/leg/knee/hip joints. I often run the first mile or two of a workout barefoot on pavement as a way to maintain a "muscle memory" of good form. You can start by standing on the pavement or gravel, getting a feel for what the surface feels like "at rest", and then walking in place for a few steps, then bouncing and jogging in place, and then begin moving forward. As you transition from standing to moving in place to running, pay attention to how the surface feels on the soles of your feet, how your feet are landing and lifting, how your muscles and joints feel. I've found that even very small adjustments in foot placement, hip movement, knee bend, cadenece, etc., are can be measured by watching for changes in the level of comfort or pain felt on these sorts of surfaces. But this is a rather subjective technique that I think is only useful in conjunction with learning about good form from other sources, etc. Thus I would be very interested in seeing a more thorough answer than this that describes some more objective techniques to self-assess running form. 

You are really asking two questions. Your first question is "what kind of training plan should I be using to improve my 5K running times?" There are a lot of different plans online; they will prescribe heart rate ranges, typically based on your age. Those aren't particularly accurate, but they are a decent place to start. It is also possible to set training ranges using a field test - where you go out, run a prescribed stress test, and measure your heart rate - but it's not something that I would recommend for somebody who has just started running. I recommend finding a good running-specific forum, and asking them your question. 

What are you eating after you long/hard workouts? It's really important to replace the glycogen that you burned; if you do not, your body will tear down your muscle to help build back your glycogen stores. The earlier after the long/hard workouts, the better. Chocolate milk is a good choice if you tolerate dairy products well. I like a recovery drink called "Endurox". Or you can eat small snack/meal that is mostly carbs but with some protein as well. Give that a try and see if it helps... 

BMI does not work well for people with significant muscle mass. Go out and get your body fat measured (DEXA or hydrostatic weighing are the best methods). That will give you another bit of data. 

Yes, it's possible to get faster. Initially, all you have to do is just keep riding, and you will improve, and that is what I recommend to start. Also make sure that you know how to use your gears effectively. Many beginners ride in a gear that is very hard to push and get tired easily. Generally, you want to be turning your feet at 80-90 RPM. 

I'm in the middle of dealing with my lordosis (also known as "anterior pelvic tilt" - you can find some good references if you search on that). For exercises, dead bug variations and hip raises have been good. You need to be very good to make sure your back is flat during all of them. Oh, and the standing exercise where you have a band at your feet and step back and forth - that is a great glute exercise. But for me, the big winners have been the deadlift and suitcase carry. You need to be very careful to start with light weight and to be very careful with your form, especially on deadlift. I have also found that it's hard to tell the difference between exercises that aggravate my back and those that are just making the muscles tired. You will probably have to play around with things a bit. 

It sounds like you're off to a great start with minimalist shoes. The first rule is to start slow and increase usage gradually, and you have done so. The shoes Make sure the shoes fit perfectly. You can get blisters and pain in minimalist shoes pretty easily, especially on long runs, if they don't fit perfectly or you're not wearing them correctly. Also, if the shoes don't fit snugly and conform to your feet, you will miss a lot of feedback and your proprioception will suffer, thus increasing the chance of pain or injury. My first pair of Vibrams were too large and I would constantly get blisters due to some parts of the shoe chafing the skin. I had to almost always wear toe socks with them. The second year I made sure the shoes fit better, and since then they have been more comfortable, and I no longer wear socks with them. I still occasionally get some sore spots around the heel or side of the foot on long runs. Focus on running form Never be complacent with your running form. Constantly monitor your form and do some reading. It isn't just "run on the balls of your feet" (actually, my heels touch the ground lightly near the end of my step), there are a lot of subtle details about your form that can continually be improved. You don't get perfect form and prevent injury just by putting on minimalist shoes or going barefoot, just like traditional running shoes don't by definition cause injury. Minimalist shoes do make it easier to learn and maintain good form because they don't mask the impact of bad form as much as a cushion shoe. I started running completely barefoot this year and read the book Barefoot Running Step By Step. I realized that while Vibrams do give you a lot more feedback than cushion shoes, and thus help encourage better form, there's still a significant difference between that and going barefoot. In retrospect, I've realized that I was being too be hard on my feet and joints in minimalist shoes. In previous years, my feet and joints would ache after a long run in minimalist shoes, but this year, after some significant improvements to my form, I feel tired but refreshed after a long run in minimalist shoes, with no unnecessary aches or pains. At this point, since you've done a good transition in to minimal shoes and are already logging 5 mile runs, if you aren't just tired but hurt after a long run in minimalist shoes, then there's likely something you can improve with your form. Yes, the transition to minimalist shoes can involve some muscle and foot soreness as your body adapts, but don't be a hero and push through pain. Barefoot training From the Vibram FAQ: 

would be to get something like INSANITY or T25 if you are looking for something less intense, and thew are both from Shaun T, the benefits of these programs are, one that they do not use any weights, just a band occasionally, and 2nd and most importantly using a program will help you better keep track of your progress and make sure that you don't hit a plateau, but again you mentioned that Buying weights is not an option and if its because of financial reasons this would probably not be an option as well. would be to follow a guy who I have followed his name is Matt Furey, it will be very cheap and it will help you gain overall strength, some muscle as well. 

An interesting solution for you might be to the following workout every 2nd day for 2 weeks. Warm Up. Do some dynamic stretches. Then only on your right side do a static glute stretch, this is so that you weaken the muscle on the right side a little, but please take extreme care not to over stretch as that can cause injury during the workout. Now do a single leg squat on your right leg without any weights and on your left leg add 5LB in each hand and do the same. You can incorporate this in any workout you are doing if you feel it will help. Another option to look at is to do yoga, I have seen a lot of results in that area on myself with yoga. 

I don't have your lean factor but from the info you provided i would say that your calorie intake should be at least 2000 calories a day not less. Don't rush into anything as it will do you more harm then good, try to find someone who has done these programs and get more insight as to if the intensity level it will suit you. 

Here is a link to his website $URL$ You can also read the following to get more insight $URL$ Routine #1: Killer 200 Pushup Workout: 3 minute back bridge 100 Hindu Squats 50 Hindu Pushups German 50: 10 Elbows in, 10 hand over hand, 10 Superman, 10 hands wide, 10 hands backwards performed in a row, without stopping. 25 Hindu Pushups with feet 10" apart 25 Hindu Pushups with feet together 25 Hindu Pushups with hands and feet together 25 fingertip Hindu Pushups 3 minute back bridge, 3 minute front bridge. Routine #2: 3 Minute Back Bridge 100 Hindu Squats 10 Grasshoppers 35 Bootstrappers 10 Kneeling Back Bends 20 Hindu Jumper Squats 10 Mountain Climbers. This is officially a beginners routine, but for most this will be too much, so do the sets as listed but with less reps. I hope all this helps you, I will list a few tips that will help you along. 

You are doing intervals to put an intense load on your system. It's important to keep that load relatively constant to get the best benefit from them. You can also use this to tell if you need to stop early; when an interval gets lots slower than the previous one, you are done for the set (and perhaps for the day if you're doing multiple sets). I don't do running intervals, but when I do intervals on my bike, I see a 5% variance in power often. I wouldn't worry too much about small variances. 

It's not clear what training your advisor has, but it would be a great idea to consult with your physician, especially if there is a family history of heart problems. If you physician has concerns, she might order an exercise stress test to look for possible cardiac issues. As for your question, if you are just starting an exercise program, it's a good idea not to work out too hard when you start out. If your heart is healthy, you aren't in danger of hurting your heart, but you can easily overuse the rest of your body. I'd also be careful about run hard / walk intervals when you are just starting out. However, you have said that when you are exercising at the suggested heart rate, you don't feel like you are working hard. That suggests to me that your maximum heart rate may be higher than average. A lot of exercise programs are based on a perceived exertion scale instead of heart rate to avoid this problem. I agree with the others on the values of typical equations for heart rate training. The best way to set heart rate ranges is through an actual field test (something like a 20-minute all-out effort), but that's overkill for what you are doing. My advice is just to see your doctor, and then stop overthinking about your heart rate and go based on how you feel. People did that for a long time with good results. 

Climbing steps will raise the heart rate more than walking. Generally, that is a good thing; you get more of a workout, burn more calories, and improve your aerobic fitness. If you are generally good help, the more stairs the better.