I don't believe in the Christian/Judaic/Muslim god. Nor do I believe the universe was created five minutes ago. However, my budding understanding of philosophy tells me that none of the above can be disproved. We have to accept the possibility that the universe is nothing but a computer program. And, as others have pointed out, there are different ways to define "God," some of which resonate with me. But your reference to God was apparently just an example framed by your larger questions. 1. Is it possible to stay completely unbiased? For all practical purposes, I think it's impossible for "normal people" to be unbiased. People who are into Eastern religion, meditation and the search for Nirvana might be capable of achieving such a state. 2. What is a good balance between the pursuit of truth and stay happy? As a political activist, I learned long ago that truth can be a very painful thing. On there other hand, ignorance can be equally painful. So I pursue truth in the hope that I'll some day find some magic answer that will improve my lot (and hopefully help others at the same time). As far as balance goes, most people need some form of escape from life's drama, and if you're constantly brooding about social injustice, war and climate change, you're probably acutely aware of the need for a respite. So a good balance might be as simple as taking a break from philosophy and taking a walk, watching a movie, etc. Of course, that's a practical answer, when you were probably searching for a more philosophical answer. One form of balance I find very helpful is humility - accepting the fact that a) there may be other options, and b) it's possible that the ultimate answer is beyond your comprehension. For example, I've been doing some research on determinism, a belief that pretty much nixes free will. Some people believe we live in a deterministic universe and others don't. Though some may not agree, it appears to be nearly impossible to prove it either way. So I'm resigned to the idea that a) there may not be an answer to this puzzle in my lifetime, and b) if some astro-physicist solves it, it could be beyond my understanding. In the meantime, my biases prompt me to embrace free choice. I prefer to believe that free choice truly exists, even if there are nagging doubts in my mind that it could be an illusion. 

That would depend on your ethical principles. Some people have no objections to theft of physical property; there are those who have no truck with the concept of intellectual property (so it would be wrong to take an artist's physical painting, but okay to make a copy). I assume you generally accept the general moral principle that a person owns the intellectual "content" that he creates and this has the same property rights as he would have to his vegetables and house. Moral philosophy also admits "exceptions", for example killing a person is immoral, but there are contexts where it is not -- for instance, if the person is attempting to kill you, then you may kill him if it is necessary to preserve your life. Such an "exception" follow, at least in an egoist framework, from the purpose of a moral code which is to prescribe how to live your life – being killed obviously contradicts that purpose. So: what could possibly justify an exception for the purpose of understanding the fuss? Well, it would be something like, "The wish to understand a popular internet trend justifies ignoring the property rights of others". But this is obviously not a general principle, it's a post-hoc rationalization. I can't conceive of any reasonable principle that would lead to such an exception. 

I disagree with the end of the initial statement "The Judiciary generally holds the power to interpret the law based on the legislative intent" – they have the power to interpret the law, period, and "legislative intent" is just one of many theories of how to do that (one resoundingly rejected by Scalia, for example). The root of the problem is that there is very little by way of universal metatheory for judicial interpretation. This is a consequence of the nature of our common law system, as contrasted with statutory systems as found for example in Europe. It was the original purpose of judges to make wise and just decisions, to create law, not just interpret it. This explains much about the nature of judicial (mis)interpretation in the US. Our justices are simply carrying on a long tradition, where strict reading of objectively-stated law is not the primary principle behind rendering decisions. Generally speaking, justices are guided by the "meaning" behind a piece of written law. The principle stare decisis holds that once a "meaning" has been assigned to a piece of law, that meaning holds in all similar cases (though stare decisis is not actually enforceable). But justices have proven very adept at assigning all sorts of "meanings" to the words in a statute. If you believe that the "meaning" of a statute is the "intent" of the enacting Legislature plus executive, who make the law, you face the problem of establishing that there is indeed an intent. An individual can have an intent in voting some way (such as "get this thing passed so that I can go home, and not get crucified in November"), but getting from individual intent to "group intent" is probably impossible in principle (one reason is that no legislator ever reads and understands all of the bills that s/he votes on). Legislators are generally quite willing to pass unclear laws, in the hope that the courts will later define what the law means. The book The Language of Judges by L. Solan gives a nice catalog of subjective interpretations of essentially the same facts of legal language, depending on the justice in question. T. Smith has written a number of articles ("Why Originalism Won't Die"; "Originalism's Misplaced Fidelity: 'Original' Meaning is Not Objective") which addresses the problem of "meaning" most clearly (from a non-linguistic perspective). 

One major flaw with this scheme is that it doesn't account for ethics. An unethical person could exercise free will in exploiting or torturing people or waging war. Looking at it from another perspective, we might say the problem lies with how we define "succeed." Some might define success as victory on the battlefield. It has also been argued that Pascal's Wager encourages sloppy thinking. Why try to prove or disprove something if you can instead cover your bets by simply believing? Yet the question of determinism almost forces us to make one of two choices. Doesn't it make sense to make what most people would probably consider the better choice? Pascal's Wager also erred in focusing on the Christian God, when the dead could just as well be judged by a Hindu god - or a panel of gods. Again, this variation limits us to just two choices, determinism vs free will. Aside from the problems mentioned above, do you think this variation of Pascal's Wager is an improvement? In particular, are all the fallacies inherent in Pascal's Wager also inherent in this variation? Can you see any other fallacies? 

As Chief Sealth said, "All things are connected." If a particular theory explains X, we might indeed be left to wonder if X could be explained by yet another theory. But suppose we also develop theories that explain Y and Z - and there's no conflict between our theories. Better yet, suppose these different theories appear to support each other. If you have literally thousands of theories that explain countless phenomena, and everything appears to fit together, then you've created what you might call a framework. Now, let's say we take one of your "infinite number of other theories" and plug it into X. Even if it appears to be a tenable theory in isolation, does it mesh with all the theories explaining other phenomena? Things like electricity, the internal combustion engine and medical science aren't just a function of theory; they have to actually work - and they do work. So why would anyone want to rewire a country's electrical grid based on some whimsical philosophical theory? Only a fool would suggest that science is 100% accurate, and, in a philosophical vein, one might question everything science has taught us. But when it's time to eat, get dressed or buy a home, most people are going to trust science over philosophy. Which isn't to say they're in competition. I subscribe to the view that philosophy is a tool or discipline that helps us understand things that scientists can't examine. To put it another way, science might be thought of as the study of the known, while philosophy is the study of the unknown. 

Although I'm a linguist, I'm going to not give a report on the sociology of the term as used in the field (though the quick answer is "yes"). Instead, I will focus on the basic conceptual distinctions. The term "language" refers to the numerous methods of encoding propositions and communicating, which humans use -- examples are Greek, English, Swahili, Chinese. However, in the modern era, the concept has been extended metaphorically so that we now hear about "the language of dance" or "the language of bees", and in the aforementioned instance, "the language of computers". It is not clear what "language" refers to in the modern extended sense -- it seems to refer to any regular pattern, and DNA encoding can be seen to be a "kind of language". The term "natural language" then is used to specifically identify "language" in the classical sense. However, we rarely use that expression, since we consider the extension of the term "language" to other forms of animal behavior, or complex physical systems like DNA, to be misuse of the term "language". Since the term "language" clearly refers to human language, we don't need to add any modifiers. But it may be necessary when in a popular forum. (It has also become necessary in computational linguistics, in the field "natural language programming", precisely because "programming language" is a standard term in that field). That said, one of the top journals in the field is in fact named Natural Language and Linguistic Theory. 

Truth is one of the most basic foundations of both philosophy and science, even though people may quibble about its precise definition. Though most people probably consider truth a virtue, some would excuse or even praise lying under certain circumstances, including the following: 

I agree with Guill; the "scientific mind" is a two-edged sword. The age-old debate over the merits and demerits of science and technology is very complex. Two problems that society is currently struggling to deal with are magnitude and corruption. Magnitude - Computers and information technology have greatly accelerated scientific advance. One of the side effects is the growing difficulty of learning about the latest advances, let alone debating them. Science without reason or wisdom can be a dangerous thing. A related problem is the increasing fragmentation of scientists into ever more specialized disciplines. Instead of studying biology, a modern biologists may specialize in some sub-branch of auditory science or a parasite that is only associated with penguins. An army of specialists may have a hard time understanding and communicating with specialists in unrelated fields. Corruption - At the same time, an increasingly corrupt and powerful global power structure is subverting science for its own ends. Scientific news is commonly suppressed, and bogus scientific articles that support corporate-government entities are being published. Where people like Aldo Leopold, Rachel Carson, Jacques Cousteau and Carl Sagan once championed the environment, we now have....on second thought, I'm not sure who has taken their place. 

"Natural rights" refer to the right to do (and it is by the nature of being human that humans have rights, which is how "human rights" and "natural rights" get equated). "Human rights" as used in the OPs reference and in most current usages include various rights to have, which is how people can now speak of a right to be provided an education, be provided with potable water, and whatever else you may have encountered. 

Your three examples are not observations in the primary sense, they are conclusions. "All objects fall to the ground" is a conclusion about all past and future states of affairs of a particular type, and most of those events have not been observed. An observation would be e.g. "This brick fell to the ground when I released it 5 minutes ago". Some observations are clearly theory-laden, such as any measurement of temperature, pressure and acceleration. Other observations are not actually theory laden, but are standard-laden (such as measurement of distance with a ruler). There is a lot of confusion out there over the distinction between "observation" and "conclusion". An "observation" is a simple perceptual act. You can legitimately observe an object falling to the ground, but when you observe that at time T1 an object is on the table and at time T2 it is on the ground, you cannot claim to have "observed" the object falling. The statement that "everything one observes is interpreted through a prior understanding of other theories and concepts" is true by dint of the meaning of "interpret" and the nature of "concepts" (we need not even invoke "theories"). To say that a perceptual fact is "interpreted" (e.g. when you "interpret" what happens in your brain's data-processing centers as you see me let go of a brick) is to relate the sensations that strike your mind to other, similar sensations. Perceiving that there is a brick depends on there existing (and you knowing) a concept "brick". Suppose there were a being that had no concepts at all (such as an earthworm). What would it mean for an earthworm to "interpret" an observation? 

I suspect there's a more specific fallacy that more nearly matches what you're looking for - which interests me, too. However, it sounds like it could be generally classified as an Argument from Ignorance (aka Appeal to Ignorance), in which ignorance represents "a lack of contrary evidence." It also sounds similar to an Argument from Incredulity, "concluding that because you can't or refuse to believe something, it must not be true, improbable, or the argument must be flawed." In fact, the Argument from Incredulity is a specific form of the Argument from Ignorance. Note: The big difference is that your question focuses on the word must (as in should not), whereas Appeal to Ignorance focuses on can, suggesting that something is impossible. That suggests the fallacy you're searching for could be related to an Appeal to Morality (aka Righteousness Fallacy). 

What do you mean by "philosophical implications"? Like whether the 9/11 attacks were justified? Whether the response to 9/11 was justified? Whether 9/11 was actually a "false flag attack"? There must be individual "philosophical figures" who are willing to "debate" just about anything. However, I'm not aware of any significant philosophical 9/11 groups comparable to Scholars for 9/11 Truth, etc. I just discovered a book titled The Impact of 9/11 on Religion and Philosophy. There's also a book titled Philosophy and the Return of Violence. I'm not sure if it focuses on 9/11 or if it just includes a chapter on 9/11 ("Philosophy after 9/11"). Personally, I'm skeptical that 9/11 is really such a big deal in philosophical terms. It was one of the most significant events in modern history. It was more or less the justification for the phony war on terror, which has ruined the lives of millions of people. It changed the United States; this isn't the country I grew up in. But, practically speaking, how is it really different from past wars, false flag events and other conspiracies? Good and evil, power and greed are hardly new concepts. However, the author of the second book disagrees with me. He claims 9/11 changed the very nature of philosophy. Though I've only read very brief excerpt, it sounds like he blames 9/11 on Muslims, making me wonder if his book is really just propaganda. Scientists, political activists and philosophers all have to wade through an ocean of disinformation and propaganda, and it isn't surprising that some philosophers (or pseudo-philosophers) are contributing to that propaganda, just as pseudo-scientists are supporting the government in its war against science (e.g. Neil DeGrasse Tyson and Bill Nye "The Science Guy" stumping for genetically modified food). In summary, you asked a question that includes the word "or," and the short answer appears to be YES, there are indeed philosophical figures who are "debating" 9/11. 

Knowing or not knowing the consequences of an act is essential to evaluating the morality of a choice. Take one of those contrived examples where some evil genius has rigged explosives to a light switch such that when Mrs. Smith turns on the light, the victim is blown to smithereens. If Mrs. Smith knows of the consequences of turning on the light, and assuming there isn't some countervailing life-or-death paradox involved, then the moral choice is to choose not to turn on the light. If Mrs. Smith has no knowledge of this arrangement, the moral choice is to turn on the light (rather than curse the darkness). In the former case, she is choosing to both turn on the light and to kill the victim (the latter being the immoral choice), but in the latter case she is not choosing to kill, though that does turn out to be an unforseeable consequence of the action. The operative principle is that choosing to kill an innocent person is immoral; not all choices constitute "choosing to kill". Your two examples have in common killing, but that is not the only domain of moral evaluation. To see whether there is a general principle (i.e. are we just dealing with a viceral reaction against death, are you getting bogged down in death penalty morality or meat-eating), you should look for a less extreme scenario. The proper moral question to ask is whether it is morally justified to choose to execute a person for theft, per se. If it is not, then doing it yourself versus commissioning someone else to do it for you does not change the picture, and it is even less relevant whether you implement the execution yourself.