andy256's answer seems like an advert or some one who bought into the marketing a little too hard. From the Giro site, my bold: 

The roadie will probably be faster. The mountain bike will not even be a mountain bike. At your price range: 

You probably have a different offset and a different fork height now, so whatever you do, you have already messed with the geo noticeably. Borrow a 27.5 and a 26 front wheel from a friend for a day, go ride, figure out which one feels better. I would guess 26 would feel closer to how it used to but it should still handle differently due to the different offset, but who knows you might prefer the 27.5 even though that should leave your geo even more altered :) 

Answer: Bad luck. I would contest the idea that consumer battery powered led lights generally fail mid ride, you have just had bad luck or been buying bad lights. I have only replaced one rear light on one bike in 5 years, this replacement was necessary because I came off the bike on an unexpected icy patch on a switchback in the woods... the light still worked but the casing was shattered. I have four front lights which all still work, the oldest is 7 years old. All of the lights, even the expensive ones, are made in China (note: the expensive ones actually see the least use since I only put them on for night riding in the woods, while the cheap lights are on my bikes almost all the time.) 

Front: Granny = 1, mid = 2, big ring = 3. Rear: Biggest ring = 1, smallest ring = 8. I would probably switch up like so (front gear,rear gear): 1,1 1,2 1,3 1,4 then either 1,5 1,6 if I won't need to go to middle ring any time soon or 2,3 2,4 if I will. If I know I am going to be in mid ring from a certain point I might switch from 1,3 to 2,2 instead. 2,4 2,5 2,6 2,7 Then either 2,8 if I won't need to go up to big ring any time soon or 3,6 if I will. Again I might decide to switch from 2,4 to 3,3 or even from 2,3 to 3,2 if I know I am about to be sitting in the big ring and this is a convenient place to get the big ring shift done. 3,7 3,8 when shifting down I might end up in 3,3 or 3,2 before I decide to shift to mid ring or I might shift to mid ring from 3,6 or even 3,7 depending on the upcoming terrain. Similar choices occur at other points when you decide to shift the front. I might even switch to 2,1 (yes even though imo you shouldn't really use 2,1) in preparation for technical terrain instead of staying around 1,3 or 1,4 because this moment is convenient and I do not want to be dealing with front gear switches during the technical terrain which would mostly be ridden in e.g. 2,2-2,7. Always switch in anticipation of up coming terrain, when I was getting used to my 3x10 I often found myself having to do an annoying front switch at times I would rather not, nowadays I rarely have this issue and only on new terrain or when I am distracted. You will form your own gear switching style as you experiment and get more experience with your 3x8 Never shift front and rear simultaneously, more of a pause is needed between shifting front then rear than rear then front. 

More bite (and less modulation). More stopping power. The ability to stop you effectively in the wet. Less fade. Slower wear on the pad (but faster wear on the discs) Compatibility issues with some (usually cheap) disks. A Reputation for being loud (but I don't find this to be the case, IME there's very little difference, unless you haven't bedded in properly, or haven't set everything up correctly.) 

Really it could be anything, from oil weight to actually damaging something in the shock, to merely a seal issue (allowing easier internal air movement). If you did not change the seals but it was dry when you opened it up and you opened it because you heard rubbery noises when you compressed it, then i'd be putting my money on it needing some internal seals changed. Alternatively your shock might be totally FINE! You might have just messed up your shock pump gauge and be seeing the wrong pressure. Borrow another shock pump/guage etc to check. The good news is you probably haven't ruined it, in the sense you need another shock, but I wouldn't go riding it until you figure out what's wrong. The bad news is that we can't REALLY help you without actually having you photograph the shock as you take it apart and put it together again, in extreme detail. It's unlikely that nothing went wrong (unless it's just your gauge showing the wrong pressure all of a sudden); you would still get similar travel from the unlubed shock, it just wouldn't be as smooth. 

As others have indicated, vehicular laws vary from state to state and as such, laws about license plate display will too. However, there is a lot of uniformity between states' vehicular laws. You can most likely count on a couple things regarding the display of your license plates: 

I have a fixed/fixed flip-flop hub and the lockring threads are stripped out on one side. Would I be ok to just thread a single-speed freewheel on that side and use it as a fixed/free hub? 

However, many people refer to Q-factor in the broader sense of the distance between your feet when pedaling. Given this broader definition, your Q-factor would also be affected by the length of your pedal spindles combined with the position of your feet on the pedals, whether you're clipped in or riding on platforms. 

The tight roll was popular when I was a teen. It's less fashionable but infinitely more useful now. You just fold over the cuff of your pants and then roll them a time or two. Super easy and nothing to keep track of. $URL$ 

No. It's best, though not always entirely necessary, that the number of speeds match. There are some cross-compatible options, but if you're unsure it's better to just stick with a derailleur and cassette that were designed to work together. It's also important to consider the size of the cassette in comparison to the amount of chain slack that the derailleur is capable of taking up. A road derailleur will often not work with a mountain bike cassette because it can not take up enough slack to account for the size of a mountain bike cassette. Generally speaking, a cassette and derailleur that are the same number of speeds, made for the same type of bike, and made by the same manufacturer will be just fine. 

The clicking and skipping could be because of the mismatched chain/cog combo as you suspect. However, it could also be that your rear sprockets are worn. Chains "stretch." As they do, they also stretch the teeth on the rear sprockets, especially the highest gears (smallest sprockets). The old stretched chain will work just fine since the sprockets have stretched to match. However, if you replace it with a new chain, the teeth and the chain links no longer match up. The result is a chain that skips and makes a bunch of noise. You can read more on Sheldon Brown's site. 

Frame sizing is a somewhat complicated issue. Basically, the only way to know for sure if any bike will fit you is to give it a test ride. This is especially true of one that is questionable from the get-go. There are two big reasons for this: 

It's not that unusual for a front brake to move a bit when taking it off and reattaching it. This is due to the small amount of space between the fork ends, axle, and QR bolts. The fork flexes a bit when you put the wheel back on. That small space that it moves is a lot relative to the clearance that disc brake pads have. That's likely why your brake pads aren't lining up again. Now, the fix (NB: the following assumes that by "manual Avid disc brakes," what you mean is "mechanical disc brakes."): It sounds like you're overlooking a couple of points of adjustment. There is a red knob/wheel that adjusts either side of most Avid mechanical disc brakes, one on the inside and one on the outside. There are also caliper positioning bolts (CPS, the "S" is for system) that move the entire caliper perpendicular to and directly above, the bolts that attach the caliper to the frame. The basic procedure to properly align your brakes is to: 

I'm guessing that they were talking about replacing the rear cassette with a freewheel. However, you can convert pretty much any bike with a rear cassette to a single speed with single speed conversion kit like this one: $URL$ And a chain tensioner like this one: $URL$ NB: I don't necessarily recommend either one of those products or the store that I found them on. They're just examples. You can actually even "hack" your own single speed conversion by dismantling a couple of old cassettes and using the spacers in the same way that you use the larger spacers on the ready-made conversion kit.