Your try-catch block is used here inappropriately. First, it encompasses way too many lines of code. There are a number of PDO operations within this code that could throw, yet you only have a single catch block, which seems to consider only that the exception was due to connection failure. So perhaps any try-catch logic around database connection should be in the include file and not even in this code at all, and you could have try-catch around individual database operations (i.e. query preparations) to give more granular control over how underlying exceptions are handled. The second problem may make all this moot though, in that you should really only be catching exceptions if you are going to do something meaningful in the recovery operation. Meaningful might be something like: 

Why would a model that would seemingly be representing a single record have methods to operate against all records? 

It's an Apache config file. It isn't going to look pretty. :) That being said, I don't understand why you have RewriteCond specified for any of these rules. What is that condition preventing? The rewritten URL's are not causing redirect, so it is not clear to me when you would ever run into the condition of having "code" as a query string parameter. These conditions really don't make sense for case when you are adding trailing slashes, and if you truly are getting query strings in these trailing slash use cases, you are effectively stripping the query string out of the redirect as you are not using flag. You should consider using flag instead of just for these trailing slash redirect use cases in order to signal to the client that this is permanent location for the resource that is to be used. I personally find it easier to read through rewrite logic and have that logic to be less error prone if all redirects are handled first in the file, followed by more complex rewrite logic. Finally, if your app keeps growing in complexity to where you have more of these redirect rules being added, you might consider simply moving to more of a front controller model where you evaluate the URI in PHP and route within your application accordingly. 

This also allows you to potentially tie different properties/behaviors to different types of favorites. If you don't have the need to customize different favorites and are concerned over creating/managing a large number of favorite classes, you could alternately have just a single concrete class where upon instantiation you check against a valid list of favorite types. In this case, perhaps consider extending this class from SplEnum so you can get enum-like behavior for your favorite types. This would take the responsibility out of the store to enforce favorite types. Also if you are treating this as a cache and your as a model for some record somewhere in a permanent store (i.e. database). Then perhaps this class has methods on it to persist to permanent store or instantiate favorites objects from the permanent store. So perhaps something like: 

Again, you would likely want unique key across word_id and locale, which could also serve as primary key if you wanted to drop the autoincrement primary key 

I also don't see how your framework will handle event delegation so as to allow for this approach to work with dynamically added elements. Also, since you are really not using any functionality in jQuery which is not available in regular javascript, you might want to consider dropping the jQuery dependency. 

then you can run your validation filter against each individual element of the array up in the validation steps and already have an array to work with, eliminating the need for this call. 

I don't think that it is appropriate to have this class (or really any of the classes in a proposed multi-class cookie management library), to have to understand how to parse YAML configurations. I really like that you are looking to inject configuration into this class (making it more composable) as opposed to setting up a bunch of class constants, switch cases, if-else branching logic and some of the things that typically go along with trying to maintain configuration in classes. I just don't think these classes should need to know how that config is created. You should consider just passing a configuration object as a dependency upon instantiation rather than have these classes hold logic on where config files lie. So probably a whole different class or set of classes should be considered for this purpose. Such class(es) would present tremendous opportunity for re-use as other portions of an application might need to be made to read YAML configurations as well. You don't want to repeat code similar to this in all places in your app where you need to read YAML configurations. 

You also obfuscate dependencies to someone reading/working with your classes. With the approach I suggest, the exact dependencies of the class are explicitly stated in the constructor method signature (or in other method signatures if you have static methods or load dependencies after instantiation for some reason). If someone needs to add functionality to the class that requires a new dependency, you actually have to add that dependency to the class. This may seem like extra work, but, in fact, it is good coding behavior in that you have to be thoughtful and specific in how you consume dependencies. You avoid someone just introducing new dependencies in your classes by simply adding calls against not-previously-used dependencies stored in . 

Your code is very happy path oriented. You just assume your code is going to work as expected. For example, you assume that all database queries are going to work and have no handling of potentially failing queries. 

Why the arbitrary split in responsibility between these classes. I would argue that if you got this library out of the business of performing file-level operations (for example leveraging something like passed s instead of just file path strings), that you could remove a lot of the validation code in this class around basic file read/write operations and get to the point where you have a single class that: 

I would recommend moving away from use of queries. They make your code harder to read without having to go look at database schema (what fields do I have access to?). They can make your code fragile to table schema changes (you mean I broke something by adding a new column?). They can also make your application consume more bandwidth sending fields that are not being used back and forth (a great example of this are cases where you have timestamp/audit fields that are not meaningful to application). 

You should explicitly define either abstract or simple default implementation (i.e. that doesn't enforce return data type) for method on . 

The trait would be d in the class similarly to the first example. Another thing I might suggest is to think about your entity and how it interacts in your system. 

Anytime you find yourself duplicating code for cases like you have with , this should be an immediate red flag to you that have established a coding antipattern. For this specific example, what you really have is class level behavior (all of the category checkboxes exhibit similar behavior in this case). That typically mean you should be writing code against the class of elements, not against individual unique id's. 

Does it make sense to check if a file writable in the constructor (i.e. long before a "save" method is ever called), or is there perhaps a reason to support read-only "mode" of operation. If so, should read-only be a setting at time of instantiation, such that Exception can be thrown to caller that they are trying to write for a read-only INI file? I guess my thinking here is that the class is potentially being put into a bad state that can either be detected up front, or more specifically addressed in the interface. I also note that you have no place where you are validating readability of the file. Should this happen in constructor or at beginning of parse method before you try to operate against the file? 

I don't fully understand the desire for a "generic" data mapper. Oftentimes, flexibility leads to complexity and fragility in your application. Take for example your method. It just arbitrarily accepts whatever object is passed and starts deleting things from the database. What is to stop someone from just creating a new object named similarly to a table you don't want deletes happening against (like a configuration table) and arbitrarily destroying records in the database? This flexibility can lead to bad habits like doing queries, overuse of publicly accessible properties on your objects, and using PDO::fetch_object() which can circumvent class constructor behavior. I guess as an educational exercise like this perhaps has value, but for a real-world production-level application, I think this class is pretty much a non-starter. I know it might seem like a lot of extra code to have to build "model" classes for each of your database entities, but I would strongly suggest doing just this, as you will likely find over time that a one-size-fits all mapper such as this just becomes a mess when trying to adapt it to the various use cases you may have in a more complex application. I DO think that what you have may be informative towards such classes, as a lot of what you have written might be well-aligned with an abstract base model class which is extended for each entity type. A "search by id" function for example, is probably pretty common across all classes, where you might find that an update method might be hard to implement in a base class and should perhaps be defined as an abstract method there. Some more specific notes follow. 

One of the problems with PHP is that there are innumerable examples of bad coding practice out there (probably the vast majority of the examples out there). Based on your code, my guess is you have encountered just such bad examples and/or inherited a poorly written codebase. As an additional resource for you, I would highly recommend PHP: The Right Way. This is, IMO, the best collection of information and examples for someone diving into PHP.