Anumodana [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Not to assist with fools but associate with the wise, this is the first and highest blessing and protection torward liberation and freedom of suffering, for this world, the next and beyound. Kalyāṇamittādivaggo: Good companionship and others 

Better to Give than to Consume Related aspects in similar questions: [Q&A] Proper way to ask a teacher to become their student Where can one find guidance from a teacher next year in 2018? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

Mettā means Goodwill, goodwill (german: Wohlwollen, wish for wellbeing/aspiration for heal), wishing the best, is possible the best rendering for best path effects. In such a way goodness is not binding but gives way and release, freedom. Friend (mitta), german Freund, assosiated with Freud, joy, pleasure, heal: e.g. giving sukha, ease. 

After above quote, whole left Mahādukkhakkhandhasutta's content are bhava/vibhava-taṇhā which condition upādāna-until-jāti. Bhava-taṅhā&vibhava-taṇhā are connect to diṭṭhi/sīlabbata/attavāda-upādāna directly in Sutta. Ma. Mū. Cūlasīhanādasutta: 

(c) In VN Pañcasatikakhandhaka, 1st saṅgāyanā saṅgha, the original commentary teachers, made the unanimous decision to keep, to modify not/to add not, all the buddha's speech rules in the Vinaya, even the lesser and the minor rules. If there are something to describe about vinaya, it must appear in the other's context, such as the upāli's sikkhāpadavibhaṅga/upāli's parivāra/commentary/etc., without any modify buddha's speech. But the beginner students just read through some sutta, then misunderstood and distort it as "there were just 150 vinaya rules in vinaya pitaka". 

The inside and outside aspect of the principle in this term is sakkāya (clinging aggregates), sakkāyasamudayo, sakkāyanirodho, and sakkāyanirodhagāminīpaṭipadā. 

There are 2 important type of experts: consciousness expert (addhayasaya) and wisdom expert (sampajañña). When you thinking about your mother, you have not to know the story about her that "she is my father's wife. She is my mother. Her name is Sissy." because you already being an expert in her detail. But you realize that all story automatically while you thinking about your mother. That is called "consciousness expert (addhayasaya)". Wisdom expert (sampajañña) has the same characterize of consciousness expert, but sampajañña auto clearly comprehends in clauses (pros&cons) and effects (6 benefits & 6 detriment; ānisaṅsa & ādīnava for [1] this life, [2] next lift payojana, [3] nibbāna, [4] self, [5] the others, [6] social). So you can see many clauses and effects such as paṭiccasamuppāda, kammassakatā, etc. in almost all of tipitaka, commentary, and sub-commentary. Because every things, include supernatural, is clauses and effects. And every effects must will be vanish when their clauses vanish, too (aincca, dukkha, anattā). Furthermore, sampajañña must arise same time with consciousness, but consciousness can arises without sampajañña. So there are some geniuses, who have autometic unwholesome consciousness to do new bad kamma (cons) to take old good kamma's benefits, these some geniuses have not sampajañña. For reference: 

And by connecting millions of Suddashtaka it creates an object (Human,House,Tree..etc) According to the percentage which these items are available the object shows its behavior. eg: If Patawi (Solidness) percentage is high the object is solid. And each and every objects in this universe is vanishing (dying) and recreating (changing) trillions and trillions times (can't measure) withing a second. So that's why Buddha said each and everything in this universe is changing. And if you need to find the end of the universe you must look in to your body. From there you can find the ultimate universal truth.Because each and every thing in this universe is consists of the above mentioned 8 items(Suddashtaka) 

And each any every Kalapa are consists with 1 or more of this Suddashtaka. Each and every thing in this universe consists of these things. 

Each and every thing in the environment is consists of a basic structure called Suddashtaka.And that is the smallest structure in the universe and each and every thing in the environment. Which 1 Suddashtaka is consists of 8 items. They are... 

If Andrei is able to help the bug without kill countless by doing so, he might do it. Better to do not light fire and lure being in wrong direction for ones indentification "I am a great helper" now not able to help himself get rid. Maybe good to attend to a/the fire sermon. One left house, in training or finished, working the best way for all being, has no duty to help. But one should, now not left house, not directed to Nibbana, not keeping precepts and abstain from sensuality, not misuse ideas of anatta, anicca, sunnata to avoid the merits of giving if possible. It's very common today that so called Dhamma practicing people neglect giving and duties (Sila) and use high Dhamma, yet not understoid as excuse. This is called kilesa mara. Some think "well that's his kamma" and yet forgetting the own kamma by wrong intention, words/no-words and deeds/no-deeds while acting based on greed/aversion/delusion with it. If one has the possibility to help without harming at the same time others or him/herself or break basic precepts, there is seldom reason not to do. For one doing such like most/many sample in the question, such is an ordinary fool, just counting how many he/she will harm, usually not able to walk two steps without crashing others and lighting fire all day long... So first aways ones duties in a relation, precepts, being mindful and what is left to give, then give and let go. Don't light fires of acquisitions, attracting food for your identification, a practice of fire worshipping, what esle is it good for then to nurish one ego, enlarging the fields of corpse. And if actually really interested to understand where there is still doubt, on a heart to heart level, doors are always open. That's the way precepts-gift then even with samadhi, with panna, are the greatest gifts, renouncing put into fires for the sake of becoming this or that. Such one is called to follow the wise, one on the eightfold path. Why does one believe that the lightening of certain A-Dhamma and Mohayana attracts so many being? Nibbana? Or a huge fire assuming it for a refuge... now would a fire worshipper have enough fuel to continue if there are no bugs nurishing it? 

Because every context of etadahosi are before thought quote. After etadahosi always thought that end with "iti". If you see below search in CSCD search engine, the quotation start next of every etadahosi, and end at iti. For below evidence link, I can't found a good CSCD online search engine, you may use below thai's tipitaka insteal. It is not quotation, but you can see each context and iti. $URL$ 

Especially (for to be a monk), no any the breaking-up person (=monk who is enduring to breaking above whole-unwholesome-mind) hurts the others, No any the peace person (=monk who is enduring to meditate peaceful path such as above whole-wholesome-mind, arahatta-phala, and nibbāna) attachs the others. 

In the introduction of dīganikāya's atthakathā wrote that sāriputtas' students were co-designers of tipitaka's structure. In Sutta. Ma. Mū. Mahāgosiṅgasālasuttaṃ, every leaders of 1st saṅgāyanā's members such as, kassapa, ānanda (sutta-memorizer), anuruddha, upāli (vinaya-memorizer), and their students (memorizer of abhidhamma and athhakathā), often go to listen sāriputta's dhamma explanation. Budhhagosa used paṭisambhidāmagga as the main reference when he authored the path of purification, visuddhimagga. The tipitaka-strict monks in Thailand and Myanmar are using visuddhimagga as the main reference to access tipitaka. 

This heritage, to keep it alive, he gave to the Sangha of his disciples, his monks. Such as Gurus and people outside of the Sangha, especially under lay people, even to draw such as "lineage", is neither given by the teacher nor in any way able to transmit the good Dhamma by nature. Also that there is such as permission invented in this lineage to teach, is a trader invented mythos, selling pride and identification to merely fools. Such is pure business and livelihood on Dhamma of which the Buddha put a lot of means into to avoid it. How ever, "lineage" or better "ancestorship" o the Noble Ones is not gained by birth or outwardly signs and affiliation but by the first stage of awakening, by gaining gotrabhū-ñāṇaṃ From this moment on, and only from here, one can regard him/herself being talked to when spoken: "make you self an island with the Dhamma (you already have really gained)" 

Who ever stand against the words of lord buddha,I have only one thing to say that its the truth. Our mind is so much faster than the speed of light and no one to prove and find that except a buddha. According to buddha, there is a smallest unit of time which is called "Chiththakshana" and no one can even think about it. Our mind has a life time of 1 Chiththakshana. So Birth,Life Time And Death of our mind has this 1 smallest unit. So our mind is birthing,living and dying trillions and trillions times(Can't even think about it) during our life time. That's why it says the mind is more and more speeder than the light. Most of the people can't understand this because of the theories they have learnt. Finally I would like to say there are trillions (Even more) of earths which people live, in this universe. And the end of the universe is inside our own body. For more information refer Abhidhamma Pitaka 

"Which day is Uposatha?" is a good question and very importand for Bhikkhus who even need to ask if not knowing. Since it is not easy to answer, best keep the Uposatha always, like Upasaka Lanka already mentioned in his answer. Actually, althought the Buddha allowed his monks to learn the calculation of the full moon and half moon days, there seems to be no (public/broadly know) transmission. Since the day depends on the certain location (note that the day starts at sunrise not at 00:00! to understand, which can be very different), althought the event of full or empty is equal for the whole world, is best to request or inform you from the Bhikkhu-Sangha where you took/asked/declared refuge and received the precepts or you follow, if not avaliable, your near personal community. The simple counting, starting from the full moon day, is eight and then fourteen/fifteen days. So it matches 29 Days a month. Since a moon-month has a little bit more then 29 days, different traditions compensate it in different ways. As for the traditional observing and gathering days (note that the more often or even always, the better: To the Sakyans (on the Uposatha)) they are held "weekly" (see Upasaka Suminda Sirinath S. Dharmasena answer) at large but also on further days: 

Taṇhā is beginning-lobha, upādāna is often-arising-lobha after that taṇhā. Taṇhā is like a slightly touching-hand; Upādāna is like that hand which become a tight grip hand. Taṇhā condition upādāna, upādāna condition bhava, so everything, between taṇhā until bhava, are upādāna and bhava, such as in Sutta. Dī. Ma. Mahānidānasutta, which I will quote below. 

There is nothing difference between equanimity, but the difference appear in householder and renunciation. Don't judge a book by its cover. For your example: the 3rd and 6th case react the same action. But one by unwholesome mind, another by wholesome mind. That's the difference. However, because of the very difference between the mind factors of them. If the householder equanimity person doesn't try to fake, lie. He react by most of these mind factors: lobha, dosa, moha, diṭṭhi, māna, issa, macchariya, uddhacca, kukucca, vicikicchā,ahiri, anottappa, thīna, middha. However, the wholesome action can react like that, too, such as the householder equanimity fall to sleep by thīna and middha. But the renunciation equanimity fall to sleep by sati-sampajañña. The householder equanimity may show or not their sleepy action. But the renunciation equanimity must not. However, the renunciation equanimity may have the tired-action which is physical, but it may looks like the physical action by thīna and middha as well. So, don't judge a book by its cover. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

One does not really exist, changes, falles appart. How illusionary that 3+5=8 and to play with it, as if it would be something real. May one be able to show my person a single thing, one thing? 

Best and proper way is to approach and ask personal, after having spend a good time next him and have observed his virtues, Nyom Lowbrown. It's in dependency of assossiation with admirable friends, that one gaines right view. Of course the condition to meet such is a matter of upanissayapaccayena (strong condition causes) and not possible to buy and demand. So keep always in mind: Better to Give than to Consume. Having not the right attitude and behaviour, one, like many and most, would just meet poor business in Dhamma and Juwel-thieves of many kinds. People who are really into Dhamma have neither dates nor calenders, but always open doors for those seeing them and having the condition to enter. For those always right in front and near. Someone demand, consume... no way to meet, enter and learn, or being haunted by spirits when enter without a clean and honest mind. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

According to the Lord Buddah The best thing to do is without thinking and worrying about the wrong things that you have done in the past and do good things and gain 'kusal'. If you memorize or worry about the wrong things you did it would be more harmful for you. So instead of worrying or thinking about the past just think about good things you have done. And continue good things. This is the one and only thing you must do. There won't be any other ways. Memorizing and worrying about the bad things you did and the good things you couldn't do is a sin. This is called "Kukkuchcha". So don't do it. Once again I would say it is a sin. And Try to learn "Abhidhamma" it'll resolve all of your problems. And also study about theravada Buddhism which is the real Buddhism.