That's a definite no. German intelligence about the Soviet Union was abysmal. Not just bad, but abysmal. They estimated the number of Soviet military units wrong by well over 1000%. Not only that, they assumed less than half of what they assumed could be armed. Nearly all units were armed. The Germans didn't know about the T-34 before they met them in battle. They could have known about the KV-1 heavy tank (Winter war) but that one came a surprise. The German air force was tactical, and lacked heavy bombers. Even if they wanted to, they weren't able to reach the Ural or beyond. I never understood why the Germans with all the above disadvantages even bothered to try. 

I doubt very much if any prominent Roman would complain. The line of poverty was not being able to own and keep a single slave in Rome. Prominent Romans owned many thousands. About 1/3 of the population of Italy was slave. If anything gave the Romans nightmares, it was a slave rebellion. This was by far the biggest and the worst they experienced. Slave owners would bring recalcitrant slaves to the Via Appia to admire the view. So they would understand what was in store, just in case. Especially prominent Romans lost a lot of property because of that revolt. They would rack their brains if a worse punishment would be possible. Leniency would be the last thing on their minds. Slave owners could do whatever they wanted with their slaves. Up to crucifying them on their property, if they so desired. Rebellious slaves could be killed, the legal punishment was crucification. As far as I know the idea of crucifying them en masse along the Via Appia was Crassus's own idea. I think a better question would be: were there any prominent Romans who objected to the destruction of so much property? Crucifying 6000 slaves is destroying an awful lot of money. 

Because Roosevelt was a democrat (not the party, the system) and abhorred totalitarianism. He couldn't enter the war before Pearl Harbor, because the America first movement was very strong. He went as far as he could supporting England. The Cash & Carry and Lend Lease acts weren't exactly reaching out to the Germans, for example. 

The French fury of Antwerp in 1583 is an example. The duke of Anjou didn't have much authority over The Netherlands, and he sought to improve it by trying to take Antwerp, by a ruse. He asked for a royal entrance, with all the works. The citizens allowed him his entrance to the city, but slammed the gates shut. They had warning that Anjou would use his royal entrance to take the city. Anjou lost the element of surprise, and was soundly defeated by the citizens of Antwerp. Most of his troops were killed. Ordinary citizens (not only the militia) barred the streets with chains, to impede horse. They tossed anything, preferably heavy, from rooftops and murdered his entourage. This was the second time troops wanted to take Antwerp. Earlier in the war the Spanish did the same in 1576. Only then the Antwerp citizens were not so lucky. 

Yes, it happened. Cavalry vs infantry. With some casualties. But it was an accident: the Battle of Karánsebes. 

No, not in any way. The Germans saw Japanese as a kind of intelligent monkeys. The Japanese shared that feeling, the other way around. Cooperation was minimal. If at all. Pearl Harbor was just as much a surprise to the Germans as to the Americans. The Japanese simply refused to attack the USSR coordinated with operation Barbarossa. (They got trashed at Khalkhin Gol, so that is somewhat understandable.) The USSR had spy in Japan who could proof the Japanese weren't going to attack Siberia. Stalin could move his Siberian garrisons to Moscow knowing that. One could, with very good reasons, argue WW2 was actually 2 different wars happening at the same time. The Asian and European theaters were completely independent of each other. $URL$ $URL$ 

That varied very much by the quality of the gladiator and the animal. A top gladiator cost a lot more than 500 denarii. To lure most retired popular gladiators back into the arena one had to shell out much, much more. Amounts of over a 100.000 denarii were not uncommon. Gladiators were the stars of their time. A top gladiator was just as expensive as a top football player today. However, there were plenty of 'cannon fodder' quality gladiators. Lanistas made an investment: they had to feed and train gladiators, and that's expensive. They would look if a prospective gladiator would be worth the investment. If not, though luck. Please try to die bravely. Some wild animals were expensive and exotic. Others were much cheaper. Tigers no doubt would have been very expensive, and hippopotamuses (hippopotami?) too, if only for the difficulty in transporting them. Bulls, wolves and bears would have been relatively cheap. So it really depends on who or what is on the show. 

The Romans were pretty bad seafarers. The African coast is pretty much desert, until you go much further south than the Romans could possibly do - even if they were great seafarers. Whatever you could get down south you could get elsewhere for much less cost; it simply wasn't economically feasible. Even if something (usually with hindsight) is technically possible, that doesn't automatically mean it happened. Thor Heyerdahl proved it was technically possible for Polynesians to visit/colonize South America. If it really happened is a very different story. 

No. That is impossible. Continental drift is a geological phenomena millions, if not billions of years, in progress. You probably wonder why those constructions look fairly similar. Mesoamericans and Egyptians both discovered independent of each other that stacking stones that way is very durable. 

I've been on board Zr. Ms de Buffel. Admitted, this ship was launched in 1864. It is not a sailing ship, but a steamship and a lot larger. The principle was the same, though. Accommodation for the captain was spacious. In fact, I wouldn't mind if my house was that large! The first officer had a large cabinet to sleep in, the other officers had smaller cabinets. I say cabinet, as it looked like cupboards. Everybody else slept in hammocks. Rezanov may have outranked the captain on land, but definitely not at sea! There is one master on a ship: the captain. Everybody else is either part of the crew or passenger. Even the czar himself would - on board - not outrank the captain. But it would be a very brave (and foolish) captain to go against the wishes of the czar, of course. The captain's cabin was used for many functions. For example, meetings could be held there. Or, as in this case, the cabin could be split to accommodate high ranking passengers. Very likely this is what happened. Rezanov would have fairly large accommodation for himself. This entourage would be accommodated to their ranks. The ship's officers probably would have to move to smaller accommodation or hammocks. Scientists and doctors not part of the crew would almost certainly not get a cabin. At best they shared one with another officer, or they got a hammock. This is to give you an idea. The Buffel was a much larger and far more modern ship. Thus, shorten everything a good deal to get the idea how Rezanov was accommodated. It is highly likely only the captain and Rezanov slept in beds. 

There is also another reason. Relations between The Netherlands and Belgium were not exactly friendly after the Belgian revolt until the end of WW2(!). Belgium wanted even to annex Zeeuws Vlaanderen, North Brabant and Limburg after WW1. These tensions led to the founding and rise of the NSB party (Dutch Quislings). Extending the Magniot Line up to the Dutch border would not be something the Dutch government wanted to see. Given the expense of the fortifications, the political problems north (The Netherlands) and east (Germany) more reasons for France not to extend it. 

That's impossible to answer. Religions come and go even today. Several indigenous tribes in remote jungles will disappear within a couple of years. With them, their religion. Other religions or newer variations of religions simply never become main stream. Those native tribal and sprouting religions with very few adherents are also religions. Political convictions can change into religions as well. For example communism is effectively dead, as a political system. Still plenty of people who adhere to it, and refuse to debate it. That comes very close to becoming a religion. (I don't say that communism is good or bad, this is just an example). Will New Age become a mainstream religion or fade away? Too early to say. Druidism was mostly eradicate by the Romans. But it got a new life now. Same for some forms of paganism. In Holland we had Lou de Palingboer . Translated in English: Lou the Eel seller. He claimed to be Christ and has some following. After his death in 1968 the movement disappeared. Since 1968 other religions/sects/cults came and went. With regard to the ancient Greek religion, I had a very funny experience. Long time ago I worked for a travel agency in Bangkok when my boss called me in his office. "What do you know about Greek mythology?" he asked. Well, the basics, I assume. "Find out what you can about Poseidon and Cape Sounion, then." It appeared we had a very rich Thai lady who had a dream. In it Poseidon told her to make a sacrifice in his temple. She went to many travel agencies who couldn't help her. (They were polite enough not to mention visiting a doctor rather than a travel agent.) So I dug into it. That was when the Internet was in its infancy. Little to be found, text only. No Google, no Yahoo. But I pulled it off, and we could satisfy her request. I think it was one of the strangest tours I ever worked on. To relate this story to the question: this lady was Thai. Animism is normal in Thai culture. One's superstition is someone else religion. We had plenty of PM's who won't do anything until their soothsayers approves. The lady wasn't into Greek mythology at all. She knew who Poseidon was. That's about it. But she took that dream very serious. I wouldn't say that counts as revival of an ancient religion, but these things happen. Another reason why this question is so difficult to answer.