Great question! I would go for the idea making magic a kind of calligraphy like Cort Ammon suggested. One addition to that: Magic is a secret knowledge by obfuscation - Especially in worlds with magic that only require some special words of power the sorcerer will put those words of power in a context of elaborate non-sense to hide his secret knowledge. The same could go for text magic you describe. Maybe a fireball can be cast with just one sign and sorcerers will write a whole lot of non-sense around it to obfuscate it. To prevent 1-1 copying like illiterate monks that copied the bible in medieval times you could add aspects like: It matters what kind of ink or pen you use; When and where the sign is written, in moon-light, in star-light of a special constellation/conjunction, etc.; In what order the lines of the sign are written. This special process of writing will magically power up the sign of power. Like if the light of moon and stars is magically, then some light particles will linger in the sign. When using the spell they will be released. After that the sign will still be there but discharged. 

An alien spacecraft flies past Earth on a tour of the universe. They spot some apparently intelligent creatures and decide to leave them a present. The artefact is effectively a perpetual motion machine. It is a closed, indestructible metallic box with an axle projecting from one side - the axle has a rough surface. In theory it could have a wheel attached to it. It rotates at a constant rate of about one revolution per second and is pretty much unstoppable. Unfortunately humans have not yet invented the wheel. A band of hunters find the cube shaped device which weighs the same as two men. 

In the near future on our own planet of Earth, an odd plague has descended from space. It affects glass. Any glass whether natural or man-made turns into powder. The chemical elements are the same, it's just like incredibly finely ground glass. Glassmakers can melt the powder and turn it back into into glass but it just rots away again in a few hours. Scientists are desperately trying to understand the phenomenon, could it be a bacterium that feeds on glass? Not really because the glass isn't chemically changed. They are of course handicapped in their investigations because their light-microscopes no longer have any lenses and lots of their other equipment relies on glass components. Meanwhile the world is falling apart. Missing window glass is forming huge drifts of powder that blow around, ebbing and flowing like a glittering snow. Mirrors have gone but of course vanity is not a priority for most people right now. There are many, many items that contain glass that we used to take for granted in our daily lives. Question Assume that scientists aren't going to solve the problem in the next ten or even twenty years. How well would we survive this catastrophe? Could we cope with the glass dust? Would our communications technology grind to a halt? (Think of fibre-optics for example). It's tempting to say, "replace everything with clear plastic". However replacing the world's windows alone would take more than ten years even if it was possible. In any case plastics factories now lack light bulbs, windows, and all sorts of other things that are stopping them from working properly. Assuming the problem doesn't get solved, where would we be in ten or twenty years? REFERENCES 1. The affected glass is the substance described in the following: 

I think one version of 'powered' weapons would involve taking the mechanisms of projectile weapons and applying it to melee attacks. Imagine a war hammer that has a 'magazine' of high density fuel charges (something similar to the propellant used in rockets) that can be 'fired' to suddenly accelerate the hammer head toward the target. There are no projectiles and a semi-automatic firing system would allow the wielder to deliver rapid heavy blows limited only by the balance/recovery (weight?) of the total weapon. The other 'firing mechanism' similar to the above would be an impact trigger, landing a blow would trigger the fuel and a second high acceleration blow would follow the first blow. Armor is largely limited by weight, enough armor can stop large directed impacts (like a pick axe) but the armor needed is heavy when thick enough to do this. I think this style of fighting would largely favor agility (not getting hit) as opposed to absorbing hits. 

They might develop similar systems for sensory substitution like we've done. Let me toss out a couple of links on the concept: Wired article Wikipedia The general gist of these is based around a concept called neuroplasticity; the idea that the mind can adapt to various input. Some of the more simple experiments deal with people wearing goggles that invert their vision (everything is upside down) but after a few days the brain adapts and the person carries on like nothing changed. Another experiment from the Wired article involved a belt with several vibrating nodes (like in your cellphone) ringed all along its length. The only node that vibrated though was the one facing north. This gave a perception of magnetic alignment to earth's magnetic field (kind of like what we assume a migratory bird might have). The user said he had in innate perception of location and direction after his mind adjusted to the touch->direction sensory input. Another use involved using touch to help the blind "see" again by way of electrical impulses on the tongue, providing a sort of three dimensional touch map of a room. 

If the 4th dimension is spatial, it really depends on how you want normal people to be 3 dimensional: You could imagine, that everything visible thing is from a 4-dimensional POV flat and glued to the 3-dimensional surface of a 4-dimensional world. The surface being the visible world, the 4-dimensional world being the "real world" a shaman is able to see. A disease could be a 4-dimensional being itself, roaming the empty space above the visible surface that latches itself onto people and only manifests itself, when it is itself fully "flat" (flat meaning again 3 dimensional). In this case you would not be able to look inside a human (see their organs), but you could see a disease "coming". Or you could say, that every human is a 4-dimensional being, they just cannot see it, in the same way we cannot see time. We only ever see slices of time we call "now" - In the same way a human might be composed of a lot of slices, maybe all a bit different, but only one slice at a time is visible. A shaman now would be able to see all these slices at once. These slices might be bizarre and some might not be able to survive in the 3 dimensional world, so they are never visible. Every person could have a slice without skin, without flesh, etc. This way a shaman might be able to see the organs of people. A ill meaning shaman might be able to slap such a slice into existence, that would give you a killing spell. Another thought: Image you are a 2-dimensional being. Left to you is a circle, right to you a square. Both will appear to you as just lines assuming you distinguish edges. A 3-dimensional being is able see the difference, you are not. You could imagine that a lot of things in the visible world look the same, but are de facto dramatically different. A shaman might be able to distinguish plants that are poisonous and plants that have healing power that way even though they look exactly the same to anyone else. Summarizing: The ability to see a forth dimension is really not that interessting, if everything else is "flat" in three dimensions. You have to define how things look in the 4th dimension and what it is, that normal people cannot see. 

This is the part that I doubt. The outer (liquid) core is made of iron and nickel. Pumping a liquid metal against gravity isn't going to work. 

This goes more than twice as deep as the tallest building is high. Whether anyone would want to live there with journeys of up to an hour to reach the surface, is another matter. 

There are many gangs of people-smugglers who are taking advantage of such migrants. The aliens could replace or employ the people-smugglers to divert the migrants to them. European governments would feel relieved that they no longer had to deal with the influx and so might not be motivated to investigate too assiduously. Alternatively the aliens could simply turn up with a space-shuttle that has been disguised as a train or bus and is marked "To Europe" in the local language. They will literally have people (usually with no identity papers) fighting to get on it, no questions asked. 

(1) One use of an armed tail is to ward off people behind you. The problem is that you can't see them. If mirrors have been invented, I suppose you could have wing-mirrors but it would be difficult to focus in all directions at once. Maybe the best tactic would be to swish your weaponed tail back and forth rapidly. The problem with that is that you might slash a friend that was standing behind you. They would have to shout to alert you of their presence - not always audible in pitched battle. (2) The main advantage would be in forested areas. You could hang from branches and slash at ground foes with your hands. This is fine if you are fighting a race that doesn't have tails but it's cancelled out if everyone does. 

There are definitely going to be some hypothetical's in my answer; but here we go. It sounds like your ideal plant is something akin to the venus fly trap, pitcher plant, or even the carrion flowers (which attract insects for pollination as opposed to food) in terms of behavior; however rather then sweet or rotten smells you want fire to be the primary attractant. Surviving Fire Lets start with a plants ability to survive fires. Natural fires are typical of various conditions like lightning and dry plant matter (Fire Ecology for more on the subject of natural areas with fires). Plants survive these conditions in a number of ways, Ponderosa Pine trees lose lower branches and have tough trunks, thus they keep their living branches and leaves (needles) above the reach of fire. Although if you're aiming for a smaller plant then your particular plant will be one that stores energy in the roots and regrows out of the ground following a fire. So that's an overview of how nature does it now. What about some ways it could handle it? For one you could have the cellulose of your plant pull silicate and other minerals out of the ground and embed them in the bark creating a stone-like layer to protect from flame on the outside of your plant. The leaves could also produce a flame resistant oil/coating that protects from heat and open flame. Fire-retardant gel absorbs large amounts of water to form a protective blanket. Making fire So now we need to make a fire. The main way I see this working is having your flower be a swamp denizen. The large amount of rotting materials combined with a symbiotic relationship to certain bacteria could allow your plant to create and store methane gas for burning. But what about the heat? Well nature even has you covered here; Thermogenic Plants create excess heat; although you'd have to scale this up I would say that it's at least possible. So your plant could have a stalk that releases a stream of methane and is lit by thermogenic action. It could operate on photosynthesis during the day and come nightfall the fire could start. 

Re-open request As I understand it, this question was closed because it was deemed to be about the adventures of a single character, i.e. 'you'. That is simply not the case. If, for example, I had prefaced the question with, "Michael Renfrew is a character in a story I'm writing. He is tall, dark, handsome and has a wooden leg and a parrot. His girlfriend is a policewoman ..." then that would be justified. My use of 'you' is impersonal. It refers to any character who is living in a world that has certain well-defined characteristics. The question is to do with the mechanics of survival and self-betterment in such a world. The use of 'you' was an encouragement to the answerers to immerse themselves in the world in order to provide imaginative answers. 

A sonic 'boom' depends on the velocity of a projectile through the air - it needs to travel faster than sound. A whip crack is an example of a small sonic boom and there lies your problem. A sonic boom that causes damage has to be produced by displacing a very large volume of air. Your blade isn't going to do that - no matter how fast it is wielded. Maybe you could cause temporary damage to someone's hearing by producing the sound near to their ear, but if you do that with a sharp blade then you've probably followed through and sliced through their shoulder to a considerable depth. This would sever a number of vital blood vessels thus causing death within moments.