Explaining Chinese proverbs in English in oft impossible. The way the Chinese think about philosophy makes the concept of "explaining" it less meaningful than that concept in Western thought. The Chinese tend not to draw a box around the meaning of their proverbs and say "this is what this means," or if they do, they are rarely formed along the lines Westerners expect to see. They choose proverbs which intentionally apply well beyond the range of their narrow meaning. Instead, we tend to go for "interpretations" instead -- an attempt to define the "meaning" of the phrase in one small scope which hopefully inspires the reader to reflect on the greater meaning of the proverb. In the West, we have our concept of our "self image." It's the little image inside of us which we believe reflects who we are. If Lao Tzu used that instrument, he would most likely say that we shape our self image and our self image shapes us. If we seek to protect this self image from the world, never letting it interact with anything besides ourself, we eventually reach a point where our goal is to keep the self image constant and frozen in what we believe we are. In doing so, we naturally create a self image which causes us to freeze ourselves. By breaking down the barriers we put around that self image, we may find that a large amount of our capabilities were tied up in the protection of this self image. In fact, much of them may be overzealous, clutching tightly to the exact preserved image we want to see. I believe Lao Tzu would appreciate people relaxing their grip, and finding out just how much more they had to become what they will be, simply by allocating resources towards doing things other than preservation of an image. 

May I suggest a proof by contradiction? Military hierarchy offers no such appeal process in combat situations. One may question the morality of combat, but if it was a moral requirement that people have an appeals process, then the mere structure of people within the military would be amoral. That strikes me as a tough stance to defend. If you feel that the hierarchical structure of the military is not inherently amoral, as I do, then that points strongly to appeals not being a morally mandatory part of the process. There are strong pragmatic reasons to consider an appeals process, but pragmatic reasons are out of scope of this question. 

There is also the cheating argument, to claim that "strong AI" is not defined sufficiently to allow us to accomplish it, but I don't believe that is what you are looking for. 

In your comment argument, Lukas, you mentioned "Pick up any logic textbook, it will tell you that there has to be at least 1-2 premises, depending on the author" This quote caught my attention because, in context, it looked like a poor argument. WillO had cited a single source (which actually does say it can be empty: "finite sequence" is a very specific mathematical term that includes empty sequences), and you argued any textbook should contradict him, without providing one yourself, leaving him to dig through dozens of textbooks in search of a sentence to prove your point that he doesn't believe in. However, it is true that most arguments have premisses, and often they are of small number. If it was not a rule that you have premises, might there still be some reason behind your position? I think there might be. The number of things which can be successfully argued without premisses is vanishingly small. It's certainly not reasonable to make meaningful debate about something important like "freedom," "meaning," or "good" with an empty-set of premisses. Those words are too hard to discuss without dragging human ideals into the debate, and those do not have mathematical or logical meanings which could allow them to be manipulated in a Formal Proof. This leaves arguments without premisses as suspect. An argument without premisses cannot prove anything which was not already in the formal system used as part of the proof. This creates a sticky situation where either: 

Sure, you can consider anything you want. Oh, did you mean would I consider an argument that it is obsolete valid? Well for that, we are going to have to discuss what viewpoint we are using to explore the effect of religion. Personally, I have found religion effective at helping instill characteristics of "humanity" which I value and secular life has so far been ineffective at instilling. If you're interested in exploring what those characteristics are, I'm happy to chat on the topic (they're things that are markedly hard to put in a Q&A format like Stack Exchange). Also, consider, if religion was gone, do you truly believe something with similar behaviors would not emerge? I see little fragments of religion everywhere I go, from the way people look at eachother to how they style their hair. Is it a surprise that such fragments may coalesce? Finally, consider that every generation has declared the end of their parent's old ways, because the new ways have completely supplanted them and are superior in every way. It is the way it has always been. 

One can prove a nonexistential claim just as easily as proving an existential claim. In both cases, you must define the proof system you are using, and many of them admit such claims. The most accessible version is proof by contradiction in First Order Logic (FOL). In such a proof, you first prove that the negation of your claim creates a contradiction, then apply the rule of excluded middle to show that your statement (of non-existance) must be true. My favorite non-existence proof is Godel's Incompleteness Theorems, which show that a vast swath of proofs people really want to create can never possibly be created. It bounds the limits of FOL very nicely. 

If you start from the assumption that we already know everything, and have always known everything, then I think it is safe to say that our knowledge has probably become more accurate. However, if we consider that there were things we did not know, but know now (such as the existence of protons and electrons), then the question becomes more complicated. While our old knowledge is certainly refined over the years, our new knowledge is not necessarily and more accurate than the old stuff was when it was new. How you value such a swirling mixture is a more complicated question indeed. For example, how do you value the accuracy in the crucial concepts such as "what is science" against the accuracy in less crucial concepts (such as, if I may hang one concept out to dry, the effect of the presence of topoisomerase IIβ on double strand breaks within neuron genetic material)? Consider your own question and wording. Popper does not argue that empirical testing leads to more accurate hypotheses, but rather that it may lead to more accurate hypotheses and should lead to more accurate hypothesis. Even then, it really only leads to more accurate hypotheses if it indeed falsifies the existing hypothesis. Personally, I find that tiny nuance to be a very big deal, as it has caused an immense amount of strife in recent years from people who think science provides truth, rather than simply seeking truth. Does that taint the accuracy of all of the scientific knowledge we gather? It's not an easy question. I also know many people who have missed out on what I perceive to be the important knowledge in life because imperfect Popperian falsification has lead them to believe that there is no value in the places I find value. Am I right? Are they right? Well, we certainly aren't any more accurate on those questions! Or perhaps consider the question of what happens after we die, which is still not a known thing unless you subscribe to a religion that tells you what to know. Science has trouble answering it because it requires us to define "ourself," which is a term that gets really tricky for objective and rational science. Perhaps that one question alone suggests we still don't have very accurate knowledge where it counts.