Note that with all these statements, we might as well be talking about entities that don't exist or entities whose existence is disputed. The syntax and semantics of these statements remain the same if we were talking about a unicorn or an angel, instead of a grizzly bear. Establishing the exact meaning of such sentences may turn out to be complicated, but it does not take away from the fact that such sentences convey propositions. For further reading on the topic, I recommend the book Intensional Semantics by Kai von Fintel and Irene Heim. Read Chapter 1 to familiarize yourself with their terminology and their mathematical expressions. After that, read Chapter 7 to get an understanding of issues arising from "wants" statements. This may be beyond the scope of a class on critical thinking, but skimming the book may give you a rough idea of the issues at hand. 

Most languages can generate expressions that have an infinite number of words. The clinching argument for that, for me, was this post by Allan C. Wechsler. 

She did, in her book, The Virtue of Selfishness, essay Man's Rights. The essay is available in its entirety here, at Ayn Rand Institute's website. To avoid from writing an essentially link-only answer, this is the most relevant bit: 

You can split in a similar manner too. Davidsonian event semantics provides a formal way of notating the things you want to express. If you have good reason to split one event into several sub-events, do it. If you have good reason to split one entity into several sub-entities, do it. States are just attributes of entities, and can be notated as ordinary predicates. The following statements refer to the same , but in one event, it is a member of all things, and in another event, it is a member of all things. 

I don't know of a name for this, but there are conventions that some people use when talking about knowledge and belief. This paper by Tojo gives a whirlwind tour of the various aspects of it. In particular, section 4.2 talks about knowledge and belief. 

I'm making this an answer instead of a comment because it turns out to be too long. The TL;DR version is that while it's possible to draw parallels and contrasts between any person and any other person, firstly, the number of permutations is going to be astronomical or even economical, and secondly, in this particular instance, I suspect it's not going to be fruitful. Try to contrast The Futurist Manifesto with any book by Rand. 

I have come across two different points of view on this. The minarchist view, roughly, is that the government's sole role is protection from internal and external aggressors and threats, and to maintain courts for arbitration between citizens. The minarchist view is that charitable donations from the rich and willing is enough to support such a government, as was the case in the past, in quite a few societies. The Ancap view is that even such security should be subscription based. For example, Rothbard argues in For a New Liberty: 

Depends on what exactly one means by "philosopher". Douglas Hofstadter is a professor of cognitive science. His students have a background in computer science or philosophy. He and his students have published in peer-reviewed journals such as Cognitive Science Journal. 

Our innate grammars allow for such phrases to exist. Also consider this list of longest words across languages, where many of the languages allow for arbitrary compounding. The longest example there is a 431-letter-long word in Sanskrit that was written sometime in the Middle Ages. Or consider the English example of the scientific name of Titin, which consists of 189,819 letters. The rules of physics and chemistry may prevent us from creating infinitely large molecules, but the rules of IUPAC nomenclature do not prevent us from creating names for infinitely long molecules. Whether we're using Sanskrit's sandhi rules or IUPAC nomenclature, the grammars do not prevent us from forming infinitely long words. 

The question in the title seems to be different from the elaboration below it. In pragmatics, utterances are called "speech acts". Specifically, sentences like I now pronounce you man and wife are an illocutionary speech act, and more specifically, are declarations. These become true with just their utterance. The elaboration below the question's title seems to allude to the liar paradox, which is beyond the scope of pragmatics. After all, the content of our speech need not be bound by rules of logic. 

If you look around for more literature on the matter, other books and other authors show examples of where and when such a setup has worked, albeit for some aspects of society. 

I disagree here. Rand cared about freedom (i.e. individual liberty) foremost. In her discourse, the economy, i.e. capitalism, is what comes about when individual rights (including property rights) are respected. 

The sentence is a statement because it conveys a proposition. The truth-value of the proposition may be derived from contextualizing information, or real-world knowledge. Irrespective of its truth-value, its propositional properties can be used further for reasoning about sentences such as: 

Science is a work in progress. I can't imagine any researcher in any broad scientific field passing off their works as the "ultimate story to the mystery", much less so in biology. There is no "we". Each person has to make the choice for themselves. Whether you like it or not, plenty of current science is based on the gene-centered theory of evolution. 

Technology, just like the economy, is not the cause for Rand. It is, rather, the effect. But, I'd agree that in economics, she is pretty much the opposite of Marx. Again, I don't see the connection to Italian Futurism. 

To address a question asked in one of the comments, the core principle of libertarianism is non-initiation of violence. The various factions differ in whether and when they would choose to make exceptions to this principle. I'll answer some of the questions more directly. 

Certainly! To some extent, everyone does. How many people have you come across who believe that their spouse or parent is the best in the world? Or even something as concrete as "I believe I sent you the email last week". 

Your hair-splitting of events is no different from hair-splitting of other entities as well. So you'd have: 

Generally, both minarchists and Ancaps are opposed to the government running roads, infrastructure, etc. They envision a scenario where such infrastructure would be privately owned, and fee- or subscription-based. The owners of these infrastructures would come up with their own rules of behaviour for use of their facilities. We see this all around us, in a limited way already. For example, if you work on the shop-floor of a reputed company, the safety training and regulations that the company has in place are usually far more stringent and sensible than what a government official would envision. If you're going to be using multi-million dollar equipment, the company ensures that you have been trained to utilize it safely and effectively. Speaking of infrastructure, toll-roads are quite common in many countries. Speaking from an Indian perspective, I see that private (toll) roads are generally better maintained and better run than government roads. 

What are these "apple" and "orange" that you speak of? In fact, none of the terms used in predicate logic have any meaning. The terms need to be interpreted according to a model or a domain of discourse. See this SEP entry on Classical Logic, especially section 4, Semantics, for a whirl-wind tour, or section 3.2 of the handouts by Voronkov, for a longer explanation.