Plants already produce food from basic raw materials at low cost, and they themselves can reproduce. They make a great variety of foodstuffs and many people eat only plants. Yet there is still hunger. I don't think a 3D printer would change much. 

Because it is full of air It is like trying to submerge a balloon, and the thrusters just aren't powerful enough. A long haul spacecraft needs to provide food and water and deal with waste, and this problem is solved by onboard farms, where plants and fungi absorb the waste, make food, make oxygen, and generally keep everyone alive. This requires a large volume of air. At the same time, the craft will be designed to be as light as possible, so the hull of the craft might not be very heavy. The end result is that it's overall density is 1/5 of water, so it's engines would need 4x it's weight in thrust to go underwater. But 4G is rather unpleasant and won't make you much faster due to fuel/reaction mass constraints, so the thrusters simply aren't that powerful. Edit: Since ArtisticPhoenix mentioned fuel, I thought I would look up the density of that. Liquid oxygen is slightly denser than water, at 1.141 kg/L, but liquid hydrogen is very light, at 0.071 kg/L. In the correct proportions, that's an overall density of 0.427. Now a spacecraft should be able to push itself underwater with that sort of density, but it is clearly not the right vehicle for the job. 

Not sure which one would be the most logical or thematic, but the general idea should be the same. A currency that has its weight not in gold, but in a celestial object of arbitrarily defined importance. The issue is I have no clue if using a cosmic object as a currency weight would actually work in practice given the expansionist nature of my human civilization. Since I am not really good at economics, can anyone who knows their economics tell me what unintended implications of this idea may entail given the scenario and/or celestial object used? I'm not completely sure where to look. *Detail: The "special particle" in question is called the "Lux Particle". It exists only in the corona of stars and must exist in plasma. Lux Particles allow ships to not only have FTL, but also fast-as-light travel and teleportation for spaceships. Brighter stars have more lux. I might have intentionally devised lux as a way to screw red dwarves over. 

Just look out of the ship's window. Planets are brighter than most stars, and the position of any star bright enough to be mistaken for a planet (e.g. Sirius viewed from sun) may be calculated in advance. 

If scenario 2 holds and regrowing the spike is no big deal (relatively), it may become advantageous to deliberately release the spike. From here, sky's the limit: our guy may improve his own precision or the missile's aerodynamics. There are obvious problem with this scenario. How does this predator deal with scavengers? It kills the prey, but how does it keep it? Isn't it better to wait another week for a closer prey instead of all these efforts? However, who knows the exact selection pressures in our fantasy world? Not me. 

Recently i've read Worldbuilding by Stephen Gillett and one thing that struck me was that for one reason of another many of the alien worlds lacked the resources needed for metallurgy. However, the book also mentioned how crystals would be common on at least a couple of these worlds which made me start thinking. Could a advanced species develop on a acidic world (even with less energy available) that instead of using metals, uses crystals, clays some other material in the place of iron/copper and has to advance on very different lines from humans with their steel and silicon chips or those other aliens with their calcium rich bioships and moldy circuitry? Crystals and clays according to the book would be in abundance on the acidic worlds (which is a generalization- the author goes through nitrogen-oxygen worlds, worlds with chlorine rich atmospheres where plastics instead of cellulose is used for wood and sulfur rich worlds, all of these worlds he concludes would lack in iron/copper. Therefore leaving any civilization that develops on a acidic world with chlorine or sulfur all over the place 'In the stone age'. I am skeptical of this simply because is metallurgy really the end-all be-all to even consider technological civilizations? It seems like it is on Earth, but that's more or less because metals are attainable and iron is easily available. But on another world where that's not the case could some other technological base exist and could it still be possible to make a advanced civilization through some alternative form of conductors? Crystals and clays to my knowledge both have diverse applications, but is it possible for them to fill similiarish technological niches seen in the modern world at least in the fields of automation of labor and/or computing? 

Most of the Royal Navy gets destroyed by a massive storm. This famously happened to not one but two Mongol invasion fleets sent to invade Japan. The Romans also managed to lose their fleets to storms several times. It was less likely to happen to the Royal Navy due to the fact that they had radios and weather forecasts, but they didn't have satellites or computers so it is still plausible that they could be blindsided by a storm. A storm could also hit the UK itself and destroy planes and infrastructure, gifting an easy victory to Hitler, should he be ready to seize the opportunity. Of course Hitler would still need a lot of ships, but he might be able to scrounge together civilian vessels and Japanese/Italian vessels to make it happen. 

The predator becomes unable to hunt further and dies. However, since it's an effective energy conserver, it may still live for a long time and maybe even procreate. It regrows the spike. Plausible if the spike is a modified tooth and the ancestors had regrowing teeth ($URL$ Instead of regrowing the spike, the predator may pick it up and reuse, or grab a stone and hit lesser animals with it. Seems less likely than (2), but still. 

I wondered about this while playing Morrowind, where Levitation is a very easy spell to acquire yet there are still forts and castles. Then I realized that defenders could cast Dispel at any invaders that tried flying over the walls, which would likely lead to them plummeting to their deaths. So with good anti-magic the walls are still useful. Against dragons, I suspect the tried and true movie favorite, the ballista, is the answer. But it would benefit from a few improvements. The main issue is that if the dragon attacks the crew they have nowhere to hide and they typically die. I would put a bunker of sorts within a few yards of each ballista. I would also make a point of having many ballista, so while one crew is hiding, other crews can be lining up their shots. Another way to deal with dragons is for a wizard to cast Paralyze. 

Splashed with water Exposed to the heat Touched by a human or stabbed by one (in the latter case- do they bleed or does their blood boil away?) 

Be able to enter and return from the subglacial abyssal ocean in Europa. Have a crew of 16 people. (12 people for the surface and 4 people for the submarine) Be able to have both a surface encampment and a sub-surface exploration mission. Be able to retrieve samples back to Earth. Cost less than 250 billion dollars (if unattainable give me your own estimate) Have a travel time of around a year to Europa (those poor bones...) 

Air superiority is a thing because of logistics, not because a plane can beat it's cost in ground forces If I have 100 planes, then every potential target in your country needs to be able to defend itself against 100 planes because I can strike any of them. Since your country probably has thousands of targets I might strike, you do not have the option of putting ground forces everywhere. Your only option is to get your own planes, which is also your best option for attacking me. Aircraft don't have a massive advantage in battle simply because they are high up. If they could land and fight on the ground, as your angels can, they would not lose the real advantage of air superiority. If the angels are flying high, the demons can plausibly dodge the crap that gets dropped on them. If the angels fly low, the demons will throw stuff back and the angels may be significantly worse off than if they landed, folded their wings and assumed some sort of battle formation. 

I agree with the excellent description of evolutionary constraints by @TechZen. However, there is one scenario that seems remotely plausible to me. In short, the evolution could go: Venomous spike -> Moving spike -> Spike on a spring -> Flying spike. Let me explain in more detail. The ancestor would have been an energy-conserving animal like a sloth or a python. It would lie on the ground and wait for an animal to scratch its foot on the spike and die, then the predator would devour the dead body. Or maybe it would hang on the branch and fall down on its prey. Such a creature could even evolve from something like our snakes. Next step: some degree of the spike's movement. Wiggle it a bit so that if the prey passes an inch to the left, our guy doesn't stay hungry. Key preadaptation for the next step would be muscles allowing protruding, stabbing movement. Eventually, the weapon would turn into a spike on a muscle spring, thrown for several meters. It could sometimes get stuck in the prey and torn off, with the following possible outcomes: 

It is 2057 and a manned mission to Europa has been comissioned in the prospect of further exploring the ecosystem and energy signatures of Europa. Unlike the implied unnmanned probe, this mission logistically has to be able to do the following: 

As a bonus question, would there be a difference if the Titanian was radiation resistant or would the results be the same? I ask since I am not really certain how to predict any of this.