How can I use C's and V's to describe syllable structures in a way that rules out highly unlikely syllable structures? For example, I recently looked up the fact that "The structure of the Hawaiian syllable can be represented as being (C)V(V), where the round brackets around C and second V mean that the syllable-initial consonant is optional and the syllable may have a long vowel or diphthong.[30]" (The latter quote was from the Wikipedia article on Hawaiian Phonology: $URL$ ) If we remove both optional elements from the syllable structure listed above, we get V. So if we have a Hawaiian word that's six syllables long, there's nothing in the description of the syllable structure that rules out a Hawaiian word with this structure: VVVVVV. For that matter, what part of the (C)V(V) expression would rule out a Hawaiian word with the following structure? VVVVVVVVVVVV. If it is not necessary for the C & V notation to rule out words with the latter structure, why is it not necessary? 

What are the allophones of /ɹ/ in General Western English? By General Western English, I mean the dialect of English that is spoken by people raised in Seattle, WA; Portland, OR; and other places west of the Cascade Mountains in the USA. I have heard someone say that there are twelve, but I have been unable to confirm the number on the internet, and have not been able to find a specific list of them either. 

How common is it for people to be literate only in a language other than their mother tongue? I know that ASL signing community members generally learn to be literate in English, since there is no widely accepted method of transcribing ASL, with all apologies to the inventors of Sutton Sign-Writing. But are there other examples in communities whose languages are spoken rather than signed? 

Are there languages without vowel reduction? That is, are there languages in which the vowels in certain syllables are not centralized and/or "de-rounded" and/or shortened because of speaking rate, stress patterns, etc.? I've heard that Hungarian is such a language. If so, why does it lack vowel reduction? 

In discussions of language learning, multilingualism, and related topics, I hear references to "thinking in a language." Two questions on this stack exchange list have referenced this, namely "What language, if any, do deaf people think in?" and "What language do children think in?" One can find lots of references to "thinking in a language" on the internet. The following link is only one of many examples: $URL$ Since I experience internal monologue like everyone else, and that monologue is in my native English, I have an intuitive sense of what the phrase "thinking in a language" means. But is internal monologue, aka thinking in a language, something that can be investigated scientifically? Is there an operational definition of thinking in a language? Does the phrase have empirical meaning? 

What is the difference, if any, between "ungrammatical" and "infelicitous" as linguistic terms? I haven't had much luck finding an answer to this question on the 'net. We all know that a phrase or sentences is ungrammatical if it violates the morpho-syntactic rules of a given language. So "I play ball," is grammatical but "*Me play ball," is ungrammatical in General Western English. I'm betting that "*Me play ball," could also be called "infelicitous" in General Western English. So, in linguistic terminology, are the terms "infelicitous" and "ungrammatical" synonymous? Or is the term "infelicitous" a more general term, encompassing the violation of more than just morpho-syntactic rules? 

I would like a term used by linguists that stands for the predicate minus the arguments of the verb. One possible candidate is “verb group.” This link, $URL$ defines “verb group” as follows: verb group ( verb groups plural ) A verb group or verbal group consists of a verb, or of a main verb following a modal or one or more auxiliaries. Examples are “walked,” “can see,” and had been waiting.” But the latter definition doesn’t come from a linguistics source as far as I can tell. Another possible candidate is “verb phrase.” The SIL Linguistic Glossary site ($URL$ gives two definitions: a definition from traditional grammar that resembles the above definition of “verb group,” and a definition from generative grammar that is synonymous with “predicate.” Which term would fill the bill? 

Jlawler is right; there is nothing wordy about your three statements. They are not redundant, and in fact need to have more words added to them to make them clear. The statements not only make perfect sense but are compatible with one another if they refer to different sets of tasks, with each set consisting of more than one iteration of the same task. Qualifying phrases would have to be added to clarify this. (During the three races on Tuesday) he was the first to finish last. (During the three broad jumping contests on Wednesday) he was the first to finish second. (During the three pillow-making contests on Thursday) he was the first to finish third. 

Witness this noun phrase that has an attributive adjective: "the angry girl" Witness this sentence that has a predicate adjective: "The girl is angry." Both adjectives in the last two examples can be modified by adverbs: "the constantly angry girl" "The girl is constantly angry." However, prepositional phrases seem to me to be ungrammatical when modifying attributive adjectives. "??the angry with her brother girl" "The girl is angry with her brother." So too with modifier complement clauses: "??the so angry that she could have had a heart attack girl" "The girl was so angry that she could have had a heart attack." Are my attributive adjective examples ungrammatical or just ugly? If they are ungrammatical in English, are they also ungrammatical in other languages? 

You divide your class into teams. All of the teams are given the same string that constitutes the same grammatical English sentence--same words, same syntax. Each team tries to endow this sentence with as many different meanings as possible simply by varying the prosody. Rinse and repeat with a different sentence. 

In some grammar books, I see the term "ambitransitive" used to describe verbs that have two arguments in some contexts and one argument in others. From what I've read on Wikipedia, there are generally two types of ambitransitive verb: First, we have those whose intransitive senses have sole arguments that stand for patients. One such verb is "cook" as in "The turnips cooked in the pot,' vs. "We cooked the turnips"? Second, we have verbs whose intransitive senses have sole arguments that stand for agents. One such verb is "eat," as in "We ate," and "We ate turnips." So I'm asking whether the term "ambitransitive" is a generally accepted term among linguists? (I'm afraid I can't rely on Wikipedia for the answer.) 

[As per comments below, I have edited this question for greater clarity.] I want to know whether a language without recursion, which would generate only a finite number of well-formed sentences, could still generate a potentially infinite amount of discourse. As I understand it, the term "recursive" describes formal operations (including a grammar's generation of well-formed sentences and constituents) that can apply to their own output. For example, the rules for forming relative clauses amount to a recursive operation, since relative clauses can be added to a noun phrase within some matrix relative clause. Thanks to recursion, we have noun phrases such as the cat that ate the rat," "the cat that ate the rat that ate the cheese," "the cat that ate the rat that ate the cheese that attracted the roaches," and so on, ad infinitum. When I say that recursion allows a grammar to generate a "potentially infinite" number of sentences, I mean that a formal description of the language's syntax would entail that the number of well-formed sentences in the language is infinite in principle. When I say that a language without recursion is finite, I mean that such a language's syntax would entail that the number of well-formed sentences in the language would be finite. This does NOT imply that a finite language couldn't generate enough sentences for its speakers to express themselves across contexts. Neither does it mean that a finite language would necessarily be a simple one. Dan Everett, a linguist who joined the Piraha-speaking community in South America to learn and study their language, has claimed that Piraha is finite and has also described Piraha's verb formation as extremely complex. Now so far, we've been talking only about sentences. But we all know that people don't communicate in one-sentence telegrams. We talk at length for various purposes. In other words, we exhibit discourse. AFAIK, a lot of human discourse is "potentially infinite." In other words, in many types of discourse, an instance of such a type of discourse could continue indefinitely in principle. Hence expressions like "That conversation will go on forever." All this information prompted me to ask whether a language without recursion, which would have a finite number of sentences, could in principle allow discourse (such as conversations) that could in principle continue indefinitely. I suspect that speakers of any language, finite or not, could go on talking forever in principle. But I want to know if this is more than my suspicion. 

[I've overhauled this question.] I guess I'm asking about the semantic differences, if any, between mediopassives and anticausatives. 

I have been told that, in Chinese, terms for "yes" and "no" used as answers for questions are not needed because one answers yes-no questions by either repeating the verb in the question or adding a negative word to the repetition of the verb in the question. So the answer to a question meaning "Did the thief take the gold" could be either "take" (the affirmative answer) or "not take" (the negative answer). I am told that this type of answer to yes-no questions is also found in other languages. It seems to me that this strategy makes for less ambiguity than we have in English, as we see here: Q: Did he NOT COME to the party? A1: Yes. (affirming that he did not come to the party) A2: Yes. (affirming that he did come to the party) A3: No. (denying that that he came to the party) A4: No. (denying that he did not come to the party) Of course, we English speakers can disambiguate such answers in a number of ways, including a tag to the answer. "Yes, he did." "Yes, he didn't," ... etc. But aside from answering with a verb vs. a negated verb, or using tags as in English, what other grammatical or lexical strategies are commonly used in natural languages to avoid ambiguous answers to negative yes-no questions? 

This article, $URL$ , alluded to something called an adjoined clause, which is subordinate, but not embedded. What is the difference between a subordinate clause and an embedded clause? I am assuming that "subordinate clause" is a term for a category that includes embedded clauses, but is not limited to it. 

From toddlerhood to about four years of age, children acquire their first languages without much explicit instruction, simply by exposure to and attempts to communicate in the mother tongue. There are some significantly different theories regarding this fact, but the fact is universally acknowledged. See $URL$ What is more, the fact that children make mistakes that ambient proficient speakers don't make (e.g. for English, "gots" for "has," "goed" for "went," knocks the legs out from under the hypothesis that mimicry and reinforcement are sufficient to explain first language acquisition. During the early years just mentioned, a child can pick up more than one language provided that said child has sufficient exposure to each language. However, after about six or seven years of age, second languages are learned rather than acquired. See $URL$ In other words, the language must be taught methodically, even if part of the teaching is a period of immersion (using only the target language among speakers of the target language.