Make the trip short and easy. Better to have them wishing for something longer than regretting that they're stuck on the trail. Just spend one night on the trail, in good weather if you can arrange it. The four most important things for comfort are sufficient water, good shoes, a comfortable pack, and a warm, dry place to sleep. On a short trip, you don't even need much food. Make a suggested gear list for the new people. Make it fairly detailed (x pounds/calories of food, x liters of water, waterproof tent (Test it!), a well fitted pack (Try it first!) specifics items of clothing). Tell them to practice walking around with the weighted pack beforehand, in whatever shoes they want to wear. If possible, go on day hikes with them carrying a weighted pack to ensure that they do this. Newbies make mistakes, and a one night trip minimizes the consequences. Plan to cover less distance than you think you should. Five miles is plenty for day 1, or just 2-3 miles if it's steep. It'll let you get a late start and still be feeling good when you make camp. The second day can be longer because you'll end up at home in your own bed, but still keep it to under 10 miles if it's flat, or under 5 if it's steep. You're with people who aren't used to hiking with weight. It's very different than walking around carrying nothing. This answer is based on my experience not following these guidelines. I went on a 3 day hike with two people who regularly run marathons, but had never been on more than short day hikes. They're used to suffering for the sake of fun, so it worked out, but they had a lot of trouble despite a high level of fitness. One of them had borrowed a pack the day before from someone who was 8 inches taller, their tent leaked badly, they carried about a week's worth of food and lots of unused gear, and we ran short of water (I carry a filter, but it was a dry summer. It took a while to find a stream that hadn't dried up). At least their shoes fit. But running 26 miles non-stop in under 4 hours turned out to be poor preparation for hiking 8 miles carrying 40 pounds on your back. And if a newbie hasn't tried hiking with 40 pounds, they won't realize why they should try cutting that down to 20-30 until it's too late. 

There is a lot more in the book, including information that may help you answer the bulleted points in your question, but I cannot quote the entire thing here. 

This does have a basis in a known technique, back burning, but by your description the application wasn't orthodox. From Wikipedia: 

You can move the chair (or other support) around to vary the intensity and work different positions, all the way to body rows. I feel it is important to work your entire body at once, i.e. upper and lower body in the same exercise, as this is inherent in climbing and there are aspects of endurance that are specific to the muscle groups being worked. * For endurance I like sloper holds like Bombs, as these are kinder to the fingers and seem to work the hands and forearms more completely. 

(Note that in my calculation of fall factor I am including the additional distance fallen due to rope stretch. I don't know if this is accepted practice but since it represents a release of potential energy it seems appropriate.) (All illustrations hereafter will include the 20% stretch factor.) How might this situation be addressed? 

Though I am not a hunter, it seems logical that lopping the head off the bird with a "gobbler guillotine" (below) would destroy less meat than a through-the-innards shot. 

This question has already been well answered but I would like to address a slightly different point: What's the problem with a wet rope anyway? Dynamic climbing ropes are, to the best of my knowledge, universally manufactured from Nylon 6 or Nylon 6,6. Nylon is a somewhat unusual polymer in that it readily absorbs water, and its properties change significantly when it does. The material is hydrophilic enough that even atmospheric humidity causes significant water absorption. The issue is not simply water between the fibers of the rope, making it heavy, or stiff when frozen, but a fundamental change in the material of the rope itself. The glass transition point drops considerably, causing tensile strength to fall and creep to rise. A wet nylon rope is weaker and less able to recover from stretching in just the same way it would be if heated excessively. In applications involving water nylon should be avoided when possible and that is exactly what one sees in caving and canyoneering ropes: the use of polyester, which is not significantly affected in this manner. Unfortunately polyester does not have the elongation and energy absorption needed for a dynamic climbing rope so rope manufacturers are left trying to patch an inherent problem, and that patch is hydrophobic treatment as described in the other answers. 

Now here's the answer that assumes you went on a hike without telling anyone, got lost without a map, and now need to survive an indefinite period of time. 

I'm an extremely nearsighted person who has trouble with contacts and spends a whole lot of time being active outdoors. As a result, I've done a lot of investigating into prescription sunglasses, and tested several pairs. The biggest difference between sunglasses and regular glasses is that sunglasses need to block out a larger area than a regular glasses to be effective. Otherwise too much sun comes around the edges and you are worse off than with no sunglasses. The most basic prescription sunglasses are a regular glasses frame with tinted lenses, and if you only need a low prescription, these are probably sufficient. The benefit to these is that you can get them at any optics shop. But if you have a high prescription and need a thick lens, these don't work well because the larger frame with really thick lenses is uncomfortable heavy. I had to return a pair of Ray Bans because of this: it felt like I couldn't even breath with them on my nose. I found that metal frames with an adjustable nose piece were most comfortable because I could adjust them to stay in place on my relatively narrow nose. Another option is wrap around lenses. These are what I'd get if money wasn't an object. If you have a high prescription, www.RudyProject.com and probably others have an option for a prescription insert that fits behind a pair of wrap around sunglasses so that you can have the prescription lens without needing the whole curved lens to be prescription, which would be a serious challenge to create and would drive the price up significantly if it were even possible. I've looked into the type that change between indoor and outdoor (transition lenses). I've known a number of people who are satisfied with them. They do take a few moments to adjust to a useful level between indoor and outdoor and longer to completely adjust. Ten years ago, the lightest indoor version was still slightly tinted, but it didn't bother any of the people I knew who wore them. The technology may have improved since. For me the biggest problem with prescription sunglasses is my tendency to lose them. I've got one pair that ended up at the bottom of a lake, and another pair that just plain disappeared. If you tend to misplace things, this probably needs to be a consideration. I'm much less upset when my $5 wear-over sunglasses disappear than my $300 dollar prescription pair. 

Much more detailed information is available from the American Safe Climbing Association. They have a collection of articles on the subject of bolting and bolt inspection, such as: Dangerous Bolts - Bolts to Avoid, and How To Rebolt. Some images are provided, sadly low resolution such as: Bad Bolts The type of bolts you may encounter are at least to a degree region specific and you should familiarize yourself with whatever you are likely to come across. Safer Cliffs Australia has a Bolt Guide with lots of pictures, as well as a page of photos of some of the terrifying stuff you might come across. 

Figure how much this guy covers in a day: $URL$ :-) Here's one I didn't know about until today: Alex Honnold solos Mt. Watkins, El Capitan, and Half Dome in 18 hours, 50 minutes. Speechless. O_O 

As far as I know there are no general authorities for the placement of fixed gear and bolts may have been placed well or poorly. There are however organizations that provide safety guidelines for placing and replacing bolts. Understand that while good bolts rarely fail there is always a good measure of faith involved. You should learn how to inspect bolts and check every one that life or limb will depend upon, though that's easier said than done in many cases and you may have to trust guide books and beta from other climbers as to the suitability of bolts along a route. It is my understanding that bolts are often not professionally placed, that is those placing them often have no specific training or certification in their correct application. A likely reason for this is liability mentioned on this Allied Climbers of San Diego page: 

(Hopefully this doesn't apply to you but I think it is a needed reference.) Anyone suffering from unusual or extreme "pump" needs to be aware of functional compartment syndrome, also known as chronic exertional compartment syndrome. Excerpts from the book One Move Too Many by Hochholzer and Schoeffl, emphasis mine: 

This answer assumes that either land ownership is not an issue, or that you have permission from the owner. Please read Olin Lanthrop's answer for a discussion of the ethical issues of whether you SHOULD do this. A lot of the details of trail obfuscation depend on the local ecosystem. For instance, a general rule is to put branches in front of the trail head, to block it and obscure it. This is very effective in dense woodland, and moderately effective in sparse woodland or dense grasslands, where fallen branches are reasonably common. In a barren area, it simply calls attention to the trailhead, and a new entrance will quickly appear beside the original entrance. In a rocky area, placing small boulders at the trailhead may help hide it. Soil compaction is the main thing that distinguishes a trail from the surrounding land. The tramped down soil makes it harder for seeds to take root, as well as providing the ground with a distinctive appearance. If you loosen the first few inches of soil with a rock rake or other tool, it will only take a few months or years for the land to look more like the surrounding area without any interference. To speed this up, you can plant some of the fast growing plants (weeds, probably) common to the park. Disguise the ground cover: If the land around the trailhead is loose-fallen leaves, rake some of the leaves over the trail. If it's all dead grass, lay some dead grass on it, and be prepared to replace it as it blows away. Loosening the soil also changes the appearance significantly, but it gets tramped down very easily. In this case, what I would do would be to scatter some mid-size branches along the first 2-4 meters of the trail, and rake some of the surrounding land cover over the trail for the same distance. This provides immediate cover. If the trail is wide enough to be narrowed, rake the ground cover a few inches deep to allow plants to grow easily, and toss out some seeds for common, fast-growing plants that are already in the lot. It will take very little use to compact the soil again, so the last step may not be worth the trouble on a trail you'll be using frequently. 

A quick search turned up these possibilities: Jaybird & Mais Sports Medicine Adhesive Tape (non-stretch) Many of the products say: Hypo-allergenic and 100% Latex Free This is not specifically described as climbing tape but the first product, EX1 JAYBIRD® ONE TAPE, says: "Our strongest everyday strapping tape product. EX1 is manufactured using a higher thread count fabric which results in greater tensile strength." It is currently available from Amazon.com Cramer 750 Athletic Tape "Cramer 750 is designed to provide high end performance at a budget conscious price. Latex free adhesive." I couldn't find a good single-roll price (shipped), but by the case from Amazon.com it is a fraction of the price of the EX1 tape. Marketing perhaps, but the EX1 sounds like a safer bet since Jaybird make several non-stretch tapes and the EX1 is "[their] strongest" and specifically says "Hypo-allergenic" rather than simply latex-free. 

I have never used it and it looks bulky and rather expensive, but the LIFESAVER® bottle makes your third option otherwise practical. You fill the bottle from one end and get clean water from the other; it is capable of filtering biological threads directly so there is no wait period. Reviews I've seen are a bit mixed, but it does seem like a unique offering at this time. Here is a video presentation from the proprietor: $URL$ 

Rather than try to answer the personal part of your question, which as Liam said needs a doctor's attention to answer properly, I shall reply to the more general title: Can a Finger Pulley injury be predicted / anticipated? In an absolute sense I do not believe it can be. In a relative sense it is caused high stress on these "pulleys" so avoiding hard use of your fingers, such as climbing, would be a way to (likely) avoid such an injury. Of course that's not very helpful. In my opinion walking the line of climbing hard yet avoiding injury is something you must do for yourself, but seek as much guidance for the journey as possible. Anecdotally an Achilles tendon rupture seems to come as a surprise to most people who experience one. I have seen several videos of such a rupture happening and often I could not tell that there was any unusual stress at that specific moment. As an example Misty May suffered an Achilles rupture while participating in Dancing with the Stars, weeks after winning Gold at the Beijing Olympics; I doubt it was the most stressful thing she had ever done but apparently the tendon had had enough at that point. If the largest tendon in your body can let go without warning I think it is reasonable to deduce that the tiny ligaments in your fingers can too. However, there are a number of signs and behavior patterns that may lead up to the event. The book One Move Too Many: How to Understand the Injuries and Overuse Syndroms of Rock Climbing by Dr. Thomas Hochholzer and Dr. Volker Schoeffl describes pulley tears and ruptures as well as many other climbing injuries and overuse syndromes. That book is probably your best resource outside of a personal visit to a sports physician specializing in climbing. Unfortunately it is hard to find. Quoting the introduction to overuse syndromes, emphasis mine: