This depends entirely on your frame and your brakes. On a racing frame, you likely won't get over a 25, and some won't fit anything larger than 23s. On a commuter frame with fenders, perhaps 28. Without fenders on something like a Surly, you can easily handle 32s. Assuming your brake calipers can reach around the increased tire width. 

You're probably just still overcoming your illness. 2.5 weeks isn't really enough time to lose any noticeable amount of aerobic fitness for an average, healthy person. 

One additional concern that hasn't been mentioned is that you should wipe off the chain with a clean rag before lubing as well as after. Lube helps push dirt out of the interior of the chain, but on a dirty chain the effect isn't strong enough to keep out grime. You might be causing premature wear if you're not wiping off the chain before you lube it up. You might also want to invest in a heavier-duty chain. I use a SRAM PC-7X on my track bike. Fixies will be inherently rougher on your chain, and you want something that's a little beefier than a standard road chain to deal with the additional stresses. 

Lycra is an amazing clothing fabric for any weather above 55°F. It sheds heat quickly, wicks moisture away, and evaporates that moisture extremely quickly. I recently finished a 12 hour, 190mi ride in 90°F temperatures completely comfortable and dry. I challenge anyone to find a clothing material that can come close to lycra's effectiveness in that regard. It's also an excellent in the rain, as long as temperature is not a factor. Again, moisture evaporates surprisingly quickly, so as soon as the rain stops, you're dry again. The only time I wouldn't wear only lycra is during the cold, especially if it's raining as well. I still wear it under more protective clothing, though. 

The simplest advice is: just keep it up. Give your body time to adapt to the new workload you're putting on it, and it will get easier and easier. For drinks, you can buy gatorade powder and mix it yourself at home. $19.49 for 9 gallons of gatorade is way better than paying retail price for a quart at a time. As I understand carb loading, it's not something you can do for a repeated effort like a daily commute. The idea is to deprive your body of carbohydrates for a period of time, then binge shortly before an endurance effort. You can't really achieve a level that would be useful inside a repeating 24-hour period. Lastly, don't sweat protein. It probably wouldn't hurt, but any benefit would be extremely minor for the workloads you're doing, and isn't worth significant effort or attention. Again, just keep up with the cycling and your body will quickly begin to adapt automatically. Edit: Oh, and one thing that will help is to consume carbohydrates immediately after your commute. The human body absorbs carbs significantly more quickly after a workout, and uses them to replenish any lost stores. Waiting even a half hour greatly diminishes this effect, so the sooner the better. It doesn't have to be a full meal or anything; anything is better than nothing. 

A new spoke will stretch when newly installed in a wheel. This is expected. If you still experience the wheel going out of true after a week or two, there may be something else going on. 

97˚F isn't really that hot for a bike ride. Don't wear cotton; there's a reason cyclists wear lycra. It wicks away moisture and contributes significantly to evaporative cooling. Cotton gets damp and doesn't evaporate, which creates a heat-trapping barrier around you. Drink constantly; 2 bottles per hour is pretty common for long distance rides like centuries and double centuries. Use a sports drink (powder is convenient) or gels to ensure you replace lost electrolytes. If you're doing the above, you're probably not going to have any ill effects whatsoever. That said, pay attention to your body and what it's telling you. Stop if you need to. Pour water on your head if you need to. Call it a day if you need to. 

The real answer is that for a 9km ride, virtually any bike will do the trick. It's hard to be uncomfortable on a bike (that fits you) for that short of a ride. However, I'm fully in the road bike camp on this question. Hybrids are, in my opinion, a compromise with no real benefits. Most people aren't going to ride them off-road (and most road bikes can deal with short periods of offroad travel without problems). Cushioned saddles look great to novices, but divert weight away from your sit bones and are all but guaranteed to be uncomfortable should you decide to ride longer distances (for this reason, I can't recommend leather saddles highly enough, particularly Brooks'). The knobby tires that come standard on most hybrids have poor road handling characteristics, and actually result in less traction on the road in wet conditions (bicycles cannot hydroplane). On the contrary, a properly setup road commuter will offer you more hand positions via the drop handlebars (on the flats, the hoods, and drops) compared to just one. This will be invaluable for longer rides where your hands fatigue from maintaining one position. They can come with wider non-racing tires (I commute on 28C Panaracer Ribmo tires, and haven't had a flat in over 10,000km). And appropriate commuting frames come with rack and pannier bosses, and many will have racks preinstalled. So while a hybrid bike will work, an appropriately-equipped road bike would be better in that it will be able to adapt to your needs should find yourself wanting to ride longer distances or join faster group rides. 

Here are some rides I've been on lately that might interest you, depending on your level of fitness. 

To answer my own question, I purchased the tires. It's simply a case of inconsistent labeling. The 27x1 tires are effectively 700x22. 

All of this fits easily into my saddle bag, and lets me make it back home under almost any reasonable circumstance. 

To complement the other answers here, I want to add that the only time I've ever felt that braking from the hoods is inadvisable is when doing fast mountain descents. In those cases, you can be going anywhere from 35–50mph and braking hard just before turns. If you're riding on the hoods, not only is your center of gravity higher, but you're also at a bad angle for braking your body with your arms (the brakes stop the bike, and it's your connection to the bike that slows you down). Because of this, any time I'm descending I'm in the drops. This reduces the likelihood of going over the handlebars when braking hard by allowing me to push straight against the drops of the handlebars, rather than down and at an angle against the hoods. 

Report it to his insurance company first. Period. If for whatever reason the driver decides to renege on his admittance of fault and declines to pay damages to your bike, you're basically screwed if you're past the insurance company's reporting threshold. However, do not sign any paperwork the insurance company asks you to (which may limit their liability or waive some of your rights) and inform them that you're having a bicycle shop prepare a quote for damages. After you've contacted the driver's insurance company, take your bicycle to the nearest shop and have them fully inspect the bike and quote you for any necessary repairs. Ask them to be thorough and include the cost of absolutely everything that may have been damaged in the crash: wheel re-truing, handlebar tape rewrapping, etc. When the bike shop gives you a quote, give it to the person who hit you. If he reimburses you, then you're done. If not, you'll have to work through their insurance company. It's probably best at that point to contact your own insurance company and see what steps they will take to help you receive payment. 

It protects the frame from the handlebars. The handlebars, unrestricted by brake or derailleur cables, can rotate freely to the point that they can smack into the top tube. This is particularly easy to do when carrying the bike. 

Cables will stretch over time, but they won't become elastic. They're made of twisted strands of metal, and metal isn't generally known for its elasticity. This sounds to me like your brake pads are shot. When they become spongy and glazed, you can squeeze your brake lever quite far and feel like little pressure is being applied. Get thee to a bikeshoppery. 

Really, any source of food is fine for a 25–50 mile ride. Although for anything of longer distance, you're going to want to add significant quantities of carbohydrates. Nuts are great, but they're primarily fat and protein. Toss some M&Ms and raisins into that mix for an improvement, and make sure there's some salt in them. But really, 25–50 miles doesn't require any sort of well-tailored nutrition. Just bring water and any kind of tasty snacks and you'll be fine. 

I've got a seven day cycling session in the Alps coming up in about a month. Unfortunately, I've not been great about getting on the bike in the past month (or even the past year, to be honest). From many years of cycling, my fitness is still quite good — enough that I had a great double century last month, before I took a month-long break. But I'm still far short of where I'd like to be, especially in the climbs. What can I do over the next month to maximize my climbing endurance for this trip? On average, a day will be about 8kft of climbing, with the biggest day being somewhere around 16kft. Should I be focusing on long-distance riding at endurance pace? Hour-long hill repeats? Something else? If you had a month to prepare, what would you do? 

Others have answered other parts of your question satisfactorily, but I can't recommend Craigslist highly enough for purchasing your first bike. You can find cheap used bikes anywhere from $50–$200. It doesn't have to be perfect — it just has to be in a reasonable state of repair. Don't spend $1,000 on a bike before you 1) know you're going to stick with cycling, and 2) know what you want out of a bike. Getting a cheap one off Craigslist lets you figure out both at a very low cost. 

The Surly Pacer is a good choice. My first real bike was a one, and I used it for commuting, training rides, and a two-week tour in Europe. Even though it wasn't "ideal" for training rides or touring, it worked great for me until I was able to afford more specialized bikes. The Pacer doesn't come with as many rack bosses as you'll want (one advantage of the cross-check), but p-clamps did the trick for me. That said, about your individual concerns: 

30 miles isn't enough that you should be worrying about eating and drinking. Even at a slow, sustained 15mph, just bring a bottle of gatorade and a bottle of water. Drink gatorade the first hour, then water the second (the ride will be over by the time you'd feel any extra energy from the second bottle). Maybe have a small snack beforehand. A granola bar or something else that's light. 

You don't need to remove the rear wheel. Lock only the rear wheel, but do so through the rear triangle. This will properly secure your frame and your rear wheel. You may want to buy a cable to go through the front wheel as well. As always, Sheldon Brown demonstrates the correct technique. 

I recently flew to Europe with my wife, and we brought along our bicycles. Our solution was to disassemble them the night before and place them into cheap Nashbar bicycle bags. We wrapped pipe insulation foam around just about everything to avoid damage from handling. For extra protection, we then stuffed these into the standard bike boxes provided (at a minimal cost) by the airline. I would highly recommend the internal bags, as the TSA opened both our boxes during each flight, and did not bother to close the boxes back up. Wheels or other components could have easily fallen out in flight had we not used canvas bags inside the larger boxes. Also, be very careful about which airline you choose to fly on. Most airlines have a surcharge for checking bicycles, and this can vary wildly between carriers. Our tickets were initially on Delta, who wanted to charge us $200 per bicycle per leg. With a 2-leg trip to Amsterdam and back, this would have cost $1,600 to ferry our bikes, which was ridiculous. Thankfully, we discovered this within the 24-hour cancellation window and switched to Continental, who only charged $100 per bicycle per itinerary, costing us only $400. At the end of the day, though, transporting your bike via airlines is expensive and annoying. Our next touring bikes will absolutely have S&S couplers to allow us to fit the bikes in regulation-size checked luggage, which should help us avoid airline surcharges and additional TSA inspections. Good luck!