That top alpha predator set up. A single human hasn't got a prayer of fighting one on one.. and that's a major issue. The question is why a creature that likely constantly hungry would pay attention to a small sack of meat that would struggle to harm it. Maybe there trick in the taming, but because the dragon is powerful, a human going to have serous issue bossing it around, and what does a dragon have to gain from working with a plentiful food source? 

An interesting fact about having a technology edge in war is that sooner or latter the other side is going to figure out how your toys work and use them against you. If humanity is going to win, it going to be victory based in wit, understanding the enemy and using there own strength against them. You likely want a trickster hero and a nice opening battle where the alien's curb stomp a huge human army... you know to set tone and show how one sided a straight up fight with them would be. I also be tempted to give the alien's background some thought, maybe they have limited supplies and support because something bad happened to them (crashed ship maybe?), perhaps there even a way the story might end well for both factions as well. 

Spacesuits filled with water. Seal and compress the helmets, or have face masks to provide oxygen. Maybe the helmet stays water filled for a set period of time, followed by a purge to provide air (if being completely submersed for some amount of time is required for survival). 

Meet Graham. He is what a human would look like if he was designed to survive a car crash. This may give you an insight into what you would need to design a human to withstand large amounts of shock. I would disagree with non-newtonian fluid inside the skin. This would prevent puncturing, but not dissipate any of the shock. In fact, it would create more of an impact because all of the energy is being absorbed by your body rather than passing through it. You will have to have crumple zones or elastic suspension as you mentioned that prevent the organs from being shocked too much. The biggest issue is getting that kind of real estate inside a creature. 

You might actually get Warren Buffet pissed at the tax code this way This sounds OK at first, until you realize that it'd impact certain entities highly disproportionately to others, as some entities hold land in highly disproportionate ways. Historically, land grants have been used as a means to encourage certain types of development (homesteading, transportation, universities), and entities involved with those types of operations are going to get hit hard under your scheme. In particular, in the USA, the major Class I railroads own oodles of land, much of which dates back to the original land grants they were given to spur the development of railroads through yet-undeveloped areas. Under your proposal, they, along with some major agricultural cooperatives and corporations and a few major real estate holding/management firms, would be some of the largest taxpayers in the country, while many other businesses that lease most of their resources would pay minimal or no direct taxes. The impact would be greatest in transportation -- it'd be a massive subsidy to trucks, aircraft, and ships/barges as most of those companies rely heavily on public infrastructure, while massively penalizing railroads. It'd also discourage upfront private investment in large-scale facilities such as toll roads, bridges, and airports due to tax liability confusion when public and private entities jointly own land. In short, you'd have to give the railroads an absolutely monster tax break, or completely nationalize the rail network infrastructure (track, right-of-way, and maintenance thereto) in order to give this scheme a snowball's chance in hell. Either that, or your scheme contacts BNSF 793812 while said equipment is moving... If privately owned transportation infrastructure wasn't a thing, though... Now, if you're in a place where the railroads are nationalized along with all the other transport infrastructure (i.e. most of Europe), this could work. Major estate holders would basically become tax collection clearinghouses under this scheme, collecting what basically would be a value-added tax on their leases and remitting it to the government. 

Probably. HEIAP rounds are currently made in .50 caliber and are used in anti-materiel roles to penetrate light armor vehicles (helicopters, APCs, etc). Scaling it down to a 7.62 would give it less power, but it really depends on how armored the robots are. Yes. Spalling creates small fragments at high speeds, which is sure to damage delicate electronics. Since the spall is metal, it might even short circuit components, even if it didn't damage them. However, the easiest way to counter that would be to apply an anti-spalling coating on the inside of the armor, which is cheap insurance your enemy will or will already have invested in. 

Oxygen a surprisingly innocent but effective choice. All you got to do is increase the ratio percentage in the atmosphere enough, that starting a fire causes a global fireball. If that doesn't kill everyone, the environmental consequences should finish them off. 

Once you can play around with a human's genetic makeup to great enough degree, it start to effect the society and can potentially causes all sort's of social strife. Basically if you make your kid stronger, tougher and smarter than the other guys kid, your kid has a inherent advantage and is more likely to be successful. And doing all these improvement likely costs a lot of money... Which means the gap between the rich and poor can deepen with every generation. Any society that reached this point with it's science will have to deal with this problem and the fact there will always be someone who want every genetic advantage they can get for there kids... legal or otherwise. 

Yes we would breed other things, but I think you're missing another important point. To answer your question, deer probably wouldn't fill all the niches of domestication. Different meat and milk tastes different, and the raising conditions are different from other animals as well. Once a diversity of animals are available, people will want to have more than one type of animal. Diseases can also be spread amongst animals, but have a harder time crossing to a different species. In other words, spreading your animals types helps prevent ecological and biological strains on your environment. The point I think you've skipped is why would deer be domesticated in the first place. I suggest this video by CGP Grey explaining the prerequisites to domestication. Part of domestication is the ease of domesticating the animal. Deer are nervous, run fast, and can jump quite high. This makes them hard to capture and hard to keep captured, especially with neolithic technology. (Do you want to build a 10 foot rock enclosure?) So domestication of the deer in the first place would likely be so difficult it would not be tried. That's why we got the animals we have in the first place. You might want to come up with a feasible reason why the deer would and could have been domesticated in the first place. 

How large can this animal be before domesticating it for hunting and guard duties, as well as general companionship, becomes impractical for the settlers to pull off? You can assume that they have skilled animal trainers and breeders among their ranks. 

This is practical for low current/power inaccessible applications -- think like a CR2032 before we had lithium coin cells, in a place where you can't just up and change the battery. The technique used is betavoltaics, using a beta emitter (such as a tritium capsule or sealed-in potassium-40 layer) impinging upon silicon solar arrays. The voltages and currents involved are rather low (few hundred microwatts to a few milliwatts of power depending on the size), but are predictable over the long term due to the decade+ half-life of tritium, or the far longer half life of say potassium-40. 

Radiation Tolerance - It is the nuclear apocalypse after all. It's no good to have a genetically modified race if they all go sterile after a generation from constant background radiation. Night Vision - Have excellent night vision would give you a serious leg up in a world without other night vision devices or electric lights. Being able to sneak up on your enemy or see them coming in the dark is a huge advantage. Also they would have no need for night watch fires or other lights which would prevent them for lighting a beacon for other marauding groups to see from miles away. Slow Metabolism - Food is scarce. Not needing as much to survive would be very important. However, this could have other detrimental effects on performance in combat. You'd have to do some more research on that. I'm sure others will have some good ideas as well but that's what comes to mind right away. 

The law isn't precise enough for this The law in a common-law country is not just a set of statutes and rulings, it is a living entity -- a body of knowledge that changes with changing social norms (for instance: trespass law is almost entirely dependent on its surrounding social norms to function, an issue that's caused great problems with attempts to define the digital equivalent). Furthermore, interpretation differences between courts arise as a natural part of the legal system's functioning -- eventually, these are settled by a high court, but can persist for years until a suitable case appears. A great example within the US Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) was recently pointed out by the EFF on their blog: