Alas, can't help you on that last one. The least expensive one Garmin has currently is the Edge 500, which lists at $249; you can find one on Amazon used for $180. I got my Edge 205 refurbished at $150. To me, though, it's worth it not to mess with wires anymore, and to get to have a map of my ride, something you obviously won't get with a standard bicycle computer. 

The e-bike I've got is definitely more of a bicycle; it has a motor, but the motor only goes when you pedal. The purpose is to give you more of a boost than you'd get from foot power alone, especially when going up hills. But you do get exercise. The pedaling gets your heart pumping. What you don't get is those exhausting hills that leave you drained at the top. The main idea is to make it easier to do things like commuting. One nice thing is that in theory, and unlike with a scooter, if your battery drains the whole way, you can still pedal. (In practice, though, between the batteries and the motor, the e-bike is pretty heavy, and not that pleasant to pedal without the battery power.) 

The easiest way to submit data is to right-click on the map and choose "Report a problem". This pops up a small form with a marker. You drag the marker where the problem is, and you pick a category and type something to explain the problem. In a few days, a human being reads it and (assuming he/she agrees) fixes it. For instance, Google Maps would send bicycle routes near my house to a road with a killer hill. There's a reasonable alternate route that adds only about a quarter of a mile, but avoids the killer hill for a much more gentle hill. So I reported it. In a few days I got an e-mail that said "Your Google Maps problem report has been reviewed, and you were right! We'll update the map soon and email you when you can see the change." Sometimes you'll also get an e-mail afterwards that says "Google Maps has been updated to correct the problem you reported. You can see the update here, and if you still see a problem, please tell us more about the issue: (link)" And now those same bicycle routes, by default, route along the gentle hill instead of the killer hill. 

Helmet lights are good. Usually in addition to one on the handlebars. The pro of the helmet light is that you can light up things that are not directly infront of you. The pro of having an additional light is that it increases the chance of being seen and adds extra illumination for you. The con is that if you are looking to the side and a car is coming from the front they will not see the light shining at them, so you should not have a helmet light as your only light. 

It seems silly to say I don't know how to breathe, but I don't. When doing weights, I know you exhale when you do the work part of the rep. In Yoga similarly breathe out on the stretch. Rock climbing too, when you pull yourself up breathe out. The list goes on. What on earth do I do for cycling. Is it different for riding on flats or going up hill? I am talking here about when a reasonable amount of effort is being put in, not necessarily racing or time trial but not exactly bumbling along either. I remember when I was younger and did Cross country running at school we were taught to do two short breaths in and two out. Does that apply here or is there something else. I saw watching time trials no TV that some of the riders seem to ride with their mouth wide open. I tried this and found that on hot dry days it really hurt my throat and lungs. 

I am trying to convert my flat bar bike to drop bar. I have bought STI's but I also want to use additional brake levers(like cyclocross bikes, flat bar levers) as well. I may be wrong but cable pull ratio of caliper brakes(which I am going to install on my bike) must be different so I think I can't use my old levers with caliper brakes. This is my first question, V brake levers can be used with calipers?(I think no) Now I am looking for a suitable brake lever. But how can I understand if I can combine them with STI's and caliper brake? Do they have a name like "Flat bar road brake system"? I have taken a look to some bike stores on web, they only tag "v brakes" and "road brake shifters". 

Some people are using non compatible components on their bikes. For example, using Tiagra's old 3x9 speed FD (4503?) with a 10 speed RD. And it works. So what is the point of saying "Dear customer, this Tiagra FD will only work with 9 speed RD's, never combine with a 10 speed one!". 

I have a Speeder 200. (2015). I want to upgrade it's rear derailleur, my problem is I am unsatisfied with its performance. (it is a Tiagra with 9 speed at the moment). If i replace it with a 105 (9 speed) should I replace the other components(cassette, chain, front derailleur etc.) as well? Or can i replace with a ultegra?(does a 9 speed exists) Should I buy a groupset? haven't tried an upgrade before. edit: I have been using it for around 400 kilometers, components are still fine, but I was never happy with that Tiagra. I have some problems with shifting, if speed is >20km/h it does not shift properly. I have taken my bike to Merida service twice, I don't think there is a cabling or another problem. It seems OK, but on road i dont like its poor shifting. For example I change it 6th to 7th, after a few cycles I hear a mechanical sound and it decides to change, not on time. I had another bike with Deore rear derailleur before, never had an issue like this. 

They are more efficient. Firstly you need to do less work to keep your feet on the pedals. Though it seems like that might be trivial you do expend energy and or concentration on keeping you feet on the pedals this will reduce that somewhat. Additionally in some circumstances it is safer, your feet will not slip off the pedals when you go over a bump. Finally you will be able to pull on the up stroke using different muscles and giving you more even power. I had a problem with toe straps that I have not had with proper clip in pedals and shoes. In order to remove your feet from toe straps, especially ones done too tightly you must take them straight back off the pedals. This is most unnatural as the reflex action is to move them sideways especially if you are slowing down and staring to lean to one side. 

It depends on what terrain you are doing. We have a number of methods on training rides to combat this. In addition to the leaving someone at cafes. However this is more to do with hill climbing. If Ken finds it too easy to climb a hill at the same pace as Barbie can comfortably climb then he should go at the same pace but in a higher gear (with out too much pedal mashing), that way he will find it equally strenuous. Alternatively, Ken climbs at his own pace until he reaches the top of the hill. When he does he goes down and meets up with Barbie. He can either go off again at his own pace or do the second climb at Barbie's pace. This way he gets to push himself, but will not leave Barbie on her own to do the whole climb. I would add to Unsliced's cafe suggestion that, if he left her at a cafe for 30 mins after doing 20km she could probably manage another 10km on the way home at an easy pace. That way Ken might get 15 to 25km (at a hard pace) in while she is resting and then they can go home together in a leisurely fashion. That extra 10km could expand the range on places she can stop. Finally I would suggest they joined a cycling club, we have some couples in ours who do not ride at the same level. They have all the same social advantages, but the stronger rider does not have to worry about the weaker rider being by themselves. They can sometimes ride together and sometimes ride separately in groups appropriate to their level of riding.