The logical conclusion of propositions (1) and (2) would be that Heidi has breasts. Now, Heidi indeed does happen to have breasts. However, she isn't a man. Neither do all men have breasts. In this example, both proposition (1) and (2) are wrong, yet the conclusion based on those propositions happens to be correct. 

Faith is typically a subconscious process, that works through emotion. It is typically driven by processes at the instinctive or intuitive level that one is not consciously aware of. Depending on who you talk to, being faithful is either considered a good thing or a bad thing : 

Santa is not real, yet us humans need to believe in things that are not real as it is the only way they can become. With his 20th Discworld novel Hogfather, genius storyteller Terry Pratchett explains how the belief in Santa (the Hogfather is the Discworld's equivalent of Santa) could be regarded as practice for the belief in other fantasies. The following is the transcript of a discussion between Death and his daughter from the TV-movie adaptation: 

The answer to your question is "they came up with science"! Classic philosophical questions include (but are not exclusive to) the following: 

I don't consider Agnosticism a very useful approach, although I wouldn't quality it as irrational. I would argue that the only approach that is both knowledgeable and rational is to consider both Atheism and Animistic Pantheism as equally valid descriptions of reality, and different from one another only at the superficial level of semantics. I would also argue that any concepts of divinity that are not Animistic are fundamentally flawed. I elaborate on this in my article The Atheistic approach to God… or how to bridge the gap between Atheists and Theists 

a scientific insight into how to evolve towards those optimal conditions is all we need upon which to ground a solid Mythos / Weltanschauung 

I lean towards a model of consciousness, where consciousness exists as a function of not our brains or our senses but the complexity of our bodies. From this perspective, EVERYTHING that exists in the universe is conscious, and a rock differs from a society of humans not in the rock lacking consciousness but in the rock operating at a lower level of consciousness. An extract from an article I wrote in the matter: 

What happens here, is that you assume a cause because that cause happens to lead to a certain consequence. However, by doing so, you ignore all other possible causes! That argument is not equivalent to your argument; however. Your argument kinda goes like this : 

One can think of the universe as a busy highway and individual life as a car. When you're born, you're like a car entering the highway. That car becomes part of a long stream of cars all going in the same direction, seemingly without end. That is until the car arrives at its exit. Then, the car leaves the highway, separating itself from the stream of cars it was a part of before. That would be your death. The stream of cars always was there before the car entered the highway and it continues to exist after the car leaves it. Overall, the car probably had little impact on the stream it was a part of, although it may have caused a few other cars to slow down, to speed up or to change lanes. Life is pretty much the same. You enter this universe on a plant filled with billions of creatures who were there before you and you'll leave the universe with billions of creatures staying behind. Nothing new in the universe was created when you're born. Even your body and the mind it carried didn't just come out of thin air, but were constructed piece by peace with billions of atoms in your mothers womb. Nothing around you starts existing the moment you are born. Nothing around you stop existing the moment you die. It is merely your body and your mind that stop functioning, closing a window that connects your mind with the vast universe surrounding it. 

Absolute reality = truth = fact is that which exists independent from observation and experience. Absolute reality is that with exists objectively whether or not we are aware of it and believe it. Absolute reality exists totally seperate from anyone's capacity to observe, measure, define and/or believe it. It exists independent from any source or origin. Philosophy is a methodology developed to contemplate the nature of absolute truth and incrementally improve our understanding thereof by first making hypotheses and validating those hypotheses with thought experiments applied to our subjective experience. The scientific method is a refinement of philosophical methodology replacing thought experiments with empirical data and eliminating logical fallacies, making the validation mechanism far more reliable and therewith significantly reducing error. The scientific method is thus a methodology that gradually reveals objective reality with increasing detail and accuracy and therewith also allows us see the interconnection between the different elements and attributes of objective reality that in turn helps us manipulating objective reality to our advantage. It allows us to understand how we can find happiness and safety and build the tools to fulfill them. As a refinement of philosophical methodology, it's also worth pointing out that the scientific method is capable of adressing every issue philosophy deals with with greater accuracy and detail. Questions the scientific method cannot answer with any degree of certainty or accuracy whatsoever are therefor also questions philosophy cannot answer with any degree of certainty or accuracy whatsoever. Abandoning the scientific method to answer questions it cannot answer at this point in time and looking for an answer in philosophy instead is therefore utterly pointless. The vast majority of things that were mysteries to our ancestors have already conslusively been answered by science and science alone. Wherever mysteries remain, science is indefinitely the most reliable methodology to answer it. The belief that any mystery left unsolved by science can be solved or has been solved by any other means is nothing but wishful thinking and a naive response to fear of the unknown. What about ethics? Science both teach us a lot about how our actions influence our happiness and stability. Herein, neuropsychology typically focuses on individual behavior, whereas sociology focuses on the collective components components and biology focuses on genetic components of our behavior. Combined, neuropsychology, sociology and biology give a rather complete picture of human behavior and human consciousness. It allows us to model human nature in a consistent way, which in turn allows us to develop a rational moral foundation based this model. Adding to that, mathematical studies like game theory can help us determine the impact of our actions and assess that impact with greater clarity. 

Never should you trust anyone else more than you trust yourself! Listen to your gut. And when your experience tells you you can't trust your gut, you might want to educate yourself. Do your own research and go for the raw data whenever possible! There's never a good excuse for trusting someone blindly! To quote Terence McKenna : 

Basically, it's just cultural prejudice. Bonobos share 98.7% of their genome with both humans and chimpanzees, yet bobonos do not share this same prejudice. In bonobo society, sexual activities with friends of either gender are not only totally normal but often fulfill the same role as a handshake or small-talk in human interaction. As Jack Hitt writes for Lapham’s Quarterly: 

Hard determinists would argue that TRNGs aren't completely nondeterministic. Hard determinists would argue that TRNGs are just chaotic : deterministic but unpredictable as a consequence of great complexity. Hard determinists would argue that even quantum mechanics is fully deterministic, albeit at a level we do not yet fully understand ( = a hypothetical deterministic level underneath the probabilistic behavior scientists are starting to understand). While hard determinism is a common position among scientists, note that it's not generally accepted and that alternative perspectives like soft determinism. Unlike hard determinists, soft determinists do believe that some phenomena in nature (eg. certain quantum phenomena) are in fact fully nondeterministic and thus thus would argue it is based to build 100% nondeterministic TRNGs by relying on such nondeterministic physical phenomena.