I have seen this and similar comments made elsewhere, though this is the only source I can locate just now. It is important to remember that each of the reported charges by the French knights only lasted a few minutes, say 5 or 6 at the outside, as any charge lasting longer has lost it's most important advantages, speed and momentum. Each of these charges would have required a much longer time period, perhaps 20 or 30 minutes, for the participants to rally, form up in units, and move to their respective start zones. During these periods there was ample time for designated individuals to run forward and collect arrows. A quick look at the attached map of the battlefield for Crecy makes clear that the launch zone for the French knights was located 3 or 4 times effective arrow range from the English lines, so the question of safety for archers running forward really doesn't exist. My understanding is also that the archers and runners running forward to collect arrows had knives and daggers which could also be used to kill any wounded enemies who attempted to resist such endeavours. So while a specific value for the percentage of arrows that can be reused during a battle is unavailable, some simple calculations regarding maximum troop coverage of ground during a charge (at the trot/canter and then gallop, coupled with the inherent inaccuracy of bows used essentially as artillery, suggests that perhaps 90% of arrows fired fell harmlessly to the ground (or deflected with minimal damage from armour)and that most of these could be reused as soon as collected. 

There would have been negligible difference in the chance of being hit by a 4.5" or 6.25" diameter shot except as a penetrative target of opportunity; and negligible difference in the survivability of being hit by such a shot. Being hit by a 12 or even 8 pound shot was already fatal unless the shot was both spent and happened to only hit a single limb so as to take it clean off. Recall the numerous tales from the Napoleonic Period of British officers attempting to field a spent round shot as in cricket, only to lose the offending limb: 

The U.S. military's dedication to an all-volunteer force, since the debacle of the Vietnam War, is the result of a realization that many of the problems encountered during that conflict were the result of the high percentage of unwilling conscripted soldiers present. They learned that a highly-trained volunteer arm is vastly more effective than a large unwilling conscripted one. How is this any different from what Hippocrates of Kos is saying above? I believe the following statement (from here) is crap, but I include it below as an example of the extreme rationalization Benjamin Isaac engages in to argue his point: 

One look at that chart you link to makes clear that the author is deficient in understanding Norse mythology: 

At the Fourth Moscow Conference of October 1944 (also sometimes referred to as the Second Moscow Conference, or the Tolstoy Conference) Churchill and Stalin had earlier apparently made the infamous Percentages Agreement, amended the following day by Foreign Ministers Eden (British) and Molotov (Soviet) establishing Spheres of Influence in the Balkans. As amended, this agreement was for Rumania, Bulgaria and Hungary to be mostly in the Soviet sphere; Greece to be mostly in the British sphere; and Yugoslavia to be equally in both spheres. Although minority percentages were actually set in the all cases other than Yugoslavia, it is clear that Stalin regarded these divisions as all or nothing. No overt support was provided by the USSR to the Communist guerillas during the Greek Civil War of 1946-1949 despite British support for the Greek government. 

The difficulty is that, by a suitably chosen narrow meaning of defeat: Destruction of the army in the field, loss of all conquered territory, or significant loss of hoe country areas, the German Army wasn't defeated. Here is a map that shows the Allied March to the Rhine after the Armistice; which thus shows that on Nov 11, 1918, the Germans still held all of Belgium east of the line Ghent-Maubeuge; significant French territory between Longwy and Metz; and all of Alsace-Lorraine. Given adequate supply, logistical and reinforcement support from the home front, the German General Staff position that the war could have been continued is reasonable. Of course, we know now that that assumption was invalid; the Allied blockade had had its desired effect, both the German economy and home-front morale were completely broken, and further continuance of the fighting was moot, leading only to an inevitable destiny; but the German army, and particularly its senior commanders, had been sheltered thus far from the privations of the populace. It is thus a curious paradox, for which I cannot recall any earlier precedent in history, that while the German Nation had been utterly defeated, its Army had, in some sense at least, not been defeated. Update: from here (my emphasis): 

As one can see from the many styles in the samples, the exact shade and dimensions of these flags were not critical, and various organizations (and perhaps manufacturers) styled them slightly differently. They were sufficiently distinct from each other, and other nautical ensigns and standards, as to be easily recognizable regardless of such subtleties. As long as papa, sierra and whiskey are easily recognizable and distinct from each other, communications could be relied upon. Without knowing more about the context of the picture, it is difficult to guess why a papa flag would be of significance. Another Nautical Alphabet link 

In 1485 the House of Wettin split into the Ernestine and Albertine branches, splitting Saxony between them. During the Schmalkaldic War the two branches were headed by John Frederick I and Maurice, respectively Elector of Saxony (Ernestine) and Duke of Saxony (Albertine). The normal distinction between the two sovereignties was made through distinguishing the Electorate of Saxony from the Dukedom of Saxony, and not through the name of the ruling family branch. In the aftermath of the war: 

The Edwardian Era (or Period) is the period between Victoria's death (and Edward VII's ascension) in 1901 and Edward's death in 1910. It is informally often used to refer to the entire period from 1901 to the beginning of the First World War in 1914, according to Samuel Hynes: 

Since 1588 the British Home Fleet has had a single reason for existence - defence of the home islands. Comprising in June 1940 a total, with allied vessels from the Royal Dutch and Norwegian Navies and omitting vessels specialized for convoy, anti-submarine and minesweeping patrol, of