If you are faced with a situation where you would need to interview someone you know - either someone you like or someone you dislike, it doesn't really matter - you will have a bias towards that person, either positive or negative. And that alone is unprofessional. If a friend, relative, spouse, ..., of yours is to be considered for a position in your company - would you favor them in detriment of other professionals? That wouldn't be professional... it is okay to refer someone to your company, but you need to disclose that information. And you shouldn't be the one doing an interview. The same applies for someone you dislike for personal reasons. You should disclose the fact that you know them, mention you do have a bias towards them for personal reasons. Should management ask for additional information, please, share the aspects you feel comfortable sharing, but keeping in mind you need to keep the hiring process fair to the candidate, to yourself and to your company - every story has two sides to it, and if you are the only one sharing your point of view - you may influence the hiring process in an unfair way. For fairness and professionalism's sake you should mention to management you wouldn't feel comfortable doing the interview and excuse yourself from the process. Let them assign someone else to the interview if they still want to consider that person. It will be professional and a strong enough message on your ethics. It will at the same time make them pay close attention to everyone in the hiring process to make sure they are a good fit to company culture and won't bring more trouble than benefit for your company, keeping it fair and a healthy workplace for everyone. 

I'm not as proficient in MySQL and CSS as I am in C# and Java, but I did write a website for a class that used these things. I don't use Singleton, but I am familiar enough with it to know alternatives when I'm tempted to use it. Other than those, I do have skills in these things that I think are adequate for an entry-level position. I started programming only 3 years ago, and I thought people who'd been programming since they were 15 would have more languages under their belt. The general consensus seems to be that I should apply for my level of experience. Considering my lack of job experience and lack of degree, am I qualified to apply for more advanced positions? How would I get past the resume-trashing bots? Or should I cut things out of my resume to make it more believable for entry-level experience? 

I recently had a phone interview for a subcontracting job at a small programming consulting firm. The interview was very short, and at the end, the interviewer told me that based on my resume, he thought I would be overqualified for the job and find it very boring. I was rather confused by this because I don't have any real job experience and I'm still working towards my degree. Sure I played myself up on my resume --I go to a rather prestigious school, I listed every buzzword I could think of under my skill-set, and I jazzed up my work in high school for my dad's company --but I thought everyone did that. What do employers mean when they say "overqualified"? What qualities of a person without job experience or a degree could make them overqualified? How can I look just qualified enough when applying for future positions? I haven't bothered to apply for anything requiring a degree for fear of being underqualified. (I also hear they have bots that will trash my resume when it doesn't find 3-7 years of experience listed.) Should I scrap the whole resume and just put I LOVE SINGLETONS! as the whole thing? :) EDIT A quick clarification of what I mean when I say "I played myself up." I was very careful not to lie on my resume, and I only put things I could discuss and give a couple quick examples that made it seem like I really knew what I was talking about. For example, under Leadership Experience, I listed a library group I was a part of in high school. We met once a week to mostly eat food and chat, but we did plan 2 events in the 4 years I was there. Without lying, I made it sound like we regularly organized massive library programs the entire 4 years I was there with the intention of describing the 2 events we did do if asked about it. We did legitimately put a lot of time, effort, budgeting, and planning into those events though. As far as buzzwords go, I wasn't sure whether stuff like Object Oriented Programming would be more eye-catching or Test Driven Design would excite them, so I put everything I was familiar with. We didn't get a chance to talk about either the buzzwords or my work experience during the interview. He mostly just asked some questions about school. I was really trying to make what I had actually done sound impressive to make up for not having work experience or a degree. Ironically, I was trying not to sound underqualified. EDIT 2 I was talking to a friend about it, and he said the skills part of my resume sounded like I was lying. It looks like this: 

On your first question: how can I get more time from company A - I would say - Just ask for it. Be honest. Just say you need a little more time to consider your career choices. The effect? If they really like you, they will probably give you a few days - but they have a business to run, so it will not be a long time. If they just consider you to be an "okay" candidate, they will tell you they can't wait, and pressure you to give them an answer or they will just move on to the next person in line. On your second question: what you should do about companies B, C and D - you need to establish a limit date for each one of them - how many days are you able/willing to wait for each one of those companies to get in touch with you? Start from there, then make your decision. It is a good practice to always reach out to a candidate with an answer - either a positive or negative one - but unfortunately it's not all companies that follow good practices, so you may never hear from them again. Be prepared for that. In case you do get a positive answer from one of them - same thing applies as in question #1: if it wasn't your favorite who made you an offer and you want more time to wait for another company, just ask for it. But always bear in mind that when negotiating there is always a risk the other part will not agree and it may jeopardize your chances with them. It all depends on how much you want - or don't want - to work on each of those companies. Also, if I can add an opinion - you already said you don't want to work for company A. Would you be happy there? Would you be committed? Would you be doing your best? If not, why are you still considering it? Maybe the honest thing to do for yourself and for that company is to just withdraw or decline from the process. And they can move on to find someone who is better suited for the job (in terms of actually wanting it). 

Ask again, with no acknowledgement that you already asked. This is what I used to do when I had to deal with people that didn't answer all the questions. So, the exchange would go something like this (email greetings and signatures omitted for brevity): 

If they notice that you already asked, they may say "Whoops" or "Sorry"; if they don't notice, they won't. Either way, you get the answer to your question and can move on. You don't gain anything by telling the customer they aren't reading your emails. Yes, they are being irritating, but passing that irritation on to the customer is not the route to good customer service. The fastest and least offensive way to get what you want (an answer) is simply to ask again as if it's the first time. Prevention If you find you repeatedly have the same problem with the same customer, you can start to take pre-emptive countermeasures. For example: 

So, I would recommend immediately mitigating the first instance and then turning the question back to them. An interview is a two way process. For example: 

You left the old job because it wasn't challenging enough. You don't want to be stuck in a new job where you have the same problem. Otherwise switching jobs accomplished nothing. Your best bet is to be completely honest about what you are looking for in the new company (focus on the positives of the new rather than the negatives of the old) and let them tell you whether they can provide that or not.