This question will be very difficult to answer to the standards that this site demands. That is mostly because it is so difficult to actually come to a coherent definition of an atheist, as well as to actually determine what different reports say and mean... There is a joke on some atheist community forums that the word atheist means: "The only people who really are concerned what the word atheist really means." As I said in the comment section, it's hard to even pin down the basic spectrum of where someone falls. So even having this image as a guide (which is still a way over simplification of things, which goes to show that it's even harder than this!), we still have the difficulty of people identifying themselves in one area or another. 

As mentioned in this write up, there is an Italian Scientist that has discussed the thixotropic hypothesis in great detail. Sadly, I don't read Italian that well, so I am trusting that this is a faithful translation to English. 

I think the main difficulty in getting a good answer to this question is the tenuous nature of the evidence and the confirmation bias that people experience when they are looking to support their pet cause. A Google Search provided me with numerous citations, and cover the well known facts to this point (Greenland to the Maritime Provinces and New England). What causes additional confusion could be things like 

That said, it does not validate the saying per se, however does show that some may be motivated by fear of death. Hopefully that is more in line with what you are looking for. 

Short Answer: No. This site from California State University Northridge throughly debunks that particular geologic formation (emphasis mine). 

Today while discussing cleaning cars with a co-worker, he mentioned how much he hated driving in Florida because of "Love Bugs" and stated that the "University of Florida researchers genetically engineered lovebugs." Yes, it is a common claim, and one that I also often heard while I lived there. But is it true? 

Short answer: There is a liquid that does the congeal and liquefy trick, but it's probably not blood. Long answer: First of all, the Catholic Church has not made an official stance on this event. The wikipedia page on this says so, as well as an investigation by The Italian Committee for the Investigation of the Paranormal. 

Even though I said I wouldn't address the strawman, I guess I must since it's so central to the caricature you seem to have in your mind of abiogenesis and evolution. Consider the below "supplemental material" not central to the answer, but still important to understand if you have any hope of actually understanding the answer. A bit of an essay about "chance" because I have it handy. I have been informed that quoting it here is not appropriate, so the two specific items are #9 and #11 on the list. (The page may sound somewhat rude and insulting, so keep in mind it was written for a different audience and purpose. And the author is British, and they do have a way with words.) Additionally, it addresses "figures" and "calculations" that creationists frequently use. By the way, it should be telling that all the creationist arguments are the same predictable ones that show up repeatedly with no new information. It's so telling that many individuals have written extensive replies, to the common and asinine objections of creationists. And even more reading for your education: 

With the remaining books being written later and later in history. Again, you see that some were written in the bronze age, while others were written in the iron age. Of course, the time-line of the events are somewhat argued, but for the sake of simplicity, we can go with Usher's time-line which places everything up to Exodus in the Bronze Age: 

Well, first one must settle on whether 666 or 616 is the number of the beast. If the "number of the beast" is actually 616, then the entire premise goes out the window since the assertion is that each double set of bars represents a 6. That would mean that the two center long bars are either a 6 or a 1. And if people are looking for something, they will find it. One can claim that the word "giggle" has the number of the beast! 

So I think our initial thoughts are in line with major names in the field. And as the last four words say, only time will tell. 

Ignoring the whole problem of there being no evidence for the exodus story, we can say that given a range of anywhere from 950BCE to 500BCE actually places the writing of the stories in the Iron Age. However: These are the dates of the stories being written down! That means that the timing of these stories is such that they are a supposed narrative of events that took place as the author of the theological site claims, in the 1290BCE to 1440BCE time-frame. That actually places it in the Bronze Age. Now that is generally accepted as the books of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy. Joshua is another ancient story, and as the theological site claims: 

Most of these arguments come from the "Hockey Stick is broken" arguments. Most of these come from the science not having all the tools available or developed at the initial time. However, since these initial measurements were made, more and more tools have become available. And they are agreeing with the initial set of measurements. 

Which I will note is no better than random chance. You can find the same experiments and the same results repeated again, and again, and again, and again. It is quite conclusive to say that dowsing doesn't work. Now, you may find claims and tests that do show a result. You will find that in general these can be attributed to poor experimental procedure, sloppy interpretation of data, or simply outright cheating/lying. 

I think it is safe to say that religiousness may not be the main factor in determining happiness, rather other factors, and the correlation is incidental. People searching for a specific correlation and causation will find what they are looking for. In general, a cum hoc ergo propter hoc fallacy at work in both cases. For instance, in the religious community, there is a ready made support structure in place for religious people. 

This is all well and good, however, the main benefit of airbags is the brain injury prevention. This paper at PubMed specifically relates: 

So, while the writing of the stories may not be bronze age, I think it is still a fair characterization based on when the events are alleged to have taken place. 

There are many reasons why one should accept evolution. The idea of reserving judgment on it seems rather foolish considering the non-scientific origin of the debate. I suggest a reading of this simple list or this more expanded list of the logical mistakes made when attempting to refute evolution. In order to keep this answer of reasonable length, I am not going to blockquote or put pictures in. It would just get too long and unmanageable. I feel that the Talk Origins essay is the best available on online for free. Otherwise, read the books recommended earlier. 

The astronomy department at the University of Arizona has a web page (horrible design in my opinion, but good info) that also goes into a lot of detail on the things we do know, the things we hypothesize, and the things we don't know at all. Interestingly, the University of Illinois also has a page that covers the subject, albeit with a different focus on what they consider important. However, they all agree that gravity does a great deal of work. As a matter of fact, it's easy to find pages from pretty much any accredited university out there (University of Oregon) that discusses the same subject matter. Now, one may say this is an argument from authority, but keep in mind that this is a competent authority with expertise in the subject. Much like one wouldn't ask a brain surgeon to be a car mechanic, it's probably best to leave astronomy to actual astronomers. 

So I would say that it was absolutely common from the tales of those sailors, however is falling out of favour due to technology. ORIGINAL ANSWER: Asking "Is that possible?" may not be the best way to phrase this question for the format of this site. That said, there are well documented cases of Navy SEALS during "Hell Week" training (Or BUD/S as they call it), where they gather only a total of about 4 hours worth of sleep during 5.5 days. Here is a document (PDF) where they talk about the sleep deprivation in a study on the effectiveness of caffeine as a stimulant and its effects on marksmanship. So, there, it's "possible"... 

That "myth" was started by Newsweek and irresponsible journalism more than any peer reviewed publications. Time was equally responsible. However, if you look at the number of actual papers published on the subjects of climate change, you will see that most were actually more concerned about warming: 

Another component of your question relates to perhaps "boosting" your immune system. A reporting group known as the Vaccine Times reported on this with some interesting links and thoughts that may be of use (but would not support the idea that your friend is weakening himself to disease). 

This is attributed to Bob Crandall, the American Airlines CEO of that timeframe. He was indeed a very driven individual to reduce cost and make money. This particular exploit is covered in a book called Corporate Creativity: how innovation and improvement actually happen By Alan G. Robinson, Sam Stern. The story is detailed on page 107, although there it is claimed it saved $500,000 annually! Which is significantly over most of the references I found claiming anywhere from $40,000 to $80,000 (more in line with your question). Maybe that's accounting for inflation? This is credible, but I can't find any original documentation yet. Please stand by. In the meantime, some additional discussion. (Still no reply from the museum. Please stand by.) I found a site that also ran the calculation and attempted to debunk or confirm this. This site mentions the more reasonable sum of $40,000 in savings, and says 

In a word: No. His methods are the hallmark of Cold Reading. As listed at the end of that Wikipedia article on cold reading, he does also use all the other techniques to "validate" his performance, such as: 

This blog post that did some investigation on that photograph quite clearly shows that it is a photoshop job. Furthermore, the originator of the photoshop job has as much admitted to it being photoshop, and he did it to bring attention to the movement, even though he is not involved in it. 

This was actually tackled on Mythbusters, and is also on Snopes. Mythbusters actually gave the blood cleaning a "Confirmed" in that episode (although said nothing about police carrying cola). And Snopes says that using Coca-Cola to clean comes from a fellow by the name of Joey Green. As Snopes says: 

At the risk of repeating Oliver_C's answer, I wanted to add in one more item and maybe pull out a few other quotes without totally re editing his answer. The human genome is surprisingly narrow when compared to other large mammalian species. This would lend credence to the idea that any distinction of a "race" is meaningless. 

Granted, this isn't definitive "proof" of what he is doing, but the fact that anyone who is skilled at such techniques can achieve the same results without claiming to talk to the dead would be a strong indicator. Also, the predictability (Cold reading bingo) of the words John Edwards uses is another give away (as I once read, if he's talking to the dead, why does it sound like he's attempting to interpret a charade?). This website "Demystifying John Edwards" also addresses his techniques, as well as alleges that he used outright fraud in the editing process: 

This is a classic old wives tale. It is so common that one could almost consider Snopes the final authority on this, but let's actually dig into it a bit more. Ohio State University says false: 

Underwriters Labs is supposed to be an independent source of information about electronics products, although they test mainly for consumer safety. However, they have "quality" standards they certify such as ISO/IEC 11801, and NEMA WC66. This paper (PDF) mentions that there are basically three grades of SSDs (Consumer, Commercial, and Industrial), and that some testing standards are not applied across each type, resulting in claims that may not all match up. Another good organization to go to is Consumer Reports. They have not done a review of any SSDs in comparison to each other, however they have done some reviews on computers with an SSD and were impressed by the speed of applications that access drive memory. All other information on MTBF of these drives sadly comes from the manufacturers themselves, so I would take that with a grain of salt. As SSDs become more commonplace in the marketplace, perhaps there will be more information from independent testing sources. For now, understand that standards are not being advertised consistently, and may be leading to confusion. 

I also found some further studies, however, the sites require subscriptions: $URL$ So as I started off with, the results are contentious. A final conclusion may need more research. 

(Image Sources, James Randi Educational Foundation, from other sources) Furthermore, truthers seem to be wholly unfamiliar with materials science, physics, and structures. They do not seem to know what happens when an aircraft is driven into a wall at high speed? Here is a wonderful example of a test conducted by the government many years ago with an F-4 (YouTube Video taken from a Sandia Test as referenced in Sugano, T., Tsubota, H., Kasai, Y., Koshika, N., Orui, S., W.A. von Riesemann, D.C. Bickel, M. B. Parks, (1993a), “Full-scale aircraft impact test for evaluation of impact force”, Nuclear Engineering and Design, Vol. 140, p373-385.). As one can plainly see in that video nearly a decade before 9/11, the plane is quite effectively obliterated, only leaving very small parts. Now, if anyone sincerely wishes to find out more about what actually happened, and wants to stay with actual facts (as opposed to manufactured ones, or plain old delusions), I suggest they visit the James Randi Educational Foundation. Not only are there plenty of discussions that debunk these same tired old arguments, but one can ask the same questions again and again. And you'll get the same answer, because people demand EVIDENCE, not cherry picked half-truths. Much like here. And just for giggles, I think this comic by XKCD touches on why I have such disdain for these nutty conspiracy theories.