Either way, I'd start preparing a new resume straight away and start applying yourself in a more ethical manner going forward. 

By design, employees at our firm should be fully functional anywhere. We're entirely cloud based, have no corporate network (everything on the cloud,) our software is on the cloud, our clients are on the cloud, everything. Thus, it should not be a performance hit to work from home. As a culture, we like to see each other. We like to interface. Things are easier when we are in the same physical location. We have multiple offices and strive to keep the offices working as if we were all in one office. It's not perfect, but that's our goal. Work life balance has a huge impact on an employee's morale, and thus their productivity. We trust employees to make decisions that they could honestly defend if called out on. Hiring is a very slow process at my firm, because we refuse to lower the bar. (Still wondering how I snuck in with these geniuses...) 

To wrap things up here, I don't think you necessarily should be asked to do that on your own time, but I do find the example of being a few days to get it set up perfect a little misleading. Yes, it would, but you wouldn't constantly be setting up your development environment for 3 days. Even if I started with a blank machine, I would probably be able to be committing code by the end of the first day, and I would be doing other things (filling out new hire paperwork, insurance, next of kin, etc) while the installs were running. 

First, I can't stress enough how much you shouldn't pay the employees out of your own pocket for work they aren't doing for you. They're adults and need to learn that the world is an unfair place and that not everyone offering a paycheck can be trusted. You should definitely be there to mentor and support, but keep your pocketbook closed. Second, you can initiate the conversation by having a one-on-one career planning meeting with them. "Where do you see yourself in five years? What steps do you need to take to get there?" If the plan they make is company agnostic, it will help them hit the ground running if things go south. And lastly, are they good engineers? Do you have a business idea that could leverage their talents? If the company folds and they're on the market, you could do worse than having a team that you know works well together. If you have the ability to pay for them and can make it profitable, it would work well for them and for you. You obviously have the ownership mindset, so why not take it to the next level? Just don't start talking to them about it until after you leave, or obviously that's grounds for enticement charges. 

If you're aspiring to take a leadership role, I wouldn't start off by saying "I will not take responsibility". Even if logically it makes sense, it isn't going to sound good. A lot of people don't realize exactly how much goes into managing a team. They also don't realize this is by design. The leader is supposed to shield the team from the inter-team politics and allow them to focus on their deliverables. The things you describe are all entirely normal from a leadership role. People with hard deadlines, unwillingness to budge or any requirements, having no authority and relying on persuasion (although normally you would control your own team...). The bottom line is, if you really want to be a leader, you have to figure it out. Figure out the best solution given the constraints you have. Don't have good estimates? Go with what you have and refine them later. Use the Scotty rule if you have to, and find a solution that works for you and your team. You're absolutely right. There are serious problems. Your new job is to solve those problems and give your team an environment where they are always as productive as possible. 

There are ways to lead that have nothing to do with your title, and if you know how to use those skills, you'll be much more productive. Most of follower positions still require you to interface with with other people and leadership skills make this so much easier. Are you preparing project plans proactively? Are you issuing regular status updates to stakeholders? Are you offering to help people where you know there's benefit to be gained to the company? Are you asking the right questions at the right time to the right people? You don't need an office and a title to do these things, everyone can do them, and the best employees do. Now you've also been specifically asked about things like "supervising" and "subordinates" - these are not leadership qualities. These are managerial tasks. Don't confuse the two! A leader can help resolve conflicts between any two people, but only a manager should be "resolving conflicts between subordinates", and the manager has the authority to order a resolution (which one might argue is a piss-poor way to resolve a conflict). A leader on the other hand can't order anyone to do anything, instead relying on persuasion to resolve the conflict. (That being said, a great manager will use leadership skills instead of managerial authority whenever possible!) Now why would they ask these types of questions? Well, the first type has a couple reasons. Most obvious, they want to know you'll be capable of taking care of yourself and that you'll be able to take down roadblocks when necessary. Also generally, people with those skills take control of their own destiny, and they take extra care to be prepared and in general are just more productive employees. The specific managerial questions are a bit odd, but it's nice to know if you have them. Experience in a managerial role gives you a different perspective on being an employee (one that is usually a net positive for the company). Bottom line, you don't have to be a manager to be a leader, and experience in either manager or leader roles are likely to make you more productive at any level of employment. 

For this current assignment, absolutely do what your manager said: finish the report with the information you have. He's made it clear this is what he wants you to do, so do it. In the future when you need to interact with the abusive individual, do it via email so there is a written record of your entire interaction. Make it clearly enumerated what your questions are and when you need them by. As soon as the individual volunteers in a meeting to assist on a project, send him the email with your questions immediately after that meeting. If you encounter resistance in the future, you'll have a paper trail of exactly what you said and how you said it. So if you get resistance on assignment number 2, when you start assignment number 3 you can CC your manager when you send the guy your questions. This let's him know that you're serious about getting the proper input. Simply put: whenever you're dealing with people who get abusive or deceptive you have to cross every i and dot every t so they don't take advantage of you. Remain steadfast and you'll either earn his respect or the ire of the higher-ups. Either way, if you do your job right, you win and the company wins. 

Personally, I wouldn't have approached the offending engineer about it. I would have gone straight to his supervisor to communicate the issue. This is a serious issue, and can lead to a very large lawsuit that a small firm like your self cannot afford. If she's mature, she'll know she doesn't have to put up with jokes like that, and she will lawyer up eventually. But you've already tried to talk to him, so when you do go to the supervisor, he's going to know that it's you. So you're going to have to expect some serious backlash. I.e. Jason, why do you have to be such a buzzkill? Jason, why are you narking on me? Jason, can't you take a joke? So you have three choices. You could try not being casual with the guy - be very firm: you're very worried about how this could effect the company, and himself (you could always play it off as a "I'm looking out for you, friend"). And if that doesn't work, go to the supervisor. He'll know 100% it's you, but you can always tell him "Look, I said this had to stop - I tried to get it to stop before going to this level, but you didn't, so here we are." Pros of this are that it avoids upper management which your coworker might appreciate. Cons are it's literally stepping over your bounds - if you're just a peer, and you get serious about him with this, you're kind of over the line. So do this carefully depending on your relationship with him. Second option is to go to the supervisor straight away. Lay out the facts, detail some instances, and let him handle it. It's his job. Pro here is that it is straight and to the point, and avoids immediate awkward situations putting you on the spot. Con is that eventually he'll want to talk to you about it and he probably won't like what's going on. Third option is to get the supervisor and the offender in the room together. Lay out the facts and let them both know that you feel this is serious, and what the potential ramifications of doing nothing are. The supervisor may sort it out right there, or he may thank you and keep the offender behind to talk about it privately. Pro here is that it shows that you care enough to make a stand - your coworker may see you as on his side. Con is that he easily could not see it that way, too. No matter what you do, you need to have a plan of going to the supervisor sooner rather than later. (It doesn't have to be the supervisor, it could be HR or legal or whatever. But I recommend the supervisor because his direct reports are his direct responsibility. Honestly, he should know this is going on, but if he doesn't, how will he know what he isn't told?) 

The first thing you should do (and this is before you ask anyone anything) is put yourself in your manager's chair and pretend that someone is asking you this question. What do you expect his response to be? If you've been there a while, you probably have a good idea about what he will say. If the question is accepted (as in, it ins't a flat out "no") you should be prepared to answer a few questions: 

The easiest way to stop your boss from getting trivial emails is to stop encouraging trivial emails. At my work, we use Outlook and Lync. Generally, we reserve banter for Lync and use email for things that we feel there should be a record of (since Lync does not and can not reliably record conversations. Don't get me started.) I wouldn't explicitly discourage a joking email, but I certainly wouldn't send them unless you didn't care if they ended up in your boss's inbox. I personally make a lot of jokes, almost to the point where people wonder if there's something wrong if I don't make one. But I don't ever put anything (joke, insult, opinion or otherwise) in an email. Whether I think it's going to end up in my boss's inbox, or his boss's or the senior director's or the CIO or the CFO or the CEO, or the intern a few cubicles over. I just wouldn't put it in an email ever. Now, there's a difference between trivial emails and joking/embarrassing emails. If the email is something like "Joe, we decided to go with four pixel borders on the widget." and it ends up in your boss's inbox, that's bad. That is probably a very small detail that your boss doesn't need to know. (Okay, maybe there was a big political battle over borders, I've seen stranger things, but generally that's a small detail your boss doesn't need to know about.) If people are clogging up his inbox with crap like that, there's one of two possibilities. 1) They don't know any better. In this case it's your boss, not you, who needs to speak up if he doesn't want these emails. The other possibility is 2) They need to CC your boss on everything because they perceive you (correctly or not) as a non-deliverer. If this is the case, you need to remedy that immediately. If it's true, then you need to start delivering so they don't feel the need to have your boss included on everything. If it's not true, you need to find out why they feel that way and clear up the situation. tl;dr - Don't do embarrassing things. Don't worry about your boss's inbox. Do get work done.