Overall I find that an immensely hopeful view of the nature of things and spurs me on to practice. I confess it's frustrating that I'm stuck in the sleep state, but wonder of wonders, some dude from about 2,500 ago appears to have figured out how to wake up. Awesome! (If it's true.) 

To me that bears a striking resemblance to instructions for Buddhist meditation. The main difference -- the idea of God -- is a difference only if, as I say, you take very literally the typical anthropomorphic view of "God". But if you see past that -- and surely whatever God is, if indeed God "is", then "he" is certainly not an old white dude with a long beard sitting up in the clouds -- my view is that there is often actually very little difference between Buddhist prayer and Christian prayer. This is, of course, a minority view! (Which doesn't, on the other hand, make it wrong.) 

No, they're not describing the same kind of thing. Stream Entry (i.e. the thing which a Stream Enterer achieves) is a particular achievement en route to full enlightenment. Devoutness, then, is merely one aspect of living that may help one reach that achievement. Another analogy is weight lifting. Someone can be "devout" in the sense of being serious. committed to going to the gym, faithful to the pursuit of increasing weight capability, and so on. And then "stream entry" is something like "can clean and jerk their own body-weight". In other words, stream entry is a specific, well-described set of "objective" criteria in terms of attainment. Devout, on the other hand, could represent a way of approaching practice so as to achieve stream entry (i.e. to become a stream enterer). Going back to your Catholic analogy, consider St Thomas Aquinas. He was, by all accounts, a devout Catholic. However, towards the end of his life he is recorded as having had some kind of spiritual experience which led him to say that all his prior work (the Summae etc) was "like straw". I suspect that he may have been referring to something like a Stream Entry experience, but it came along towards the end of (although maybe because of) a devout Catholic life. 

Respect should first be given to the truth of suffering, to the truth of the cause of suffering, and the capacity of the dhamma to free you from that. Why? Because if you have no respect for the capacity of the fire to burn you, or the balm to sooth you, then you will only continue to burn. Respect should be given to the Buddha, as a practitioner who accomplished something very profound and difficult, something noble and worthwhile, and then chose to share the wisdom of how he accomplished that with us all. He should be respected as someone who can teach us valuable lessons. When we see a statue or an image of the Buddha, we respect what it represents, the accomplishment and nobility of what was conquered. Respect should be given to those serious practitioners who have set themselves out to follow the path laid out by the Buddha, to take it upon themselves to accomplish what amount of that great work that they can. It is hard work, arduous work that requires diligence, and is worthy of respect. If we respect these good qualities, we will be likely to emanate them. If we do that, we may become free of our suffering. It is good to do so. This is why. 

I'd recommend reading the book "Dipa Ma: The Life and Legacy of a Buddhist Master" by Amy Schmidt. It's a very good illustration of how one can pursue the Buddhist path to a very significant degree, including coming through significant personal tragedy, and still be immersed in the day to day challenges of the world. 

Like you, I was raised Catholic. Like you, I now spend more time involved with the dharma than directly with Catholicism. However, I increasingly see a synergy between the two "systems", and not very much collision (the "orthodox" from both sides may disagree, but that doesn't make them right). Crucial to me seeing this synergy was coming to see that the notion of "God" that I had in my childhood, and also the notion of God of most Buddhists I've met, is really not a very coherent notion at all. Or, put it more simply, it's wrong. If someone says Buddhists don't believe in God, it's important to know exactly what that person means by "God". Odds are they're talking about some kind of sky fairy or such like, and classic Catholicism doesn't believe in that either. If you look a the works of St Thomas Aquinas -- maybe get yourself some commentaries first, before tackling the summae head on -- you'll find that the notion of God that is at the heart of Christianity (and, I'd add, Islam and Judaism) is far harder to pin down as something that is at odds with Buddhism. For example, trying to apply the words "permanent", "satisfying" or "self" to "God" is almost a category error. In conclusion, I wouldn't worry about prayer and praying -- in other words, just keep doing it if you want. Or not. Don't fret either way. And if you do continue, you can even develop it, but perhaps look into the contemplative side, since that has a lot in common with many Buddhist approaches -- especially Tibetan. I recommend reading "The Seven Story Mountain" by Thomas Merton as a useful story of one man's journey. Also, look into the work of Thomas Keating, on centering prayer. 

I'm not saying that there is or isn't, but concerning the self-confirmation of such, this is not so straightforward as it may seem, considering a system where enlightenment is concerned, in part at least, with the transcendence of conceptual self-hood: From Chapter 9 of the Diamond Sutra: “ 

I think there is a very valid way to see that we practice sila to help get rid of fear! It's as if sila is the instruction, "don't stick your hand in fire," we don't have to follow it because we are fearful of getting burned, but because we are wise in understanding how to properly handle fire without getting burned. What is there to be afraid of? We know how to avoid trouble? If we practice right speech, action, and livelihood, we never have to worry about our karma, about the internal experience of the sour grapes that arise as a result of treating others unkindly. This is an action of kindness to ourselves, to save ourselves the trouble, both internal and external, of the result of a negative intention. The Dalai Lama has said that there are two kinds of selfishness, wise and foolish. Foolish selfishness just hustles and steals, greedily extorts and manipulates until there is nothing left. This is like biting the hand that feeds you. Wise selfishness understands interconnectedness and interdependency, the ecology of being. It understands that if I follow these standards, I will receive more, for a longer period of time. It understands that you treat others how you want to be treated. So, we practice sila because it is wise, and the kindness of our actions will reflect back on us, will be training in becoming a "better" person. So what if there is still self clinging? You only need to keep in mind that the degree to which you feed into self clinging, that is the degree to which you are feeding into your own suffering and turmoil. Sila is doing yourself a favor if you do it to save your own skin, or if you are truly acting out of total selfless compassion. Ultimately we do it so as not to be distracted on the path, it helps to clear the mind so that we can directly experience the ultimate truth of phenomena. So long as we have to worry and wade through our negative (clinging and grasping) actions and their consequences, we will be hindering our ability to see correctly. I wouldn't beat yourself up, it's called practice for a reason ;) 

Given those really basic definitions, and assuming we take them more or less literally (very important; see later) there is simply no way to pursue both approaches. Absolutely front and center of Christianity is the dude Jesus, his death and alleged resurrection, the fact that those constitute atonement for sin, and so on. You cannot be a Christian without regularly getting down on your hands and knees, literally or metaphorically, and worshipping Jesus. Accepting Him, being saved from sin, etc, and absolutely not meditation and resulting insight into the three marks of existence, etc, are what count. And that is in stark contrast with Buddhism where Jesus doesn't really come into it, and breaking delusion etc are vital. Of course I can't see a problem with a Buddhist believing, just as Muslims do, that Jesus was a spectacularly important and awesome guy. But even if so, that's all he was, and as I said that's not remotely enough for a Christian. HOWEVER... (there's always a however...) All of that -- and it's pretty mainline exposition; I didn't make it up -- is only clearly the case if one takes those definitions literally. In particular it's if one interprets the meanings of the various terms in the context of contemporary scientific naturalism (sometimes manifesting as scientism) and essentially discards metaphysics (by which I mean the formal, philosophical type, as opposed to New Age fluffy stuff) or even modern philosophical systems such as phenomenology. With the much more sophisticated conceptual structures that those systems of thought provide, then the question as to exactly what Christianity or Buddhism (or many others) mean by any give concept needs more thought and so has more scope for compatibility. I reckon that anyone with any degree of openness of mind, and willing to put in the work, cannot fail to see potential connections between what we got from the Buddha, Nagarjuna, Dogen, the neo-Platonists like Plotinus, scholastics like Aquinas, and so on, all the way to the present day. So given all of that, I'll balance my earlier answer of "simply no way" with an alternative which is, "You're just going to have to try it out and see" :-) And to back that up, I'll offer two quotes (my italic emphasis in both): 

First I think that it is a good idea to examine title of this post, and point out that there is no real "should" that we encounter in Buddhism, there are encouragements, but no commandments; or more politely, because of the truth of emptiness, or lack of inherent meaning and essence, whenever we say "should," in order for it to be a valid statement, we have to add a contextual qualifier. So, "Should we do X?" always becomes, "If we want X, should we do Y?" or something to that effect. Given that, your question lacks a qualifier, you asked, "Should we do X?" without offering a "Y". So, why? Now, about time. I would offer that, in my understanding, time is, indeed a conditioned phenomena, it is not absolute (there is no absolute time, "it" flows at different rates in the universe), it relys on other phenomena for its existence (such as space, therefore objects, gravity, ect.) Because of this, time is compounded. However, you cannot give or take it in any real sense. It is intangible, unlike other compounded phenomena, a chair for instance, it is purely abstract with no appearance to lock it into our experience with, it is not a real thing in the same way that a chair is. The best we can do is try to record and measure the passing of events with a chronometer, but there is no thing called "time" that we can actually measure, we just call the passing of events that, nominally inferring time into existence, in retrospect, or in anticipation. The metaphor of "giving time" is merely a convention that we use for service, in the certain light of sacrificing our own agenda. I would, again rephrase the question in order to reflect the implied sacrifice of personal agenda. So taking both points, the lack of qualifier in the first, and the inferential nature of the statement that calls for clarity in the second, I would suggest restating the question like this, "If we want to hasten our own liberation, should we practice service, sacrificing our own agenda of self centered goal seeking in order to be of benefit to others?" So... When we put ourselves into service, when we put others, and the agenda of others, before ourselves and our own agenda, we undermine the conceptual self centered impulse. We undermine our tendency towards an ego-centric agenda. This is very helpful to our liberation, and it makes the world a better, happier place, so why not? It can eliminate negative karma, crate good karma, help see through the Samsaric delusion, and so forth. In this sense, it seems that being of service is a good personal agenda, as it has the potential to liberate us from our suffering. Interestingly, this seems to leave us in a bind, how can I be of service to you, getting past my own self serving agenda, when that creates a self serving agenda as soon as I realize that I am doing it to get past my own suffering? Well, this is where intention comes in. How compassionate are we being? The Dalai Lama talks about wise vs. foolish selfishness. Wise selfishness is realizing this, and being of service, giving back to the community because you know it will benefit you, and this is better than the alternative... ignoring this and being a glutton. Regardless, it is simple enough to say that the more your heart is in it, the more benefit it will be to you, and the more you practice it, the more your heart will be in it. When we realize that helping people really means empowering them to overcome their own suffering, we become little "helper-makers", also known as teachers. In this way, we can realize selflessness giving rise to selflessness, and so forth. TL;DR It is highly encouraged that we learn to put others before ourselves, and learn to be of true service. 

Gosh, that's a heavy question. All I'll do is point you to some potentially useful material. I suggest you take a look at comparisons between the philosophy of Wittgenstein, and that of Nagarjuna. (Professional analytic philosophers may be knee-jerking like crazy here, but I'll persist.) The central idea that connects them -- if anything does -- is the idea that what you are asking sits outside the bounds of what language can express. It -- the notion of more or less "real"-ness -- is an example of what Wittgenstein referred to in stating "Whereof one cannot speak, thereon one must remain silent." Or, less exotically, I really do think that the movie "The Matrix" has something to offer here. When Neo asks Morpheus, inside the battle simulation, "So this isn't real?", Morpheus replies "What is real?" Put another way, why are you distinguishing between "virtual" reality, and "real" reality? Ultimately we have no idea what is "out there"; the only thing we do know for sure is that we are perceiving it. I don't know if that is of any use whatsoever :-) 

Buddhists do not believe in reincarnation, the view is rebirth. Try this. According to the TV show Madmen, there is a Japanese saying that says that a man is whatever room he is standing in. So in a business office, he IS a businessman, at home, he is a husband and a father, at a bar, he is a drunk, etc. Now a man can walk from room to room, showing a continuity from "life" to "life". Clearly there is some sort of continuity, but when the man was in the business office, he was not the drunk, and vise versa, so we have no true business man, no true drunk. Just the appearance of them. Rebirth says the man really is whatever room that he is standing in, and as that man he is as real as that room, and this is possible precisely because there is no true, central core man behind the causes and conditions that give rise to the specific appearance of the business man. If there were a non-empty self, it would not be subject to causality, and would not, therefore be capable of taking on an appearance, or having interactions. The appearance of a self is all there ever is, and it is precisely the clinging and grasping onto the basic notion of a true self at all that perpetuates rebirth from room to room. To understand rebirth a bit more clearly, we can realize that at no point did we ever stop being a child, and start being an adult, but looking back, it is clear that one is different from the other. In terms of lives, we cannot say when one definitively ends and another begins, we can merely say that we can point to the apparent beginning and end based off of certain inferential and ultimately arbitrary definitions. There is never a clear moment when one room ends and another begins, never a clear moment when the businessman starts, and the businessman stops. We just "draw a line". To go a bit further, because we cannot assert a true beginning, there is no way to assert a true lifetime to reincarnate into, there is merely the codependent origination of apparent phenomena. The whole thing is nothing but the perpetuated arising of empty phenomena due to causes and conditions giving rise to other causes and conditions, but nothing ever truly breaks over into actual true existence. We seem to perceive this, but that is just a relativistic assumption. TL;DR - Buddhists do not believe in reincarnation or true separate lifetimes, so there is no problem, there is merely the perpetuation of the causes and conditions that give rise to apparent, yet ultimately empty phenomena.