This isn't exactly what your are looking for but it is simple solution. I use cheap foam self seal pipe insulation of various diameters and put them on parts of bike that can be damaged during transport (fork, top tube, chain stay, etc) or you can fix it to your bike rack. It is easy to put on/take off, can be used many times and it is really good to prevent collisions of parts if you transport more than one bike on the rack. Those pipe insulations come in lengths of usually 2 meters, with various wall thickness from 9 mm do 2 cm so you can choose ones which will fit your bike frame or rack. 

I'm doing complete overhaul and service of my bike and it is time to service Manitou Minute fork and Manitou Radium shock. They both work fine but they have never been serviced (at least for two years as long as I have this bike, and I think they are 2012 or 2013 models :). Problem is, there is no specialized service for Manitou products in my country and there are no replacement parts available. My options are limited to taking my shocks to Fox/RockShox service but they have no replacement parts for Manitou and I guess I can expect they'll be able to clean all parts and change oil. 

I have a bike equipped with a SRAM 22 speed groupset (hydraulic) and was thinking about converting it to a 1x11. I like the simplicity of the 1x11 system and the potential weight savings from removal of redundant components. Is this conversion possible and if so, what steps would I need to take assuming I possess all the required tools? 

I would try buying a set of 28mm tires (or larger). You can run them at a lower pressure than a 23mm or 25mm and doing so won't likely cause the bite puncture you are experiencing b/c the air chamber is much larger and thus has more area to compress before it nips at the tube. An upside is that the ride quality is far superior to say, a 23mm. Also, make sure you are installing your tube properly. If it isn't seated under the tire just right you will keep pinching it over and over. Start at the valve stem and keep it even as you work it under the tire. Roll the tire around with your fingers and palm to seat the tube after you get the tire back on, and before inflating the tube to pressure. DON'T use levers to get the tire back on if possible. Just another opportunity for a pinch. I ride a road bike with Conti 28mm tires on a daily commute through Chicago with many potholes, broken glass piles, nails, etc. and haven't had a pinch flat or puncture in probably a year, and, I ride them at a very low pressure (80psi/ 175lb rider) When I did flat last it was because the tube was not installed properly. 

I'm replacing all bearings in pivot links on my full suspension bike and for one of them seems to have more space around bearing itself (housing? if that is right term). I can pop it out and insert it back without using any tools (7 other bearings had to be press fitted). Should I worry about this 'loose' bearing, can I fix this issue by applying Loctite? (Can I use blue Loctite 243 for this or I need stronger grade?) 

I'm looking for an upgrade to my crankset and I would also like to replace bottom bracket. My current setup is Shimano M522 (3 x 10) which I would like to replace with SLX M677 (2 x 10) and current bottom bracket is First R30. Are there any compatible bottom brackets from Shimano that can fit in my bike frame (73 mm wide) and which will be compatible with SLX M677 crankset? Shimano recommends BB-MT800-PA as compatible press fit bottom bracket but according to specifications it is available in 89.5 - 93 mm. I'm confused about options and alternatives - please help. 

I've torn a bunch of Castelli stuff over the years. I just started using this ShoeGoo product and it's working well so far. 

I'm considering getting a bike for my friend; she is interested in riding road/gravel with me, doesn't own a bike of her own, and doesn't know too much about what's available. She is about 5 feet tall (1.5 meters) and 100 pounds (45 kilos). I believe a 47-49cm frame would be a good fit for her. Considering her small stature and the small frame size I was thinking about a set of 650b wheels. It seems there has been a trend of 650b fitted bikes recently and that the wheel size is slowly creeping back into the market. One of the advantages is that one can fit a wider, taller tire without worrying about clearance or modifying frame geometry. I got to thinking that outfitting her with a 650b wheel set might be a viable option with some advantages over a 700c wheel set. My question is what are the advantages and disadvantages of fitting a petite rider with a 650b wheel set, in comparison to a 700c set. I'm especially interested in bike handling, tire fitting, and frame geometry implications and considerations. 

Personally, I wouldn't ride a bike with any glasses which have metallic frame (especially without flexible grips) and real glass lenses because of their weight and potentially sharp edges. I've seen a friend of mine who got pretty deep cuts on his nose after falling from a bike (wearing his expensive and heavy Police sunglasses which tore skin from his nose). (And after that injury he couldn't wear glasses for quite some time). Since I needed both corrective lenses (myopia) and sun protection I've ordered custom tinted plastic polycarbonate lenses and semi-rimless frame with flexible grips and that costed significantly less than some brand name sunglasses. I could recommend above mentioned type of glasses (with or without prescription :). These glasses are quite light, flexible and can come off easily in case of falling. (Didn't fall with my glasses on so far, but I've dropped them numerous times and sat on them once - luckily no big damage). EDIT: I wanted to edit this question a long time ago because I've put the wrong term plastic were it should be polycarbonate. As David Richerby mentions in his comment below, plastic is bad material for lenses due to fragmentation upon impact. Here is a video which displays difference between plastic and polycarbonate lenses. Polycarbonate lenses won't shutter when impacted/stressed. On the other hand, I would disagree about type of frames and whether semi-rimless or rimless frames are durable enough. Another video of testing a sport performance product - a semi-rimless glasses from well known manfuacturer. 

I had a 160mm disc rotor on a road bike that was rubbing a bit in one spot, not severely, but enough for me to notice. I've tried to true it a few times over the past couple months with little improvement. I finally ordered a new rotor (sram centerline) and noticed it's also touching the pad, possibly more so than the old, but it sounds better under hard braking oddly enough. I checked the new rotor before I put it on and it was straight. I'm wondering if my hub is just imperfect and that's whats causing the alignment issue. Is this common and if so is there a fix? 

The reliability depends on the quality of the brifter itself but, for most brifters, all you need to maintain, adjust, and them and keep them in good working condition is a hex key set, some spray degreaser, and a high quality grease. I use mostly sram brifters and they just work when they are set up right. To keep them in good working order I remove the hoods and blast out the internals with degreaser, working the levers into different shifting positions until everything is clean and working smoothly. After they are dry I apply some high quality grease with a small brush to the mechanical parts inside, and then put the hoods back on. Extremely simple maintenance. Not fussy at all. I'm not sure why some competitive cyclists are that are telling you brifters are so unreliable, but, they are wrong. I believe 100% of the tour riders rode some sort of brifter in 2015. These are the cyclists who demand the utmost durability and certainly wouldn't use brifters if they were inherently flawed or fussy somehow. But, like any part, if they are low quality to begin with they will require more maintenance and will tend to be less reliable. 

I'm not using SPD pedals anymore but I would try following to transfer cleat position to new shoes. I remembered that I've read somewhere that some shoe manufacturers have some kind of paper pattern to mark position of old cleats and use that pattern to adjust position for new cleats. Since I guess your shoe size iz the same for new pair, making this kind of paper pattern and marking where cleat starts/ends would be rather easy. In order to increase precission you can combine this with measuring it with ruler. Added: There are also products like Ergon TP1 Pedal Cleat Tool but I guess it's rather expensive for just one time use. 

I've just finished my first 'big' bicycle related project in order to start and complete a small challenge of at least 100 days of riding a bike in 2017 :) This project consisted of completely disassembling full suspension (aluminum) mountain bike to the last bolt, replacing bearings, switching from press fit bottom bracket to BSA/Hollowtech (adapter which is pressed into frame), upgrading entire groupset to higher end Shimano components, messing with hydraulic brakes (shortening hoses, bleeding), installing new chain, etc. I know this is probably ordinary thing for someone who is familiar with bikes and do this professionally, but this was my first time doing this and I'm a little concerned about safety (because I'm complete noob :) (To be specific, my biggest concerns are drivetrain, bottom bracket, chain length... as well as all other parts; except shocks for which I wasn't able to find service kits but they seem to be in good working order.) So far I've tested bike on a bike rack, I rode it in front of garage and everything seems to be working properly. However, since I don't want to crash and hurt myself I would like to know if there is reliable way to test what I've done... something like a checklist/guidelines for assembling and testing new bike? 

You need a hydraulic shifter to use a normal hydraulic disc caliper as there is a piston that moves fluid which a mechanical shifter will not have. There are mechanical to hydraulic systems where the cable from a regular shifter actuates a hydraulic system on the caliper itself. They are usually a little more bulky looking. This would probably be your best option if you can't get hydraulic brifters but must have hydraulic calipers. You can however use your mechanical shifters with cable pull disc calipers as you noted. This works well. You don't have the hydraulic advantage of nearly zero friction in the system. You don't get that with cable to hydraulic either but you may or may not get better modulation with a cable to hydraulic. 

I'm wondering if there are any advantages to mounting ones water-bottle on the bottom of the down tube, near the ground, versus on top of the tube. I'm mainly interested in the advantages, or lack thereof, in the context of a road riding. It seems like if you are riding a mountain bike or riding off-road, it could protect your frame from stumps, branches, or anything else that you could land on that is taller than the bottom of your down tube. Also, I could see it helping to keep the center of gravity of the bike as low as possible, for mountain and road. Are there any other advantages to mounting a bottle on the bottom of the down tube on a road bike? 

I would suggest following - try to clip helmet chin strap around both backpack shoulder straps or, if backpack is not too big, try to clip it around whole backpack. (If your backpack is large enough you can put helmet inside it :). There is also possibility to use rubber strap with hooks to fasten your helmet. Tbh, I have backpack which has dedicated helmet holder but I rarely use it. I find it much faster to hang it around stem and handlebars. That way it is much faster to put your helmet on compared to taking off backpack, untying helmet and putting it back on. 

It seems I've made a few 'tiny' errors when choosing components to upgrade my bike. The biggest issues I'm facing at the moment are crankset and front derailleur... Bike is Eyble Psych 4 Black Edition (full suspension, 26" wheels) and I'm upgrading various (all) Shimano components to SLX. Because I'm not very familiar with all aspects of MTB geometry and compatibility of parts - I've put myself into weird position. I've chosen M677 crankset (2x10, 22-36t) which (if I get things right) dictates position/hight of front derailleur (SLX 765-B, 2x10, clamp type). I've installed FD provisionally and found out that it sit quite low on seat tube (seat tube is with top pull cable routing). FD clamp is almost touching the joint of seat tube, downtube and chainstays (which are asymmetric) and it could interfere with movement of rear end of bike. (I didn't put chain yet and I tried to compress rear shock all the way - and I didn't notice that FD is hitting anything.) Anyway, I'm worried if this setup is right and should I continue installing other parts? If this is horribly wrong - what are my options regarding another FD (please recommend proper FD type) or (preferably not) changing other components? PS. I know I should have informed myself better before buying things :D 

You cannot use a GXP bottom bracket to "fit it all together". BB30 cranks do not fit in a GXP bottom bracket. A GXP crank can be made to fit a BB30 bottom bracket with an adapter, like one from Praxis. If your Orbea is a GXP standard (24mm) the cranks are no good to you as they will not fit. If it's a BB30 they will work without the need for any type of GXP bottom bracket. 

To add to Michael's comment if it's your property you can't be forbid to bring a bicycle into your apartment, unless it's somehow unlawful to be in possession of said bicycle. Would you be forbid to bring a crank set or a pair of wheels or a bar set into your apartment? Why would you be forbid to bring those things assembled in a certain way into your apartment? Read your lease very carefully, or get a lawyer and ask him or her about your situation considering your lease. If you can meet the building owner or property manager and ask, indirectly, about bicycles, do so and get a feel for their attitude about it. If you can tell they are going to be giving you a hard time about it don't even bother, look elsewhere. Having a bad landlord and/or building owner is a whole other problem in and of itself. 

Cushions comes with few self-adhesive patches but those can't be applied very well to narrow surfaces between cells. I've even tried to use bike tire repair kit (patches and glue) but glue doesn't stick to material from which cushion is made (some kind of coated rubber). I was wondering if tire sealant can be used in this case? Are there any other products or advice how to solve this problem? Any help is greatly appreciated. 

I recently installed new brakes (Shimano SLX 675), shortened hoses for front/rear brake, done bleeding but even after that rear brake lever feels much softer than front. (I had identical issue with old brakes (M446) which acted in the same way and that is partially the reason for asking this question). New brakes work fine, they have nice stopping power, there are no signs of oil leaking etc... It is just that rear brake lever feels much softer (and I don't think it is due to lever reach adjustment; it isn't nearly reaching handlebar). Can the longer length of disc brake hose (rear breake) influence the 'feel' while braking (assuming brakes are correctly installed and working properly) or there is something else causing this 'problem'?