It depends on who you ask. Theravadin Buddhism clearly says “No.” But Mahayana texts say it is more complicated. From my personal point of view, for what it is worth, given the psychological nature of nirvana (given, that is, it is a change in a state of awareness and connectedness and not a great increase in wisdom), a person would need to achieve nirvana a great multitude of times to acquire the wisdom of a Buddha. On grounds of compassion, I suspect, many Buddha-like beings continue to return to samara in order to teach Dharma and help their many friends who remain in samsara. Nonetheless, even if parinirvana is viewed as a heaven for Buddhas (a correct assumption, depending on which texts you consult), the Buddhas there remain connected with people in samsara and remain able to influence them and help them overcome suffering. In my view, those of us who are in samara are in great need of those Buddhas who decide to be reborn in samsara. 

Psychologically, the answer is that both probably experience both happiness and dukkha. You do not specify whether or not they are practicing mindfulness meditation or learning Dharma. It is also possible for either one or both to already be Enlightened or to be Enlightened soon. Either one may be experiencing dukkha more than the other. 

When I was ordained as a novice monk some 30 years ago, I was given the Dharma name Sila Ananda. In that context, the term "sila" meant "merit," referring to a quality acquired over previous lifetimes. A fundamental cause of confusion occurs when a person assumes that the Buddhist rules of conduct have a purpose similar to the Christian rules of conduct. To understand the difference, it helps to take note that the Christian rules involve the concept of a God who is a constant presence in the life of a monk or nun, whereas the Buddhist rules lack such a reference. My meditation teacher, the late Namgyal Rinpoche, referred to rules as forms of aspiration. The concept of sin is not present in Buddhism. My teacher used to give a "Lama Couple Ordination" to couples who were in a sexual relationship and wanted to teach Dharma together. In order to understand sila, one must look for the psychological reasons for following a rule. Essentially, each rule was formulated (while the Buddha was still alive) when a monk or nun became seriously confused because of something they did. For example, when a monk became sexually involved with a woman, he will have become deeply connected with her, thereby interfering with inner transmissions from the Buddha. Do not forget that the Tibetan Buddhists have works of art that display male and female deities in sexual union. And, if the woman were to bear a child, the monk would be responsible for caring for both mother and child. Also, there is no "sin" in finding the opposite sex attractive. In an interview on Youtube, the Dalai Lama talked about finding women attractive. The formation of a rule by the Buddha back then was an act of compassion for the monk or nun and for anyone else affected by the action in question. This underlying principle hold true for both the ordained and the layperson. 

The traditional answer is that you have been reborn countless times. Ordinarily, I do not offer my personal opinion on this website. But only because you asked, based upon my meditation on the evolution of consciousness, this traditional answer is accurate because a sentient being is born with the intelligence of a tiny biological organism. Only by being reborn into a symbiotic relationship with progressively more complex organisms does a being acquire human intelligence. 

According to traditional Buddhadharma, wisdom is not only experience. It is also knowledge. Some of this knowledge has been carefully articulated and some of it has not. It cannot be true that “the object is not to gain anything,” because we obviously need to “gain” insight into the causes of our own suffering, which is specific to us because it is a product of sankhara. Fortunately, the concept of sankhara is fairly easy to understand. Sankhara is the mental (mostly unconscious) process by which means we make sense of our experience. It is only by making sense of experience do we understand (or misunderstand) anything and are we able to do anything (good, bad, or neither), because we cannot do something unless it makes sense to us. The word “sankhara” also applies to the set of beliefs, wishes, feelings, attitudes, skills, and other dispositions that flow or follow from having made sense of something. It is sankhara in this second meaning that causes mental and bodily actions that may be wholesome, unwholesome, or neither. In order to teach Buddhadharma, a person needs to know what they are talking about. In the effort to know what we are talking about, we come up against another reality of the human condition. Given the vast complexity of the human mind and the human condition, any form of articulated wisdom casts light or understanding on a limited set of things and experiences. This is partly due to the fact that the very process of sankhara can address only a limited range of experience. The reality is that, when we apply even a carefully considered and articulated and true statement to a particular but complex situation, we are confronted with questions about how it applies. Hence, the answer to your question, “Does the Buddha’s teaching require much intellect?” For the beginner and the meditator, the answer is “No,” because “Sometimes intellect can get in the way.” But for the teacher of Dharma, the answer is a definite “Yes,” because the teacher needs to be careful about what he has to say to his students about Buddhadharma. There are some teachers of Dharma who believe they never have to be careful. It has been my experience that such teachers can be very charismatic but too conceited to be of value to the student who has substantial questions that he or she is not allowed or afraid to ask. 

This is an important question for the person practicing Theravadin mindfulness meditation because its answer is relevant to understanding how this meditation works. But first some background information. In Theravadin Buddhist psychology, “karma” includes both bodily and mental action. For example, decision-making is a form of mental action. And, although the Theravadin Abhidhamma does not talk about unconscious cognitive processes, karma includes unconscious decision-making. There are four types of action (karma in Sanskrit, kamma in Pali): (1) Wholesome action (kusala), (2) unwholesome (akusala), (3) karma-resultant (vipaka), and (4) not wholesome, not unwholesome, and not karma-resultant (aryakata, kiriya, or kiriya-citta, sometimes called functional consciousness). Your question is about the fourth type. I will call it functional mental action. Finally, all actions are caused by sankhara, which is best understood as schemata (in the sense defined by Immanuel Kant). Sankhara are the products of mental evolution or learning. The sankhara that cause functional mental actions are all products of an ancient evolution of consciousness. The kiriya-sankhara have the function of causing a person to act as intelligently as possible, even when he or she is in an unwholesome state of mind. In terms of modern psychology, the kiriya-sankhara generate “core knowledge,” knowledge discovered to be present in young infants by Elizabeth Spelke. Of course, the kiriya-sankhara continue to generate core knowledge throughout our lives. In Mahayana Buddhism, the kiriya-sankhara cause the complex and important cognitive processes referred to as the Bodhicitta. The kiriya-sankhara cause several types of functional mental actions. By far the most important functional mental action (in this case, an unconscious cognitive process) is one that causes us to make sense of potential actions and make sense of what we experience. This is an automatic and largely unconscious process that we take totally for granted, yet is essential to understanding Buddhist psychology and the kiriya-sankhara. This most basic nature of all sankhara gives us a fundamental insight in the minds of the Buddha, greatest teachers of Buddha-Dharma, and the ordinary person alike. The reality is that we all, without exception, make sense of things (everything!) by means of the sankhara we possess. Only by means of a sankhara (or schema) does a sensation become a perception. Only by means of a sankhara does a feeling make sense to us. We cannot perform any action unless it makes sense to us by means of a sankhara. It is only by means of sankhara that we understand other people or ourselves. A sankhara (or schema) is a set of predispositions (beliefs, values, attitudes, memories, understandings, or the like) that allow us to process (mostly by means of unconscious mental processes) meaningless data into meaningful information (action, knowledge, belief, even illusion). Only through our sankhara are we able to be intelligent in the most basic or brilliant way. And one more important fact: all sankhara are finite in scope and understanding. There is no such thing as an infinite sankhara or an infinite understanding. It is psychologically not possible to know everything about something. Wisdom must necessarily mean knowing what is most important or relevant about something. This is an inherent limitation of the human mind, even the mind of a Buddha or a genius. (Buddhists do not talk about gods.) What does this mean for the beginner of mindfulness meditation practice? It means that overcoming suffering, making progress on the Path, and undergoing Enlightenment itself consists entirely of unlearning unwise sankhara and learning wiser sankhara. The hard part is working out the details! It is your kiriya-sankhara that make both learning and unlearning possible.