“ātāpi” is to remove that “fire” from the heart and the stress from the mind, and calm the mind. This is the “cooling down”, the early stages of Nibbāna. In the Buddha’s last words: “..”appamadēna sampādēta” or “..make haste and sort out “immoral tendencies”. When one has done “sampādēta” one becomes “sampajannō”: One knows what is right and what is wrong automatically; it has become a habit. “sati ma vineyya lōke abhijjhā dōmanassam” means establishing moral mindset and moral conduct in order to be free from the debt-ridden world and to be relieved from abhijja and domanassa. This is the key to “cooling down” Thus we should strive to “get rid of the fire or heat in the mind by being aware of kilesa or defilements and by removing extreme greed (abhijja) that leads to a depressed mind (domanassa)”. This “cooling down” is done in four ways: kāyānupassanā, vēdanānupassanā, cittānupassanā, and dhammānupassanā.. These are somewhat sequential, in the sense that one needs to start with taking care of major sources of abhijjā and domanassa with kāyānupassanā. One needs to be aware that one’s actions and speech need to be moral, i.e., to abstain from dasa akusala as much as possible. With the mind clear of the worst hindrances, then it will be easier to learn Dhamma with dhammānupassanā, be easier not to react to feelings (vēdanānupassanā) but to take time and evaluate consequences, and to automatically be aware of immoral thoughts that come to the mind (cittānupassanā). Thus, it is gradual process. Each advance helps with gaining confidence in one’s actions, helps not to just react to feelings, helps to think with a clear head, which in turn helps with the understanding process. 

Especially if you are a beginner it is extremely important that you get the basics right. Vipassana is the insights that you make in the Dhamma Path, and for that you have to have a very good grasp of the True Dhamma. We should not think that we have the ability to do it our way. There are places where the Buddha has stated directly: “Do it this way and the result will be this.” In this present era we are at a disadvantage when it comes to the practice of Dhamma. The wisdom to see this ‘otherness ’started deteriorating from the time of the Buddha. Therefore we must think of approaching the Dhamma from a convenient place. The best method of approaching Dhamma is to use a system indicated by the Buddha. There are places where he has directly indicated, “If done this way, these will be the results”. We should act thus. The Supreme Buddha said that there are five factors which if practiced extensively will result in being unemotional (with the world at large), to ridding oneself of egoism, to perfect wisdom and to Nibbana. What is it that prevents us from coming to this? We have still not distanced ourselves from the ways of the world. We have been adopting a methodology which does not give rise to dispassionateness or profound disapproval. Many people claim to be meditating. They claim to be studying the Dhamma. They are carrying out the four activities of listening to Dhamma, discussing Dhamma, Samatha and Vipassana. In spite of performing those four activities pride, arrogance, thinking too much of themselves, looking down on others surface in them. That means although they claim to be performing the aforementioned four activities they have been doing something else. Something appearing as those four. What happens if they had correctly done the four activities of listening to Dhamma, discussing Dhamma, Samatha and Vipassana? it is a upward path to progress up to Arahantship for the individual who practices these four activities. To proceed up to Arahantship one must establish in himself with understanding the quality of dispassionateness. This quality has to get built up. If one practised listening to Dhamma, Dhamma discussions, Samatha and Vipassana properly, dispassionateness with understanding should take place in him. That should happen. But in case of some people the dispassionateness with understanding does not take place while vanity and pride surface. Then what has gone wrong? Doing something which appears as correct thinking or correct thing. That is where the mistake arose. It is due to not accepting what is given in the preaching. Or not carrying out what the Buddha has preached. Something which appears like that is carried out. If what the Buddha preached had been done, the results preached by him should materialize. Why doesn’t the anticipated result materialize? What has been done is not the relevant thing. Something else appearing like that has been done. That is why the mind turns towards aspects like vanity and pride. If vanity, pride placing oneself above others, looking down on others arise in a person developing concentration after meditation it is due to his not doing the correct thing. That would not have happened if he had done the correct thing. If one practices the five factors indicated in this preaching he will invariably develop dispassionateness with understanding. The Buddha has stated ‘definitely’. It happens invariably. That is what we should get done. If we practise the five Dhamma factors dispassionateness will definitely arise with understanding. If dispassionateness arises in one’s mind Vi-raga arises. Raga starts to fade away. Desire fades away. Bonds that tie you down starts to unravel. His mind starts to calm down. That is referred to as Upasamaya. If the mind someday becomes calm, it is possible to develop special wisdom in such a mind. Developing special wisdom in that manner is referred to as Abhinna. Understanding the four Noble Truths completely with such a calmed mind is called Sambodhaya. One who understands the Four Noble Truths in its entirety attains Nibbana. That fortune dawns on the person who trusts this Dhamma with confidence. 

My dear friend in Dhamma, @UUU… I sincerely hope that you try to understand what I write. Both you and I have a lot of un-learning to do. Today a relatively small group of dhamma farers are seeing dhamma in a new light, practicing it and getting very favourable results. I joined such a group, a month ago, and experienced the same. I was able to go to the four basic levels of jhana with ease. Most of what I’ve written, and what others write as answers in this forum are true only at a mundane level. When I told of this last week in this SE forum, I was told that in Pardes (Jewish exegesis) too there is a higher level of meaning. In pardes, the term, sometimes spelled PaRDeS, is an acronym formed from the same initials of the following four approaches: Peshat — "surface" ("straight") or the literal (direct) meaning. Remez— "hints" or the deep (allegoric: hidden or symbolic) meaning beyond just the literal sense. Derash— from Hebrew darash: "inquire" ("seek") — the comparative (midrashic) meaning, as given through similar occurrences. Sod (pronounced with a long O as in 'soda') — "secret" ("mystery") or the esoteric/mystical meaning, as given through inspiration or revelation. Thus, Sod represents the hidden meaning. Similar to this, the hidden meanings of many words have come to light in the recent past. So, to come to your question proper… Direct seeing can happen if ever you get to discuss the Dhamma with someone who is fully established in the Path. For that, he or she has to be at least a Sotapanna (a stream entrant). Then you must develop a trust in what that person tells you – a trust that is unflinching. A connection is made between the two where the five Hindrances (nivarana) are kept at bay. ‘Direct Seeing’ happens at such a moment. It is a ‘vi-nivarana moment. It is a moment devoid of the five hindrances. At such a moment, that person can help you become a Sotapanna (a stream entrant) too. Every person, animal or plant emanates an aura or human energy field which is a colored emanation. The rays that a Sotapanna (a stream entrant) radiates has a captivating effect when that trust is built between the two. Once you too gets established in the path, mentally you become distant from the ways of the world (world = Lokha). Then in meditation you experience 'Aloka' - radiant light. In the fourth Jhana, this radiant white light engulfs your whole body - a truly beautiful experience to have- it is bliss. When a Sotapanna begins to meditate, he/she can easily suppress the five hindrances, and get to experience direct seeing. How to recognize a sotapanna would be your next question. If a person tells you that it is INCORRECT to say that anicca, dukkha, anatta is impermanence, suffering, and “no-soul” or “no-self”, then there is a greater possibility that he/she is a Sotapanna. That person will tell you that the correct meanings are, respectively: there is nothing in this world that can be maintained to one’s satisfaction, (therefore) suffering arises, and (therefore) one is truly helpless in this world. If you start to see this by contemplating on this, it will not be too long before you too will experience “Direct Seeing”. Now let us try to understand what this “beginners mind” means as per the Dhamma. The Pali term for ‘beginners mind’ is called “pabhassara citta”. A better term for it in the English language is ”Radiant/Luminous Mind”. When meditating what we desire is a mind that generate and maintain a citta at the level of the “radiant mind”. Any given persons initial thought is a pabhassara citta, but gets contaminated no sooner it comes into being because of our “abhi-Sankhara”. Our monkey mind can never be without being in the Vitakka/Vicara mode. In meditation, after the first jhana one can go beyond the Vitakka/Vicara mode to the Avitakka/Avicara or Savitakka/Savicara mode. These states are without discursive thinking (vitakka/vicara). When one gets to the fourth jhana, s/he gets to experience the Radiant/Luminous Mind. The process of contamination of a citta is found in the Pabhassara Sutta in the Anguttara Nikaya. The Sutta says that, “Bhikkus, citta (the first stage) is pabhassara until “upakilesa” or defilements are introduced, when one starts to think through this initial thought, thereby leading to “upakilitta” or contamination. Those “puthujjano” who do not understand this, cannot comprehend the reality (yathabhuta). Therefore “therefore, Buddha does not recommend citta bhavana to them. There are two types of citta bhavana. They are the Avitakka-Avicara Bhavana, and the Savitakka-Savicara Bhavana. These two are Ariya meditations. In the other type (the Anariya meditations), one can focus on any object; in the Ariya Meditations one focuses on Nibbana. Thus, vitakka, vicara for Anariya samatha meditation becomes savitakka, savicara, emphasizing the focus on Nibbana.