Firstly, I would guess cheese is a food made to last but the more important point is that modern ideas of what is spoiled and what is acceptable to eat are probably quite different than the way people felt about it 100 years ago. People did not have effective refrigerators and food was carried by slower transportation. So things like brown spots on bananas were no big deal and actually spoiled parts of a fruit (or cheese) that you could not or would not want to eat were simply cut out. Even moguls like Rockefeller probably found acceptable things that a modern person (in the USA, anyway) would toss. 

I never thought about this but perhaps Germans did not see it as a world war or preferred not to think of it as such. Or, maybe WW2 only became a popular term in most places after the war was over? 

I also recall that the internment of American citizens was either barely touched on or simply ignored in HS history courses a few decades ago as was, for example, the Tulsa massacre in 1921. To be the devil's advocate: HS history tended to ignore unpleasant things. Columbus was treated as a great man also. 

When the Jews left England in 1290 by edict of Edward 1, who took over the role of Jews? My understanding is that the primary economic function was loaning money against future sales of farm produce -- liquidity before the grain was actually grown or sold. Was this their role and if so, who moved into this role given religious laws against "usury"? Also, were Jews supported by force of law in collecting debts? 

Watching Birth of a Nation about Nat Turner's revolt which as far as I can tell was doomed to failure but would, for example, Blacks running for the frontier when most of the USA was unsettled been considered? EDIT: I am aware of Underground RR but what I meant was, a large force of slaves rather than attacking attempting to leave en masse, protected by their numbers. 

While not an answer exactly, I would like to point out that Soviet leadership sought to apply and vindicate Communist theory in many arenas. I was told that chess as a sport was important to them because somehow it illustrated dialectical materialism. I believe also that Lysenkoism also was in some weird way proof of Marxist theory. I may have this wrong and the whole thing sounds like nonsense to me, but I have someplace heard/read this kind of thing. 

I recall reading but not where I read it that soldiers of Jewish extraction or actual Jews tended to avoid the excesses of the Red Army once German civilians were encountered. Is there any evidence of or explanation for this restraint? 

I have read that the USA was far behind Europe until maybe the 1930s. But just what were the limitations of US colleges prior to that? EDIT: I realize there was unlikely to have been any published ranking but we would I think get a sense of the limitations of US schools by seeng how many Americans went overseas to study and/or how often someone from Europe would choose to study in the USA. Also what was said about US schools. 

I am reading Gettysburg The Last Invasion by Guelzo and it is recounted that a captain advised a sergeant to make sure that men who were chronic "playouts" be taken into the fight or killed by the sergeant himself. I assume the term means, men who avoided fighting but can find no such definition. Assuming I am guessing right, I wonder further how common dealing with such playouts by killing them was. 

Besides the physician, I believe Hitler's WW1 commanding officer (for a short time) was a baptized Jew named Hess who received temporary special treatment that may or may not have been the result of direct intercession by Hitler. A non-Jew, a woman named Stefanie, was someone Hitler had had a crush on in his youth and she was surprised to discover that the Fuhrer had felt this way. He sent her gifts while in power but they never met. 

I understand that, for example, Lewis and Clark carried an air rifle that could fire 30 shots without reloading and could kill a deer. Is a deer so different than a human that such a rifle would be useless? Could a version be made more powerful? EDIT: Nice answer. I would suggest that the air rifle is an example of technology that most people severely over-estimate its year of invention. If you ask, which came first, air rifle or telephone? many would probably get it wrong as they would about several others. 

I have read his books and I suspect he deliberately changed some details for literary purposes. Of course Holocaust deniers might question much of what he wrote but do serious historians also cast doubt on some important details of his Survival in Auschwitz and The Truce (The Reawakening). A question I have is simply why the guards left anyone alive to bear witness. I know that the guards were in a hurry; I also know that they had actually been instructed not to kill remaining Jews by Himmler to use as bargaining chips (of course murders continued sometimes anyway) and perhaps Levi's survival has something to do with Himmler's directive. EDIT: I would say, what important aspects of Levi's books are either considered heavily fictionalized or outright falsehoods? I know that various characters, even though given pseudonyms in the books, were real people but from memory, I question things like the above-mentioned fact that he was left alive, what circumstances allowed this since nazis were still in killing mode long after the war was clearly lost. There is a scene where an Allied prisoner of war gives Levi a thumbs up: POWs really interacted (at a distance even) with Jewish inmates? 

In the recent Wonder Woman movie (which I know is not an historical essay) I understand that the Germans are treated as the bad guys, almost like nazis although I am pretty sure that Germans in WW1 were nothing like nazis and there were scenarios in which the USA might have supported the Germans, maybe? Groucho Marx says that he supported Germany in WW1. So is it possible that the history of WW1 as taught after WW2 was strongly colored by WW2? I realize this is sort of a meta-history question. 

What was known 100%, was not remotely attempted to be kept secret, was the treatment of German Jews in Germany -- that they were robbed of businesses, professions and property and strongly encouraged to immigrate was completely clear. One might argue that this was not genocide but you have to ask what is the ultimate intention of a policy that first impoverishes a group -- that is to say, makes it impossible for them to live? Did the Germans intend really to allow the Jews to establish a separate nation which would then be allowed to prosper or at least pursue an independent existence? I think it is clear that genocide was the final result even if that was not planned at firt. 

I think of Newton, Hooke, Leibniz, Wren, Locke -- assuming they knew hard to believe they would not have thought it crazy but I have read nothing about Newton, et al saying anything. 

I cannot find a citation but I believe I read a quote by Galton that indicated this. I know this was not the sole function of such places but it makes sense to me that a borderline mentally handicapped individual might be placed in a sheltered environment, maybe by richer parents who made a contribution to the order in exchange for them taking care of their adult offspring or even it was a place where homeless people who obviously could not find regular work were sometimes sheltered. 

My understanding is that it could make a big difference. I think circumstances that weighed in the favor of someone considered to be Jewish weighed more so if the person was half-Jewish. So being a half-Jew plus being a WW1 veteran might mean better treatment than full-Jew and WW1 vet. There were people of known Jewish ancestry in the SS (in rare, perhaps singular cases) but had that person been a full Jew, vs having a single Jewish grandparent, perhaps that person would not have been given special dispensation as he was. 

It is the United States and one measure of how important that is economically is the Civil War that was fought to keep this situation. Jefferson's patent system -- extend that to all the states, one system. No idea how IP is protected in South America but I bet it requires the filing of multiple patents. Somehow attracting the best people from all over the World and having a society in which they can be integrated, becoming Americans by becoming citizens. One might say, the US discriminated against immigrants and it did but eventually all legal discrimination was eliminated. WW2 -- What did South America do? I don't think they built tanks and ships and planes to supply The Allies and while US allies were getting pounded, the US was unscathed and emerged number 1 not just by a little but by a long shot.