Define what their collective enemy is. Every person places themselves into a myriad of different categories at different times to help identify themselves. Different situations require them to define themselves in these different ways. Examples: 

I think you're indirectly asking about scope. Any world deals with levels of encapsulation. The lower down the levels the bigger the frequency. As with anything the higher the frequency of something the more time it takes to develop it so therefore the more likely a person is to create quick methods of applying detail to it. Lucas vs. Tolkien The model for each franchise is identical, the scope is not. Lucas' top-level encapsulation is a universe, Tolkien chose a planet. Lucas' universe has many planets, Tolkien's planet has many regions. Lucas' universe has swamp planets, Tolkien's planet has swamp regions. It all comes down to how many examples of a specific level of encapsulation you have. If you're doing a universe like Lucas, you most likely don't have the time to describe all of your planets to the same level of detail as Tolkien did with Arda. 

That depends on how close to the time of the split you are asking from. The closer to the time, the more likely it is to be visible. Once a river finds a new route it will flow in that direction. Over time the majority of water will continue on this new route eroding more material, making it even easier for more water to choose the new route. Eventually the new route of the river would be made deep enough to accommodate the full watershed making the original route obsolete. It would become a dry-river bed. Think about gorges or creeks in this regard. It is very unlikely that both possible routes for the river to reach the sea will erode material at similar enough speeds to keep them completely equal. EDIT: To answer more fully, the speed of the shift from one route to another depends on the comparison of the erodibility of the material that the two routes flow through/over. Old route stone vs. new route stone the process will be slower. Old route stone vs. new route clay the process will be much quicker. 

Janna, a champion from League of Legends, was a human but eventually the magical pollution made her look like an elf 

Actually robots will never replace humans in a lot of jobs: nurses, teachers, and other social based jobs will always require human contact or that 'touch'. maybe a mix of terminator-paranoia and humans being social animals so they can't just stay in their houses doing nothing, they need to make social groups. 

As @Dent7777 stated, materials like oil are organic based so it's almost impossible to find in other celestial bodies. If you're talking about an inorganic material then I feel like the 'planetoid from an unknown solar system composed of X material crashed with the planet in its early years' like the Theia hypothesis would work. 

In League of Legends there's a champion called Rek'sai. She's a voidborn (an alien from a different realm) and can 'swin' in the ground. She makes the ground vibrate enough to move freely through solid terrain but she also creates portals to travel faster. She's more like a cricket mole but she moves like a shark in the ground. She's a feared monster in Shurima's desert who can eat expeditions like nothing: $URL$ 

As part of the new deities plan, they must bring down the elder gods in their world to create enough chaos to 'starve' them. The religious focus is simple: 

They're practical and almost everybody can buy one, compared to curved swords, thrusting a monster would be way more destructive than slashing them. EDIT: or use pikes/spears if range is a problem. 

How can these beings start a religious revolution to take down their enemies and stop their supremacy? 

Most fish have swim bladders that allow them to control their bouyancy so they can sink without losing energy swimming 

So your animal would be almost a living balloon rather than a sentient lifeform, something like an air jellyfish. It can probably develope toxins or defensive traits to help it survive, but it would be too easy to catch. 

Try and look at 'what' you actually want to use computing for. Will everyone still be as connected as they are these days? if so, could they just be using more powerful versions of the early mobile phones which had buttons and an LCD screen (my old Ericsson A1018 was like this.) Or are you looking more for a computerized world, but without necessarily needing the level of user input we have now? I mean for instance, look up 'internet of things'. The basic concept is everything around us now has a computer in it (kettles, toasters) which are all inter-connected to form their own network. However, the micro-controllers within them fairly rarely have a GUI. At most, there are a lot of blenders/food processors which have buttons on them for 'smart' cooking. These are dedicated function buttons, while the micro-controller inside simply (or not so simply) reads the data from a few sensors and applies some logic to the cooking mode. The Raspberry Pi is another good modern example. Although it is typically connected to a mouse/keyboard and TV/monitor, it needs none of these things to function. I've seen them set up as wireless computer servers; one of my colleagues has half his house automated with micro-controllers, including wifi cameras and his 3D printer, all connected through the Pi as a server. He can access his printer at work, and watch it on the camera to make sure his house isn't on fire, but the point is the Pi itself has no GUI, and the tablet or whatever he uses to access it isn't more than a dumb terminal. IF you're talking purely about how to access the computer without the graphical interface, then the next level up (or down) would be the old DIP switch and jumper approach to computer programming/usage. I have an early Amstrad PPC512 laptop at home which consists of a monochrome LCD screen, two floppy drives, a modem and no hard disk or any sort of operating system, other than what is used on the boot floppy. Setting which floppy, or external monitor source etc. was done with an array of DIP switches on the side. There are plenty of other good examples through computing history: the Apollo computer used during the moon landings had the DSKY interface, which was fitted with dedicated function buttons (noun, verb) and 7-segment readouts. Graphics calculators would be another example you could 'borrow' and modernize. TLDR: Your world started with pre-GUI computers such as the Apollo guidance computer. Instead of the desktop computer/monitor becoming standard, research instead went into portable computers such as graphics calculators and early mobile phone technology, while industry focused on single use computers programmed by DIP switch. By the time mainstream internet became available linking the IOT devices together, people still predominantly relied on text-based systems like their button phones. Something a little less anachronistic would be that, or haptic feedback devices (vibrators, or braille keypads) were invented sooner. Maybe AI was developed earlier, reducing the need for 'hands on' computing, although this begins to overlap the voice-activated approach as mentioned in a previous post. 

We're talking about a late-middle age civilization. Actually magic is a thing in this world (pretty powerful magic). This magic works almost as low reality manipulation using your life force (most of the times). Since some people have amazing magical affinity but low prana runes are almost always used and sometimes life force can be damaged if you don't take care of it. People have different talents (as the 7 types of intelligence) so a person who's bad in alchemy probably can be an excellent healer. These are the magic types of my world: 

So a magical mutation can be differentiated from a normal mutation if the parents of the child are magic users. 

All swords are good against unarmored enemies. Totally depends of the numbers and how durable are they, but against an unarmored opponent my best choice would be a rapier. They're light, fast, you can deal fatal wounds against unarmored enemies and have enough range to take down enemies due of thrusting. Almost one handed so the person can carry a shield or a small axe. 

How can a medieval civilization create an educational system that allows the monarchy to use these mages in the battlefield? Something I missed. Almost all are young (12-18 years old, when prana starts to activate) 

While biological mutations are almost random, the practice of centain magic increase the probability of specific mutations. Maybe the children of blood mages develope sharp fangs, or the healing mages would have children with sharped ears, etc. As a result of the magical mutations, this children have higher affinity with magic and the spiritual world compared to other children (like the indigo children thing). 

As part of my magic system, the 'life force' is mostly a common 'supernatural' energy produced by most lifeforms (and some minerals can stock/deflect it). This energy allows humans and other human-like beings to control/create magic/summons and increase their stats to superhuman levels, however not all people can withstand the energy consumption of enhancement due of their low 'life energy' levels, causing a multi organ dysfunction syndrome and potential death since they can't regenerate the amount of energy faster enough to continue their normal metabolic processes. This life force mostly flows in the blood like oxygen.