Chamberlain was certainly wrong in his appeasement policies. And no, he wasn't buying time with it. It is clear from his statements from the period that he believed that it was possible to stop Hitler with diplomatic concessions. In this, he was certainly in accordance to the general public sentiment, which was, as other answers and comments point, against war. Certainly, Britain was rearming during the period, but the point of Chamberlain's politics was to avoid war, not to postpone it to a time when Britain was better equipped. It is important to remember the course of German demands and acquisitions in the 1930's, to understand that those demands were not unreasonable or demented. Germany reannexed the Saar in 1935, through a plebiscite that was provisioned by the Versailles Treaty. It was a region with a majority of German population. Then Germany remilitarised the Rhineland, which was, and never ceased to be, metropolitan German territory. That put an end to a buffer zone between Germany and France, but it can hardly be called an absurd. Then Germany demanded four other things: 1. the Anschluss of Austria (which had an overwhelmingly German population, that gave strong popular support for the idea), and the annexation of 2. the Sudettenland, 3. Memel, and 4. Dantzig/Gdansk. All those regions were German-majority regions; so, as an abstraction, such demands did not offend the sence of justice of most people. The fact that these apparently reasonable demands were part of a German strategy for war and domination of Europe was not immediately apparent - and was in fact the kernel of the debate about appeasement. Those who thought that the demands were reasonable and fair, and that Hitler, albeit being a tyrant, was a tyrant of the old kind, with limited strategic goals that could be negotiated, favoured appeasement: to give Germany its reasonable demands, with reasonable assurances for reasonable protections of the rights of the ethnic minorities in those regions. The fate of political oppositionists in Memel, Gdansk, the Suddeten, or Austria, was of minimal concern - after all, those people were in great part already subjected to brutal dictatorial regimes, like those of Dolfuss/Schuschnnig, Bock/Pilsudsky, or Smetona, and that was considered pretty normal. Those who thought that the German demands, reasonable as they were, were just a part of an expansionist strategy, which could be much more ambitious than the mere political reunification of German ethnicity, opposed appeasement, and proposed stronger diplomacy - of which, of course, threats of war were an integral part. Those people were not visionaries - Hitler himself had extensively written about his strategy, and made no secret of the fate he intended to impose into the Slavic or otherwise non-German populations of Eastern Europe. And so, the Sudetten crisis was to be the watershed moment that finally cleared which of those political currents was correct. Austrians were for the most part happy to be anschlussed - and those who weren't, either were, like Communists and Socialdemocrats, already being repressed under Austria's own national government, or, like Schuschnigg's loyalists, didn't attract much sympathy, as they were the ones doing such repression. Czechoslovakia was different - it was a democracy, and its inhabitants weren't German or happy with German domination. Hitler promised to annex the Sudetten but to otherwise respect Czechoslovakia's independence. He broke that promise and invaded and subjected the Czech part of Czechoslovakia, showing in practice that he wouldn't be stopped by diplomacy and that his politics wasn't merely a politics of unifying ethnic Germans. Now, Czechoslovakia had a quite formidable defensive line in the Suddeten. While they obviously could not counter-attack and invade Germany, they could have set up fierce resistance, much more than Poland did. The terrain is difficult, not the plains and prairies of Poland, and Czechoslovakian fortifications were strong and modern. This point shows, I think, the extent of Chamberlain's mistakes. If he was intent to rearm Britain for a future war, then he shouldn't allow the Germans to remove the Czechoslovakian defensive line, leaving the poor republic defenceless when the following, predictable, onslaught came. He was really deluded about Hitler's intentions and strategies. Only then public opinion turned against appeasement. That would be the precise moment when Chamberlain could have been ousted. But Chamberlain himself recognised that we was wrong, and changed his mind on the possibility of containing Hitler through diplomacy. He was weakened by the blunder, and Churchill, who had opposed the policy, was strengthened. But it didn't cost Chamberlain his leadership within the Tories, and he remained prime minister. The moment of his possible fall had passed. When the invasion of Poland came, Chamberlain was no longer defending a policy of appeasement - and indeed his government immeadiately declared war on Germany, as it had promised before. And so, there was no particular reason why Chamberlain would be ousted in September 1939. He survived the crisis of March, when Hitler occupied "Bohemia and Moravia"; he was not to survive the crisis of the failure to defend Norway. But there was no particular British internal crisis due to the invasion of Poland. What ensued was the drôle de guerre - the inaction of the allies in the Western Front, while the Wehrmacht slaughtered Poland. This was another wrong policy, but it cannot be blamed upon Chamberlain alone; any action would have to be started from French territory, and the French government, not Chamberlain, was the main culprit of the drôle de guerre. His fall came with the invasion of Denmark and Norway, not because the British public opinion realised that war was unavoidable, but because it realised the war was iminent, and that the invasion of France, and probably Belgium and the Netherlands, was a matter of days. Thence Chamberlain lost his position, not directly as a punishment for appeasement or drôle de guerre, but because it was consensual that all main parties should be included in government, and Churchill was by far more acceptable to Labour (and Liberals, though that probably didn't matter as much). Luckacs' two books on the subject (The Duel: 10 May–31 July 1940: the Eighty-Day Struggle between Churchill and Hitler and Five Days in London, May 1940) are a good read, mapping quite well the positions of Churchil and Chamberlain (and Labour's. And Halifax's - whose dellusions seem to have been more persistent than Chamberlain's) during the crisis that lead to the fall of France. 

If one has two parents and four grandparents, then when one goes back ten generations one has potentially 2^10th, or 1024 ancestors of the 10th generation. This becomes 1 million potential ancestors at the 20th generation and 1 billion at the 30th. If each generation is roughly 25 years, then 30 of them is 7.5 centuries, which would be in the area of 1253 AD. It is doubtful, although possible, that there were 1 billion humans on earth in 1253 - therefore everyone alive today is potentially descended from everyone alive at the time that produced descendants into the current generation. While 25 year generations is common now, it has been traditional to marry girls at age 14, therefore most generations may average 20 years, and in that case we go back 600 years to 1413 AD. This is within a century of Columbus arriving in the Americas. By the end of this century, DNA from even the remotest settlements should be thoroughly mixed into the global population. It would be safe to say that modern Greeks have some DNA from Greek ancestors 2300 years ago, but they will also have DNA from Hutus, Mongols, and even Incas. 

Is there a reliable objective study that addresses this issue? No. There are several dimensions that would have to be addressed. I can hint at what they are, with the intention of exposing some of the inherent conflicts of such an inquiry. First, there is no doubt that various laws and court cases that were established in the 1950s and 1960s ended institutional racism. Johnson was instrumental in some of these, but they were not necessarily 'Great Society'. The Civil Rights Act of 1964, in particular, was not an attempt at an economic program, it was focused on eliminating state laws that institutionalized discrimination. 'Great Society' acted pro-actively, often but not always in economic terms. Head Start is one educational program that most view as an unqualified success. Over the span of it's existence, it has consistently helped the children that were enrolled in the program. The Higher Education Act of 1965 vastly expanded federal funding of higher education, including the provision of low interest student loans. The value of this is probably described as a bell curve, with positive and negative aspects evenly distributed around the mean. On the one hand, many people who deserved access to higher education were able to act on it. On the other hand, many of those who enrolled were viewed as not having met the same qualification criteria as non-minority students, and felt ostracized. Retrospectives on this aspect suggest this caused real harm. It may also have created more systemic hazards. As the Federal Government supplies more and more of the money to higher education, it also politicizes campus policies, and has created severe distortions that in some cases impinge on student freedom of speech and due process. It also appears to be suffering a problem similar to crop subsidies, more students are graduating with degrees than can find jobs that require college educations. This can negatively affect minorities that don't have college or even high school educations, as they are crowded out by non-minorities with more complete attainment. Larger Economic Framework The industrial revolution sparked a collection of redistributionist philosophies, Marxism being one of them. While social systems are always redistributionist to some degree, the doctrine of economic central planning didn't really take hold until Stalin took control of the Soviet Union. Just because the communists took over in 1918 doesn't mean that the central planning apparatus suddenly materialized out of nowhere, this took time to implement. The experience with Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany also appeared in the 1930s, particularly after Germany had been through the hyperinflation of the 1920s. Therefore, at the point in time that MLK was proposing a restructuring of the US economy, 'the facts weren't in'. While the German and Italian economies had been released from centralized authority, little was really understood about how the Soviet experiment was running. It would be another decade or two for the bankruptcy of that order to be certain. In the meantime, in the period from 1945 to 1972, the US 'owned the world'. Europe and Japan were rebuilding from nearly total destruction. The US population exploded from about 135 million to 200 million between 1945 and 1963. This triggered massive construction of housing, freeways, aircraft, telecommunications infrastructure, and consumer goods. With the arrival of television, those that were locked out of this economic bounty were seeing it day to day, one can review any number of the classic 1960s sitcoms to imagine how that was being received by people living in tenements. The idea that someone halfway through their life in the 1960s now had the 'opportunity' to get better employment, was, overall, pretty useless. Without education or experience someone at age 35 was not going to shift from warehousing to doctor or attorney. This would take time, for many, they had been waiting long enough. Given the economic power of the US at the time, the idea that it should be shared had a lot of political support. Thus it was easy to enact rafts of legislation for Medicare, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, Food Stamps, student loans, etc. Many of these didn't go all that far at the time, such programs were expanded later, both in terms of services provided and as to who was served. This has created a massively larger government, and is coincident with deficit spending and rapidly rising government debt. The legislation that was enacted in the 1960s would have been 'affordable' if it had remained in it's original scale. The two problems were that the scale expanded, and that people became dependent - not merely as recipients but as government workers employed in the vast bureaucracy. Many of these workers are minorities - people that wouldn't have had such jobs had the agencies didn't exist. Needless to say, as government employees they are better off than they might be sweeping streets, however in this role they do not face market forces, and therefore have little incentive to adapt to changing circumstances. What we are finding now is that attempts to simply downsize government and reign-in public sector benefits is a 'third rail', touch it and you're dead. As this continues, the government continues to draw a disproportionate slice of the economic pie, leaving everyone worse off. 

(From T.E.D.'s answer) In the 50's, above 40% of adult Americans smoked cigarettes. (From T.E.D.'s answer) Of smokers, about 70% smoked at least one pack a day. (From 2.) Conservatively, each smoker smoked in average 15 cigarettes a day. (From common knowledge) Adults are usually awake about 16 hours a day. (From personal experience) It takes about 8 minutes in average to smoke a cigarette. (From 3. and 4.) Each adult smoked a cigarette each 64 minutes. (From 5. and 6.) Each cigarette smoking adult spent about 1/8 of his awake time smoking. (From 1. and 7.) It could be expected that about 5% of adult Americans was smoking at any given time. 

This relies in willfully mistaking figurative language for non-figurative speech. Roosevelt didn't "trade" those people in the sense that a slave trader traded his captives. He made a political pact which included handing prisoners of war to a foreign power. There was no selling of human individuals in that; it is a "trade" only rhetorically, in that a political pact involves both sides making concessions, which may be roughly similar to the concessions made by people selling and buying things. Also, those people were not "slaves" in any technical terms; there were no "slaves" in the Soviet Union. Slaves are property that can be bought and sold; we use the word "slave" in many different figurative senses, some very foolish, others not so much. And the condition of POWs returned to the SU may have been dire, even similar to slavery in the 19th century Americas, so the rhetorics may have some merit here. But to attempt to make a factual statement that "Roosevelt was the biggest slave trader in recorded history" and intend it to be taken as an accurate description of what really happened is to mistake electoral campaign rhetorics for a scientific description. 

With respect to Britain, there was an understanding between Churchill and Roosevelt that the UK would free it's colonies after the war. Atlantic Charter Specific terms described in this article are 'A key American aim was to force a change of British policy in regard to its Empire. America realized the precarious position of Britain, reliant as she was on US military aid, and intended to exploit this by forcing a commitment to self-determination, and an open door policy on resources.'. France still had colonies in Africa after WW II. Many of the French colonies were granted self-determination in the 1950s and 1960s. Some of these were the result of bloody insurgencies, particularly in Algeria. WW II exposed the true cost of defending far flung possessions. Britain, with a population of 40 million, was responsible for defending the quarter of the Earth's surface that it 'possessed' going into WW II. Most of Europe had lost interest in military adventures following the carnage of WW I. Once it was clear further military investment would be essential, European countries ended most claims of sovereignty outside their historical borders. Exceptions tend to be islands that continue to rely on defense and civil administration from a much larger host. 

One of the books piled up at some of the bookstore chains is titled 'The Knights Templar'. A point made in the book is that between the formation of the Knights and their dissolution there was a cultural shift in Europe toward a more secular outlook. The collapse of the western Roman empire was both natural and human disaster, natural in that there appeared to be a global cooling event that led to a lot of starvation, and human (perhaps partly cause by the natural disaster) in the collapse of what might be described as the 'advanced' civilization of Rome. This was succeeded by the arrival of the Muslims in the Holy Lands and North Africa, and the spread of Christianity throughout Europe. By the 1300s much of Europe had gotten tired of the Crusades and the Church was acting as a temporal power, in effect another power center among the kings and emperors of Europe. The natural disaster had abated, so the 1200s in particular (the High Middle Ages) were quite prosperous. The Templars were significantly influenced by their experience in the Holy Lands and in particular in their archeology on the Temple Mount. Subsequent evidence suggests they found and removed many articles that were hidden or stored in the area, and some of these presumably contained heretofore 'hidden' knowledge. It is presumed some of this was used to their advantage in Europe, which created widespread disaffection. Over time, the order was becoming progressively less subordinate to either the Pope or the rulers in the countries they operated in. This was particularly troublesome in France, considerably less so in England and in particular in Scotland. While formally disbanded as a religious order, elements of it appear to have survived as the Freemasons. Some find this to be a controversial assertion, particularly when the role of the Freemasons is considered in the formation of the United States from the 13 Colonies. There is circumstantial evidence that various branches of the Knights either explored or migrated into North America following the dissolution in 1312. 

The demographic history of France is different from that of most other European countries. While in most European countries mortality rates dropped in mid 19th century but natality rates only declined at the end of that century or even in the beggining of the 20th century, in France natality rates dropped almost simultaneously with mortality rates. Indeed, France's population almost stagnated between 1850 and 1900 (36 million in the former date, 38 million in the latter). So, in short, while Germany, Italy, Poland, or Ireland, faced intense populational growth and consequently strong demographic pressures to which emigration was an obvious answer, France underwent no similar process, and consequently its emigration was much smaller. A good discussion of the issue, in French, may be found here. 

Why? No one thinks of Nero or Caligula as socialists, and they certainly had two or three things to teach Hitler about the persecution of Christians. 

Horses were, knights not so much, though the Romans had an "Equestrian Class", which were "knights", if not militarily, at least socially. As Tom Au says, the stirrup was the fundamental inovation that made heavy cavalry possible. Without a stirrup, riders can be unseated, not just by the efforts of enemy infantrymen, but by their own push when charging: if their weapon was a lance, the impact of it upon the enemy would backlash against them, with disasterous consequences. So, before the stirrup, cavalry was necessarily light cavalry, either armed with swords or bows. Cavalry with swords was useful for persecution, preventing the enemy from regrouping, and could also outflank the enemy, attack from behind, and disorganise their lines completely. Cavalry with bows, or mounted archers, were excellent skirmishers, that could harrass the enemy from distance, relying on speed and mobility. But neither could actually charge, in the sense we think of cavalry charges; the charging weapons in ancient times were chariots, which are far less manoeverable than mounted horses. Medieval heavy cavalry could charge against infantry, because stirrups made unseating knights much more difficult. And its impact had high momentum: the total mass of horse and knight, multiplied by the speed of the horse. Being trampled by that was extremely lethal; only a very skilled infantry, heavily armoured, and armed with pikes could sustain a direct cavalry charge.