My mother tongue is Chinese and I speak neither Japanese nor Korean yet I don't think they really sound close. I will definitely not mistake Japanese speakers as speaking Korean. It's very easy for "close" languages to borrow and share a lot of features. An example I remember quite well is the pronunciation of "r" in became quite similar in French and German over time (for a lot words at least), even though those languages fundamentally don't have much to do with each other, however that doesn't make them belong to one language family. So the issue in a large part is how do you separate features borrowed from neighboring, but essentially unrelated languages from features that stemmed from a common language family. It's true that Japanese and Korean share certain common features (e.g. grammar) between themselves and also with some other languages in the area, for example Manchu Language, but the sources of such similarities are debated. Also, the Altaic hypothesis is largely based on the idea that a large portion of the ancestors of modern Korean and Japanese came from north/northeastern Asia (and then they mixed with the population coming from further south to form their respective races), which might be true to a large extent. However, even if that's true, since the geographical conditions of those two places were largely isolating (especially Japan), and also since there were another large portion of the population who came from completely different places (e.g. from Southeastern Asian islands in the case of Japan), they might well have developed a lot of their own features during the tens of thousands of years so that it would be hard to still classify them as belonging to the same language family. Apparently all human beings eventually came from the same place... So at what point of a language's evolution do you draw the line on language families is a somehow subjective issue actually. 

One research group at our university is particularly interested in the statistical properties of language. One professor, Michael Ramscar, is teaching us some classes this semester on related topics. And basically the idea is that this kind of logarithmic/exponential distribution is considered optimal in an information theory point of view, since it ensures that the entropy of the whole probability distribution would be the lowest, ensuring the most effective communication in general. Some of these ideas can also be found at his blog, for example this article about the distribution of names. P.S.: Actually he also made the argument that the "Zipfian power law" view is not entirely accurate while an "logarithmic/exponential" distribution might be a better description. He said that the shape of the curve under the Zipfian power law would be largely impacted by the sample size, while the shape of the curve under simple logarithmic/exponential distribution wouldn't, because it would only have one parameter, while the Zipfian power law distribution also gets a scaling factor besides the simple exponential factor. I'm not sure I completely got this point to be honest, but the point about entropy should still stand regardless, since I think Zipfian distribution is basically logarithmic/exponential as well. 

of course mathematics is not a language. but we do have a "language" of mathematics, that allows us to express mathematical ideas. Or so it would seem. Is there really such a thing? Not really. It looks like a formal language, but it isn't, it's just a tightly constrained variety of natural language. Mathematicians do not write their papers in a formal language, generally. Some of them even oppose doing that. we cannot (so far) even define "language", although we can formally define very impoverished formal structures that we like to call languages. regarding the classic triumvirate of phonology, syntax, and semantics: its obvious that the language of mathematics does not have its own phonology, for example. what is the phonology of the symbol used in differential equations? {\frac {\partial z}{\partial x}}? 

Arabic: 1984 could be read as "one thousand and nine hundred and four and eighty" (the modern reading) or "four and eighty and nine hundred and one thousand" (traditional). I have heard the latter on the radio. and you could probably get away with "four and eighty and one thousand and nine hundred". P.S. On a related note: it is often claimed, even by "experts" (like the Unicode folks) that Arabic numbers are written left to right, and since the language is written RTL, Arabic (and other RTL languages) are "bidirectional". This is total hogwash. You can read and read numerals in whatever order you like. The semantic rule is simply "base 10, least significant digit first", in contrast to (most) LTR languages, which go most significant digit first. The myth of bidirectionality is 100% fabricated by the tech industry. 

there is no such progression. whatever you read is plainly wrong, and easily disproven. find the ancient Greek equivalents of English words like "fun", "guts", "beer", etc. or German "Schadenfreud", French "esprit", etc. 

whether or not "tense" is even meaningful in (Classical) Arabic is an open question. Arabic verbs do not generally have tense, although they have aspect. to give a definite future meaning to an imperfect like yadbribu you prefix the invariant "sawfa", a separate word. but "yadribu" can have any "tense" depending on context. "daraba" is taught as past tense (he struck) and "yadribu" as present or future, but that's wrong. the main distinction is aspect not tense. 

easy-peasy: context. what you meant is completely irrelevant once you utter your sentence. you could have meant -in your mind - anybody when you said "he". since your interlocutor cannot read your mind, all she has to go on is context - which includes conventions like "he" refers to the most recent "thing" mentioned to which "he" could reasonably apply. Edited per comment from @user6726: touche! proforms do not "get" or "have" a "meaning". But they do have significance, or if you prefer a functional role. strictly speaking they do not "get" their significance from "context", either - they get it from the norms of linguistic practice, which in turn always involve an interaction with the context. 

You'll notice that the list is not all that inclusive, but my purpose is not to get a language by language prediction and I felt it was best to keep it to languages I was most familiar with (the one exception being the Asian languages). Setting aside all reports of an asteroid hitting Earth in 2025 or reports that we will reach "singularity" by 2045, I am curious about the opinions of others who are more learned with the topic of linguistics, machine learning, and/or artificial intelligence with regard to the predictions I've made. In fact, I thought about posting this on the Artificial Intelligence StackExchange, but I sensed it would be seen by more people who have discussed this question by posting it here in the Linguistics StackExchange. I'd also be interested in knowing how you come up with your predictions. Mine, as I said, were based off of Mr. von Ahn's predictions, but beyond that, I factored in the difficulty of the various languages based off of previously established models (such as the FSI's categories of language difficulty), my own personal experience with the language, and how well I've noticed tools such as Google Translate perform. It would seem to me that this process of going from human translation to machine translation will be a gradual process and quite different from the transition that took place between use of the abacus and the hand-held calculator. However, the path technology has taken and the speed with which it has spread seems to indicate that it is inevitable that one day machine translation will eclipse human translation. Sadly, however, I've never heard anyone lament, But I was really good with the abacus! What am I going to do now that the calculator is here!! I say sadly, because learning a language may be the one true talent some of us have and it takes a lot of time and energy to learn a language. Despite that (or perhaps because of it) I wonder if it makes sense to continue such a pursuit. The quality of some machine translations I've seen is so good that I wonder if continuing to learn a language is akin to continuing to master your skills with the abacus when the calculator is about to hit the market. In other words, is it now a waste of time to bother learning a foreign language because a machine will soon be able to do it so much faster and so much better? Thank you in advance for taking the time to consider and answer my question. 

Do these 2600 nouns include gerunds? I've actually searched the study for any mention of how they are treated, but it does not appear to address it. My initial thought was to eliminate them, but not even halfway through the collection phase I see that they are quite prevalent. I've already made some judgment calls on certain words to exclude, but to omit gerunds simply because I'm not sure how to classify them seems like a step too far. Some of you might suggest I contact Professor Davies directly, and I may just do that, but in the meantime, I wanted to know if anybody in this community is aware of standard practices with regard to this topic. Thanks in advance for any insight or references you can provide. 

try $URL$ it's a little rough but it contains the full text of both Lane and Lisaan al-Arab, in parallel. It's not designed as a dictionary, i.e. something where you just look up a "word". It's a tool for exploring the lexicon. it only understands roots, and will show you all permutations for a root, so you can examine Eg all words that start with "kt" and ponder whether they share a common semantic kernel - a very old theory in Arabic lexicology. you need to read the help screen carefully and experiment. E.g. Lane and the Lisaan pick different roots for some words that have "weak" letters, and I have not yet unified them. 

there are many transliteration schemes. if you want to be scholarly, follow the Encyclopedia of Islam scheme. informally, I use H for your first example and h for the last. the middle one is not really an "h" sound, I usually go with "kh". 

old joke: a language is a dialect with an army. terms like "the German language" are practically useful; they help us to communicate, which is to say, to help us coordinate our actions. But in reality there are no such things. What counts as the German (or French, Chinese, etc) language is always driven by norms established by a dominant social group. Real people speak whatever they speak, which is always unique to the individual: an idiolect. once you have a community of speakers whose idiolects enable successful joint action (communication), then you can start talking about dialects, languages, etc. but in all cases what counts as the language is a matter of norms, not any kind of objective rule or grammar. If you find German perplexing, try Chinese or Arabic. Both of those terms are very broad, umbrella terms that cover enormous variation. It's useful to have them so we can say, e.g. "he speaks Arabic", but in fact nobody speaks "Arabic", since there is no such thing. What he speaks is one of millions of idiolects that enable people in a broad community to communicate. so terms like "the German language" are really more sociological than linguistic. PS. I don't have the citations handy, but there is good reason to think of dictionaries and grammars a indoctrination devices. 

it's historical. Obviously there are only two choices. some languages evolved one way, some the other way, and in some languages like latin word order is (mostly) free. It's related to whether your language has case endings,but there could also be other factors, like gender. human languages are incredibly diverse. it has nothing to do with logic or rationality. 

Siblingness is a relational property. You cannot be a brother unless you are a brother of somebody else. But you can be a cat without being a cat of something. Youre still a mamnal and not a dog. So a cat is a kind of mammal, but a brother is not a kind of sibling. IOW, siblingness has nothing to do with sex. A brother is a sibling who happens to be male. (Let's leave gender out of it, for simplicity' sake.) A species with only one sex could still have siblings. Amoebae for example.