On the extreme side, playing this out through some generations in a society that does allow such modifications, a related but distinctively unique hybrid of human-machine may arise. Some call it "homo-evolutis". Something like this was explored in Elysium, Cloud Atlas, and much other science-fiction. It won't happen in an isolated way, due to the interconnectedness of the now. It will require both evolutionary and revolutionary shifts in the way R&D is done and what it is done for. Bottom line and defence will continue to drive innovation for some time, but maybe, just maybe, world peace is achieved at some time in the future (without too much death and destruction) and so happens to be a large catalyst by freeing up large amounts of the world's human and capital resources to pursue the next great evolutionary and revolutionary journeys that so unjustly go de-prioritized or non-existent on the agendas of the current world economic-political pasta of today. I can imagine that through heavy genetic modification, physical problems such as degeneration and ageing, and even many if not most mental problems would be addressed to what some today would consider to be "miraculous" levels. Through transplantation, in-place or offsite augmentation (imagine harnessing super-computing through thought), or complete replacement, local physical diseases, imbalances, and uneven and under-development of physical and brain structures would be prevented. Cognitive Behavioural Therapy (CBT), increased self-awareness, and better command of self-control have proven to be keystone areas affecting mental health and overall wellbeing, among more traditional chemical interpretations championed today. These areas will benefit hugely from an improving understanding of our cognitive structures that will accompany if not precede many of these other advancements. Maybe we will be able to perform fairly accurate backups of our brain structures into a data store, to as minute as detail as possible, so as to regrow a brain using a 3D body part printer, and just about any other part for you, in case you smashed your last "physical body" on your last race with your temporary clone manifestation from 175 years ago on your personal space vehicles ;) Intelligent sentient existence will become very weird. Insert telepathy and the central global consciousness. Imagine facebook groups and whatsapp groups but with thought. The 'clone you' and the 'contiguous current you' may be very well aware that his or her (or his-her, or their) time would be limited, because he or she (or she-he, or them) that their experience would be merged onto the same base contagious current you, so perhaps that other/previous/'part'-you may not actually mind getting smashed, they may actually prefer to pause/sleep/go-offline. Science fiction has explored this well. I liked Meronym's healing machine in Cloud Atlas. I also liked the med beds from Elysium. Others talk of nano bots running through our veins, somehow, greatly augmenting our immune systems. Of course, almost all technology, or access to it, can be weaponized. It is my sincere hope that this does not happen, though history mostly pops that bubble fairly quickly :( Btw, Gattaca is one of my favs! About the specific questions: 

While it might be tempting to design birdhouse-like structures, consider that civilized creatures (i.e. not struggling for survival against elements and predators) will probably be lazy. And flying is a lot of work. And if they're anything like humans, there will be hoarders who want to move lots of heavy stuff into their homes. Also consider elderly and disabled, which isn't a thing in the wild because they die, but would be a real concern for a civilized species. I would think that maybe the architecture would have birdhouse-like impressions to it, but that there would probably be ramps or pulley systems for goods, and likely walkways between levels. Also, keep in mind that building vertically will always be more expensive than building flat, because vertical structures require more design and stronger materials. Although, for these residents a story is probably only 6-7ft and it doesn't need to hold nearly as much weight. unless they like pottery. To imagine a city of these people, I'd guess that the wealthier residents live in artfully designed multi-story houses with stone/earthen bases and wooden pole construction for 3-5 stories. Less wealthy residents probably have 2-3 story dwellings, and maybe the poorest residents are stuck making nests in the hills around the city, with the poor elderly and/or disabled ending up at the bottom of those hills, and young "street rats" ending up at the top of the hills. The homes would probably have very small windows, or barred windows, since any large opening could essentially become a door for a burglar. Walled garden type things wouldn't probably exist since the wall would serve no purpose. All angles of the home would be visible, so if they had stuff they didn't want seen it would need to be inside or underground. All homes will likely have large sturdy roofs, to protect against falling objects (imagine the common occurrence of accidentally dropping goods or equipment from several hundred feet up, or those weekend parties when everyone is flying home drunk and can't be bothered to find public toilets) Lightweight creatures probably don't have endurance for too much digging, so basements are probably rare. For moving the quantities of food needed for a city, boats are probably still the most efficient method, so a sizable city would probably still be along the water. That said, a creature that can move so much faster than a human might be able to fly out to nearby farms for meals, so they wouldn't be as reliant on supply chains like humans are. But, don't underestimate the space needed to grow enough food for the population of a city. 

What would the moral line be that parents could not cross when altering their children? A fair and just society that allows such selective breeding would necessarily have to create fairly levelled arenas of competition for access to education, athletic competition, and the average workplace (as is explored in the movie). We can already see some of this with advanced programs at elementary and high schools in which 'gifted' children are placed. Currently there is no other way to get there than to either work really hard to improve your bets, or to have a genetic advantage - this will change in the future. It will create a collection of parents who may not be gifted, and consequently likely to be poorer, who yet desire for their children to compete with the naturally and artificially gifted. Something similar exists in the world of professional athletic competition, with their various levels of competition. Contrast the rules of professional athletic competition with professional aesthetic bodybuilding. We see that pro bodybuilding allows enhancements otherwise banned in most pro athletics. If all have equal (and fair, since this can be very expensive) access to enhancements from the start, then why does pro sports ban enhancements? Likely because not because of the fact that enhancements are expensive, though that would be one reason to level the playing field by banning them (other than ensuring safe use, etc). Enhancements are the name of the game in pro bodybuilding, and anyone and everyone who goes into it, unless if it is for 'natural' bodybuilding, is aware of that. Perhaps being 'gifted', 'natural' or otherwise, will become a prerequisite for many types of jobs of the future, as was explored in Gattaca. What kind of extreme genetic changes could be made by those wishing to bypass this moral line? What is moral and what is ethical? I think what matters is that whatever is done is done so ethically. People make porn, and that's fine in many societies but it is immoral in others - but that's just morality, not necessarily ethics. You still need to ensure safety, prevent abuse, etc. There are rules in place for that. New rules will need to be devised for situations where this new breed of humans interact with others, in order to ensure justice. This one is up to the imagination, really. What if you simulated millions of permutations of an evolved human with two sets of arms and more than 5 fingers on each hand, along with the necessary changes in the brain to coordinate these two sets meaningfully? What if this same permutation had an ability to perform higher level thinking on multiple subjects simultaneously? This person would be able to be their own drummer, guitarist, and singer. Or they could be suffering from severe mental or physical pain that simulations somehow got wrong, or whatever could have went wrong, did go wrong. Obviously (hopefully) you'd do a ton of simulations before proceeding with such a radical experiment. I hope those that are indeed willing to cross the 'moral lines' will at least do so in an ethical way. What kinds of laws would a society of this nature have to have in order to keep these reproductive genetic testing/enhancements in check? It would try to continue to shorten the gap between the ultra rich and the poor. It would create playing fields for access to education and work for people of all disabilities, abilities, and extra abilities in ways fair and just for all. 

You seem to think those people would have an unfair advantage over, and would use it to the detriment of others. First let me say (and I'm an atheist) that jealousy is a sin. Don't be jealous. Secondly, many people have advantages over others (money, health, education, bodily strenght, intelligence, beauty, whatever), and most people agree that the same law should apply to everyone. Thirdly, most societies have laws in place to keep people from exploiting their advantages in an unfair manner, and expect wealthy people to provide to the public welfare overproportionally. Now what should happen? Some of your nonsleepers could become very rich, so they should pay higher taxes. Same applies to other rich people. Some could become politically powerful. So are some groups of people today, and most of them haven't "earned" it. Or some of them could form a syndicate to enslave the rest of mankind, which is the moment to arrest them, and put them on trial, like you do with every other group of criminals. And yes, perhaps they should have their own sports competitions in some cases, like men and women and people with disabilites do. Nothing that the legislative should be concerned with. 

Simple: One bar magnet on the cargo, fixed, one in the floor, that can rotate freely. Without power, the two align north to south, south to north, and hold the cargo in place. There is a motor connected to the floor magnet with a clutch that is closed by a small electromagnet. The motor can turn the floor magnet until the net force is zero. There is still a large torque on the magnet then, so in a power failure it will snap back immediately. During loading, the floor magnets are monitored by a feedback loop that always turns them into the "neutral" position with respect to any passing cargo magnet fixture. The magnet on the cargo can move vertically slightly and is kept fixed in the "away" position by a small spring. That way a power failure during loading is less dangerous for the workers feet, and you don't get large torques on the cargo. 

Impossible, unless you change the physics of your alternate world so transistors or nuclear power don't work. In a world with millions of scientists, everything gets discovered when the time is ripe. And without transistors, spaceflight is so terribly expensive that nobody would start a large-scale operation such as Project Olympus. 

No, or at least unlikely. There is no evolutionary advantage in having blue, green or grey eyes. Pale skin, yes, in the north, but eye and hair colour are only a secondary effect of that. If your islanders are really human, it's improbable. No melanin production in the eye would be the result of a genetic defect. That would usually only proliferate thoughout a whole population if it had some secondary advantage, for example resistance to an endemic infection, even if it was otherwise completely harmless. A dominant genetic variation occuring spontaneously is something rather rare, i believe.