In addition to the study above, the Federal Trade Commission (in 2001) warned manufacturers of these devices that they needed to support their claims with evidence in order to continue to sell the devices. They had specific claims that they found to be problematic, and also indicated that the idea of ultrasonic devices was problematic: These are the claims that the FTC wanted the manufacturers to substantiate: 

In 2002, Lentek International was charged by the FTC with making false and unsubstantiated claims about their pest-control products. In 2003, Global Instruments settled with the FTC. The settlement prohibited them making their claims about the devices unless they came up with substantiating evidence. 

I have heard this on multiple occasions at the dentist and a quick search lists dentist after dentist telling patients to do this. For example: These facial surgeons recommend: 

According to the American Dental Association, brushing your teeth too much seems to result in problems not with your teeth, but with your gums (for example receding gums that can lead to tooth sensitivity. Here is the sensitive teeth link. They also recommend brushing twice a day with a soft-bristled brush. The Mayo Clinic also recommends that if you eat or drink something that you know is acidic you should wait 30 minutes before brushing because you might damage the tooth enamel. 

Here are a couple of sources that might be helpful: This study addressed the "clinical effectiveness of strontium chloride" and found that out of a group of 132 patients, 72% had reduced discomfort and pain. No mechanism was offered. This study seems to indicate that fluid flow is associated with dentinal pain (this addresses thermal stimulation) This study indicates that potassium nitrate works through desensitization of nerve tissue within the tubules 

Here's the abstract for the study that found "85% of Amish parents surveyed accept some immunizations". One clarification to note is that the 85% figure is for Amish parents who gave at least some of their children at least one vaccine. I also found the blog post by Prometheus referred to in "Olmsted Lied...". The post links to the study by Strauss et. al. 

TL;DR Version: There are some significant problems with the APA's claim in 2005 that there are no negative effects. Further research (with larger sample sizes, more representative participants, more outcomes analyzed, and longer-running) is necessary to determine if there are negative effects. 

There's a good paper titled "Same-Sex Parenting and Children’s Outcomes: A Closer Examination of the American Psychological Association’s Brief on Lesbian and Gay Parenting". They give a pretty good summary of what they are looking at: 

Drinking more milk increases risk of developing a hip fracture in women Drinking milk increases risk of dying 

Answer: Yes, you can save that much. £90 really isn't that much over the course of a year - about 25 pence per day. According to this website 

While researching this question, everything I found tied back to the Olmsted article. In Wikipedia's article about the "Amish anomaly" it mentions that these claims (of the Amish having a lower prevalence of autism) "originate primarily from columns by Dan Olmsted". Rather than simply demonstrating the claim's notability, that article is actually a source of the claim. I haven't found anything that shows whether or not autism is significantly less common among the Amish, but I have found information that gives good reason to be skeptical of Olmsted's claims. According to "The Truth About The 'Evils' Of Vaccination", Dan Olmsted (the author of the article you linked to) was wrong in that the Amish do vaccinate their children but may be somewhat correct about autism being less prevalent among them. 

Livestrong does not tell readers to use a tea bag at the site of extraction, but offers the advice that: 

Is there evidence that either of these claims are medically true for the compounds indicated (or others found in tea)? Please note: by "tea" I mean leaves from the Camellia Sinensis plant. Although "tea" also comes in the forms of herbal infusions containing mint and chamomile (for example), I would not expect these to contain the same compounds. If your research suggests otherwise, please include that information. 

In 2008, the FDA held a public hearing on food labeling and noted that contamination can occur during harvesting, manufacturing, transportation, processing and storage. 

@crastic makes a good point that your heart has to be fibrillating to be defibrillated. Here is a link to the American Heart Association (AHA) which explains Ventricular Fibrillation (unsynchronized pumping). Defibrillation delivers a shock to the heart which should (hopefully) restart the normal cardiac rhythm. Although I couldn't find anything that specifically address actually trying to defibrillate a flatlining person, this article (PDF) notes that out of hospital cardiac events can sometimes only be reversed with a defibrillator, and the chance of survival decreases by 7-10% for each minute of delay. This article from the AHA indicates that an asystolic rhythm is non-shockable: 

The Federation of British Aquatic Societies single-tail goldfish care sheet notes that they can grow up to 350mm (almost 14 inches) but rarely do as most are kept in aquariums. The Pond Care sheet also notes that "Pond Goldfish will grow to around 200mm/8" depending on the size of pond as they tend to adapt their size to the environment." The goldfish websites did note, however, that in order to be happy, healthy fish they do need at least a 10 gallon tank. As the link you sourced noted, small goldfish bowls are unhealthy and do not allow proper space or gas exchange. If you want a goldfish the size of a shark, though, I think you are out of luck. 

One complication is that the type of banana popular today is the Cavendish, but prior to the 1950s it was the Big Mike, and it's possible the change to the Cavendish could have significantly reduced the danger of slipping on a peel. 

According to $URL$ "Elderberry Beats the Flu, Prevents Colds, and Strengthens Your Immunity." As with all dietary advice I find on the internet, I'm hesitant to believe this claim (and I'd be very surprised if the claim wasn't at least overhyped). Does Elderberry really have the claim properties? 

Update: Here are two studies that show negative effects. They attempt to use more random samples in order to avoid self-selection bias. Neither can conclusively say what is causing the negative effects - from the former: 

In short, the paper points out multiple significant flaws in the research referenced by that brief. The paper does not question the validity of the research done, but it does show how we should be highly skeptical of the claim made by the APA until further research has been done. 

That means over the course of one day, you need to save 1.45 kWh (kilowatt hours) in order to save 25 pence. You can accomplish that by reducing your average energy consumption by 60 watts. According to these numbers, having switched those lights from 400 watts total to 44 watts total should be saving you over £500 each year. This nice table shows the power consumption of different devices while in sleep or standby modes. In particular, they found that a desktop computer uses 21.13 watts while in sleep mode compared to 2.84 while off. If you happen to have three desktop computers, then turning them all off will just about get you to the 60 watts needed to save £90. Because of the variability in power consumption between the various types of devices, how much money you can save will obviously depend on what devices you have, but it does not take too many devices to be able to reduce power consumption by 60 watts.