It doesn't sound to me to be a case of your supervisor not trusting you or anything along those lines. I'm assuming from how your question is written that you are still relatively new at this company? That being the case it really isn't unusual for a lot of the "support developer" type tasks, fixes and so on to fall on the new guy for a while. So talk to him, I don't mean in the context of another's coworker like you have tried previously. I mean arrange a quick one-to-one chat with him and approach it something like this: 

You don't specify in your question whether this was an enquiry sent to particular person or whether it was sent to a generic account. If you sent it to a named contact then you could follow-up with that person directly, calling them up would probably be best since it seems that e-mail hasn't gotten their attention. If this was a "cold" request (i.e. there was no prior relationship with the contact) then it's entirely possible that they ignored the e-mail entirely, especially if the request involved sending any data the company doesn't typically make public or if it required any significant time/effort investment to complete. I would suggest contacting the main customer contact number for the company and enquiring as to whether a) your request is something they could accomodate and b) who the right person would be to contact regarding it. If it was sent to a generic contact e-mail then chances are that exactly as Snow states in his answer it has never been seen, or has been seen and discarded. Generic mailboxes are rarely monitored in much detail (the spam levels are simply too high) and it is often a fairly low level employee who is tasked with looking for specific sorts of inquiries and forwarding them up the chain. It's not unexpected that anything outside of what they have been tasked to watch for will simply be discarded out of hand amongst the 'noise'. 

You know how things like books and movie posters only put on quotes from favorable reviews that paint the subject in a good light? Well this is the same thing, and to be honest I can see why they might not want to publish survey results that paint a negative picture company-wide. You could ask them why they aren't publishing them or ask them to publish them for you but that would be the wrong thing to focus on because whether the rest of the company can see whether your team is happy or not isn't really going to make any difference to getting the issues that are currently affecting your team resolved and that's never the point of these survey things anyway. What you need to be doing (either yourself, or collectively as a team) is addressing the issues about why you are unhappy directly with your manager, no survey is ever going to take the place of that whether the results get published or not. 

Arrange a 1-1 meeting with him and put together a "business" case for yourself - prep some details about your accomplishments while you have been working there and what you would hope to bring to the company in the future if you were hired. If you have any areas where you know you need to improve (such as the German language skills you mention in your post) then try and put together some planned actions you can take to improve upon them. The idea is that rather than going in and having a conversation that is basically "give me a job" it's "employ me and it will benefit the company in x,y and z ways" 

It's not uncommon for them to ask the sorts of questions you are talking about- you are under no obligation to answer them however. You can still refuse politely 

If the position was for a full stack or front-end based role then I can see what the recruiter was getting at - in particular the JS frameworks move very fast and this may concern them. In order to counter that fear the best approach is to demonstrate knowledge of how the development landscape has changed in that intervening time. Explain to recruiters/interviewers that you understand that the industry is fast moving but that you have been keeping up with the changes in your personal time (assuming you have - if not take a weekend or two and make it true) and that you feel you'll able to be productive immediately should you start a new position. Ideally if you have the time you could produce some samples of code in the frameworks etc that have been released since you left the industry and publish them on github or similar to back up your claims. Some employers may still balk at the idea but most reasonable ones should understand. 

^This. Basically if you have agreed to keep the information confidential then it's only professional for you to abide by that and it's not so unusual a situation so a professional recruiter should understand that. That said, aside from the usual recruiter digging for any and all information rubbish there can be a legitimate reason why they might need to know who the client is. Like you say they don't want to put you forward for a role that you are already applying for with a different recruitment agent/firm as that just wastes everyone's time and at worst can jeopardize your application if the potential employer is touchy about that sort of thing (which some are). If they press the issue for this reason (and I assess them as being genuine in this) then I'll give some broad information such as "It's a Widget manufacturer in Townshire" as if it's the same people then more often then not that will be enough to let them know if it's the same company without breaking confidentiality. 

I expect this may vary with local culture but certainly in the UK it's rare to see "IT" listed explicitly on a software engineer or developer job. While I don't think adding it would put relevant people off applying (I know if I saw it I'd just assume it was as a result of development being part of the IT function as a whole) but I think you are more likely to see a problem in the other direction of clueless recruiters putting forward candidates from other areas of IT without them having the software engineering aspects. 

If wheelie chairs are what this company provides and mandates then pretty much yes they can make you use them. You don't specify your location but assuming it's the US then unless you have a medical condition or disability covered under the ADA that precludes use of one of their "standard" wheelie chairs then they aren't obligated to provide you with an alternative. As unpleasant as it is (and as much as I can sympathize with the plight of spending 8 hours a day in uncomfortable office chair) being uncomfortable is not a protected class. On the more positive side I think there are still compromise options that are worth pursing. Have you considered supplying your own chair? You could find some that do work for you, show them to your Health & Safety officer and ask if any of them would be acceptable if you were to provide one of them yourself. Obviously there is a cost implication here but offering to pay for it yourself removes one of the likely objections the company might raise to the alternate chair but how much monetary value do you place on your own comfort? Plus at the end of your time at the company you still get to keep the chair and can then take it with you to your next job if you find yourself similarly struggling with their furniture. 

This sort of positive approach is much more likely to be well recieved then approaching it from a negative aspect such as: 

The obvious place to start would be with whoever is responsible for running that team - the team leader or manager. Although before this it would be wise to have a talk with your own team lead/manager to sound out their opinion on any collaboration. After all your own team already has business tasks to be doing and I'm sure they wouldn't want any proposed collaboration to impede their completion. I wouldn't be too quick to jump to the conclusion that this team's reticence is driven by malice or by a lack of respect for your team, obviously I don't know them or your company but it's not infeasible that this seperation is a chinese wall of sorts. Put in place to prevent the lure of the shiny new projects from distracting you team from the far less interesting tasks of keeping on with the development and maintainence of the "legacy" platform. As for how to approach the idea with this "skunkworks" team's manager, I'd go with something along the lines of how you feel they could benefit from having input from people with more experience of the business area and the more involved models that you deal with as a result. While your goals to gain skills in using the newer technologies are admirable and something that most managers would approve of in general I'd steer clear of mentioning it overly much in this situation - it risks coming off very much as "I want to play with the cool toys" and that might not go down so well. If you do mention it I'd frame it in the context of how if these new technologies are ultimately intended to form the foundation of a replacement for the existing platform that it makes sense to upskill the existing BAU experts in them ready for the transition. 

Depending upon what you're planning on eating/chewing there can be a big difference in "constantly" vs "occasionally". If your chosen snack is something that creates noise when being eaten then people might not bat an eyelid at it for 30 mins or so during the day but constantly can get into "making your co-workers homicidal" territory. I once worked with a junior developer who munched on raw carrot sticks all day, every day and it drove me mad! Had it been just for a short period of time I could have ignored it but 7 hours a day of "crunch...crunch...crunch...crunch" and I could have cheerfully strangled him. While on the subject of what you're eating it's a good idea to generally avoid anything that has an impact on others - noise, smell etc. 

Unfortunately that pretty much trumps everything, it's his trainset - his rules. What he's doing is bad practice, it is most likely harmful to the long term success but it's highly unlikely he will change barring some large change in circumstance that massively reduces his availability to spend the time and effort doing what he does or some kind of serious screw up that causes him to reassess his attitude. Honestly at this point I would disconnect as much as possible from this role (remaining professional and doing your work of course) and start hunting for something else. You mention a lack of time to prep for interviews but I think you're going to have to make time. Sorry if this sounds harsh but I genuinely think that you could pour massive amounts of time and energy into this organisation and it won't change - then you're exhausted and facing the job hunt (been there, done that!).