The above is quoted from here. Alcoholic beverages have been mentioned in ancient texts. The Ramayana, Mahabharata, Puranas and Vedas mention alcohol. See this for references to texts. An old book written around 1922 also gives descriptions from the Vedic/Puranic literature. In fact, one study by F. R. Allchin suggests that India may be the original home of alcohol distillation. Also take a look at the history of inebriation in India, specifically the section "Intoxicating Drinks and Drunkards in Ancient Indian Art". 

(From Wikipedia.) So what you are referring to in 1990 is the "modern" Mongolia. And the banks of modern state of Mongolia would be from 1990 onwards logically. But coins have been issued by the "Mongolian People's Republic" since at least 1925. Example: KM#1, 9, 21 and 27 as per Catalogue each of denomination 1 MONGO and KM#2, 10 and 16 of denomination 2 MONGO. "State" (modern) Decimal Coinage seems to start from 1994 with KM#122 of denomination 20 TUGRIK. This seems to correspond with the idea of the new state and its Banks starting off around 1990. Note that I referred to the 2008 catalogue rather than the 2015 linked above. 

Bankers, businessmen, landowners, nobles and princes all gave active support to the British. Indigenous collaborators and "traitors" such as Mir Jafar were key elements the British exploited to their own advantage. They promoted and demoted officials and bureaucrats to suit their ends. These are well recorded- the active support by the Jagat Seths and other bankers, the various nobility and princes. The history of this period is now seen as a mercantile expansion- and the role of money, the motivation for acquiring wealth are seen as important factors. So the social milieu, complex economics, dynamics of a center-periphery competition and the transition from agrarian to mercantile economy are seen as contributing much more to the equation- it is no longer viewed as a simple 'military expansion' history. Colonial history is therefore not a simplistic ruler-subject equation. Rather the British are seen as active participants in a greater and more wide-ranging transition. (This is notwithstanding the post-colonial lens which also views the construction of subject identities and many other 'epistemological violence' such as knowledge production.) For a very good introduction that refers to many other scholarly works, see this book. 

Ensuring its power through revolution, coup, direct imposition of military government, including the elimination (cf: Soviet Union), or neutering (cf: China, the Eastern European States) any internal opposition. "Salami tactics" in Hungary are the quintessential example of the second method of dealing with internal opposition. It has been observed elsewhere that the one party intolerable to a soviet-style society's elite is a Social Democratic Party, ie: another party vying for the claim of legitimacy on the basis of workers' democracy. The party must turn on itself. In order to regularise class rule following the chaos of imposing it, the party must eliminate irregular members and ideas within the party itself. This can be by paper purges, or by blood, it can be fast or it can be slow. But the central element here is that members of the "new class" are holding back both the material necessity of an expanded economy (for justifying its actions "for workers" through growth, and by producing an industry capable of military defence of the state). Such members of the "new class" must be eliminated from economic control. Quiet and decline. With any threat to their hegemony eliminated, the new class turns to enjoyment of their rule. Economic growth is no longer a priority as the proletariat has been completely neutralised by this point. Ðilas was writing in 1957, so his predictive claim in this area was borne out by the reduced growth rates, and the eventual reaction in China returning to capital. 

I'm going to answer in terms of the paid labour dimensions of gender. There are other elements of the gendered presentation in Mad Men such as gender and sexual identity, reproduction or unpaid labour. Feminisation is the change from a male dominated or mixed gender workforce to a female dominated workforce. Proletarianisation is the degradation of: "old" professions; "old" trades; "traditional" labour; or, new work with a high degree of worker control: to management controlled execution of duties as standardised labour (its a bit more complex, but...). Proletarianisation and feminisation go hand in hand. The women we see working for pay on Mad Men are primarily secretaries. As Margery Davies shows in A Woman's Place is at the typewriter [$URL$ secretarial duties were once performed by autonomous men with generalised duties. Davies finds in the late 19th century that the combination of employer's views of women as "docile" and "cheap" combined with scientific management which "deskilled" (Harry Braverman) the duties performed resulted in a rapid feminisation of the workplace. Much like Engels shows that "women as homemaker" is historically contingent, and can change rapidly within a generation as pay changes gendered status, so too does Davies show that secretarial duties' gender position is contingent on the organisation of the workplace. As far as secretarial duties requiring uneducated labour, IIRC secretarial schools were widespread, and most secretaries were expert business machine operators from tabulators, collators, type writers, telephones, etc.; and the social construction of required duties ranged from trivial to broad ranging. In comparison to equivalent male occupations, skilled machine operation was considered from unskilled through to trade. I would suggest that judged against a male hierarchy of skill, the women portrayed in Mad Men working secretarial work are between unskilled and trade skilled, with one exception of a generalised autonomous worker who occupies a managerial role. Whether we ought to criticise the presence of a unique skill scale for female office work which degraded highly skilled or trade machine operators to "unskilled" work in financial and social respect terms is a political or moral question; but, the presence of different skill hierarchies in farm, industrial or office work all of which were gendered ought to raise the question of whether skill hierarchies actually existed or whether they were cover for a gendered or industry based division of labour. The film depiction has an accuracy as to the broad mentality and sentiment of a white New York set of private capital owners, executives and professionals interacting with a pool of office labour. However, this needs to be read in the context of the Olson and Holloway characters who show this system of work arrangements' flexibility and adaptability in the face of extreme merit and tenacious power; and, so, reading these characters in this way problematises the general gendered order of the office space. Its no substitute for labour history or gender history, but it is a good starting point for the vibe. 

So definite methods existed, which means that a "science", however ill-formed, was developing. In fact, the later methods of the US and other countries in what was termed Enhanced interrogation techniques seem to be an extension of these methods. Some of these "refined" methods were developed by French collaborator, Frederic Martin, known as Rudy de Mérode, and Georges Delfane, alias Masuy, whose offices were at 101 avenue Henri Martin. He is reputed to have invented the torture of the bathtub. (Later developed further by the US). 

Another important choice was in the the routes used by the merchants, which were selected according to the political stability of the regional power. Centralized states, confederations and regional powers promoted trade and diplomacy. They invested in communications and economic infrastructure such as secure roads, water depots, inns, reliable coinage, standard weights and measures. They imposed taxes on travelers and traders. The merchants found it wiser and safer to pay the controlling authorities for safe passage than to risk encounters with bandits. 

To clarify- this was cited not as the sole research that says torture is ineffective. It is simply the "backstory" that the counterview can effectively counter: 

Ardhanarishvara: Made of Both Shiva and his consort Parvati, usually depicted as split through the middle. Right half is usually male- Shiva. Some say it is the representation of unity/yin-yang/completeness. 

However, only much later did "confession models" come to be studied, as psychoanalysis came into play. These included : 

This gives an idea of the kind of beverages prepared. Here is a news report about an ancient alcohol recipe. See also the Wikipedia entry on alcohol in ancient India. 

There were advanced engineering technologies such as dams, complex networks of troughs and trenches, windmills, siphons and waterwheels to raise water from lower to higher levels. Two new dry-farming and one new wet-rice-farming technique contributed to much higher productivity for Han farmers. The dai tian (tai-t’ien) method of “ridge farming” and The ou zhong (ou chung) method of “pit farming” made it possible to farm land that was marginal or too small for conventional plowing and reportedly resulted in dramatically increased yields. Although implements of the Western Han Dynasty were were relatively small and fragile, by the Eastern Han Dynasty, there had been a breakthrough in iron technology. This resulted in greatly improved high-grade wrought-iron implements during this period. Han plows were made in many sizes, materials and with new designs. This made deeper plowing and the use of new farming methods such as dai tian practical. The government-owned iron foundries also produced and distributed other high-quality implements, such as sickles, spades, and hoes. On the whole it seems that for its day agricultural technology was pretty advanced in the time and geography in question. EDIT: References: 

Continued, in the matter of shoes: Dorothy Marshall (1926) The English Poor in the Eighteenth Century p113 adult shoes supplied on poor law 4/- stockings 1/6 per pair.(England 18th C) Shoes in pawn 1740. p97 late 17thC shows a rural parish child in a non-farming community going reshod year after year. p98 shows similar children habitually starving, I doubt they'd be shod. Samantha Williams (2011) Poverty, Gender and Life-Cycle Under the English Poor Law, 1760-1834 p31 reconstructs the family life of Lucy Townsend and William Newman, both parish dependent on and off, Shefford a rural parish late 18th C. Newman was rateable for the poor law but in receipt of "considerable assistance" with shoes mentioned as considerable assistance. These accounts are before the ramp-up of the poor law system with the early factory system, in one of the wealthiest societies of its era for the common person (England, 18th C), across the period, in the middle of the little ice age. And shoes are indicated as an item delivered under sufferance. Being without shoes might mean early death in Europe in the early modern. Europe in the early modern was a set of societies that were quite willing to put people to death economically. 

I believe the "launching nose" is meant. $URL$ Regarding the nose specifically, from the above site: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

In Miller 2011 it is clear that the R&D lab emerged as the Taylorisation of research and development of technology for the capitalist market. Intellectually, I see them as having some basis in the 19th century development of scientific experimentalism and its formalisation. 

Australian cultures did not have access to good starter crops. This is explored at depth in an allo-history available here: $URL$ on the topic of what crops could have been good starter crops. Indigenous Australian cultures were highly developed, including development of aquacultural structures and land management through burning and swamp development. These cultures did not support urbanisation, settlement or the development of states. Urbanisation occurred in North America. I'd suggest in both cases the reason for a lack of development of city states would be the comparatively low food productivity of the cultures and thus the lack of population mass supporting a centralised armed urban elite.