The Problem In a world I am building, the days are 9 years long, this means 4 and half years of cold darkness following 4 and a half years of blistering daylight. I have asked questions on this Year long Day world before, but now I have a new thought on the night side. In an environment with little light (the planet has a ring) and heat (there are active volcanoes), could life exist? The previous assumptions on this topic were divided between two schools of thought: 

In my world, automation reaches a new level with the introduction of androids. Robotic human beings capable of doing any job a regular person can. The concept of these androids is that they can be used in a wide variety of jobs as opposed to simpler robotic workers. When the time comes for these androids to be come less of slaves and more free willed, I want them to be capable of feeling pain. To be clear, I don't just mean I want them to be capable of locating damage on themselves, but rather to actual be hurt by that damage. How do I justify a working android feeling pain? If I cannot, how close can I get? 

When leaving them out, I would suggest rope crucifixion (as nails would cause open wounds and make them bleed, which can cause lightheadedness, which limits pain), the cross itself should be low to the ground (to give false hope). It should also has a step so that the victim can push up to get a breath. This should go on for around 1-3 days to avoid infection of the burns To avoid having the honey soothe the burns, I suggest mixing in broken glass, this will cut them as the honey melts. Also make sure you stick this pain honey into areas that they will always either have pressure on (under the feet) or they cannot help but move (the eyes) Since this can go on indefinitely, you will need to feed them. I suggest Duran fruit or Carolina Reapers for the fruits and veggies and live insects for the meat. A fully balanced diet will keep them living longer. Live insects in bulk can cause internal bleeding though, so be careful not to feed them too many at once. Duran fruit is often described as smelling of garbage water and raw sewage, and If I have to explain why the Carolina Reaper is torturous then please say so. The healing means that this brutal torture will last as long as you want; The ice will also help with keeping them sane and lucid. Although yo cannot avoid them losing hope, they will eventually lose the will to live. I would delve deeper into my thoughts, but I don't want to end up on a list. 

The Hecatoncheires was the collective name given to three monsters; (Briareus, Cottus and Gyges) who were the children of Gaia and Uranus. They were not only known for their frightful enormity, but also for their ghastly arrangement of one hundred arms and fifty heads. Even Uranus was so taken back by their ugliness that he decided to push them back into their mother’s womb. On failing to do so, they were subsequently banished to the underworld of Tartarus. This is a very creepy creature and is probably going to be a very difficult challenge. I imagine that it will have to be an invertebrate of some kind, maybe a mollusk or even an advanced sponge. I also really doubt all appendeges will be functional. How could a Hecatoncheires appearing species realistically evolve. A list of all of the Anatomically Correct questions can be found here, suggestions for future question are welcomed; Anatomically Correct Series 

The Bartering system is a means of trading goods for other other goods, very similar to the Currency system except minus the money. The problem is that as the population of a location increases people begin to disagree on the value of the items; what use is a goat to a sailor compared to a baker? So the simplest solution is to create a currency system. It just becomes to unstable to depend on a barter system, so what can I do to make a barter system stable in a modern American society? 

Hyena - the hyena mainly scavenges off of other predators, in the case of a shortage of food in certain areas, these predators are much less likely to leave scraps. This means that mister hyena has to hunt on its own and is now a competitor of the bigger predators. The New, more hungry Lions are likely to chase out the hyena and that is where we get stage 2. 

Make them go away Of course by this I mean blow them away. The US military has the nuclear weapons and the drones advanced enough to destroy them, the only thing stopping them is the civilian casualties, but we know that doesn't matter. Blow ISIS up. 

Certain lifeforms on the day half would lay eggs that would remain insulated throughout the night and hatch when day arrives and that creatures would evolve ways to survive the night so that they could eat these eggs. Life would be unable to survive without sources of light and little plants for producers. 

Na na na na Birdman! In my answer to your other question, I pointed out that they would still be able to glide, even with the psuedo-fingers. Remember now that flight evolved from gliding in the first place, so it is not unreasonable that these avians could evolve to act like a bat or a pterodactyl, still having a small finger and flight. The problem here, as I said before, is not the wing, but the weight. The heaviest flying animal ever was around 150 lbs, this is medium weight for a human, but that animal was built for flight and flight only. Birdman II the sequel; Now we're flying The medium here is to trade size for flighted hands, below is a little evolutionary chart of birdman arms vs bird arms that might help you with this problem; 

Ammunition, a centrifuge gun would be limited to spherical ammunition, and is likely to jam. Munitions, a centrifuge gun would require a large battery and would need to be charged often. Accuracy, a centrifuge gun would be at best inaccurate and at worst lethal to the wielder. 

Age varies vastly even in just the vertebrate world, from the 2 years a rabbit has to the over 170 year old Seychelles giant tortoise, who is still going. Obviously, Lifespan will determine population, cultural views on age and most importantly, the amount of knowledge a person can learn and teach. Is there a method to figuring out the Lifespan of a species? Perhaps related to their metabolism or their activity levels? 

Humans show aggression by baring their teeth, dogs show aggression by growling and cats, by hissing. All groups of animal show aggression in a way that makes it clear to attackers that they are agitated. How do these aggression signs evolve? Is it random or does it have to do with evolutionary factors. Let's say, for example, I wanted a human-like creature to naturally hiss as a sign of aggression, How can I achieve this? 

Slimes are a common monster we often see in games such as Minecraft, Terraria and Slime Rancher, but it is never explained how such an animal can exist. How could the body of such an animal even exist on land, how could they go about in nature? As we have seen in the games these animals populate a slime can be described as: