Interplanetary empire in Sci-Fi seems to always be based on some sort of warp speed for good reason, there are few reasons to have an empire except to exploit others for the riches that can profitably be brought home. The technological limits of light speed would make empire consisting of other worlds across the vast distances of space simply impossible. A conquered Empire like the Roman Empire would be quite impossible to hold together by threat of force. However a settled Empire like the English Empire could have some sustainability much like the modern day Commonwealth. To be sure there would be a couple of pesky colonists like The Americans that much could not be done about if they were determined to be completely independent and hell bent on some set of principles that called for total self independence. If the colony was on a planet were there were indigenous people the colonist might hold some control for awhile like the Spaniards in America or the English in Asia, but that would end just like it did for the Spaniards in most places, with the original empire with little influence and much hostility. About all the Empire could do was cut them off from communication of new technology. There would be very few reasons for the Empire to even exist. The exchange would be limited to data and to a friendly port in the wilderness of space for the occasional space traveler. Even if there was an outside threat such as Borg or a competing Empire mutual defense would be minimal, consisting of the colonies being hostile cannon fodder that would slow down an enemy advance. No one is coming from the home world soon enough to save anything. 

"Ok...", said Xaxhazztrax the Daemon Chairman, "Sog's rain idea was a flop. Clearly the humans aren't Deep Ones. Good thing one of them built a floating box." It was unclear to the assembly exactly how the human had gotten all the animals into his vessel, but hoary Nodens looked a bit smug. Then again, hoary Nodens always looked smug. Who invited him anyway? Was he even part of their pantheon? "So what do we do now?", a lesser servitor of Miihyagaa piped, his mistress silently brooding with her seven eyes fixed into the aether as usual. "We've given them fire, that didn't work. We've given them water, that didn't work. My mistress proposes that we call this project quits." There was a general murmur of agreement. "No!" Zblu'tras said firmly. "Our mistake was clearly focusing on altering their environment. They seem to have adapted well to it. We need to ennoble their spirits. I shall give them... art." 

unfortunately, there will always be insurance salesman and adjusters to make sure your wasting your money. 

If your using physical cards it is simply impossible to prevent a determined cheat to get marked cards into the game or to effectively stop them from gaining some advantage by using some scheme to mark the cards during play. Some marks are so subtle, fit so well into the cards that it can take experts days of study to figure out how it was done. It is almost impossible to confidentially secure a card game. Electronic cards already exist, just go online nd play any card game and you will see them. They cannot be marked. However securing the identity of these cards to all but the intended player is a problem as complex and hard to solve as that of marked cards. So far in online poker everything from the shuffle with a PRNG to the packets used to deliver the cards to a player have been hit and compromised, and even with 20 years of online poker play behind us, there is no guarantee that other hacks are not coming. Playing cards have been around for a number of centuries now, and nobody in all this time has been able to design a deck or a process that is secure. Not likely the question here has a good answer beyond it cannot be done with 100% confidence. About all one can do is increase the difficulty of cheating. 

I think, like many posters before me, that it's highly unlikely that all members of a civilization would collectively come to the conclusion that suicide is the solution. The will to survive is too great with most species. We can, of course, imagine a civilization of genetic defeatists but how did they get to the position of civilization in the first place? A major cataclysm such as Nigel222 suggests may of course give inclination to just give up and check out early for a majority of the species. (With further members being killed in lawless chaos once governments collapse.) Leaving only a small splinter of the previous civilization who no longer can uphold the scientific and industrial advances of their precursor and as such can say have devolved into something else. The ur-civilization is now dead, even though members of the species which constituted it are still alive. However, as AlexP's examples show remainders of the species may over time come to power as a new civilization. While Roman, Ottoman and Chinese civilizations have come and gone the human civilization persists. So, how do we kill off an entire world by collective suicide in the face of existential crisis? Well, I suppose if we're going by the OP's original premise that this crisis erupts with the intelligentsia who are smart enough to recognize the futility of carrying on this may, at a sufficiently advanced technology level, create enough problems to kill of enough the less sensitive parts of the population. Possible scenarios are: 

I have a town in mind that could be a great candidate for this total destruction that would go unnoticed for a week. I lived in this town so like the aliens I have studied it and think it is a good town to destroy for a base. But a bit of a paradox comes up. Why would they take over a town? What benefit does a destroyed town have for them over a isolated spot? It does not seem they benefit from taking over a city. A town or city seems to have a higher risk of discovery then an uninhabited spot, just a thought. The town I have in mind is Ely Nevada. The link is to search result of Ely. Ely is a small isolated town, with a small population of about 5000 people. It is a town at high altitude, 6400 feet. The town is at the intersection of two highways, NV 93 and Highway 50. In all directions it is 80 to 160 miles to the next gas. It is over two hundred miles to the nearest Walmart. If the aliens need super low priced shopping the are out of luck. Ely has very little trade. It has a mine that truckloads of ore are moved out of daily. Businesses that have deliveries like a super market, McDonalds and of course package type stuff like postal. It also has an Internet trunk line (backbone) routed through town. The roads have very little traffic, I would speculate hundreds of cars and trucks each day, not much more. Tourist trade is light, mostly hunters in season and people just passing through on their way to someplace else. There is only one scheduled flight in each day, which is often cancelled because no one is flying in. (Ely airport has the highest per passenger flight subsidy in the nation, over $3000 per passenger.) A weather event like a snow storm would bring traffic coming in and out of town to a standstill. Add as a consequence of that event a power outage, that puts cell phone service down and knocks out the internet and you have enough diversion to keep outside suspicion down to a very reasonable level. Outsiders might get suspicious, but it is not likely that suspicion would gain enough momentum for investigation to verify something is wrong within your time frame of 48 hours. The people that might be the people that raise the invasion by aliens flag, would be the crews coming to repair the lines, and clear the roads, would put off coming until the storm mostly passed. In Ely the highway station that keeps all the snow plows is located in Ely, so not much out side help would be coming in. Same is true for power. Nobody will be coming in force from the outside. There is no chance of someone getting out on foot, it is simply too far to the next town. Even a motorized escape by land would be difficult. A snow mobile would not have the hundred plus mile range needed to get to the next town, and since the next town in all directions is at least two thousand feet lower, it is likely they will run out of snow to trek even if they had range. Most other vehicles would have a difficult time getting out cross country. At any rate the trip cross country in snow would be very long, twelve hours more or less. Word might get out from a ham radio hobbyist with a generator. Even if the Aliens were discovered in a matter of hours, it would still be a matter of days before anything but an airstrike could be mounted to remove the aliens. It would be a good bet that the Aliens would be able to defend against any kind of conventional air attack. All the major airbases, Nellis at Las Vegas, Indian Springs, and Hill AFB near Salt lake, are hundreds of miles away. Even an emergency air response would take awhile. Ground response, the army would take days if not weeks to mount and deploy to the area. Even modern armies do not move at highway speeds. The army would be very exposed on the long highways they would be coming in on, making attacking the convoys easy for the aliens. Aliens could take and hold Ely easily. Aliens would have plenty of time to mount a defensive posture before any kind of force could be bought to bare. 

Please note that the dolphins brain (left) is roughly the same size or and in possession of more gyri and sulci than the human brain (right) and yet the dolphins have not invented fire, thermonuclear war or market economy, but instead just swimmed around eating fish and making wicked back flips. So the case for intelligence may be circumstantial. An octopus brain looks completely different from a mammal brain. It is more or less completely alien to us. They seem to have a distributed brain with the majority of their neurons actually residing in their arms (which have some semi-autonomous control over movement and their own sense of taste) and a lot of it's processing capacity seems to go towards instinctively controlling a highly complex body. So what is required for your tetrapi to be smart? Well... actually most likely not much. They are probably already smart (as I recall there is a Question regarding this already on the site, you should check it out if you can find it) and what they lack is social structure (cephalopods being known for being solitary, aggressive, and canibalistic by nature, although there is evidence for them to be surprisingly social as well... so you probably need to talk to an cephalopod specialist, not me). From what I have understood, though, the main case against cephalopod civilization is not their brains nor their smarts but rather physical limitations in terms of life span and gestation. They spawn their young in a fire and forget way and never care for the offspring, which puts limits on social development. Also they die after spawning, making it hard to become a venerable elder and carry on the legends of your people. Solve those things (moving from water to air will probably do that actually as hatching a litter of a thousand might not be a viable strategy compared to carrying the young internally) and you'll find there actually may be no limit to your cephalopods. 

If your doing an alternate history, I would say you could change the whole context by changing the one simple fact of the Atlantic exchange that decimated the native civilizations of the America's. Without most of the natives being wiped out by disease the whole of the "conquest" would of been something much different then it turned out. My thinking is that not only would nations be possible, they would be likely and what the Europeans would be dealing with rather then the isolated groups of survivors that made the Americas a relatively easy conquest. It would resemble something more like our western relations with China and the east in the sense that the west while practicing varying degrees of influence over the area never really conquered them. The civilizations of the Americas would of continued to emerge. Maybe at an accelerated rate with an Atlantic exchange that resulted in an exchange of ideals and technology, rather then death by disease. just a thought. 

In theory services will be performed by those who can charge the least for them. Tasks that require giants will be performed by giants who charge a liveable giant wage for them while tasks that requires gnomes will be manned (gnomed) by gnomes who will be paid what a gnome requires to live. A gnome can't perform a giant's task and vice versa (a giant can't even survive on a gnome salary thugh so that's a moot point). Tasks that require ordinary sized humans will naturally be performed by ordinary sized humans. Basically you're getting a caste based work market. And as long as everyone is fine with their lot and as long as there is no inside manipulation from the market players it might even work. Of course... without religious strictures surrounding the caste system you'll probably end up with employers trying to find ways to sell off a job to gnomes as they'll work the cheapest. So the gnome job market will likely be the most diverse. The giants get the short end of the stick since they're the most expensive to maintain and their job marked will hold the least amount of diversity. However, you might want to note that keeping giants happy is a societal survival trait. Your society will probably want to find ways of keeping all giants gainfully employed even if it's costly because when a giant with a lot of spare time on his or her hands have an axe to grind it's usually a huge frickin' axe. (The real world comparison to look into would be failed states with decommissioned armies that have not been properly disarmed.) The obvious way to keep the giants in work would be to finance giant work projects by issuing taxes and levies on the other castes, which has the double benefit of also going towards closing the wage gap. Of course, employers don't really like levies and taxes so there will be controversy surrounding them, at least until the first giant uprising. The other solution: You may want to think about completely separate economies. Giants are paid and purchases things in giant money. Gomes use gnome currency. Never shall the two meet. 

Retirement at the end of a long life like we know it now is simply not going to happen for most people that live 4-500 years. The genetic clock running out is not likely to be the cause of death for most people. Untimely deaths due to accidents and disease will kill many more people then old age. Planning for retirement may very well be considered an exercise in futility for most people. It is extremely difficult to come up with a number for people that die accidentally. About 250,000 of 2.4 millions of Americans who die, die accidentally each year. Of everyone who dies in a developed country, 7 out of ten of those deaths are people over the age of 70. With that in mind we can say that accidents and disease account for about 30% of the death rate each year, or about 800,000 people die of the 300,000,000 in the US. If your multiply the one third of a percent that dies of unnatural causes each year you have roughly 3% of a population dead every decade, about 30% every century who die from accidents and disease. We could lower that figure by removing a lot of deaths that occur from heart attack, making an assumption that we would not tend to drop dead from heart attack so much because at fifty we would have the hearts of twenty year olds. And perhaps when you add war into the equation the rate might go up. If you consider super bugs that are making antibiotics less effective, then the figure might go up to plague like stats in some years. Over the course of 500 years a lot of things can happen that make it the exception to live to be a 500 year old. This kind of begs the question, at what age does social security kick in? Anyway back to retirement, you would not retire. At some point in your life you might become disabled, unable to work and there would be some program to take care of you. For most people, depending on how mundane the job is, short retirements more akin to sabbaticals would be the norm. You might take a couple of years off to play. You may after fifty years in a job decide to change careers and go back to school for a decade then get a new job. You might sell a business and be able to cruise for a couple of decades, dabbling in shuffle board and basket weaving until the money ran out. You may just have a very good time with your career and never do much besides vacations.