One thing worth a try is if you have a tumble drier (clothes drier) that will do cold or at least cool. The last 10-20 minutes on the timer is often cold. 

You can get waterproof belt pouches. I used to use them when I wore a wetsuit for kayaking (a drysuit makes this simpler). They'll easily hold cash + phone +keys, and are nicer for swimming with than something that trails round your neck. As kayaking sometimes involves swimming in white water with trees and rocks around, the pouches with lanyards would be snag hazards, especially carried round your neck. For short swims with more stuff I've used a small dry bag (the roll top sort). 

If you can't leave the car empty-looking, at least don't load the storage up at the trailhead. There was a spate of thefts a few years ago on Dartmoor where car parks were watched for signs of valuables being tucked away, then a window was smashed and the items stolen. This was the sort of place where cars are parked for hours rather than days. In our case they knew which side to smash to be able to reach a handbag. This was an estate car with a soft luggage cover; that seemed to be a bit of a theme when I looked into it after the event. So instead, get your bags ready before the drive, and pick them up off the back seat when you leave the car. Any valuables you want on the drive should go with you. Then leave nothing on show that could look like it might hold valuables. 

I can't tell from the picture whether this would work with that pack, but with some of mine I run the hip belt round the pack rather than round me, before fastening it round the back. If you're worried about it snagging after that, you might want to put an elasticated rain cover over the top. I've seen packs with covers for all the straps, but not just for the belt. Actually I've got two that cover the straps - they convert into bike panniers (one doesn't have a belt at all). But these tend to be not very good as general backpacks. Either they're a compromise like my panniers, or they're large travel backpacks that you can treat like a suitcase. If you can pull it tight enough that the belt buckle is in the small of your back, maybe you could pad it enough to be comfortable. 

They appear to be part of a water tank. I've found a 1954 OS map that describes buildings at that location as "tanks" -- a term also applied on the same map to the water tower itself. Earlier maps don't show them The current OS map only shows the tower itself. Without a scale so making very rough guesses as to the diameter of the silver birch trees, they've been there a decade or so according to this paper (which was looking at rather different terrain so we can only guess very roughly). Of course the trees may have been planted long after the structure was demolished. Indeed this map from 1989 doesn't show anything except the main water tower (though something is present in 1979). And that's as much as I can tell -- google has no archive news about Gallow Hill or Clatoo long enough ago to be relevant, and I can't find photos other than modern ones. 

It looks a lot like there's a power station just downstream (photo), which can be seen on openstreetmap. I suspect that the power plant is being used to respond to peak loads for which hydro is very good. That whole stretch of river has several power stations and the flow through them will be coordinated to some extent. In particular there's a dam upstream of the falls. TV pickup is a phenomenon where electricity demand spikes in the advertising breaks of popular TV programmes. It may be more of an issue in the UK than in some countries because of of the national obsession with tea-drinking and a significant fraction of the popoulation putting the kettle on at the same time but can account for surges in demand on the timescale you mention. It's also possible tht related to this you happened to be there at the right time for some sort of test/maintenance operation which resulted in opening/closing gates. I'm slightly surprised that there aren't any warning signs telling people to stay out of the water as levels may change without warning. I've seen those before downstream of power stations. 

In addition to mattnz's answer (and my answer at your related question): I've paddled a tandem sea kayak (we were using it as a tourer that day) from the back while the front paddler was unable to paddle through cramp. I had plenty of control even though the rudder wasn't available (pedals jammed). A paddling friend has been known to run white water in the front of a topo duo with a strong paddler in the back while temporarily prevented from paddling. That's fine too. Obviously nothing too serious, and with extra safety cover. 

These last two points can explain some of the difference between apps. You can try running two apps at once - you'll get a idea of the difference that way. I used to get around 10% between my tracks and cardiotrainer running simultaneously (off network) because cardiotrainer didn't work with cached maps. However if one app applies power saving and the other doesn't, the one which does will be overruled and its signal can improve. Honestly in your case I suspect you're both wrong (sorry). Your GPS is probably overreading in the circumstances but you probably put in a little more distance and time walking a route the first time than someone who does it regularly. The chances are they underestimated it anyway, perhaps by an over-averaging gps, perhaps with a map (especially on a winding route). 

The soft dry bags aren't as good as the stiffer sort anyway. My traditional plasticised dry bag can handle long periods in the water if it's been rolled down properly, but my nylon ones eventually let a little moisture in if squashed around in water. I think the roll seal isn't as good if they're too flexible, especially if you also attach it by the loop formed by clipping it shut. Also the dynamic pressure of moving water could easily exceed the hydrostatic head of many fabrics. So I'd be very wary about using a large soft one for things that have to be completely dry. My first aid kit, for example, is in one small dry bag inside another which it shares with other emergency kit that can handle a little damp. The soft dry bags sold for watersports use have some reinforcement to help the top roll down properly (even though I've expressed my doubts about how well this works). The ones sold as liners often don't. 

Many of these depend on the fact that government services have powers that private services don't. The national parks service in the US is a striking example as their role overlaps with all the emergency services. Arguments in favour of them also lack weight in the places where they're most plausible. In plenty of areas if you leave the trail you won't see a other person for days. If you don't tell anyone where you're going, you can essentially disappear. You'd eventually be spotted if you set up a big camp or lit a big fire, but may of those arguing for such areas want to keep moving. 

The dark tint isn't required for UV blocking. That's not to say it's not a good thing to have. Many plastics have strong UV absorption, and some safety glasses have an additional coating. For blocking UV lasers this has been tested, though UV laser glasses are often a pale straw colour. Many safety glasses actually have UV protection anyway. There are also UV-blocking clear glasses designed for their anti-UV properties above other functions. Of course, the visible component of light that also contains a lot of UV is often intense enough to be uncomfortable, and to cause eye strain. This is a good reason for sunglasses to be dark. For cycling in particular I use safety sunglasses, which are a good combination of mechanical/dust protection and light blocking (visible and UV). 

I doubt it's possible to get a sensible answer with realistic equipment, as removing evaporation will make you sweat more. So weighing your clothes while tightly sealed would give an overestimate. The best way to get a rough idea might be to weigh clothes on a fairly still, humid, overcast day, using those same clothes to dry yourself. A gym session would be a decent substitute. This might be a good time to wear cotton so it absorbs the sweat. Weighing yourself would be interesting (combining sweating with respiration and other losses) but most scales aren't accurate enough - try changing your stance while on them. When it comes to respiration (and urine production) don't forget that different energy sources use water differently, and the use of these sources changes over the course of prolonged exercise as well as with the starting state of your glycogen stores. Glycogen in particular stores a fair bit of water with it.