(emphasis mine) Is there a real "Western novel" being referred to here, and if so, what is it? I'm always curious about little intertextual references like this, and it'd be a shame if it turned out to be an idea the author had made up out of whole cloth. 

What does he mean, "in the arms of Murphy"? There's no character called Murphy in the book, as far as I remember, and it hardly seems likely to refer to Johnson's lover. I've tried searching for the phrase on the internet, but all I found was pubs called Murphy's Arms and coats of arms of families called Murphy. 

Byron's "Fragment of a Novel" was based on Polidori's The Vampyre, which in turn was based on a story told verbally by Byron as part of the same competition which produced Frankenstein. The story of the competition is all too familiar to enthusiasts of horror literature. In the summer of 1816, Byron, Percy Shelley, Mary Shelley, and Polidori were stranded together for a few days in the Villa Diodati on Lake Geneva, until the thunderstorms blew over. The game - a contest in telling ghost stories - was intended to be a match between Shelley and Byron, despite being open to all four ... but it was Mary Shelley and Polidori whose works, Frankenstein and The Vampyre, have been better known up to this very day. The Vampyre went on to inspire Edgar Allan Poe and Bram Stoker himself. From this detailed essay (emphasis mine): 

However, the references are to other books, extratextual material, which doesn't seem to be available online. I'm curious about how clear these connections are from the text itself, including the maps at the front of the book. Is it obvious to anyone who knows the Lake District which lakes and islands the fictional setting is modelled on? 

Finally, in a different interview published only last week (!), Adams acknowledged an important source for the ideas he used when writing Watership Down, as well as remarking explicitly that it's intended to be written in the spirit of folk tales. I think this is the answer you're looking for: 

It's also interesting to consider her first name with this in mind. Alma, in Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, and related languages, means "soul" - so "Alma Coin" suggests "soul of money". Not a flattering epithet, and one which hints at her coldness and ruthlessness. Similarly, in Latin, Alma is a feminine form of almus, which can mean "nourishing" - so another interpretation is "nourished by money". Two sides of the same coin This is the whole idea behind the events that play out towards the very end of the series: Katniss kills Coin because she realises she's just as bad as Snow. What's a common metaphor for two people or situations being equally bad? They're two sides of the same coin. Literally the culmination of the entire series is tied up with the realisation that Coin is just the other side of the same coin. As a hint towards Coin's nature, this only really works in retrospect - I don't think it would be reasonable for even the shrewdest of close readers to deduce that Coin was likely to end up as bad as Snow just from her name. Nevertheless, viewing it in retrospect, it's still quite striking as an indicative piece of wordplay. Flipping a coin Personally I don't hold with this theory, so I'm not going to be able to make a convincing argument for it. But since you've mentioned it in your question, I will at least quote what others have said about it: 

A central theme in Neil Gaiman's fantasy novel Stardust is that stars, when they fall from the sky, take on the shape of human beings. One of the main characters is a fallen star who ends up living on earth as a human woman, with a human mate. This is reminiscent of Ramandu in C.S. Lewis's The Voyage of the Dawn Treader, a fallen star who lives on earth as a human man (and even has a daughter) but will eventually return to the sky. Was Neil Gaiman directly influenced by C.S. Lewis in this? I'm aware that the notion of fallen stars becoming people is an ancient one, but it's still possible that there's some direct correspondence we can trace between these two works. Answers might be based on quotes from Gaiman on the issue (if any exist), or analysis of the two texts, or perhaps analysis of this trope in literature as a whole. 

Given its unflattering depiction of life in a certain type of society, I'm guessing that Persepolis may have been banned in more than one country in the past, but I'm not sure where to find this information. In which countries has the book Persepolis ever been banned? 

The whole description of the thrush and its singing is in sharp contrast to the description of human society which makes up most of the book. It seems carefree, happy, artistic, beautiful, emotional - none of these are adjectives one might have used to describe anything else in the book so far. This contrast appears even more starkly when Winston's thoughts wander briefly away from the thrush and back to human surveillance: 

She's already talking about being divided before she starts on the "one half yours" thing. I'm not completely sure what she means by being overlooked and divided, but presumably it's a reference to the way her father's will allows her only to marry a man who chooses the right casket. Thus, if she fell in love with anyone who didn't choose correctly, she would be divided between love and duty. Thus, the concept of her being divided is already on the table, hence this particular roundabout way of "saying without saying" that she has feelings for him. But why does she say it in such a roundabout way at all? Because she doesn't want to admit that she loves him. At this point, he hasn't "won" her yet by passing the Trial by Casket, so in some sense she isn't "allowed" to love him. Earlier on she says (lines 4-6, emphasis mine): 

Apparently Spiegelman has even admitted that bias against Poles played a role in his choice of the animal used to represent them. Quoting from the same article: 

The first half of The Neverending Story is about Bastian reading a fantasy story about Atreyu's adventures in Fantastica. The second half is about Bastian's own adventures in Fantastica, a world which he basically recreates from nothing, becoming a completely different person himself in the process, before returning to his own world to find that he's still the same person as originally and only a single night has passed. My question is: is it possible that Bastian never actually went to Fantastica? Is this a valid and consistent reading of the story, or does it not make sense with everything that happened? 

It's a geographical feature: a stony hill with a cairn. A beacon doesn't have to be a man-made signal: the word can mean just a "high hill or other easily distinguishable object", e.g. one which can act as a landmark and provide guidance for sailors or wanderers. See, for instance, the Brecon Beacons. I searched for "Hallbjorn's beacon" on Google; most of the results were from the Story of Burnt Njals, but I also found the following result from The book of the settlement of Iceland, which apparently describes the history of how these specific hills, or the cairns on them, came to be called Hallbjorn's beacons (emphasis mine): 

If he succeeds in getting into Christminster to study theology, he might well aspire to become a D.D. or Doctor of Divinity. See also the following passage from "A Tragedy of Two Ambitions", a short story available here which bears some resemblances to Jude the Obscure and has been described as a "short story prelude" to the novel: 

Thomas Hardy is best known for his tragic romances, novels which are really miserable and depressing to read. However, not all of them are equally so: 

Susanna Clarke's excellent novel Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell is written in a very convincing (at least to me) "19th-century literature" style. Not only the language used by the characters but also the sentence structure and storytelling style of the non-dialogue sections of the book feel very much like those of classical authors such as Austen, Hardy, or the Brontes. Real connoisseurs of 19th-century literature will probably be shaking their heads at my lumping all of those authors together (so am I, to be honest). Hence my question: was there any specific classical author whose writing style inspired Clarke's style in Strange & Norrell? Quotes from the author herself would probably be the best way of answering this, but if anyone can put together an answer based simply on textual analysis, I'll be mightily impressed. 

The sci-fi/fantasy author Mary Gentle's first novel, A Hawk in Silver, is set in the small town of 'Surcombe' on the south coast of England. Although Surcombe is fictional, the description of it is so precise, so detailed, so consistent in tiny minor details that don't matter to the story itself, that surely it must also be accurate, a thinly veiled description of a real town. For example, this from the first few pages, when Holly is lying on Highrock at the top of the East Hill (available on Google Books): 

More articles specifically about this novel (in German), though I'm not sure how academic they are, can be found in the 10/2011 edition of Gegenwartsliteratur: Ein germanistisches Jahrbuch (A German Studies Yearbook), focusing on Herta Müller (see here): 

It's understandable how current events in the world around him were so distracting to him, when they fitted so closely with the very events he was writing about in his historical narrative. 

In Poe's short story "Three Sundays in a Week" (which can be read in full here), the protagonist and his intended bride need to outwit his uncle, who has decreed that they can only get married "when three Sundays come together in a week". They achieve their goal by arranging a conversation with two sea captains who have crossed the International Date Line in opposite directions. So far, so understandable. What puzzles me is the constant references to one "Doctor Dubble L. Dee". The uncle refers to this gentleman in almost every sentence, but is interrupted by one of the others before he can finish saying anything about him. For example: 

The only remaining mystery, then, is Daisy-Head Mayzie. I haven't been able to find any information on why this was only published posthumously. 

Unfortunately, the good 'pedia provides no source for this claim, so I turn to SE for better results. Was Stevenson's Treasure Island influenced by Poe's "The Gold-Bug"? Either textual evidence (strong enough to be more than a mere reuse of common tropes), or an exact source for Stevenson's admission cited by Wikipedia, would make a good answer. 

While researching another question, a couple of us have found what appears to be a contradiction in the Wikipedia page for Isaac Bashevis Singer. The introductory section of the article says: 

In order to understand this definition, you need to know: what a locally ringed space is and what it means for two such to be isomorphic; what a commutative ring is; what it means to take its spectrum; and what open sets mean in topology. In order to understand the definition of a locally ringed space, you need to know: what a topological space is (this also explains the meaning of "open sets"); what a sheaf is; what its stalks are; and what a local ring is. In order to understand what a spectrum and a local ring are, you need to know what an ideal of a ring is. Rings and topological spaces are among the most basic objects of algebra and topology respectively, although there are entire textbooks and undergraduate courses about these objects and the things associated with them such as ideals and open sets. Sheaves and their stalks are both very tricky concepts to understand even for high-level maths graduates, and realistically you need to have taken advanced courses in differential geometry, category theory, and analysis in order to fully grasp these definitions. So just for this one definition, of one of the foundational objects used in algebraic geometry (which despite its name is mostly pure algebra), you need to have a deep understanding of abstract algebra, topology, differential geometry, category theory, and analysis. And an introduction to schemes is only part 2, the first part after "Preliminaries", of the standard treatise on algebraic geometry (warning: 800-page PDF link), which some students are required to know in full before starting a doctoral degree in algebraic geometry. Are you scared yet? 

Again, the Rat would be unlikely to be doing his own odd jobs if he had a housekeeper or butler. As to the specific quote you mention from Chapter 11: the Rat hadn't been involved in the conversation for some time before "the bell rang", so it's quite plausible that he simply went out of the room to see about the food, leaving the others talking, and rang the bell himself to let them know it was ready. 

Enhancing the creepy feeling Describing the weather and external conditions certainly does this effectively. The whole story has a masterfully built atmosphere of oppressive dread - not a dread linked to fear of some specific event, but a deep, existential disquiet. The countenance and behaviour of Roderick Usher, the mostly behind-the-scenes sickness and death of his sister, and the lightless and gloomy atmosphere within the house all serve to heighten this feeling, of course, but it's already introduced in the first paragraphs of the story, before the narrator even enters the house, by the description of the external atmosphere. Here's the opening sentence of the story: