"Plate tectonics" have probably nothing to do with the composition and parameters of the present day atmosphere. As far as I know nobody had ever suggested that mantle can re-absorb gases from the atmosphere - on a contrary, gases released from a cooling mantle through a volcanic activity should contribute to a more denser atmosphere (clearly, this process never helped Mars and is not helping Earth that much either). Volcanic gases are mostly composed of CO2 and water vapor (up to 90% by mass), while those two substances are hardly present in the modern day atmosphere (CO2 - ~350ppm, vapor - 0.4%, mostly from evaporation unrelated to volcanic recycling). Comets are relatively lite objects (a decent comet weighs 10000-100000 times less that even a thinnish, present day Earthian atmosphere) with low density. High kinetic energy impact of a comet with a planet will most probably result in escape of the majority of comet contained gases back into space (and impact heating will also add some of the planetary gases to the escaping mix - a process known as "impact erosion"). It is long believed that no substantial matter transfer is possible between comets and planets ($URL$ "Early thin atmosphere" - atmosphere being eroded or lost shortly after Earth (Moon) formation is not plausible for the obvious reason: where does the limestone/coal comes from? If Earthian atmosphere was lost and then replenished through tectonic activity this brings us to back to an original question. 

In a time, the word "standard" normally means the civil time, recognized by the government in the place of interest. I'm not sure about other countries, but in general conversation in the USA, "standard" also means that daylight saving time is not in effect. "Daylight" time (as in "Eastern Daylight Time") means the civil time, recognized by the government, and daylight saving time is in effect. These can be expressed in the ISO 8601 format; the standard gives the example "15:27:46+01:00" meaning the time zone is one hour ahead of (east of) Greenwich. In astronomy, time can also be the local time of the observer, ignoring the existence of time zones. This is local mean time, and is obtained from Universal Time by adjusting for the longitude of the observer. Usually the exact form of Universal Time that would be used would be UT1. Local apparent solar time is based on the actual position of the sun; it is the time given by a sundial. It can be about 15 minutes ahead of or behind local mean time. 

As Miranda is a rather small object (only 235km diameter) it may simply have not enough mass to make it matter settle into hydrostatic equilibrium under the influence of its gravity, thus it basically retains the irregular shape most asteroids have. This nice arxiv paper discusses the mass limits necessary for a stellar body to settle into a nice round shape: $URL$ 

Yet, it is Earth that seemingly misses a great deal of atmospheric volume. So the question is: what are the current theories regarding the "thinning" of the Earthian atmosphere? When and why the atmospheric gases had left the planet? 

If I want to write a date in the Gregorian calendar, I can write it in the ISO 8601 format; today would be 2016-02-20. The advantage is that there are many parsers available to let computers read in this kind of date. But what if I want to write a Julian calendar date, as astronomers often do? Is there a similar widely-accepted format, and selection of parsers, to use with the Julian calendar. While I'm at it, what if it's an ancient date where we don't know how many solar days ago it was; instead it is an astronomical phenomenon calculated in Terrestrial Time (more or less atomic time) or by dating decay of radioactive elements? Is there a standard way of writing such a date? 

It so appears, there exist surprisingly little solid theories as to why Earth and Mars managed to lose the majority of their atmospheric gases, while Venus had managed to retain a most magnificent atmosphere. One plausible theory was put forward by a prominent chemist Octave Levenspiel et alii, based on the old Soviet research into Earthian crust composition conducted in the 1950s (I could not find any substantial updates to the crust composition model developed since that time). At a glance, the theory works as following: 

I'm using the Explanatory Supplement to the Astronomical Almanac 3rd ed. as a reference. The glossary tells us that Greenwich Apparent Sidereal Time (GAST) is the GHA of the true equinox of date, that is, "GHA(v. equinox)" in your equation. On page 80 equation 3.14 states local hour angle = local apparent sidereal time - apparent right ascension (3.14) If one is located on the Greenwich meridian, then that equation becomes GHA = GAST - apparent right ascension (3.14a) solving for apparent RA, apparent RA = GAST - GHA (3.14b) Comparing your equation ( GHA(object) - GHA(v. equinox) ) mod 24h = RA (object) So your sign seems to be inverted. Looking up values using UT1 and the Multiyear Computer Interactive Almanac, rounding to nearest second, apparent RA 23 h 16 m 38 s GAST 6 h 40 m 29 s Substituting into eq. 3.14a, GHA = 7 h 23 m 51 s 

During the formation phase, all inner planets had captured as much gas as they could hold per gravitational/thermodynamic equilibrium. After all, even puny Mars managed to capture a sizable atmosphere. The rate of atmospheric escape should be much higher for Venus: 

Earth had formed with an atmosphere similar or denser than Venusian. Its most abundant ingredient should have been CO2 (analogously to Venus and Mars). Earthian atmosphere managed to cool down enough for water to start condensing into liquid phase. The exact mechanism for this is not quite clear to me (Goldilocks zone notwithstanding) because hot and dense CO2/H2O atmosphere should have caused a prominent "green house" effect, preventing the planetary surface from cooling down (unless "green house" effect models are too exaggerated). Atmospheric CO2 started to dissolve in liquid water (this alone would account for about 50% reduction in partial CO2 pressure). Strongly acidic water started to erode calcium from the crust, kick-starting the limestone formation process. Emerging life had accelerated the process, sequestering the remaining atmospheric CO2 into the gigantic limestone and somewhat smaller coal deposits. 

0 RA is the direction from the center of the Earth to the vernal equinox. You've already imagined the plane in space created by projecting the equator into space. Now consider the plane formed by the mean orbit of the Earth; this is the ecliptic. The two planes intersect in a line. The ray from the center of the Earth toward where the Sun is in March is the vernal equinox; the ray from the center of the Earth toward where the Sun is in September is the autumnal equinox. The big difference is that the location of the vernal equinox among the stars changes very slowly, taking about 26,000 years to sweep all around the ecliptic. The plane that passes through the north and south pole and the Royal Observatory, Greenwich, sweeps through all the stars every day. 

The most straightforward approach is to use a so-called Hertzsprung-Russell diagram: stars of a given mass "burn" in a fairly predictable way, so by looking at a star's spectrum and luminosity one can infer its possible age. $URL$ Wikipedia also has an overview of some additional methods: $URL$ 

The detailed outline of the theory can be seen here: $URL$ I hoped that some answer's here can suggest plausible alternative theories. In particular: 

The USNO page refers to USNO Circular 163 which in turn refers to a paper by Aoki et al. and one by Moyer. These papers explain how the expressions created by Simon Newcomb at the end of the 19th century were updated to work with the new system of constants introduced in 1984. If you want to change the epoch, you could redo these calculations with the epoch of your choice. Further changes to celestial mechanics calculations have occurred since then, but apparently the USNO has decided that for the accuracy stated in the USNO web page, 0.1 second, it is not necessary to overhaul the calculation to account for all the changes since 1984. 

1MW of transmitted power is very modest by RADAR terms, to give one example. Thus, you probably need to establish what exactly your professor means by "brightest" (may it be a specific wavelength or point in time, or some other definition). Otherwise, there's no reason to believe that Arecibo transmission was any special or outstanding from radio engineering stand point, while there were such nice toys operating at the very same time: $URL$