And also there are all these little things that you probably won't notice unless you have been taught to look for them. The proper way to strike someone so you don't hurt yourself. Being able to recover from a bad move. This is my experience as a dancer and from this I've ben able to figure out how fighting works, but still, being able to fight and use complex moves without thinking takes a lot of practice and discipline. 

I've done both riding a bike and roller blading. Biking never did much for me except the pleasure of riding, but roller blading did, especially after having gone to the gym. Roller blading burns off a lot of calories and if the trail is well paved, you could alternate between the two. This one year I was roller blading twice a week along this paved trail along Ontario Lake and lost a lot of weight without trying. 

I've had a nerve pinch in my right shoulder for god knows how long. I'm unable to go through the full motion of wide grip pull ups or wide grip cable pulldowns with any moderate weights. Anyone have any ideas how to resolve this. I've tried to some stretching of the shoulders and it seems to help, a bit. Is stretching the way to go and will just take time to resolve? Should I just go see a doctor? This has always been a issue. 

And one last note - I always shaved down on the morning of the meet. Whole body. Those shaving cuts serve as real motivators to get to the finish! 

The opposite to a pull is a push/press. So an opposing movement for pullups would be any kind of overhead press movement. The opposing movement for pushups would be any kind of horizontal rowing movement. 

Hard to say without knowing your physical attributes, your technique or training program....But shaving 10s off in 9 months is a big task for anybody. I can only make these suggestions based on my own experience - training (lots of it), a good coach, and attitude/perseverance. Sleep and nutrition helps too. I competed at state and national level in my youth, and my best at 16 was 54.9s for the 100m free. I'm not a tall bloke - 175cm, weighed about 55-60kgs at 16, so not a big bloke either. I trained about 8-9 times a week - both morning and night, both at club and school. Some sessions would hit the 10km mark. Club races on the weekend. My training consisted of lots of sprint work, heart rate sets, some distance/endurance work, and dry-land strength work. And a good taper period before a state/national meet. The 50m and 100m are explosive movements - you'll need to improve your technique, your stroke efficiency (distance per stroke), but probably more importantly your kick (both power and endurance). It's hard to perfect form in an all-out sprint, but for me, the breakdown was this: 

Assume you have an ankle inversion trauma and you cannot move your ankle for 2-6 months without having it in tight bind when doing sport. You otherwise support your foot at a moment by Aircast's ankle support. However, you cannot swim with it. How can you support your ankle to stay rigid when swimming? I am not sure if elastic bind is ok because it absorbs all the dust from water to itself. It may also not support enough. 

Normal urea color differs between transparent to yellow. The color of the urea is not relevant in the yellow perspective. Red, blue, purple, brown/orange, black are all urine colors denoting some sort of disease/injury process. You just drink much if you have transparent urea - good thing! Your kidneys are working well. If you suspect you have some problem with your kidneys, monitor the urination amounts during night time vs day time. If those two amounts equal, then you have some problem in your kidneys. Leuconychia is completely normal thing. Like I discussed with you, your Zinc deficiency is caused by other things related in your gastrointestinal system (celiac disease). To recover from it, requires 100% gluten-free diet and takes time even one year if bad. Follow balanced training plan (example below) with physical training and specific sport training 

I am already using the stretching gum and gymnastics daily. However, the feeling of running and effect of thumbing on the back is something I cannot achieve other ways. Probably, I should add more rapid pushes to my stretching movements. However, I have tried to avoid these. What is a good lower back strength-training program when building muscles? 

Can't say anything about the twitching issue you're having, or what's causing it - that's something for a physiotherapist. As far as pinching/spreading your shoulder blades goes - you should be retracting your shoulder blades for both the squat and deadlift - as in imagine trying to hold a pencil in between them. This creates tightness in the upper back and prevents your back from rounding during the lift, and allows you to drive from your hips. Spreading your shoulder blades leads to a loose and rounded back, which is not what you want to do. The idea of creating tightness in your upper back, along with bracing your core is about protecting your spine and creating stability and efficiency for a safe lift. If it's hurting, something isn't right. Stop and get it checked out. 

You said you don't have a trainer/coach, but my advice is to seek one out, preferably one who competes as well. I say this straight up because you also said you want to win a local powerlifting competition. I also have 7 weeks to my next powerlifting competition, but I'm a month into my training run, and my coach has written me a brutal program with a good mix of heavy and volume. A coach will assess your technique, your abilities, and movement patterns, so they can tailor a training program specifically for you. As an example from my experience - the very first session I had with my coach, my deadlift went from 160kg to 180kg, just from tweaking my technique. That said to me that I had strength, but my form needed improvement. That being said, if you can't access a coach, there are plenty of existing programs that have good results, like Stronglifts/Starting strength at the beginner level, and mad cow or Wendler 5/3/1 for intermediates. Whatever you choose to follow, make sure you are consistent, and that you add weight to the bar each week - start light, otherwise you'll plateau quickly. Work on improving your form - film yourself so you can critique your lifts. Conditioning is also important, make sure you get some in. I like to use high-rep training for this. Leading into the comp, work up to heavy singles in your last week beforehand, with a little bit of back-off work, and leave 2-3 days to recover before the big day. But probably more important than the time spent in the gym is your time spent out of it - nutrition and recovery is where you will get your gains. Eat big and focus on recovery. Good luck. 

I normally recover from lower back pain just going to run. It results from studying too much and sitting - skipping gym and sport during exam weeks. It alleviates normally after one hour running. This time however I tried to alleviate it in interval running (2 x 15 min) and see try again tomorrow (15 min x 2) and see during 3rd day how is the pain. Very cold water (for whole body, about 30-45 seconds) in Spa centers (colder than from tab) also causes very good burning sensation there in the lower back region. Repeating it, shows that the pain sensation gets weaker. After this the pain also disappears. In summary methods of alleviating lower back pain 

I am interested in how to regulate the diet in the evening and how to prepare for sleep. What are good nutrients and how much and when exactly? When you should eat creatine? I think not before going to sleep. 

Shoulder pain is caused by the assisting movement of tennis when you os humerus moves 2 cm outward from the normal position in each assist. The rubber band is my first choice. However, I do not have it many times in my training trips. I do push-ups with hands close to the body often. This feels good in the shoulder. Is there any other movements which you can do recover from tennis shoulder without the rubber band?