This is a similar issue concerning the whole simple vs complex carb myth. Typically foods that have a high glycemic index have a relatively low to zero fat content which causes your body to digest high GI foods faster. 

I don't really think that my core is being worked enough when performing the compound lifts of strong lifts, as the rest of my body has caught up while my stomach and waist are still really flabby and have no real firmness comparatively. I'm not asking "what exercise do I do to reduce stomach fat", I'm asking if I can add in some cable crunches and another auxiliary exercise to strengthen and firm my core for other lifts and if so what would you suggest? As I understand exercises like sit ups and laying crunches and other variations(leg raises) are limited mostly by the inability to use weight above your body weight effectively so weighted exercises for abs/core are recommended. Thanks! 

My solution is rather not ideal, but works great. I use RunKeeper for the run and to get the GPS track of the run, and remember where I was. Then I go over to DailyMile and put in the route manually while I look at the RunKeeper's GPS tracking on the other site. That way I have accurate distances because I'm putting in exactly where I ran manually, and getting an accurate pace from that. I've measured the RunKeeper's timing using a separate stopwatch a few times, and even when it is inaccurate on the GPS track (sometimes completely losing the track) it is accurate on the timing. Another thing to think about is that it may not be RunKeeper that is the problem but if there was an update to your phone software recently, then the GPS can be messed up by that. I had for example on my old phone, a software update which basically made it impossible to get a GPS lock in the first 15 minutes. You should check your phone with the GPS Test App to see if it's RunKeeper that is the problem, or if your phone is just having trouble with getting a GPS lock at all. If the phone can't get a lock, then there isn't going to be any app which will help your situation. 

Whenever I do exercises like hanging leg raises or cable crunches, or just generally any crunch or ab exercise, I don't really feel like I'm getting any good abdominal/core activation and so after I've done 3 sets I just feel like I wasted energy since I don't really feel anything in my abs. I get different activation in my core when I'm doing the compound lifts like deadlift, squat, bench, and ohp. I take a moderate breath of air in, not too much, and can feel my core braced and tight to keep everything stable, but this is about all I really feel. I feel like my sitting and standard posture is excellent already and I mention that because I've read that if you force yourself to have good posture then your core will support it. Well my posture is fine I just can't really seem to activate or contract my abs that well during normal exercises. Any tips or advice? 

Many people brush off many factors by assuming person X is weaker than person Y because person X works harder(incorrect assumption). It is a fact that person X may work much harder, more thorough, have a better diet, sleep right, have a healthy system, and may be weaker than person Y who does the same things. It is also a fact that person Y may out perform person X, despite person X working out and person Y not. That brings me to my question ... I have noticed that, comparing myself to others, my progess is much slower. I have done consecutive push ups for weeks, and still can barely bench 135 lbs (what the average man apparently does, based on limited-testing). It is beyond disappointing to realize one is barely reaching the "average" while having had a regimen for the past six years. I also did do bench and never improved, only suffered DOMS, fatigue, pain, and kept at the same weight(could not increase; wasn't getting stronger). I incorporate all major muscle groups, and I stay in plateaus for weeks, get DOMS (even if doing the exercise for the 300th time), have poor lung capacity, and can't seem to improve. I have already assured myself that this is definitely genetic. I have witnessed people who don't do any exercise (and from which I can guarantee absolute proof thereof), and are as strong as me(I have been in strength training on and off for many years). My fitness is also lackluster ... weeks of running, jogging, cardio, etc., and I'm still gaping like a fish out of water in two seconds. My conclusion is that this is definitely genetic ... my testosterone levels are low and no amount of exercise helps (slowish metabolism, man boobs won't go away, trouble breathing, neuromuscularly imbalanced, have Social Anxiety and related issues, slight OCD, very thin wrists, prone to getting obese and have been very obese in the past). It's like my genetic limit is that of an average man or a little beyond, while the average man is starting off where I strived to reach over big milestones. My regimen and weight chart of my biceps curl changes over the years: Legend: AGE/MAX/BODYWEIGHTWEIGHT-HEIGHT/REPS-SETS Age 15: Biceps curl - 25 lbs x 1, 252 lbs @ 5'7", curl 2 x a week x 5 reps. Age 18: Biceps curl - 35 lbs x 4, 184 lbs @ 5'9", curl 1-2 x a week x 3-18 reps. Age 19: Biceps curl - 35 lbs x 2, 173 lbs @ 5'9-1/2", curl 2-3 x a week x 2-6 reps. Age 20: Biceps curl - 40 lbs x 7, 192 lbs @ 5'9-1/2", curl 1 x a week x 1-5 reps. Present->Age 21: Biceps curl - 40 lbs x 3, 193 lbs @ 5'9-1/2", curl 1-2 x a week x 1-10 reps. As you can see, maintaing a tight regimen from 18-19 made me weaker, but from 19-20, not steadily working out, I got stronger, and through 21 I have gotten weaker following steady exercising again. I get strong mildy to a point, but then get weaker progressively, and start back again; I'm not linearly improving without dropping back down. I think I scored the genetic bads ... (can't even think of a word; probably genetic failures as well). How well could my genes be holding me back, or others? 

These numbers are wildly different, and I don't want to over or under-eat calories based on my diet. I would think that RunKeeper, which actually keeps track of my pace using the GPS and elevation would be better because of more data. Lately I have been trying to under-estimate by using the lowest of the three that come up. Which number should I be trusting? Are any of these numbers worth anything? 

I've been working out by running around the neighborhood lately, and I've been tracking my runs on two running sites, as well as keeping track of the calories on MyFitnessPal. However, I've been confuzzled lately about the calories that I should be tracking on my calorie tracking. For example, for a recent 46-minute heavy interval run, I get: 

I don't expect to fall back on the treadmill option unless it's seriously snowy outside, or my streets and trails have more than a foot of snow on them and haven't been plowed. I don't usually worry about rain in the summer, and just run outside unless it is really coming down and I can't see. Wind can be a problem, especially if you are running around a lake where the wind can pick up considerably over the sheet of ice that will form in December. Outer layers that are of a wind-breaking material like Goretex or just a standard wind-blocking nylon can make all the difference.