After truing my front wheel, it seems that it is laterally true. However, the spoke tension seem very uneven, with a few spokes that are very taut next to other spokes which are more loose. If it was a small difference, I wouldn't be too concern, but it seems a bit too big of a difference in tension that has me worried. I have access to a tension meter and a pro-grade truing stand. How should I fix this? Should I loosen all the spokes and start from scratch or fine tune the existing setup? 

It seems like you're willing to buy all new componentry, so you have a lot of flexibility. It doesn't look like there are many compatibility issues with it except the issue with disc brakes (rear wheel spacing is 135, front fork should be 1 1/8", Just get a new bottom bracket with your cranks). I'd personally just put a disc in the front and then a good set of V-Brakes in the rear so you don't have to do some hack to retrofit discs in the rear. After that, just grab a short travel front fork, a new wheelset, a 10 speed groupset with rapidfire shifters and should be pretty much up to modern spec for most parts. Check out a vintage catalog for some original specs at $URL$ I love keeping vintage gear on the road. You'll probably wind up putting more money in to this than a decent entry level bike though. 

I use Shimano M324 pedals on my commuter so I can clip in or ride without special shoes. It works great on 4 different pairs of shoes with SPD cleats. One side has a cleat, the other side is flat. 

I've got a full suspension XC/AM 29er mountain bike (Gary Fisher Hi-Fi Pro). I'm running a size small frame with an 80mm stem with about 7 degree rise. Bike seems like a good fit for me. I do run the seat a touch lower than optimal for more room to move on sketchy sections (no dropper post) but still not so much that my legs scream on flats and climbs. However on a lot of climbs, even ones that are not super steep, my front wheel seems to pop up quite a bit. This makes me have to foot down unexpectedly when the climbs are rooty or rocky. I try to get as close to the bars as possible when I'm digging hard, but I feel like something might be better done with bike fit than bike english. What should I try to set up the bike to avoid this? I switched from a slightly longer 90mm stem due to the feeling I was going to OTB on sketchy terrain, so I don't want to play with lengthening the stem much. Things I considered: Raising seat (would require a $$$ dropper since I'll need to lower it for sketchy sections). lowering stem (I've got about 20mm of spacers to work with below the stem) Flipping the stem (not sure what this will do to handling on steep descents) What's going to be the most effective way to change the setup to avoid or reduce the lifting effect? 

If you are looking to use your bike primarily as a commuter, then I don't think it's neccesary to get a Road bike meant for fitness cycling or racing. I'd recommend getting a bike that is going to a) meet your needs as a commuter and b) is built with quality components. What are common needs or wants for a commuter? Mounts for fenders - to keep you drier when it rains Mounts for Racks - to hold panniers, to haul your stuff. Appropriate gearing for the terrain, cargo load, and ability Clearance for the size of tire you want to run. You can always run skinnier tires on a frame with more clearance, but you can't really squeeze fat tires on a standard road bike. Handlebars and shifters are comfortable for you - If you are not racing or riding with a cycling club doing long road rides, you may prefer flat bars for commuting with bar mount shifters as opposed to drop bars with integrated brake/shifter setups. Honestly, steel cyclocross bikes and touring bikes with rack/fender mounts tend to be good versatile bikes that be used for recreation riding and commuting. 

I'm setting up a double crankset with a new front chainring which is ramped and pinned. How should I orient the outer front chainring with respect to the chain drop prevention pin? Should this line up with the crank arm, opposite the crank arm, etc? 

I wouldn't wear the same cycling shorts 2 days in a row if you're not going to be able to wash/dry them. I'd take an extra pair of padded cycling shorts. You don't want your bits feeling funky. Throw in some chamoise cream (even if you just get a couple single use packets of it, it will help avoid chaffing). Same with the shirt, probably want a fresh one for day 2. I wouldn't want to be stuck in a soaking wet cotton shirt, I'd switch to a wicking material if I had the option. I'd bring a second tube just in case you get 2 bad flats. Definitely bring a multi-tool and tire levers along with your patch kit to do any basic adjustments. I also agree that it sucks having stuff in a bag on your back, it traps a lot of heat and sweat on you. You can definitely get by with this, but I recommend mounting that stuff on your bike rather than your body. Get a rack, seatbag, handlebar bag, or whatever works for you. It's not really a need, more of a want. 

I put Surly Cable Hangers on all my bikes with canti brakes. They have an adjustable barrel to alter the cable tension before the straddle cable hanger. 

I grease the splines. I prefer to put a bit of blue loctite on my fixing bolt to be sure it doesn't loosen up if you run in to issues with this happening. I probably would be a bit wary about using loctite with a non-metal fixing bolt. I've seen aluminium fixing bolts on ebay, just search for them. Here's one set of results. 

I have a new bike, probably a month old, which has Hayes cx 5 disc brakes. I've noticed that the front brake pad is making a grinding sound when I brake at low to moderate speeds. What could be causing this? The pads that come with these brakes are Semi-Metallic. The rotor bolts are all tight, there is no pad rub when coasting, and the bolts connecting the brake to the fork are tight. 

I tend to prefer smaller tube sizes when I have this choice because there is less material to bunch up when installing and it's less likely to get pinched between the tire bead and the rim during installation. The disadvantage can be when patching. Smaller tubes need to stretch more to fill the space, and patches may not stretch as much or as evenly depending on the type of patch you use. It's rarely a deal breaker, but you need to just be careful when fitting the patch on. 

I use long sleeves to shield myself from the sun during long exposures. I found a lightweight trekking shirt from REI to be a good fit, it dries quickly and is rather vented and the arms are made to be rolled up and buttoned to stay in place when you don't want the long sleeves. I used this on my last 4 day tour for almost the entire ride. Also, Pearl Izumi makes sun sleeves which can protect you if you want a more traditional racer style look. For Your Head you can get skullcaps with a flap on the back of the neck like walz caps skullcap or Halo Headband Solar Skull Cap For Legs you can get UV leg protectors, SPF 50+ compression leg covers, or Pearl Izumi Sun Knees to protect yourself from the sun. 

I think the headset on the headshock system is propriatary and can't be used with existing 1 1/2in forks, but uses the same oversized headtube, so you can swap the headset with a standard 1 1/2in or use a reducer for 1 1/2in to 1 1/8in. So, If you can't service the fork, You should be able to swap out the fork if you get a reducer headset (1 1/2in to 1 1/8in), a new stem, and a new 1 1/8in fork. Headshock is pretty low travel, so you'll probably want a fork with low travel, an adjustable travel fork, or a suspension corrected rigid fork. Sheldon has a page with some info on the system and links to manuals: $URL$ You could possibly rebuild it, parts are out there. Honestly, unless you were getting a smoking hot deal, I'd avoid proprietary crap like this.