Under Texas law you should not hold yourself out to the public as a 'Software Engineer' unless you hold a Professional Engineer certificate as such. In reality, lots of software developers are called 'software engineers' both by their job title and themselves. It's a highly overloaded term in daily use. As someone who reviews resumes I understand that job titles vary greatly from company to company, but I am interested in what your current and past employers called you. If you told me that you are a software engineer, but that your current job consists mostly of "diagrams, functional specs, and other related documents" I would say, oh, you were really a project manager of some sort. A 'software engineer' is always someone who works closely and directly with, you know, software. He or she may be spending most of their time mentoring and managing the actual process of developing software. For example, our software engineer may spend a lot of time developing and maintaining toolsets, QA procedures, and architecture design as opposed to writing the actual application. But he or she is also often heads down writing code. A real software engineer is always intimately involved code, one way or the other. 

I really think you are overthinking this problem. You are not happy in your job. Find another job. Tell your present employer in a respectful way that you've decided to pursue another opportunity. For heaven's sake, don't go around telling people that you are incompetent if you want to stay in the tech industry! You're probably just fine, you just need a better fitting job. 

I personally greatly benefited from the insights I obtained from taking the MB test several years ago. I think MB is helpful in gaining self understanding, and the more honest you are in answering the questions to more helpful it becomes. I think MB is a great tool when used correctly. I would not, under any circumstances, bring your MB score up in any sort of job application. First off, while INTJ is said to be 2% of the population I have noticed that about 80% of people who know about MB will claim to be INTJ or ENTJ. Because they think that's where the cool kids live. Take the MB once and it's really simple to game the test so as to put you in any one of the 16 boxes the next time you take it. The MB is not like an A+ certification or a PhD in Rocket Science. 

I think it is far better to leave a company on your own terms than ride it in the crater, or worse yet, be laid off and thus be proven as damaged goods. My experience is all in smaller software startups, but in my world the general perception is that the best people will leave a company voluntarily if the high performing employee perceives the company is failing. A common perception is that the second tier performers will wait until they are laid off or the company folds altogether. 'Loyalty' is not a highly valued asset in this day and age. 

Here in the United States most employment is 'at will', meaning the employer can dismiss an employee at any time, likewise the employee can quit at anytime. I've personally seen companies hire someone and then a week later the new employee walks in the door only to be told he's been laid off! I seriously doubt that your current employer would honor this agreement if his bottom line could be improved by laying you off. I'm 63, I know where you're coming from. If it's best for you and your family then take the new job. 

Why not leave the ball in Company B's court? So far there is no real obligation by any of the three of you to any of the others. Until either company gives you a written offer you really have no offer at all. I have observed verbal offers being rescinded through no fault of the applicant before. I wouldn't stir the pot at this point if I were you. Sit by the phone and see what happens next. 

Having a personal project like that is a big plus if you interview with the small companies that I've worked at for the last 19 years. Big companies looking for 'organization men' might be different, I wouldn't know. I'll turn the question around: Would you prefer to work at: 1) A company that sees the value in a project like yours? A security minded company who understands the value of a white-hat? or 2) A company that freaks out because you used words commonly used by the people who actually write code? Take your pick. 

I agree with other posters that this is not a desirable thing to put right at the top of your resume. It will get you passed over for positions for which you would otherwise be considered. 

I'd go with john@johndoe.com, or if that seems too informal then john.doe@johndoe.com. In general it's kind of a status symbol to a lot of people to have a first name only email, for example bill@microsoft.com would be kind of special. As some who reviews resumes I'd find resume@johndoe.com to be kind of confusing. Why would I email your resume, I'm looking right at it! 

Mass mailed resumes will work in getting your name on recruiter mailing lists, multi-level marketing 'opportunities', and (as mentioned already) identify thieves. I screen resumes, and I'm not the least bit interested in an email resume from someone who didn't take the time to at least look at our web site and get a general idea of the kind of work we do. Any resume I get that looks like spam goes in the spam folder, so that hopefully I'll never be bothered by this idiot again. I would suggest to anyone looking for a job to figure out what kind of job they want and are qualified for, and do the grunt working of finding the companies looking for your skill set. Write an email cover showing that you took the time to learn at least a bit about the company and attach a relevant resume. As far as discouraging idiots with email clients, that an unsolvable problem. 

First, the other answers about the nature of 'employment at will' in the current world are correct. The company as an extended family is a mostly dead concept these days. Be that as it may, let us think a little deeper rather than just moaning about the good old days. Pilots have a saying: "Nothing is more useless than runway behind you". You had a bad experience, but it's behind you. Forget about it! It's runway behind you! This may sound odd, but you could do worse than read up on a little Zen philosophy. There is a concept in Zen called The Beginner's Mind. The basic notion is that if your mind is full of thoughts and ideas about your prior experiences there just won't be room to learn much from a new experience. Your mind is so full of anger and regret about that bad job that you are not able to function to your fullest potential in the current position. Try to discipline yourself to learn from the present and look to the future. Beginner's mind is a discipline of not looking back when you need to go forward. Once you grasp it you'll find it helps you in many walks of life. 

This is not good advice. Just be honest, you'd be surprised how often honesty really is the best policy. Just put in your cover letter that you are willing to relocate at your own expense if offered a position and give them a general idea of when you could become available for work after accepting an offer. I think most technical hires start with a telephone or Skype interview, so your initial contac won't pose a problem. Once you've talked to them you can decide if you are willing to travel to an in person on your own dime. 

It's certainly not unethical, anymore than it would be unethical for the employer to replace you with someone willing to work even cheaper. In the absence of some kind of employment contract you should feel to free to job hunt on your own time, and to take another offer when and if another offer comes along. Or just quit and go looking full time. It is ethical to give whatever the customary notice is in your location, and it is also ethical to fully document what you have been doing at the current position before you leave. It's always appreciated if you let the current management know you'll be available for short questions from your replacement to help him or her get going.