It depends on society's view of the creatures, their control over their wereishness, and how much the higher-ups know about each other. Assuming the most likely situation, that society fears and hates them, that they totally lose it once a month, and they they more-or-less all know they are all werewolves, it become simply a game of self-preservation and MAD. Threats: Losing control over yourself once a month, even if it's by turning in a fearsome beast, is a very vulnerable situation for somebody with lots of enemies, both within your organization and without. Seriously, it just takes ten guys armed with silver weapons. Gangs, while always hated by everybody, normally operate more-or-less under-the-radar, and rarely are outright despised by the whole of society. If word gets out that the capital city is run by monsters hated by everybody, no matter how strong they are, they are eventually going to fall to the force of an enraged public. Therefore, you'd have to keep this knowledge as concealed as possible from everybody, probably by threat of personal harm. It's easier if they have something to gain from you on a regular basis, so gang leaders would have to keep both whichever of their members and their 'property' who discover their secret convinced that it's in their best interest not to spill the beans and bring it all down. Of course, if they get too greedy, well, dead men don't talk. MAD: The reason mutual assured destruction would set in is because the leaders of each gang know all the above. While they may try to kill and destroy each other, a stability would develop simply because they have an unstoppable weapon: knowledge that the other gang is full of wereanimals. Move too far or push too hard, and eventually somebody will drop the bomb, even if it destroys them as well. Given the assumptions made at the top, there's no reason they'd ever want the word out, no matter how much the personal threat could help them. The information is just too dangerous. 

You have suggested either a scientific explanation or a supernatural one, and have some good answers regarding each path. There is a third path: art. How did Saramango explain things? Perhaps not at all satisfactorily from a hard-science point of view, yet presumably the novel works anyway. In the story "The Distance of the Moon," Italo Calvino adopted the (true) premise that the Moon is gradually moving away from the Earth (spiraling outward in its orbit), and wrote a story about things that happened when the Moon was so close that people could climb from the Earth onto the Moon. Even a moment's though will tell you this is nonsensical in several ways (the cataclysms predicted upon your island's separation from the mainland are nothing compared to what would happen from the Moon passing so close to the Earth, for one thing) yet it is a good story. Another writer about a hundred years ago observed that many tall buildings were being built on the lower tip of Manhattan, and wrote a story in which part of that island broke off and sank into the sea under the weight of those buildings. Anyone with a slight knowledge of the geology of New York at the time could have said this was impossible, yet the story was pleasing enough to be published. (I read this story a few decades ago, so I do not recall clearly who wrote it. It is possible that the story I'm thinking of is "The Tilting Island" by T. J. Vivian and G. J. Bennett, anthologized in Science Fiction by Gaslight by Samuel Moskowitz, but I have not found an actual copy of the book to confirm this.) So whether your villagers can survive the trip without explicit divine intervention is a matter of how you write the story. 

Racism has been a defining trait in how human civilizations have interacted and developed in regard to each other. It, however, is founded on differences which separate us visibly but not functionally. Can of worms; 'nuff said. What if there were real differences? Presume a species with a baseline level of intelligence and interbreedability; assume them to even be humans for now. However, say there is a very distinct sliding scale of physical functionality which begins to emerge upon puberty: on one end, they are possessed of superhuman strength and endurance, but have post-puberty lifespans of only a few years before their bodies fail. On the other hand, they are practically biologically immortal, yet utterly frail and weak. Assume, again, a normal (bell-shaped) distribution along this scale. Most importantly, there is a very visible external indication of this, whether it is body size or some other manner of odd phenomena (skin markings, hair color, eye size, whatever). How would society develop? What if the distribution is very lopsided in one direction or another? 

A world much like earth has a society which, although rather aware of metals, does not possess the knowledge or resources to refine ore and produces alloys. They have access to practically unlimited wood and a variety of stone and volcanic glasses, but the only metals they can utilize are whatever native examples are found in the ground. Would they be able to develop semi-robust computing? It would be bulky, but surely not impossible to develop non-electrical analytic devices: it has already been developed. Could it be done without metals, though? More importantly, would it? Assuming the society lived in peace and relative comfort, able to pursue academic issues at ease, and had fully optimized wooden/stone construction and tools, I imagine would have a relatively developed society. Would they conceive of and peruse the construction of a metal-free computer? 

Suppose the "mountaintop" is actually a plateau much larger than the proposed basin; the plateau might have an area of 300,000 square km at an altitude of 1000 meters. (For comparison, the Tibetan plateau has about eight times the area and five times the altitude.) Now say nearly the entire top of this plateau is sloped inwards, with a low point a little over 100 km from the northern edge, and around the low point the plateau is bowl-shaped. So rain water flows from all over the plateau (eroding the surface and carrying salt that the water dissolves from the eroded material) toward this low point, collecting into a lake. Water will evaporate continually from the lake's surface, leaving the dissolved salt behind. The deeper the lake gets, the more surface area it has (provided it doesn't overflow the edge of the plateau), and the faster water evaporates. The lake will remain a salt lake with no outlet river provided that as the lake fills in, the rate of evaporation rises to meet the rate at which water flows in before the lake spreads to the edge of the plateau. So you just need that the amount of annual rainfall on the plateau (or at least the part that flows toward the lake) is the amount that evaporates in one year from a 100-km radius round lake at that latitude and altitude. If you're really concerned about scientific realism you could work out the amount of rainfall and the rate of evaporation to see if they match. If the geography described above would collect too much rainwater, make the plateau smaller or make the lake larger; if too little, make the plateau larger or rainier, or lower the rate of evaporation, perhaps by being not so close to the equator. 

Giant winged beasts such as the Roc and the western dragon feature strongly in mythology. Is there a maximum size on a biological winged flying creature? How would an atmosphere different from Earth's change such a limit? 

Conquest and discovery has been an important part of developing the global political structure of today's Earth. After we expand and settle other planets, whether within the same solar system or not, eventually the colonies will grow and develop to the extent where they feel able to self-govern. Given that extraterrestrial colonies and their resources would be incredibly valuable to their parent government, they would be naturally hesitant to let them go, whether because of fear of a lack of control or fear that the new government will be forcibly assumed by a competing terrestrial government. Easily, historical examples can be found by looking at overseas colonies - except for two incongruities: firstly, the process of setting up not only a self-sufficient extraterrestrial colony, but a self-expanding extraterrestrial colony would require much more assistance than, say, setting up a self-expanding overseas colony. Additionally, the area available for a colony to expand into is much greater than historically: there's a whole planet out there! Would the self-governing colonies, after they finally stabilize, cover much greater area than their parent nations? Would it be continental, global, or even include the local moon(s)? Would they be powerful enough to peacefully hold this territory, or would competing, established governments/colonies be conterminously fighting for greater resources? How would the situation differ were the planet found inhabitable as opposed to requiring a (possibly international) terraforming project? In short, what type of interplanetary political structure would be most likely to develop, and what historical parallels are there to support your claims?