In most other circumstances, being a "professional" simply means you're paid to play the game. Some make a distinction between "semi-pro" (yeah, you're paid to do it but you still need a "day job") and truly "professional" (you make enough that playing is your day job). A few sports will allow players who have previously played professionally to compete at lower levels, ranking players more on current skill level (so a 60-year-old former NHL player might be welcomed into a B or C-league hockey team), but others do still make the distinction that if you've ever played professionally, you can't go back. 

One more good reason to keep your left arm straight on a golf shot: precision. In baseball, a long-term batting average of .300 is pretty darn good. That's slightly less than one in three at-bats resulting in a batted ball good enough to get the player on base without some error by the defending team. Additionally, out of however many pitches a batter will see in a season (let's say they see an average of five per at-bat, an average of 4 at-bats in a game, times 162 regular-season games, so somewhere in the neighborhood of 3,200 pitches per season), the home-run record is 73 in a regular season, and that guy admitted to steroid use. So in a record-setting performance, a baseball player will hit about 2% of the pitches he sees over the wall, and will hit a home run in just over 1 out of every 10 at-bats. A golfer who hits the same percentage of "good shots" (up in the air and in the general direction the player intended), even using the higher one-in-ten statistic to make up for the fact that the ball isn't moving, or even the one-in-three statistic just to be exceedingly generous regarding the number of variables inherent in the batters job versus the golfer's, would be asked to leave the course after three holes, for tearing up the fairways and slowing other players. The best baseball players can do is simply nowhere near good enough in terms of ball striking precision to even show up at the golf course. The golfer, on every shot, is expected to hit a ball 1.625" in diameter using a club with a sweet spot about as big as the ball itself, on the end of a shaft that can be up to 6 inches longer than a baseball bat. Not only do they have to do that, but every shot is expected to be accurate to the level of Babe Ruth's famous called shot (within a section of bleachers), otherwise it's seen as a miss. That is the level of precision professional golfers require just to end up with a par score, much less to find the extra 10-15 shots over 4 rounds of golf needed to win a tournament. Their technique, therefore, requires precision over power. A straight left arm keeps the swing closer to a single plane, and more importantly, brings the clubhead right back to where it was at address, which is the biggest aid to precision that a golfer can give himself. 

The follow-through, in itself, has no bearing on the shot shape, especially with irons when you tend to tee the ball further back in your stance; for those shots, the ball is long gone before the clubhead begins to rise out of the turf. However, the mentality inherent in adopting a particular follow-through can cause a player to adopt certain changes in swing mechanics that do affect the portions of the swing prior to impact. For instance, a mentality to abbreviate your follow through will cause you to lead more with your hands so you can control the club, and you'll feel like you're not "breaking" your wrist to release the clubhead until after the ball's already gone. In reality, you end up releasing the clubhead just before impact, so your hands are still a little out in front, de-lofting the club at impact. You also do one or two other things; keeping your hands in front means there's more distance between your hands and the ball at impact, and that can cause you to hit the ball "thinner", toward the bottom edge of the clubface, which causes a lower launch. Or, the additional bracing of your arms in anticipation of controlling the follow-through will cause you to stand up slightly on the downswing, and that also causes a thinner, lower-launch shot. By contrast, focusing on taking a relaxed, full swing and follow-through will lead you to release the clubhead earlier, so the clubhead's inline with your head and hands at impact. That decreases the distance between your hands and the ball so you hit higher up on the clubhead, and lofts the club a little more, both causing a higher launch. 

You're not alone; sometimes even the commentators, who have the same "over-the-shoulder" long-lens view that the folks at home do, will simply refer to a pitch as a "breaking ball" if it drops sharply or curves outside, even though a number of specific pitches can do that. The fundamental theory of pitching is that the batter gains an advantage over the pitcher proportional to his ability to predict the pitcher's next move, and conversely, the pitcher gains an advantage over the batter inversely proportional to the batter's ability to predict the next pitch. Your better pitchers have a number of weapons to accomplish this, but key to all of them is control over three elements of the pitch; speed (and thus timing), vertical axis (drop), and horizontal axis (slide). From the very good diagram Dor linked to, here's a basic breakdown of the most common RHP's pitches as seen by a RHB: 

The informal name for a 5-under that is not a hole-in-one is an "Ostrich". There is no official name for this score on a hole, because it has never been accomplished and it is unlikely we'll see it happen unless we see a reversal in allowable technology in golf clubs, such that we see PGA Tour players truly outstrip amateur scratch players in drive distance again, as we did prior to the "metalwood revolution". This is the only situation in which we'll see a reduction in average hole yardage for each par to lower the "slope rating", allowing the very longest hitters to reach longer greens in just one or two shots when it would normally take three or four. First off, the situation in which it is even possible to score a -5 is rare enough, never mind actually doing it. It would require, by definition, a Par-6 or Par-7 hole. There are only 7 Par-6 holes in the U.S., and no active Par-7s. The only two par-7s I know of in the world are at Satsuki Golf Club in Japan, and at Gunsan Country Club in South Korea. Second and more importantly, a hole-in-one, aka an "Ace", is exactly that regardless of the hole's par. If you Ace a Par-4, it's technically an Albatross as well, but they'll be calling it an Ace, because it's much more difficult to Ace a Par-4 than to score an Albatross on a Par-5. So extending this to longer holes, you'd need to score a 2 on a Par-7 to hit an "Ostrich" and have it be called that. So, let's head to Satsuki. It's the shorter of the two par-7s at only 914 yards to edge of green from the regular tee. It runs slightly downhill but is as straight as you're likely to find, so there's no cutting corners (which most of the "Condor" -4 scores in history have required); to hit this hole in two would require an average shot distance, between your drive and your fairway shot, of 457 yards. The Guiness world record longest drive in professional competition was 515 yards by Mike Austin at what is now the Desert Rose Golf Course hole #14 (which, somewhat ironically, was only 455 yards at the time the shot was made). However, the longest Hole-in-1 recorded in history is actually longer, 517 yards, by Mike Crean at Green Valley in Denver. Let's say you matched Crean's yardage on this hole. Assuming your shot landed straight in line with the hole, your second shot would be only 397 yards, off the deck with a 3-wood this time, and this is the precision shot; this shot is the equivalent of acing a par-4 at about 400 yards from lie to green, with the added difficulty of hitting off the deck. So this feat would require you to not only match or break a world record, but on your very next shot afterward on the same hole, you must do something only nine golfers in professional golf history have done, and you have to do it without the benefit of a tee. Considering only 4 condors have ever been recorded, at least two of them by cutting a dogleg, and that the longest hole-in-one in history is a full 204 yards short of the shortest par-6 in the U.S., I think it's safe to say that the chances of anyone recording an attested -5 on a hole in our lifetimes is effectively zero.