At places were I've worked, we were fortunate enough to have a dedicated person to handle all the logistical nuances of making the office more comfortable for employees. Aside from typical office managerial duties, we've had office managers who, twice per week, would clean out the refrigerator by throwing away any unlabeled or out-of-date food. With that said, if you don't have such a person, and there's a problem with sanitation in the office, that falls under the umbrella of "safety", which would fall under the domain of human resources. Thus, approach the human resources department with your concerns. You don't necessarily have to mention specific names of people or get into specific details, but if you mention to HR that you feel there could be a food safety issue in the refrigerator, they should hopefully be able to take it from there and implement solutions to the problem, whether that be hiring someone or just simply clarifying the policy in a more official manner. Finally, if your workplace is in the United States and covered by OSHA, they may be responsible legally to ensure a safe environment for all employees. In places where I've worked, HR is delegated the task of complying with such regulations, but this could be different in other places of business, such as small businesses with a small or nonexistent HR department. 

I realized that I might be one of those coworkers who is a little loud. When I'm working on a tough programming problem, I really get into it to the point where I sometimes find myself growling at my computer screen or talking to myself as I'm working. Ironically, after reading this post, I've tried to cool it a bit. :) Being on the other side of this issue, I'd personally appreciate if someone could politely take me aside and say "Hey man, I'm not sure if you realize this, but when you [insert X behavior here], it is sort of distracting. Do you think you could keep it down?". It's quite possible that your audibly-challenged coworker may not realize he's being a nuisance. So, politely say something; it might not just help you and your other coworkers but also make your now quieter coworker a more pleasant person to be around, which could make his experience better since more people might be nicer to him. As for me personally, when people come in our office and start talking or joking around, if I'm trying to focus, I just put on my headphones. I've never needed to talk to anyone about such annoyances as I just drown them out with music. 

The answer to this question largely depends on the nature of the business. It depends on how sensitive the information is that employees are exposed to, the maturity level of the employees, and whether or not the work involves collaboration with others or quiet focus. The answer depends on your organizations' risk tolerance and productivity goals. Security as an Issue: Sensitive Personal Information: If you work for a company that deals with a lot of very sensitive data, then bringing in any device that could be used to compromise the security and privacy of the data may fall strictly within the bounds of being completely restricted. Cutting Edge Technologies: Or, take Apple for instance, whose employees regularly work on cutting edge technologies. An organization such as this may also have a need to restrict the usage of personal devices on company property or even make employees sign NDA's so that they are legally liable for damages if sensitive information is leaked through the actions of that person. Nature of The Work: However, if you're working somewhere where the sensitivity of data is not as important, then the question of "information leaks" may be a non-issue. Instead, employers may only need to focus on whether or not the devices are disruptive to the workplace. For instance, if employees regularly play games on their phone or if their tablet rings everytime they get a call through their Skype mobile app, this could have an effect on productivity, especially if there are workers who need a quiet work environment to be effective. An employer may need to set guidelines restricting the use of the devices or how they're configured so they're least disruptive. However, in other cases, such as in a sales role, having access to such a device could make it easier for a worker to update a social network or contact a client in another country using Wifi calling or instant messaging. In these cases, employers may want to encourage the use of such devices. It Depends On Risk Tolerance: I've worked in places that would restrict such devices and require key-card access to the building, due to the sensitive nature of client data. Conversely, I've also worked in places where intellectual property was a non-issue and where management was very hands-off. Some employers have even provided such devices for both our work use as well as personal use. In short, your policy depends on how much risk such devices have on your business or your clients' businesses, and what type of impact it will have on your employees productivity, whether that impact be positive or negative. 

However, the negotiation process shouldn't begin until your manager actually agrees that the bonus is a good idea and agrees to discuss this further. Finally, don't expect this to happen overnight. Financial decisions involving pay are sensitive issues, and an employer who commits to such a bonus structure may have a difficult time ending it if it turns out to not be in the organization's best interests. It's easy to raise an employees pay rate, but it's generally almost impossible to reduce it without creating a strained relationship. 

While it may seem like a good approach to sweep the news of your employees passing under the rug, it's important to remember that despite this being business, people are still human. If the employee in question played a major role in solving problems for your clients and has built a relationship with those clients, you'll most likely want to let everyone know in a timely manner. According to a TechRepublic article, 10 tips for Handling the Death of an Employee, you should announce this news to all employees in an in-person meeting. For clients, this may be tougher and may depend on how many clients your employee worked for. The rationale behind a personal announcement to employees is based on the strong relationship bonds that form between coworkers. Thus, if your employee was a major accounts representative and, let's say, was working directly with 3 to 5 clients, you'll more than likely want to contact them each individually to let them know the news. But if your employee worked with a hundred clients, and those clients may not likely know the employee, then an official email BCC'ed to all clients would be appropriate. Some clients may not care, some will. But those that knew your employee will more than likely appreciate you taking the time to share the news. 

We live in a world where English is everywhere. It's, arguably speaking, the language of business. To succeed in business, there's a very good chance one will need to speak and write clear English. To some degree this is changing, and some positions even require employees to be bilingual, but English is still the most widely recognized language around the world nor is it going away anytime soon. From my experience, people in first world countries, such as the United States, including myself, tend to judge the legitimacy of a particular resource based on subtle cues in the grammar and spelling of the body of work, especially if it's a published work such as a website, pamphlet, book, news article, or other artifact designed to be more permanent. Many of us look at lack of attention to detail in these areas as a sign that other, more important details, may also be lacking. Therefore, based on this experience, it's important that your coworkers and students put care into doing what they can to fix problems in spelling and grammar. Fortunately, we live in a world where we don't all have to be grammar and spelling experts. These are skills that are perhaps less important than they were in the days of the typewriter. In today's world, simply knowing that grammar and spelling are important can get you a lot farther than being completely ignorant of the fact. English, being a tough language to learn and master, can be daunting for people who didn't grow up with it. So it's best to coach your colleagues and students to be aware of their spelling and grammar and to ask for help when needed. Also, explain to them that, while for things like in-house emails and chat grammar and spelling might not be important, writing copy for the company website is essential and absolutely cannot be overlooked. Here's what Charles Duncombe, CEO of JustSayPlease, has to say about it, from a PracticalEcommerce article, "Can Spelling Mistakes Impact Ecommerce Conversation": 

You should definitely ask for details about what the interview will entail. This shows that you care enough about the job and respect the interviewers enough to want to be prepared to make a good impression in the interview. If an interviewer decides that somehow this breaks some unwritten rule they have about interviewing or feel that you're somehow cheating by asking this, then maybe this isn't the job for you and you should look for an employer who respects your desire to use the tools at your disposal to be properly prepared. Whenever I asked beforehand, knowing what to expect made me feel more prepared and confident in the interview, which effectively killed two birds with one stone: 

The reason people misspell your name isn't because they can't read, and it isn't because they're unprofessional. The fact is, you have an odd name, and it's unexpected. People get used to patterns: I was on my motorcycle commuting to work the other day, and the city just got finished repairing and reopening a bridge that had been closed for a year and a half. The 3 way stop that they temporarily setup was back to a main thoroughfare with a single stop sign at a road that terminates at a "T" at the main road. A lady in a big blue SUV almost hit me because she expected me to stop when making my left. I had right of way, but a week ago I would have had to stop. It's not that she was dumb, although I was a bit pissed off, and it's not that she can't read. I almost made the same mistake a few times when I thought a car was going to stop but instead went right by. For a year and a half, anyone and everyone who regularly commuted through this area had to stop, and just like that, the city removed the stop signs without warning, leading to mass confusion by people who allegedly know the roads. Patterns in words: 

The correct choice of action would be to discuss the issue constructively with your immediate supervisor. Focus on finding solutions instead of simply making a complaint. If you come to the table with some suggestions, you're more likely to find a resolution you're both happy with. 

Unless you're completely unwilling to try other options, I strongly suggest this be a last resort. You could certainly express your desire to work with an on-site team, but if you make it sound like an ultimatum or that you're unwilling to continue working with a remote team, that may lead to eventually needing to find new employment. Instead, express your concerns about how working remote disconnects you from the team. Ask your supervisor if she has any suggestions for how to overcome this issue. Don't expect an immediate solution, but do stay focused on solutions. 

I consider referring someone to a place where I work to be a very carefully-weighed decision reserved only for the people whom I know are qualified, will do a good job, and who will fit into the culture of the organization. A former hiring manager I knew, upon suggesting a referral, told me that it's "on me" if things don't work out. Needless to say, I didn't press the issue any farther, especially since the person I was referring wasn't that interested. When you refer someone, you're basically vouching for this person and saying they're "good to go". In the movies, when a mafia member "vouches" for someone and that person doesn't work out, the mafia member may find himself six feet under :) While you're not in the mafia -- and this is real life -- the lesson learned is still the same although with significantly less consequences. If this former colleague doesn't work out, it may have a less than desirable impact on your reputation with the company, and it may make the hiring managers, and even your boss, less likely to consider future referrals you submit. Thus, if this person is simply not interested or not showing a great deal of interest, my concern is that he or she might "flake out" if the company decided to invest time, money, and other resources in this person. It's great that you're willing to help friends and former colleagues, but I'd suggest passing in this case. 

Offer to let someone else go in your place who would be held back due to their duties or workload, and then ask someone to live stream the event for you through a Google Hangout or Skype call. One way to participate in team building is by sacrificing yourself for others. Feel free to mention your allergies, but highlight the fact that you're willing to fill in so that others may attend. I worked as an intern in the Operations department at a company where I was doing some programming, as well as other tasks. My job didn't involve dealing with customers. However, the company had their annual summer picnic, and since we were interns, they asked us to watch the customer service phones so the regular, full time staff could all attend. After 5pm, we were then allowed to go meet the rest of the company at an after-party. Most of the customer service calls were forwarded to a voicemail, but if someone had an emergency, the calls were forwarded to us. In short, it was pretty quiet, so we just hung out and browsed the Web while we got paid. You're not an intern, but there may be other people who would love the opportunity to attend this team building event who do not suffer from some of these allergies. Also, attending remotely gives your team the opportunity to explore the idea of sharing experiences through new technologies. In short, don't spin this as a negative or make people feel bad for you. Turn it into a positive experience. 

Your goal isn't to incriminate anyone. You have a problem. You're a problem solver. Work with your supervisor and your team to solve the problem. If every issue that comes up involves blaming others, you'll likely have trouble collaborating on solving those problems because everyone will likely be afraid to make a mistake. Also, this is also your responsibility as a remote worker to be proactive, so if there is blame to go around, consider that some of this blame may rest on your shoulders. :D) Use Technology To Your Advantage Before throwing in the towel, you should give technology a chance. This isn't 1950, and technology can make remote workers feel like part of the team, almost as if they're all in the same room. I worked for 4 hours today on a problem with a colleague in India over a video call, using the very product we're collaborating to build. We made a ton of progress towards a solution to a complex problem. We both even got up once or twice to go grab more coffee and left the call running. There was also a period where he was trying something out while I was researching something on a forum. Its tough to get over thinking of a video call as a video call and not treating it like you're both just sitting in the same room. Don't think of it as a call where you must block out time with colleagues. Instead, just start the call, and leave it running. It feels awkward at first, but as it becomes a norm, you may find you don't feel so disconnected.