What qualities of the Buddha does trackless point to? The answer to this question seems to require extrapolation, so here goes my take on it. I would say that, as the second verse mentions, the quality is the absence of craving. The full absence of craving implies the absence of the conceit "I am". With this in mind, if the Buddha himself doesn't identify with anything ("I am this, that, better, worse, equal, etc."), how can one find him? One can't, hence he is trackless. If something isn't there, then it's impossible to find it or it's tracks. 

And what does it mean to take refuge? It means trusting that the Buddha [as the name implies] awakened, that what he taught is realizable & verifiable for oneself and that his community of followers are worthy of generosity & respect: 

At the beginning stages of the path, it looks more like a religion because trust (or faith), giving (or charity) & virtue (or morality) are emphasized. These are qualities that 'reconnect' people. Further along, it integrates psychology because one makes effort for preventing unwholesome thoughts & developing wholesome ones with the help of mindfulness which then evolves into concentration. These are qualities developed for testing & studying the mind. Further along, philosophy is integrated because, by now, one knows his own mind very well and so understands which causes give rise to distress & which don't. This is where the path culminates by integrating all three with the complete understanding & realization of the four truths. 

I only have knowledge of Ñāṇamoli's translation which is not available for free. Does anyone have knowledge of an English translation available for free? 

Note that these points are just good guidelines and should be taken as a supplement to one's own discernment. A skillful teacher doesn't need to fulfill all of the points, but if he does, great, stick with him. For further references, the following discourses might be of great aid: 

Note that footnote nº2 of the above discourse is also worth reading to get a better grip on it's meaning. 3. How is the term used by the Buddha in the suttas? As user70 pointed out, the Buddha usually uses the term to refer to himself. Above, I quoted a number of prosaic contexts that reveal how he uses the term, so I'll leave a poetic reference for this answer. 

2. Is it true there is an element of suppression in the practice until we reach the final goal? I'd say suppression (as defined above) is mostly useful in the initial phases of developing morality. As one progresses, there will be no more suppression since the act of abstaining will be implicit in the use of alternative skillful actions. (For example, instead of just abstaining from punching someone when one gets angry, one may foresee the upcoming situation and take appropriate measures like avoiding or seeking mutual understanding. Technically, one is still abstaining but this type of action is more refined and has no element of stopping a punch from happening when anger has already entered one's mind.) So I'd say, no, it is not true. 

There is also a reference to 108 Craving-verbalizations in AN 4.199, Discourse on Craving (Taṇhā-suttaṃ). 

Notice that not all questions deserve an answer since they are off-topic or have implicit assumptions which makes them so. Here's an article regarding this kind of questions which I think is worth reading. Asking When asking, be aware of the motive behind your question: 

Has anyone heard anything of this research or more broadly has anyone got any references where the Buddha really emphasizes compassion and indicates that compassion alone is enough? I have no knowledge about such research. I also can't recollect a reference from the early texts that points, even implicitly, in such direction. There's a reference pointing in the opposite way though: 

Here are four comparison tables that expose the similarities and discrepancies in satipaṭṭhāna discourses from the Pāḷi Nikāyas and Chinese Āgamas: From Mindfulness in Early Buddhism by Tse-Fu Kuan, p.166-169. Click the images to enlarge. 

The text is found, as mentioned above, in "The Gateless Gate" under the heading "Buddha Twirls a Flower". 

1. What is the difference between them? As far as I know, there is no difference. The world is said to be empty of self and what belongs to self. 

                                                   Structure                                                                              (Click to enlarge) 

Note: Requirement of being male is not always necessary and is dependent on the specific monastery in which the ordination takes place. For a more in-depth answer, see the chapter on Ordination in the Buddhist Monastic Code by Thanissaro Bhikkhu. 

This distinction, however, is not "set in stone" or "black & white" since householders are encouraged to follow this kind of austerity more consistently if they can and feel inclined to do so. 

                                               SummariesThe summaries are provided in Chapter I: Textual Analysis of the article "An Analysis of the Pāḷi Canon" by Russell Webb. In addition it also contains an excellent index of the canon and an extensive bibliography. 

Since there are great answers already, I won't be answering. So consider this not as an answer but as an appendix that might help you discern the details of the answers. 

Since I don't know how deep in the Tipiṭaka's structure you want the answer, I'll try to give the most in-depth answer. I'll present the structure in a tree chart and, beneath it, I'll refer to an article with an in-depth analysis of the canon which provides the summaries. 

Is Bhikkhu allowed to keep his food in refrigerator for next day or for long period? Not proper food, only certain types of edibles: 

What are the salient differences between the Pāḷi Nikāyas & Chinese Āgamas? I'm looking specifically for a comprehensive list of discourses that are unique in the Āgama collection and differences between parallel discourses. 

For a broader and more in-depth understanding of this topic, I recommend reading the related discourses which are mentioned at the end of the discourses linked above and a brilliant book written by Thanissaro Bhikkhu named Skill in Questions: How the Buddha Taught. It has many examples of Q&A's that fit the above categories. 

Disclaimer: This is the current knowledge I have on the Theravadin tradition. Here is a summary that answers your question: 

(Bear in mind, I don't have mastery over the language but I've been swimming in it continuously for the last two years. The following advice is based on this experience.) There is a whole list of books about learning Pāḷi. Some of them you can find here. I suggest applying the grammar that you learn from them, in Yuttadhammo's Digital Pali Reader (DPR) which will help you learn the vocabulary. DPR has an easy-to-use interface, dictionaries & various helpful tools including one of the grammar books mentioned in the first link. These are the resources I use and I complement them with the available translations on ATI, SC & in secondary literature. I also confer this Sanskrit dictionary. I hope this information will be useful. Good luck. 

1. Why does the Buddha call him self Tathāgata? What would be better than showing the man's own words? 

3. Why should someone follow and practice the Buddhist precepts (5, 8, 10 or hundreds of precepts) if there is no suppression? As I pointed above, suppression and practicing the precepts are the same in the beginning. After that initial stage the precepts are still being followed but there will be no suppression. This leaves this specific question (3rd question) meaningless. If this was not the type of answer you were looking for in this specific question, I suggest clarifying it a bit since I had a bit of trouble understanding it. 

As far as I know, there is no single compiled translation of all the volumes of the Abhidhamma but they are separately translated by several people. You can find an index of these translations in ATI's Abhidhamma Page. Note that, although no English translation of the "The Book of Pairs" (Yamaka) is mentioned in the above link, there is one. You can find Vol.1 here. Abhidhamma.com also has useful material available for download, including "The Book of Pairs Vol.2". 

Religion means 'reconnect' and is usually associated with belief, faith & charity. Psychology is the study of mental & behavioral phenomenon. Philosophy means 'love for wisdom' and is usually associated with understanding, reasoning & the intellect. 

There are others discourses that touch on this. I particularly have one in mind that relates very closely to this theme. I'll reference when I find it. 

Quick First Read What the Buddha Taught by Walpola Rahula (Recommended) Good Question, Good Answer by S. Dhammika Introductions to the Early Texts In the Buddha's Words by Bhikkhu Bodhi The Life of the Buddha by Ñāṇamoli Bhikkhu (Recommended) Buddha-Dhamma for University Students by Buddhadasa Bhikkhu Comprehensive Introductions to All Traditions The Foundations of Buddhism by Rupert Gethin The Buddhist Religion: A Historical Introduction by Richard H. Robinson An Introduction to Buddhism: Teachings, History and Practices by Peter Harvey 

What does the phrase “to armor oneself with vows” mean? I don't recall seeing that exact phrase in the texts that I've read but the analogy of the vows being used as an armor symbolizes the protection they provide to oneself and others by observing them. You can see this theme in the Self-protected Discourse (Atta-rakkhita Sutta) for example: 

Since karma isn't the only thing that determines what happens to you what are the other aspects? Is there a sutta referencing this? Yes, the following discourse is what you are looking for: 

What are the different interpretations and translations and what might be the most correct interpretation according to the different lines of practice? How are they rationalized? Here are some: 

1. AN 5.159 has five qualities a teacher should set up. The fourth one is that he will not teach for the purpose of material reward. 2. MN 150 mentions that recluses without greed, hatred & delusion are those that should be respected, venerated & honored. 3. DN 29 mentions that buddhist recluses live addicted to the pleasure of meditation. 4. MN 65 is a good reference about the Buddha's thoughts concerning this issue. 5. AN 4.27 is a good reminder about contentment with the bare minimum but I wouldn't advocate it as a necessary guideline. 6. AN 8.53 has the qualities that make-up the Buddha's teaching and one of them is solitude\seclusion. 

It seems it is the Japanese translation of the Sanskrit & Pali word "bodhi" meaning awakening or understanding: 

Nirodha is a term that is normally translated as 'cessation' or 'stopping'. It's what happens to suffering in the 3rd noble truth, dukkhanirodha (cessation of suffering) and to all of the other elements of the chain of Dependent Arising. The context which you refer to is the state of nirodhasamāpatti (attainment of cessation), saññāvedayitanirodha1 (cessation of perception & sensation) or nibbāna2 (quenching or stilling). It is a state where all sensory, corporeal and incorporeal experience ceases. It is the last of the meditative attainments after transcending the four jhānas & the four arupa āyatanas (formless spheres).3 

So as it seems, it's a misattribution of western culture. Top one is Budai, the bottom one is Gotama Buddha. But the bottom one is also depicted incorrectly, since the Pāḷi Canon portrays the Buddha as bald (muṇḍaka, "bald-shaven man"). 

(Disclaimer: I'm going to answer this pragmatically and straightforwardly without any reference since I think it doesn't require any. There may be memorable stories about the bowl but I don't think they are really necessary to explain it. Feel free to discard the answer.) The alms-bowl serves the purpose of helping one carry the food & prevent spoiling it with external dirt. If you went on alms-round with your hands it wouldn't be helpful for yourself or for the lay people as it would create hygiene problems. It also helps one measure the amount of food to accept, whether it's only for himself or also for others with whom he shares the food. (As the comments below show, the next paragraph is not applicable, since monks should hide their bowls under their robes until they know someone intends to give.) Additionally, it helps other people identify readily what the person with the bowl wants, food. In other words, if one carries a bowl around, instead of a hat or any kind of cloth, it is more straightforward what he wants. If one carries a hat or any kind of cloth, it is easier to perceive that he wants money or something else apart from food. As for it's origin, if I wanted food I would also use a bowl. Why would I use anything else? With this I mean that the origin is not necessarily something special or traditional, it's just a pragmatic tool that anyone who wants food would use. 

Is “the blind men and the elephant” a true Buddhist story? I would like to know if it is present somewhere in the Pali Canon. Yes, the story is present in the canon: 

(Since the question seems to be referring to Annihilationism and not Nihilism, I suggested an edit to it. I'm responding with this change in mind.) Plainly, Annihilationism assumes a self that is destroyed after death. Buddhism doesn't assume a self. For references, see DN 1, Brahma­jāla-sutta, especially the Annihilationism section and the ending section. 

Would an advanced practitioner ever stop meditating? If we take the Buddha & his disciples as an example, I would say, no. I would also not see a reason why. In the texts, the jhānas are referenced as pleasant abidings here-&-now and that is what the arahats do. 

Here's a chart of the procedure in some western monasteries (in Asian monasteries the ordination can be immediate): 

Can the Buddha never be a woman? If it is true, why can't they? According to MN 115, a woman cannot be a Buddha and, as far as I know, the reason is not explained anywhere in the canon.