The foundation of intertemporal economics is the net present value equation. That is, the net present value of a future income stream is the yearly incomes divided by an appropriate discount factor, based on the prevailing interest rate, r, taken to the nth power, where n is the number of years. 

The underlying belief among most "Chicago" economists is that "markets work," and most of public policy should mostly be directed toward improving their efficiency, e.g., by a "steady" monetary policy. Examples of economists include Milton Friedman (Capitalism and Freedom), and Ronald Coase (who postulated that most legal results are dictated by economics). The opposite, "saltwater" school of thought (on the east and west coasts) recognize that markets often fail, and therefore focus on using government solutions to compensate for such failures (e.g. using fiscal policy to get the world out of the Great Depression). 

If you take "energy" as an alternative for "labor," it can then be a complementary factor of production with capital. Most factor substitution models deal with labor versus capital. Capital is just a fixed "stock" of machinery, etc., while labor is the source of the energy that makes these machines "run." So yes, if you are treating "energy" is a special case of "labor," then it can complement capital. 

A perfectly competitive market is a special case of a free market. That is, a perfectly competitive market has all the essential characteristics of a free market, but the reverse is not necessarily true. A free market is one that is free from "outside" interference, either from the government, or from large private sector parties with market power. In a perfectly competitive market, there are no barriers to entry, all competitors are of equivalent size and power, and there are "many" such competitors. A free market doesn't always have these "guarantees," of competition, only "weaker" conditions such as barriers to entry and differences in size not being factors in restricting the market's freedom. The key precondition of a perfectly competitive market is the zero (economic) profit condition. That is, all "agents" are earning zero profits after covering the costs of their factors of production. Because there are no surpluses, no one has an incentive to disturb the competitive equilibrium, and no rational agent will. In most free markets (other than a perfectly competitive one), there are economic surpluses to be obtained if someone muddies the waters to their own advantage, which is to say that there is no guarantee that those free markets will remain free. 

In international trade, this is called immiserizing growth. This occurs when a major producer of a commodity, call it coffee, produces so much coffee that it drives down the price of coffee faster than the rising quantity can make up for it. (This happens when the demand for coffee is "inelastic.") Then the country is worse off then BEFORE the increase in production occurred. This happened to Brazil in the 1930s (see Celso Furtado, "The Economic Development of Brazil), and the "solution" was for the Brazilian government to buy "cheap" coffee, and store or burn it, to boost the price on international markets. 

Probably, but it's not visible because a country is usually already in shambles before a default, and data collection for domestic debt crises is poor. Here is a list of defaults: $URL$ Here's some rate data: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ There have been many cases where countries default on only internal debt. Argentina did this. I can't find bond data anywhere. But when it defaulted on domestic debt (1989), inflation went up and the currency fell. Which is pretty much the same as an increase in external interest rates. 

A true labor shortage is when no labor is available for a task at any price. Surely this occurs all of the time if you consider markets that don't exist or could never exist, but has this ever happened otherwise? Has there ever been a situation where a particular type of labor existed, and then dissapeared, leading to a situation where none of the labor in that sector was available at any price? 

Rate of depreciation = depreciation/gross stock in the current year. So 1.7%. Strictly speaking there is no way to calculate depreciation because the timing of capital formation is unknown, but capital begins depreciating as soon as it is formed. 

The lack of discounting will make tax discounting more valuable. Assuming that the market accepts this valuation it will mean increased effort toward tax deferral and possibly increased investment rates. Corporations will hold appreciating assets for longer periods to defer taxes, and will forgo some short term gains in favor of increasing the expected future tax defferal items on the balance sheet. In practice agents are supposed to be aware of accounting changes though and derive their own valuation independently of arbitrary rules set by some accounting standard. 

Iran is dumping oil onto the market at about a dollar a barrel. This is boosting the global economy. It is only a temporary phenomenon and the total oil production will begin to fall any time now. Oil is the sole determinant of long run global growth, and real energy prices always rise before recessions. 

Keynesianism (what you're apparently basing this on) is incoherent and relies on arbitrary eigenvalues such as "autonomous consumption". In real life the multiplier is small and inconsequential. However, the multiplier may appear close to one or slightly above simply because GDP increases the instant the government approves spending in public-subsidised enterprises, due to the way GDP is defined. For example, let's say the government spends $1 to subsidize Fannie Mae and this is counted as a consumption item (for whatever reason). GDP immediately increases by a dollar. Now Fannie Mae spends this on some irrelevant bureaucratic expense (buying mortgage derivatives, legal fees, financial services etc). GDP increases by a dollar again. So we just achieved a multiplier of two while having absolutely no effect on the real world. As you can see, measured GDP is subject to all sorts of random problems that make any attempt to calculate the multiplier pointless. Furthermore, strictly speaking, the "multiplier" is only technically supposed to apply to government consumption, and not transfers as you are asking about. 

Rents are included in the CPI, because they are expenditures that are "consumed" in current period of time. But house prices are not, because they are expenditures on an asset to be consumed over many years. If you own a house, you will benefit from the rising prices--if and when you sell it. In a sense, houses are treated like capital goods--for consumers. That is, rising house prices are not a burden to home owners, whereas rising rents are a burden to renters. 

Investment is necessary for economic growth. And in theory, most, if not all investment comes out of savings, at least in a closed economy. To that extent, savings are necessary for economic growth. Now I could make up a case where all the savings came from borrowed money, probably from abroad, with all investment earning enough to repay the loans and still support growth. But that would be an outlier case. 

A "backward bending" supply curve is evidence of a a supplier "monopoly." An example of such is a labor union, that has a "monopoly" on labor in a region, meaning that no one else can produce widgets for the monopolist; just as the widget producer is a monopolist because it has no competitors. Normally, monopolies are frowned upon, because they have "too much" power, relative to other agents. On the other hand, if you have a "monopoly" that can move anywhere along the demand curve at will, and a labor "monopoly" that can confront the whole supply curve, maybe you have two operators with "countervailing" power that balance each other out. 

I used to work for a company called Value Line, which is noted for its stock ranking system. Through a number of tests, its statistics department came to the conclusion that it took up to six months for new information (e.g. earnings) to be reflected in stock prices. So they introduced a time decay factor that would reduce the value of information to zero over a six month period in calculating their rankings. 

The old monetary equation is MV=PT, where M is the money supply, V is the velocity of money, P is the price level, and T is the amount of transactions. The fear in this case is that M will remain fixed. In a growing economy, T, the level of economic activity, will rise. Then, to make the equation hold, one of two things must happen: 1) V must rise to compensate for the rise in T, or 2) the price level must fall to compensate for the rise in T, to hold PT constant with M times V, both of which we're assuming remain constant. A rise in V can be caused in improvements in money management; banking, ATM cards, smart phone payments etc. That, in fact, is a large part of what has driven economic growth in the past 50 years. The other possibility, a fall in P, is what scares people. It's called deflation, and represents "sticker shock." Imagine a world in which prices were going down 3% every year, because the economy was growing 3% a year. Your wages would fall 3% a year. You shouldn't worry because your costs are also falling 3% a year, or more (but you will). There will be "reverse" millionaires," people who used to be millionaires, who aren't any longer, but who are better off because prices have fallen faster than their nominal wealth. It would be a strange, funky world, which is why policy makers avoid it, to the extent of making the "opposite" mistake of allowing inflation. Which may be one reason that the Bitcoin experiment is not viewed favorably by central banks. 

There was abundant oil supply and the developed countries were splurging on FDI and debt in the periphery Greece had just joined the Euro and was getting tons of transfer payments The Euro was still fairly high and hadn't fallen yet. Greece may have fudged its numbers a bit to get into the Euro. 

Buying stock never incurs taxes. Selling stock will incur US taxes if the corporation is registered in the US, but Apple could issue stock to a foreign shell company and have the shell sell stock, then have the shell make an equity investment in Apple, all tax free. Avoiding taxes is trivial and most large companies do not pay significant taxes. 

The First World mainly holds its assets in equities. The Third World holds its assets in debt. Equities have a higher return. Thus, the First World can run deficits indefinitely by selling it's assets and still gain wealth. Even if the First World net international investment position becomes negative, this is irrelevant, because it's assets will continue to return a higher yield than the Third World's. 

You are talking about the inverse of the exploitation rate. Workers under capitalism are paid a wage less than the use-value of what they produce, with the remainder going to surplus value. Surplus value = exploitation rate x use value Wages = (1/exploitation rate) x use value 

$URL$ Very interesting little model. Government infrastructure spending increases wages in the short run by increasing the capital supply, but lowest wages and raises capital income in the long run by boosting the return on private capital. Is this result valid? 

The growth of developing countries has been accompanied by rising resource prices and crimping of growth in the First World. This does not mean that anyone is stealing resources per se. It shows that resources are scarce and constrain growth, and one countries' demand makes it harder for other economies to buy oil. The sort of commodity price behavior that we see during rapid growth in the Third World does provide support for a mercantilist, zero-sum, resource constrained view of growth. This does have elements of colonialist/resource imperialist model where the First World invades oil producers to privatize the resource rents. 

Return on assets = net income/assets. ROI = an informal term roughly corresponding to return on starting capital, or net income/starting capital. Starting capital is any money invested in the business. Let's say you take out a 500k mortgage on a home with a 50k downpayment. That means 550k of assets. Net of everything you make a $10000 profit from rental income or whatever. Your ROA is 10k/550k because even though you don't own the home free and clear, the house is still an asset. ROI is a more informal term comparing how much you invested versus the return. In this example ROI is 10k/50k because you only paid 50k for the home. 

Your shell performs all your business transactions and records the profit. Thus all your profit seems to take place in the Cayman Islands and not the US, reducing taxes. There are other ways to use shells. For example, other people can pay you by making an equity investment in your company, which is untaxed. Look up Corp to corp/S corp tax evasion. In general, a shell company is a company with no assets besides that required for some very narrow purpose such as evading taxes. A somewhat circular definiton, but that's what people call it.