It seems your mind is calm during meditation. Is it or is it not? Now listen carefully my friend. The truth about sankharas is very deep. Only those whose mind is totally calm, can penetrate enough into it to grasp it. So pay attention my friend. 

Dhithi means thought, idea. In pali it means dogma; theory; belief. Panna means wise, endowed with knowledge, insight. Dhithi is fabricated by the fabricated self. Panna is not fabricated. To differentiate dhithi from panna you have to know how dhithi arises, what is its cause and what is its cessation. Once you know this, dhithi can cease and panna is attained. Then you can easily differentiate between the two. FURTHER READING: Why panna is not fabricated? When you meditate and perception ceases, and even the state of neither-perception-nor-non-perception ceases, and even that same cessation ceases, and all perception ceases, so that even meditation itself ceases ... that is reality. When observation of reality arises, that "observation of reality" is a fabrication, a not truth. Nonetheless, even though that "observation of reality" is a fabrication, a not truth, it really is not a fabrication, it is truth, it is panna. When that "observation of reality" is put into words, these "words" are fabrications, not truths. Nonetheless, even though these "words" are fabrications, not truths, they really are not fabrications, they are truths, they are panna. When "observation of reality" arises and this "observation of reality" is described with "words", even though this "observation of reality" and the "words describing reality" are fabrications, not truths, they really are not fabrications, they are truth, they are panna. "Observation of reality" and "words describing reality" can be called "panna". Nonetheless, even though this "panna" is a fabrication, not truth, it really is not a fabrication, it is truth, it is panna. When a person has panna, what is fabricated is not truth, but since it is being fabricated with panna, that which is fabricated is not a fabrication, it is truth. 

The Adiya Sutta discusses the 5 benefits obtained from one's wealth. The fifth is charity. And don't forget that income should come from Right Livelihood, as stated in the Vanijja Sutta: 

You experience the presence of the self now, because you hold the view of the self. For e.g. you experience the feeling of love towards your mother, because you hold the view that, that woman, is your mother. And your mother holds the view that you are her son, and due to that, experience feelings of love towards you. If she were to suffer from dementia, she might not recognize who you are, and then she would not hold the view that you are her son, and thus would not experience feelings of love when she sees you. There are some people who have extended their view of their self to include the car that they own and drive, so much so, that when their car gets hit by another car, they express feelings of pain and ask the other driver, "why did you hit me?" rather than, "why did you hit my car?". Please take a look at the research of Prof. Vilayanur S. Ramachandran in this TED Talk YouTube video. From here, you can see that people have deep rooted views of their body that it's possible to experience the feeling of phantom limbs (and pains in them) in patients who have had one of their limbs amputated, and phantom menstrual cramps in some women who have had their uterus removed. Ramachandran has devised some therapies to rid the patients of their phantom limb pains. Similarly, the Buddha too has given us his "therapy" to remove our wrong self views, but this may take time, because it's very deep-rooted. But you must understand that both the views of that "I have a self" and "I have no self" are wrong according to the Sabbasava Sutta: 

Source: $URL$ Further suttas that claim that all views should be abandoned: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ Once all beliefs are left behind, the wheel of "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding" will stop turning and there will be no more potential for suffering, thus suffering will end. There's nothing wrong having beliefs. On the contrary, it's normal and healthy. But we should come to the understanding that they don't lead us to the cessation of suffering. I'll add some reflections that I made on this subject: For the purpose of this explanation I'll replace the term "ever-changing processes of concocting, of compounding" with the term Dhamma. Beliefs in self and soul should be abandoned 

I would say yes. There is no other explanation. The Buddha meditated and came to the conclusion that I described above. Since he came to that conclusion, he knew that everything is subjected to this cycle, even the cosmos. Due to ignorance, everything is subjected to construction. Even the universe. That's why it expands. It grows. It wants to grow. Due to this very same ignorance, it's also subjected to decay. It will not be able to grow indefinitely. Then it will start to breakup, until a point of destruction is reached when it will start to grow again. Then again it grows and the cycle continues until ignorance is eradicated. That's the law of nature. This cycle is suffering. It does not lead to cessation of suffering. That's why we must strive to end it with wisdom. 

Rebirth has been around since the Earth first started turning on its axis. And perhaps much.. much.. longer than that. The Buddha stated in the Assu Sutta: 

This is a teaching on anatta. However, this may not work for everyone as it did on Bahiya, because Bahiya apparently was already advanced in attainment. Please see this answer. For complete beginners, study of the Dhamma (in order to cultivate Right View) and practice of the five precepts and virtue (sila) is recommended. Please see this answer. 

Faith in the Buddha and the teachings would lead one towards stream entry. But it's insufficient by itself. According to the Vera Sutta (AN10.92), to achieve stream-entry, one needs to still the five forms of fear and animosity, attain the four factors of stream entry and rightly see & rightly ferret out through discernment, the noble method. The five forms of fear and animosity are caused by: 

Among the 31 planes of existence, two of it are the realm of humans and the realm of animals. Both of it exist right here on Earth. So, the realms are more from the perspective of different kind of beings, rather than different kind of planets and galaxies. Then you may ask, where are the tusita devas located? How can I find them? Well, I don't have the answer to that. But think about this. Ajaan Lee described how the realm of hungry shades look like (from here): 

If you knew about a Dhamma practitioner who strongly believes in no reincarnation or post-mortem rebirth what would be your advice to him/her? 

No, being in a commited married life does not make it impossible to attain Nirvana. Being in a commited married life helps you towards reaching Nirvana. Suffering always helps you reach Nirvana. When suffering is present, commited married life can arise. When commited married life arises, good action and bad action towards liberation arise. When good action arises more than bad action, knowledge leading to liberation rises. When knowledge leading to liberation has rised enough, liberation follows. When liberation follows, suffering has come to an end. When suffering comes to an end, compassion for suffering of other beings is arised. When compassion for suffering of other beings is arised, only good action towards these beings is arised. When good action towards beings is arised, your strive to help these beings become liberated is arised. If suffering comes to an end while being in a commited married life, your strive to help your woman (or child, or family,...) reach liberation is arised. Sometimes this means ending the relationship. Sometimes it means staying in the relationship. You see, when you reach Nirvana while being in a commited married life, it's like reaching Nirvana while being a butcher in your own farm (the case is extreme, but it is not impossible). When you reach Nirvana while being a butcher in your own farm, what do you do with your animals? Yes, you stop killing your animals. But, do you let them go? No, because letting them go, would be the same as killing them, as they don't know how to survive because they were domesticated by you. So, you decide paying the price for your past bad actions - you stay with the animals, feed them, nourish them, teach them how to survive, help them towards their strive to end their suffering. Only after you've done everything you could to help your animals, you let go of them. Only a liberated mind can know when he has done everything he could to cleanse his past deeds. Once you let go of them, you never, ever, build your own farm again. 

You notice that your sink is leaking. Right now it is Sunday morning and a plumber would not be available. So you plan instead to call a plumber the next day. So here, you are making a plan for the future. Is it right to make and execute this plan? Yes. After all, you must solve the problem. Then when is it not right? It is not right if you spend the rest of Sunday worrying or dwelling upon your leaking sink. This is where you need to practise mindfulness. Similarly, I don't see why one cannot make and execute plans for career, family etc. It is just that one cannot keep thinking about it over and over with attachment and with emotions like passion or aversion. Of course, if you have to make plans regarding career, family etc., it means that you still have desires for a worldly life (instead of the monastic life), which by itself is not wrong if it follows the Noble Eightfold Path, including Right Livelihood. Planning and doing something is different from having one's mind always obsessed with that something. 

The third useful quote below comes from the Sivaka Sutta, teaching that not everything we experience in life is due to karma. Some times it's due to the weather or indigestion etc. 

The point in living is to learn what is suffering, what is the cause of suffering, what is the end of suffering and what is the way leading to the end of suffering. 

Sometimes yes, sometimes no. It depends on the circumstances. Sometimes shame and remorse can guide you to do skillful actions. Sometimes it can guide you to do unskillful actions. 

You lack wisdom. Why? Because suffering has not yet been extinct within you. Continue on your way towards illumination, strive as you're striving right now, new wisdom will be gained and sooner or later liberation from suffering will be reached and true wisdom attained. 

Yes the quote says correctly: when there is ignorance, there is potential for unwholesome kamma to be accumulated, thus giving rise to craving, clinging and becoming, which in turn conditions the accumulation of kamma in the future. 

Source: $URL$ Is it possible to attain Nirvana with such a belief/view? No. In order to attain Nirvana, this belief/view must cease. Once Nirvana is attained and after, this belief/view will cease. Why? Because when Nirvana is attained, craving ceases. Since the person who has this belief/view was immersed in craving, and this craving ceased, the belief/view will cease too and right view will arise. Nirvana is attained when craving is eradicated. Craving is eradicated when ignorance is eradicated. Thus, one must eradicate ignorance in order to eradicate craving. This same eradication of craving is Nirvana, which is attained by the arahat. Does an arahat strongly believe in no post-mortem rebirth and strongly deny the possibility of the existence of rebirth? No. Why? An arahat knows that rebirth has ended, but for not yet liberated beings rebirth continues. That's why an arahat can't strongly believe in no post-mortem rebirth and strongly deny the possibility of the existence of rebirth. Furthermore, the Buddha said that anybody who strongly believes in no post-mortem rebirth and strongly denies the possibility of the existence of rebirth is immersed in craving. Somebody who is immersed in craving is not an arahat. An arahat has eradicated craving. 

And the same applies to the other senses. You can find a similar discussion in the Aparihani Sutta where it talks about removing "evil, unskillful qualities such as greed or distress". There is a slightly different message in the Sacitta Sutta, but also teaching us to remove unskillful thoughts: 

Based on all the descriptions above, it sounds to me like hungry ghosts or hungry shades are microorganisms. It also makes sense that when food offerings are made to the dead, they would be consumed by microorganisms. Questions: 

Please see this answer. I have tried to explain in that answer, using Dhammapada verses, that Buddhism teaches thinking and acting in wholesome and skillful ways. And this can be applied to facing obstacles and challenges in life, which may come unexpectedly. 

Can a arahant recognize other arahants? Can a arahant recognize stream winners, once-returners and never-returners? Can a arahant recognize the spiritual attainment (and conversely, the defilement) of others? If a arahant is able to recognize other arahants, then we may be able to reliably establish a recognized group of arahants in our time, who can be the lead teachers of the sangha worldwide. 

But at the same time, in the Attakari Sutta, the Buddha also says that the view of "there is no self-doer and there is no other-doer" is also wrong. So, it's not easy for someone to get precisely the right view of the self.