*I had to weigh it myself, and i don't have any grain for horses. If anyone knows a better weight i'd be happy to recalculate (not really). 

The Hetairoi (companions: regiments of noble heavy shock cavalry) of Alexander where often rewarded with land after victories. After the Galatians arrived in Anatolia they took land for themselves. The Ptolemaic Pharaoh's later gave many of them land in the fayuum delta in reward for military service. Giving land in reward for military service was common among the successor states. Many of ALexanders city's started by settling veterans in them. William the conqueror did the same for his nobles thing after his conquest of England. Before that the Saxons had taken land for themselves after their conquest of England. It seems settling conquered lands with their own soldiers and families was common among the German tribes, since Caesar already records this practice by Ariovistus. Similarly after the crusades many nobles would receive (or take) land after a victory. Land grants in the roman military where already mentioned. Giving land to core soldiers seems a common reward, in ancient and medieval times. This has a double purpose: Motivating those soldiers with a future reward (many of them where not actually paid) and controlling the newly conquered land. 

The main reason for avoiding the sling is that it is a difficult weapon to use. Requires training to do right EVERY time. So your slinger could expect a short career indeed which would abruptly end the very first time a live grenade slips the string and falls at his feet. Very bad trade-off for more range at questionable accuracy. What you had instead for more range with accuracy was this weapon: The stick grenade. It was widely used during both WWI and WWII. 

The Netherlands mainly has so-called 'waterburchten' or castles surrounded by water on all sides. Best-known example is Muiden Castle, founded around 1280. Today it is accessible as museum and mainly features the middle ages and the 17th century. It was almost demolished in the 19th century after a century of neglect but today is regarded as probably the best restored medieval Dutch castle. References: $URL$ $URL$ 

The siege of Carthage was the main event in the third Roman war. It went on from 149 B.C. to the spring of 146 B.C. According to Wikipedia the Carthaginians would have had about 410 000 citizens and 90 000 defenders. How did the Carthaginians keep their population alive? It wasn't like everyone in the city was doing nothing either, as 

The french maillotins (wiki only in french) led a revolt in Paris, and consisted of several thousands of armed men. They managed to keep Charles VI imprisoned (in his palace ofcourse) for some time and held on to the city for about a year. Their name comes from the lead hammers of the weapons-depot of the city that where used to defend the walls from attackers. The Huscarls of the Scandinavians and eleventh century Angle-Saxons fought with two handed Dane-axes. The Varangian guard of the byzantine emperors used the same weapon. Though an elite guard they numbered 6000 in the beginning. (Harald Hardrada, the guy who fought Harold Godwinson and his previously mentioned Huscarls for the throne of England was a Varangian btw). Many ancient germanic warriors chose to wield clubs. some of them where depicted on Trajans column possesing swords but chosing to wield clubs (click next till number 17). 

Social mobility during that time was low. So an individual would have to be pretty special to be noticed. For something like teaching one would need references to be accepted by the upper class. Or acquire the endorsement of a pillar of society, preferable someone of nobility. An example may be boxing. It started out as a rough lower class amusement but after the Queensberry rules in 1867 is was adopted by the upper class. So conceivably a good lower class boxer might build a reputation, be noticed, sponsored, and end up as a teacher of some upper class hobbyist. Nice link: $URL$ 

No baron would ever wear the livery of another. Livery originated in Europe in the 14th century and was applied within the household and by followers of the noble they owed fealty to. A baron would have his own coat of arms and his retainers would wear his colours, his livery. Likewise for an earl, although he would likely (not always!) have more retainers. No noble would ask another to wear his livery. That would go against all that the feudal system stood for. The clothes you wear are your identity, and there even were laws to forbid you to wear clothing other than what you are. Merchants could not clothe themselves better than nobility, despite being richer. Some colours and materials were restricted to royalty. It was taken very seriously indeed. References: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

One pound of horse meat has about 603 calories. warhorses weigh between 800 and 2000 pounds, so the amount of calories would be anywhere between 482.400 and 1.206.000 calories. Since a grown man needs about 2500 calories a day, he can eat for another 192,6 to 482,4 days. |Edit As has been remarked in the comments only part of the horse is edible. Apparently this could be about two-thirds of the meat in case of cows. I couldn't find any numbers for horses but since we're talking about warhorses who where not bred for eating the percentage would probably be lower. Keep in mind though that supposedly non-edible parts become very attractive as you get hungrier.| Of course, provided he can keep the food good for so long. Since in ancient times the only place a 1000 man horse army trapped in a siege seems likely is the east, it is probably too hot for that. The only ways to keep food good in the warmer regions of the ancient world would be smoking or salting, but it's doubtful a besieged army has enough access to any of these to preserve a 1000 horses. A horse should eat about 0,3 to 0,4 percent of it's body weight in grain, which is about 24 to 80 pounds per day, so 5 days of grain makes for 120 to 400 pounds. A male Roman citizen would eat about 4 modii of grain per month (source: my prof), making 36 liters of grain. 1 liter of (chicken*) grain weighs 690 grams, so 24,84 kilos or 54,763 pounds per month or 1,8254333 pounds per day. Thus the grain for his horse would keep him fed for 2-7 months. I'd like to add that a desperate sally by heavy cavalry could be a much better option, and has proven succesfull in the past. An example: 

No, we do not. The origin itself is disputed. The 100 senator story is a quote from Livy, but there are alternative theories, both religious and/or hereditary in nature. There are no contemporary sources to confirm and in my opinion there have been multiple sources for what later became the dominant political class. Fact is that the patrician class originated very early and became strictly hereditary for a long period of time. There are some 55 gens known to be patrician and this list is known to be incomplete. Prominant examples are Julia, Fabia and Claudia. Consular status is only one place to look for evidence of patrician status. King Servius Tullius' census is an earlier source. Priesthood was originally a patrician monopoly which declined as plebeian influence grew. Still for a long time only patricians could hold important posts like the office of interrex or interim head of state. Eventually at the time of the late republic being a patrician became a political liability rather than an advantage. During the empire the emperor was required to be a patrician and was the only person that could instate new patricians. These appointments should be well documented but I cannot find at this time a good source. References: $URL$ $URL$ A Companion to Livy edited by Bernard Mineo The Oxford Companion to Classical Civilization edited by Simon Hornblower, Antony Spawforth, Esther Eidinow Patricians and Plebeians: The Origin of the Roman State by Richard E. Mitchell 

In medieval Europe character was defined by the four temperaments. The choleric temperament is called "gele gal" in dutch, which translates to yellow bile. From Wikipedia: 

Post #6 in this thread discusses the possibility of high female gestapo agents. Apparently there isn't any evidence for them. They did find this link which proves the existence of at least one female Gestapo, but it isn't clear what her rank was. 

Zoroastrism is probably the only monotheistic neighbor of Judaism that i know of, and since it originated from the 7th century BC it is about 2 centuries older then Judaism. I don't know whether it was henotheistic though. 

In dutch it's a lot easier: 1500-1800 is the nieuwe tijd, wich translates to new time, and 1800 to now is the hedendaagse periode, wich translates to contemporary period. I've never heard of a distinction for the period after world war II. I can maybe help you with the first question though: we define the start of the early modern period by events like the fall of Byzantium in 1453, the invention of the printing press by Gutenberg in the same period and the discovery of America by Columbus. The end is mainly defined by the french and the American revolution, and the fall of Napoleon. I have heard of the postmodern period before but never in history classes, just behavior sciences (in high school). I just did a quick google and it seems almost all results are about literature, architecture and culture in general. I think it is rarely used in history. 

While I doubt there was much debt involving monthly payments as compared to today, it is known that (any) calender reform caused a lot of confusion that even today confounds historians. All legal documents were impacted and there even were protests where people reclaimed the days lost as they were believed to shorten their lives. Theoretically if your debt was due between September 3 and 14 in the Britain of 1752 you'd be off for free as these days never existed. In practice I think that did not happen at all as failure to repay your debts made you a felon and punishment was harsh, the law being very much on the side of the creditor. In the end I expect people just muddled through with the courts having a field day. References: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

In the end progress in a war like this was made by capturing castles and cities, or keeping them. (the focus on big battles can be misleading) Bertrand du Guesclin did both. If it wasn't for him the english would have conquered Rennes and Nantes (and thus held Bretagne). He also advised charles to use a scorched earth tactic against the invasion of Richard III. Richard besieged many cities but failed to take any but Caen. (fun story, in the English wikipedia this is only rewarded one sentence: Yet a campaign in 1359, meant to complete the undertaking, was inconclusive. while it's rewarded half a page on the French.) He also helped Henri of Trastamare on the spanish throne, and as a bonus managed to lure several thousands of mercenaries (who had been living as robbers in france for decades) with him. In the end the progress made by Du Guesclin was obtained by fighting against the free companies, defending castles and methodically besieging castle after castle, which is how he died