Position can have a huge effect on the intensity of a workout. The relaxed upright position of a beach cruiser, for example, makes it difficult to have an intense workout. Some commuters enjoy a relaxed position and low intensity, while "fitness" commuters seek high intensity. The position of a road bike makes it very comfortable to ride at a fast pace and almost uncomfortable to ride at a slow pace. So it's more about the position of the "better" bikes than the lighter weight (though lightweight bikes may offer a psychological advantage for some). As anecdotal evidence, I offer the situation of my wife, who on a hybrid bike never exceeded 8 miles per hour. On her first ride on a road bike, she surprised me by averaging around 15 miles per hour. She explained that leaning forward put her in a more athletic mode and almost forced her to ride harder. Likewise, I found the position and handlebars of my mountain bike to be limiting for my fitness-oriented commutes and switched to a road bike. This doesn't mean that if you're a fitness commuter that you need a carbon fiber bike, but rather that you may feel limited by the position, handlebars, and seat style of a hybrid or beach cruiser. A touring bike, a cyclocross bike, or even a racing bike may be more appropriate and comfortable if you're really pushing yourself. 

This obviously depends entirely on your fitness level and your experience on a bike. I will say that of all typical 15km rides, the ride between Delft and Rotterdam would likely be in the bottom 5% of difficulty, along with most of the rest of the Netherlands. I haven't done that route specifically, but from my time cycling through the Netherlands I can say that your ride is virtually certain to have no hills, cooperative traffic, and well-signed cycle paths. Unless you are grossly out of shape or have a physical condition that makes cycling inherently difficult, this is likely to be one of the easiest 15km rides you could possibly do. 

If you're not noticing any problems shifting under normal circumstances, I'd odds are good that your cassette is worn out and your chain no longer meshes with the cogs correctly. 

You may want to go up to 700x25s or 700x28s. While you should be okay with 23s, you'll definitely have greater peace of mind with a thicker tire. You may also want to drop the pressure slightly to 80–90psi. 

There are thousands of saddles out there. Some are designated as road saddles while others are mountain saddles. However, the marketing copy does not seem to describe the difference between the two types, even between two similar models (for example, Selle Italia seems to have an SLR for road bikes and an SLR XC for mountain bikes). In general, what are the main differences between road saddles and mountain saddles? What, if any, are the potential downsides of using a road saddle off-road or a mountain saddle on pavement? 

We've spent our entire evolutionary history under the sun, but also aging quickly and dying at young ages. The evolutionary history argument just isn't very compelling. The current consensus is that sunscreen helps prevent skin cancer, and skin cancer is indeed common. On the other hand, I have seen references to theories suggesting that sunscreen might increase a certain type of cancer or decrease vitamin D production, but these do not seem to be widely accepted. An in-depth discussion of this is probably more appropriate for Skeptics.SE than Bicycles.SE. In the meantime, just use sunscreen. EDIT: As heltonbiker pointed out, burning and cancer susceptibility depend on your skin, and most people develop some protection from tanning. I personally wear sunblock during mid-day rides (between about 11:00 and 3:00), when the sun is directly overhead, but I'll leave it off for evening and early morning rides. If you're burning instead of tanning (even if you don't mind the burns), you're probably getting too much exposure and should use sunscreen more often. 

Right now, I've got a SRAM 11/26 cassette. I just moved to San Francisco, and some of the climbs out here (e.g., Mt. Tamalpais) are pretty brutal with over an hour of climbing. My cadence over some of the steeper sections towards the top tends to hover around 70, when I'd much rather be up at 80 or 90. I've been considering switching to an 11/28. The thing stopping me from doing so is wondering if it would be better, training-wise, to grind it out for now until my power and endurance improve, bringing my ability up into the range where a 26t climbing gear is appropriate. I'm afraid if I switch to a 28t, I'll use it as a crutch. Should I stick it out with the 26t until I get stronger? 

You braked too hard given the road conditions, plain and simple. The road was wet, which decreases your traction. You hit the brake, which uses the tire's traction on the road to slow the bike. If pressed too hard, the rear wheel will lock up and skid, which can be disastrous in a corner — the rear wheel will continue to follow its outward momentum. 15mph may not seem fast, but that particular corner may have been especially dangerous for any number of reasons: 

Using the "approved" chain is probably better if all else is equal, and it may be worth a slightly increased cost for more peace of mind. If you already have the mountain-specific chain, there's no harm in trying it. And if the mountain-specific chain is far cheaper and you aren't picky about shifting performance, it will probably be adequate (but no guarantees). The "mountain bike specific construction" of the HG-X chains seems to be as follows (quotes from Performance Bike, High on Bikes, Amazon, and Competitive Cyclist): 

A cadence of 70 RPM while climbing is not unusually low, so switching to a lower gear may just encourage you to slow down instead of making you more efficient. But the only way to know for sure is to try it and measure the difference. There isn't necessarily a right cadence. The article Technique - Pedal like a pro reports that seven pro cyclists (a small sample, I know) dropped their cadence from 80-100 RPM on the flats to 60-80 RPM on a 5% grade. Although Lance Armstrong is famous for climbing at 100+ RPM, this does not seem to be common. I personally do better when I climb at around 70 RPM than I do at a higher cadence. The higher cadence just causes me to get out of breath faster. But this is different from person to person. In the end, there's no harm in trying a different gear and seeing what works best for you. 

IANAL. Almost certainly no, for the same reasons that a parking deck owner is not liable for the theft of a car inside. Unless you can prove that the bicycle rack was installed improperly due to gross negligence, and the improper installation allowed the bicycle to be stolen even while locked properly, you would have no case whatsoever. Locking a bike properly is the owner's responsibility. To prevent your next bike from being stolen, follow this advice: 

I interviewed at a large corporation wearing Shimano M076s, and got the job. In fact, I'm wearing them at my desk right now. $URL$ 

There doesn't seem to be much of a question here, but I'll bite anyway. Fuji makes bicycles comparable to any other large manufacturer. Your concerns when buying a used bicycle should not be about the quality of the manufacturer, but the qualities of the bicycle being purchased. Is it in good condition? Has it been well cared for? Are there signs of obvious misuse? Does the bike fit you? Is it suited for your particular needs? Can you find a better bike for a comparable price? Can you find an equivalent bike for a cheaper price? Unfortunately, we can't answer those questions for you, but they shouldn't be too hard to answer for yourself. 

Different hues of lenses have been well covered in existing answers, but light transmission hasn't been directly addressed. Lenses are characterized by how much visible light is transmitted through them. A dark lens has low light transmission, and a clear lens has high light transmission. Clear Lenses Most clear safety lenses have light transmission in the 75% to 95% range. Lenses in the 75% range appear to be clear, but if you put them on, they reduce brightness by a small but noticeable amount. As Benzo mentioned, clear lenses provide physical protection and filter ultraviolet light, even though they don't filter much visible light. Sunglasses Most sunglasses have lenses with light transmission in the 10% to 15% range, with some wavelengths filtered more aggressively than others. Other answers cover the usefulness of different colors. Photochromic Sunglasses Photochromic (a.k.a. photochromatic or transitions) lenses vary light transmission in response to ultraviolet light: $URL$ Most have light transmission of about 10% or 20% in bright conditions and about 50% in dark conditions. Note that photochromic lenses darken in response to cold temperatures. Also, they don't darken in cars since windshields filter ultraviolet light. Low-Light Photochromic Sunglasses Some photochromic lenses are designed for low light and have 75% light transmission (almost clear) in dark conditions. However, low light photochromic lenses have 20% or 25% light transmission in bright conditions and don't get as dark as ordinary sunglasses. 

Before building up a new frame, it's crucially important to ream/face the headtube and crown race seat (and the bottom bracket, if using press-fit cups). You should also ideally chase the threads of the BB and the derailleur hanger. But why don't manufacturers (e.g., Surly) do this before they leave the factory? Surly in particular mentions that they do in fact face their head tubes, but they do so before painting the frame, requiring new frame owners to re-face them. Why wouldn't they just do this before shipping the frame out? It seems like a no-brainer. 

These look like an excellent solution: earbuds/headphones designed to be worn in one ear only, that combine a stereo input into just that one speaker. 

Any welded tubes are going to have holes in their ends in order to let the hot gases escape. So, yes, there is virtually always going to be a hole connecting the interior of the top tube and the head tube (along with every other tube on the bike). 

For someone who hasn't been riding much, this climb will be brutal. But you'll be surprised at how quickly you'll make progress. Even though you might fail the first time you go up, this ride seems like a great challenge. Last year I coaxed a friend to start riding again. After a half dozen easier rides, we attempted a mountain climb similar to the ride you're describing. On his first attempt, he only made it about a mile up. On his second attempt, he made it to the top, and on the third attempt, he made it up without weaving all over the road. When you think about it, it's amazing how quickly you can rise to the challenge. It's probably impossible to adequately prepare on a stationary bike because the feeling of a real climb is different. It will definitely help if your aerobic fitness is already pretty good, but a stationary bike can't really prepare you for the feeling that you're about to start rolling backwards even though you're pushing as hard as you can. :) By the way, the gearing on your bike will make a big difference. If you can find a bike with a "compact double" or triple crankset, then you'll have an easier low gear available to you, which will make for a more enjoyable ride. A low gear will let you pedal at a faster rate which will avoid wearing out your knees or leg muscles. 

Does anyone have experience with tires for these rims? I've been looking at tubulars, and many of them (especially track versions) are listed as being 27x3/4 or 27x1, as opposed to 700x19 and 700x22. Specifically, I'm looking at picking up a pair of Continental Tempos but am unsure if the sizing is correct. Is this simply a case of labeling inconsistency, or will the tires not fit my rims? 

Don't bother with spray lube. It takes only seconds to apply lube from a drip container. I highly recommend ProGold. Spraying on lube makes a mess, gets lube on the outer plates of your chain (where it will just collect dirt and grime), and is wasteful to boot. Just prop your bike up, turn the drip container upside down, touch it to a link, apply a little pressure, and rotate your cranks backward at a medium speed. You might want to start slowly at first, but eventually you get a feel for how quickly lube gets sucked into the chain. I don't bother counting links, I just take a quick glance to make sure the links about to go under the bottle are already lubed. Spin the cranks a bit to make sure the lube works its way into the links, and finally grab the chain with a used rag and spin the cranks until the rag stops collecting dirt. I squeeze the sides of the plates and get them, then I do it again for the tops and bottoms. Total time is maybe a minute and a half, and an $8 bottle of lube lasts me for months of weekly application. 

I assume that if handlebar tape is grimy, torn, or peeling, it should be replaced. How long should I expect handlebar tape to last before it needs to be replaced? How often do most cyclists replace handlebar tape? 

I've seen cyclists use a few different options in this case. Whether each option is appropriate depends on local laws, intersection layout, and traffic flow. 

Bicycle chains with higher model numbers (and slightly higher prices) are often nickel-plated or half-nickel-plated. What are the benefits of nickel-plated chains over non-nickel-plated chains? How durable is the plating--does it wear off, or do its benefits last for the life of the chain? 

On a ride yesterday, I noticed a spot on my shorts where the fabric felt rough. After washing, the problem became much worse, and there are major areas of damage on both the front and back of the shorts. The following picture shows a close-up of a section of the shorts on the front near the chamois. If I look at the shorts closely, it almost seems like there are short little threads of elastic sticking out.