As Alec mentioned, it's anterior pelvic tilt and it's a common result of our sit-on-butt lifestyle. It takes a long time to develop, and it will take a long time to resolve fully. Some general notes I would make: 

You should probably get checked out by a doctor just to make sure you don't have any type of illness or ailment that needs to get treated medically; there are some nasty things out there that can present themselves as heavy legs. Assuming you get a green light from your doctor, you may need to adjust your training a bit. You're probably either over or under training. It's hard to tell from just hearing your situation because plenty of runners manage (and do well) running six or seven days a week, and plenty of others run every other day to give their bodies some time to heal up. Some options you may want to consider: 

So if your RMR was 1500 calories, it's now 1650 because of strength training. This effect persists: it happens even on days when you are not strength training, all day and night. Provided you at least maintain your strength levels, the RMR increase is maintained. This is further backed up by a 1994 study which had a slightly lower rate of increase, but it also had different study parameters. 

So back to splitting hairs, if you live at 8,000 feet and I live at sea level and I take EPO to get to the level that you have from being up there, how "unfair" is that? The more you get into blood doping and performance enhancing drugs the grayer it gets. In general though I stayed out of it, and ultimately pulled out of high level cycling, because I didn't want to make a chemistry lab out of my blood stream. But it's a choice every athlete has to make for themselves. At minimum, I would work with a doctor you (or your brother, in this case) trusts. Tell them what you're doing, have blood tests done, and have a physician watching over you as you try to outsmart the human body. 

Until elevators and steel girder construction around the turn of the 19th century, the tallest buildings were usually five stories. People worked in those fifth stories for years. Also, plenty of jobs have people walking up and down hills all day for decades, starting as small children. It's actually sort of sad that people consider eight flights of steps a day to be something that is beyond the scope of what a healthy human body can do. If you have problems, it will likely be from over-use, as you adapt to the load on your body. But if you've been doing it continuously without any ill effects, you can rest easy knowing it's fine. If something starts to hurt, cut back and ride the elevator up. If it feels good, keep doing it. And tell your friends to stop giving you poor advice. 

So boiled down I was lifting twice a week, running thrice a week, and still managing one full day off and one day of yoga. I also experimented with doing my lifts after my runs (same day), which actually worked out better. If my legs were fried from running I wouldn't hit the squats that hard, but because I was keeping the weight fairly light I never really had any problems meeting it. I opted to combine my running and lifting days once the mileage/speed got to the point that I needed more dedicated days off. One big piece of advice I can offer though is to use the time now to learn the proper compound barbell lifts. Fundamentally a proper back squat is a proper back squat, regardless of whether it's high reps and low weight for a runner's training or it's some huge monster pushing 900lb. Even if you're not doing a "real strength training program" (which are awesome, honestly), it doesn't mean you can't use the same movements and get them dialed in. At some point in your life you'll be really happy you have dialed in form on the "big lifts". Also, as you near race day, cut the weights out the week in advance. Drop the mileage, drop the speed, and keep fresh. 

That's terrific that you've stuck to a good compound lifting program for three months, I think you'll see even more results in the next nine months as well. Strength training increases your metabolism, which goes a long way towards burning fat. You really have three levers to play with for losing fat (and getting "toned"), none of which really has anything to do with supersets: 

Less than three minutes twice a day isn't even enough time to warm up to do any form of strength training. If you can't even warmup, you shouldn't do anything. Spend less time on the toilet, in the shower, and wherever else. If it's a priority, make the time. If you just want to move around for those three minutes, use the kettlebell and do one handed snatches for a minute, then swings, then pullups. But you're joking yourself if you think you can accomplish anything remotely effective in less than six minutes a day. 

There is one singular study, revolving around mice, showing a modification of GI bacteria and connection with glucose intolerance for those who consume artificial sweeteners. The study used 7, yes just 7, individual people. Hardly a good sample size. Contrast that study against the hundreds and possibly thousands who have tried to make connections and failed, or of the ones that were simply thrown out after more information about the study conditions were found. The other study that gets toted around is showing an increase in weight gain (in rats) with artificial sweeteners over sugar, but even in that fluid retention hasn't been ruled out. This quote is from the study's author, not some Splenda-paid-off lobbyist: 

Ditch your routine and go with the Starting Strength program. It will be much more effective in the short and long term. 

If you're squatting full depth 260lbs, I doubt it's a strength issue. I used to race competitively (road and mountain), and I can offer up a few places to get started. 

Entry level 5K training involves very little caloric consumption overall. Plenty of strength athletes are doing ~10 miles a week just as a part of basic conditioning. If you move to half marathons then you need to start being more careful. From the Couch-to-5K website: 

Generally, I keep my carbohydrates low, less than 100 grams a day if I can. I do a fair amount of running and strength training. I participate in regional amateur competitions for the same. I'll be doing a multi-week backpacking trip, involving roughly ~15 miles a day of trail hiking. Lots of altitude gain/loss, and carrying a ~40 pound pack. In the backpacking and hiking world, protein is treated as a nice-to-have second class citizen, and carbohydrates are much lauded for their easy energy. Everything is noodles, rice, flour, and other pulverized carbs. Anecdotally I "know" that distance runners need a lot of carbs and I'd imagine that ~6 hours a day of strenuous backpacking is in the same ballpark. Specifically though my question is: Are there established guidelines for when a fitness activity requires significant carbohydrates in the diet beyond what can be provided via ketosis? I don't mind eating carbs for two weeks if necessary, but I'd like to understand why they're necessary beyond just the folk wisdom of "because you need carbs for energy". I would imagine Inuit people weren't lounging about all day and managed without the carbs. Re-asking this a slightly different way, how does someone know that they need to have carbohydrates in their diet in order to maintain a given level of aerobic activity? 

Not for the vast majority of humans in the developed world. As shown above, hunger can exist because you ate too much bread or didn't get enough sleep. I don't know if there is any data on it, but I would venture to guess that the average westerner might never have had hunger caused by anything other than spurious signals, most of which are engineered by food companies. If you get a chance, I'd recommend watching (and sharing) the movie Food, Inc. 

The crummy thing about that one above is that "lasting changes" can be created by poor diet even in childhood. The cycle of (bad diet in kids) -> (lasting changes in physiology) -> (increased risk of health problems + increased desire for bad diet) is happening to a sickening percentage of humanity at this point. Anecdotally from my own experience high sugar foods (like candy, or even pie) will give me a splitting headache in minutes. And although I love In-n-Out burgers (w/ fries) there's enough consequence in my mind to keep it from being something I'd want to over-indulge in. 

They're probably approaching it from a hygeine and impact-safety prospective. Two rather reasonable concerns regarding barefoot lifting: 

It's easy to train, and especially when you look at potential back injuries from sit ups and neck injuries from crunches, it's easy to see why it's a go-to abdominal exercises especially for people looking for good-enough fitness (ie: not strength athletes). If you want to beef up your ab exercises, I'd recommend "churn the pot". Toes on the ground, plank position, elbows on a yoga ball, fingers interlaced or at least hands close together. The smaller the ball, the harder it is. Move the ball slightly to the left, then the right, then front, then back. You'll quickly feel how hard it is to stabilize. 

When your squat gets up around 175lb (1.5x your body weight), that's another sign that you're in intermediate territory. 

Breaking this down a bit, I'd comment that shoulders are notoriously easy to damage because people don't strengthen them properly and use poor body mechanics. Endless bench pressing, obsession with the anterior and lateral (front/top) deltoids, and near complete neglecting of the posterior (rear). There are quite a few male gymnasts (this guy is 82), and plenty of globally-competitive weight lifters that are older than you, so don't look at your age as a limiting factor, certainly not for having sufficient strength for something like monkey bars and pullups.