This from the book Aksum An African Civilisation of Late Antiquity by Stuart Munro-Hay This technique of boat construction is called 'sewn boats', and indicates the Aksumites were using boats of Indian design or style for their own vessels. 

There is no doubt that there were military objectives at Hiroshima. I don't think there were any illusions that there would be no civilian casualties. But it appears from the documents, that they were in no way expecting to completely destroy an entire city (possibly 'extensive' damage), and that they were all surprised by the results (since they kept comparing results to the earlier test detonation, which was minor in comparison). So concerning the 'purely military' nature of the target. The target was the military facility at Hiroshima; the expectation was its destruction; and they understood there would be collateral damage(I hate that term),but not its vast extent . This was the 'purely military' aspect of the selection of this target. If he did not desire a military target, Kyoto with its population of 1,000,000 would have likely been selected (the other AA rated target),to not minimize but to maximize civilian casualties, and the horror of this moment in history would have been (if possible) greater yet. (I hope this somewhat clears up the last half of the answer. My goal was to show that the massive casualties may have been unexpected, since the individuals involved all kept thinking and comparing to the original test. This, combined with the fact that they rejected targets which contained more civilians, shows the consideration which makes this target 'military' in nature. Its not that the target would cause only military casualties, but that the reason for the selection of this target over others was due to its military nature.) 

Your list of signers goes on for several pages. The 'refused to sign' section is at its end, on pg 336. 

The water supply found here was considered important enough to be discussed in this 1870 publication: 

The Royal Navy was engaged in war throughout the last half of the 18th century with every major power with colonies or interests in the Caribbean, the French, Spanish and Americans. The British also had their own colonies there as well, the British West Indies, so finding British vessels in the Caribbean is also historically accurate. In fact if your sailor needs to be 'out' of the navy in the Caribbean, there is even history to back that up : The Hermione Mutiny 

In 1829, while Vicente Guerrero was president, the Secretary of the Treasury (or Finance Minister), Lorenzo de Lavala implemented new tariffs, a graduated income tax, and property taxes to try to generate revenue for what was essentially a bankrupt government. source: Concise Encyclopedia of Mexico, By Michael Werner Another source, The Essential History of Mexico: From Pre-Conquest to Present By Philip Russell, specifies that this tax was 

Sorry about the length(and OCR errors), but I did say the source was extensive...The book is a great read to learn about the Romans, and it does exist as a free eBook and on the web. 

(The same source mentions that the Magna Carta in 1215 banned the use of crossbows specifically.) Conrad III is also mentioned in an article which appeared in The Nation, (in 1961), entitled 'UNILATERAL DISARMAMENT: 1139 A.D. - - by Jack Rothman', 

One other ban which did include both bows and crossbows, was enacted during the Second Council of the Lateran,by Pope Innocent II in 1139. 

A quick look at the list of wealthy individuals from the middle ages, gives us William the Conqueror for someone most of us are familiar with. The wiki list is a bit vague on dollar amounts, so a little more research leads us to another article here which has this to say: 

An extensive source of info on what the Romans consumed can be found in The Private life of the Romans , Chapter 8 Food and Meals. Some excerpts: 

The image is also repeated thoughout the web in other locations, but I cannot find an original source for it. I did scan the National Archives civil war photo collection, but found no image there of a Confederate soldier wearing a CS Oval. 

So at this rate, an average horse could cover as much as 32 miles (51km) in a solid 8 hr day long walk. I would use this we can take as a minimum estimate. Another gait discussed is a trot: 

One addendum to Mark's answer, from the same source,concerning the time just after the Rashidun era, in the section on Umayyad and Abbasid Dress: 

So apparently the Diocorides text considers the walls of the glassblowers furnace as a good place to gather this soot, though Pliny seemed to describe special furnaces which contained the smoke. 

This does seem to be the case. Since the story is set in Paris, we can look at some relevant info. A reference relates fear of bathing to the plague, spoken of here: 

Looking over the various discussions of these and other similar quotes, leads to the conclusion that Einstein probably did not say any of these, exactly. I have found no direct attribution to Einstein of any of these quotes of 'six-year olds','barmaids' or 'grandmas' is mentioned. Of course you cant prove something doesn't exist. 

This broadcast was dated Nov 25, 1944. The term was what the GI's and sailors heard over their radios, in English, not the full unit designations. And that's what stuck in their minds. 

The model 1874, the model made famous in Quigley Down Under, could be bought in 1878 for $44.00. Source:Mastering the Art of Long-Range Shooting, By Wayne van Zwoll To put that in perspective, farmers in 1860 earned $10-$14 per month, and a private in the Union Army earned $11.00-$13.00 per month. 

(emphasis mine) So I guess if a northerner were to include aspects of a Confederate soldier in his character creation, one that fought out of loyalty, despite his personal beliefs, might be more conceivable. 

(Update adding a little more specifics concerning the weapons and loading drill actually used in the referenced Battle of Balaclava.) A little more research brought up an interesting article:On the Thin Red Line: Loading and Firing British Muskets during the Crimean War, 1854-1856. by Robert Henderson. This goes into some detail on the weapons the 93rd Highlanders would have had access to during this battle: 

I have found no further details concerning actual dimensions, but we can estimate this drawbridge at twice the height of the above-mentioned ones, giving us a span of about 5.5m (18ft). 

Without more information such as the individuals name so the actual unit served in could be determined, it may be difficult to determine which exact regiment this uniform represents. (p.s. This started as a comment, again. Hopefully it offers some useful insight, even though it does not fully answer the question. ) 

I wouldn't attach any special significance to a glove on the tail of a creature , at least in this particular document. If you look through the volume, which is fully digitized and can be accessed here, there are many other curious, nonsensical figures with assorted bits of clothing and human features juxtaposed on creature or animal bodies. You can read an article here which discusses and shows some more of these illustrations. My first impression was that this looked like a Monty Python doodle pad, and it is possible that, besides just filling the margins of the document, absurdist humor may have been the intent. 

So it appears Maximus was descended from a Carausius, just probably not the Carausius (Marcus Aurelius Mausaeus Valerius Carausius) indicated by wikipedia. 

Back on the Hanover Brass site, this page provides images of several CS Oval buckles, and lists the source location where the original was 'dug'. The page also contains an image of a Confederate soldier wearing a CS oval buckle. 

The Edgar Allen Poe story The Narrative of Arthur Gordon Pym of Nantucket , 1838 has a remarkably similar beginning: 

So the moro in Rancho Moro Cojo may have nothing to do with black, but translates directly to lame horse. 

It is worth noting that the same source mentions that the last Manila galleon was actually raided of its silver by the Mexican revolutionaries in 1811, but I am not sure this should count, as the ship was still at shore: 

It seems the issue may be with generalizing 'Romans' as single entity and not as a group which changed through time. Johnston in The Private Life of the Romans goes into the changes seen in the Roman diet over time: 

So being a resident does not end when you are temporarily out of the country. As @PieterGeerkens pointed out, it does not require uninterrupted residency.