As a result, England struggle to pay its men and its allies. Some soldiers returned home early, leaving important strongholds understaffed. Others turned to brigandage, diminishing local support for the English cause. The shortage of money also meant that it was difficult to fund armies to recapture places lost to the French. Also, since Cardinal Beaufort was both a significant political player and a primary source of funding for campaigns, it meant that funding was sometimes given to causes that were more political than military in nature. This was why in 1443, Beaufort's nephew the Earl of Somerset was allowed to embark on an indulgent and futile expedition independent of the Lieutenant-General Duke of York's command and against his advice that the money could be better spent. Popular support While there had been popular local support for the English while they were steamrolling the French, that gradually dissipated due to a combination of factors. One was the gradual withdrawal of Burgundian support. Weather problems led to a greatly reduced crop yield and food shortages, exacerbated by Armagnac raids that prevented supplies from being delivered, thus leaving many unhappy with their English rulers. Many in Paris were also upset with the parsimony of Henry VI's coronation. English deserters took to brigandage as they were left unpaid by their army. Some, such as Richard Venables, banded together with other deserters, setting themselves up in fortresses and terrorising neighbouring villages. The loss of popular support was significant in that it made towns and cities difficult to hold. A Norman revolt in 1436 threatened the security of Rouen and ultimately had to be put down by force. Paris itself was to fall when the citizens changed sides. 

Plato in the Timaeus attempts to give plausibility to the story by attributing it to Critias, who heard it from his grandfather Critias, who heard it from the legislator Solon, who heard it from an aged Egyptian priest during his travels. Benjamin Jowett's notes on Timaeus comment thus: 

In his second attempt at the Senate in 1948, Lyndon Johnson narrowly defeated Coke Stevenson in the Democratic primary when a box with 202 votes, largely in favour of LBJ, was found late in the counting. In the aftermath, Stevenson accused LBJ of having stolen the election and made unsuccessful attempts to overturn the result. There were allegations also surrounding earlier elections - Ross S. Sterling unsuccessfully charged Ma Ferguson with fraud in the 1932 Democratic gubernatorial primary and LBJ's first Senate attempt in 1941 was thwarted when his early lead was overturned due to late returns favouring W. Lee O'Daniel. What actions were taken by the Democratic Party or by lawmakers to ensure that electoral fraud did not affect subsequent Texas elections? 

According to Appian, Praeneste did in fact allow Marius and part of his army into the town, before shutting the gates as Sulla's army arrived and trapping the remainder of Marius's army outside. They continued to hold out until Carbo's reinforcements were destroyed, at which point the town surrendered. My reading of Appian is that the killing was ordered by Lucretius, who besieged the town, rather than Sulla, who arrived later and only ordered the deaths of the senators that Lucretius had not already killed. Other than those who had been helpful, all Samnite and Praenestian men were killed. However, Romans, women and children were all spared. Given Praeneste's active support for Marius, it's not surprising that its citizens were thus slaughtered. The Romans, who were spared, were told that they would be pardoned even though they deserved death. Praeneste was also very rich at the time, so another possible consideration would have been the opportunity to give the soldiers a massive payday without leaving behind a mass of men disgruntled by the plunder. 

Every so often, I see a newspaper article which states that the wealthiest people in my country make less substantial contributions to philanthropy (relative to their wealth) than do their American counterparts. Invariably, our higher taxes are cited as a reason why this is so, supposedly leading some to form the opinion that they are already giving their fair share to the less fortunate. If this is a significant consideration, it would be reasonable to also expect a change in the rate of philanthropic contributions when a country alters the amount of tax it collects from its wealthy. I'm interested in whether this is so in the US, given that it's long had a culture of philanthropy by the wealthy. Has such a relationship with taxes been observed there? I have no particular definition of "wealthy" in mind and am open to any that allows for comparison of data from different periods. 

It makes sense that in formations, everyone uses the same arm to hold the shield since the benefits of order in the formation far outweigh those of individual strengths. For example, hoplites carried their shields on their left arms, covering also those to their left. Anyone who was trained to be a hoplite would learn to use the shield on their left arms and would consequently find that to be their stronger shield arm irrespective of their natural preference. Perhaps such a choice was possible in societies that did not fight in formations and did not enforce the use of a specific arm in training. I'm not aware of any. 

The democracy of Athens was briefly replaced by an oligarchy during the Peloponnesian War before returning to democracy. After losing the war, Athens camed to be ruled by another oligarchy in the rule of the Thirty, this time imposed by pro-oligarchy Sparta. It idnd't take long for Athens to again return to democracy. The later demise of this democracy was again due to external factors - conquest by Macedon and Rome. 

What I can find from Chinese sources all seem to have been derived from the one source, which seems reasonably reliable. It says that: 

During the Second Punic War, when Hannibal was trapped by Fabius Maximus, he had torches tied to cows, put out all other lights and drove them towards the area between the main army of Fabius and the troops that he had guarding a pass. Fabius feared a plot and was afraid to move, while his troops at the pass thought the cows were soldiers and went to attack them, leaving the pass open for Hannibal to take. (sources: Polybius, Appian, Livius) Many years later, when Hannibal was fighting for Prusias of Bithynia, he fought a naval battle against Eumenes of Pergamum in which his fleet was inferior both in numbers and in ability. He therefore sought poisonous snakes, put them in earthen vessels and had his troops throw them onto the ships of the enemy. Eumenes' troops were surprised at this move and had no idea how to deal with it, so they withdrew. (source: Cornelius Nepos) Caracalla, when attacking the Parthians, apparently employed wild beasts in battle. However, as far as I'm aware, this is only attested by the very dubious Historia Augusta that is known to contain a substantial amount of fiction. 

While a healthy dose of scepticism is warranted when reading any historical text, there are several things in particular to be wary of when dealing with ancient sources. One of them, as you say, is exaggerated numbers. Geography is also suspect owing to poor measurements and traditional beliefs. Probably the most notorious is the quoting of speeches which are "required by the occasion" (ie. made up by the historian but hopefully reflective of what was likely in that situation). In the introduction to the Penguin Classics publication of G. A. Williamson's translation of the Jewish War by Josephus, E. Mary Smallwood criticises Josephus for making exaggerations for dramatic effect and for overuse of speeches, some of excessive length and implausibility. She also criticises his inconsistencies, the undue weight he attaches to minor issues and his attraction to incredible accounts. Because Josephus is our sole source of information for many of the topics that he covers, we can not afford to treat him as an illegitimate source. However, the inability to compare his accounts with those of others means that we can not know exactly to what extent his personal biases coloured his history writing, and this, coupled with his obvious deficiencies, means that he needs to be read with care. 

So basically, the story of Atlantis is founded neither upon history nor mythology, but merely exists as a rhetorical device. 

Adam Smith in the Wealth of Nations has a short section on this question. He explains that while Africa was "inhabited by barbarous nations" just like the Americas, the former were primarily shepherds while the latter, with the exception of Mexico and Peru, were hunters. Because a society dependent on shepherds can produce more food and sustain a higher population than that dependent on hunters, they were therefore more difficult to displace. The Dutch settlements in South Africa were possible because the area was "inhabited by a race of people almost as barbarous and quite as incapable of defending themselves as the natives of America." There is no mention of Australia because of when the book was published but the same logic could be applied there. 

Henry V is obviously best known for his military conquests. His military career began in his teens, fighting successfully against the Welsh rebel Owain Glyndwr and his allies the Percies and Mortimers. As king, he won a famous victory at Agincourt and in later campaigns, so successfully conquered territory that he forced the French into the Treaty of Troyes that stipulated that the French crown should pass to his line upon Charles VI's death. Henry's personal and political skills also did much to cement his reputation. He had a much better relationship with parliament than did his profligate father and other predecessors. He was able to put aside personal differences, willing to appoint to powerful positions the sons of men who had been executed by his father and winning their loyalty. Indeed, it was Edwin Mortimer, former heir of the deposed Richard II, who informed Henry of the Southampton plot to depose Henry and replace him with Edwin. Also, Juliet Barker wrote that he was particularly scrupulous in ensuring that he did everything possible to ensure that there was divine justification in his military actions (but her Agincourt book does tend to read as a panegyric to Henry). Henry predeceased Charles, leaving his son Henry VI to inherit the French crown and his brother John as regent to take England to the peak of its power in France before its inevitable fall. Perhaps Henry V's early death helped his reputation, as he lacked the opportunity to suffer the reverses that had afflicted Edward III and the Black Prince after the successes of Crecy and Poitiers early in their careers. Culture undoubtably played a role in Henry's reputation. As with Richard III, the public's impression of Henry V owes much to the works of Shakespeare, so we are thus left an image of Henry both as heroic conquerer and (unfairly) as dissolute youth. Shakespeare, as usual, borrows from earlier works. Barker wrote that: 

Democracies were not necessarily more stable than other forms of government. Polybius describes a cycle of three forms of government - monarchy, then aristocracy, then democracy, then back to monarchy again (of course, this was not always the case in practice). The important point to note is that each first degenerates into an inferior form (tyranny, oligarchy and mob rule respectively) before being replaced. Wikipedia gives a good overview: $URL$ Polybius considered the Roman Republic to have the best and most stable form of government - mixed government combining facets of monarchy, aristocracy and democracy, each being able to check the power of the others. However, less than a century after he wrote these words, the Republic was on its knees. As Noldorin says in his answer, Rome wasn't particularly democratic and there was a long history of struggle between the rich and the poor. Appian traces the beginning of the end of the Republic to the assassination of the tribune Tiberius Gracchus, to his knowledge the first instance of the regular class struggles descending into internal conflict. Both Tiberius Gracchus' and others' proposals for the improvement of the lives of the poor met with vigorous and sometimes violent opposition by the wealthy, so the poor would have had little interest in maintaining a system that did not work for them. The reforms of Gaius Marius introduced to the army soldiers the poorer parts of the citizenry who did not previously meet the land holding requirements. While nominally servants of Rome, their hopes of wealth and a comfortable retirement rested upon the success of their commanders not only in battle but also in securing lucrative political appointments. This opened the door to Marius and others after him to build personal armies to back their bids for power. Noldorin has covered the subsequent events well so I won't go over the same territory.