The gravitational is radial only. That means if you tried a different shape then you would have regions, like hills, where a change in the angle would experience a much less attraction towards the center. This region would, over time, be attracted to a different angle with a greater force of attraction. Or spherical. This results in a spherical-like shape. 

To add to the excellent answer by berrycarter, there are 2 planetarium-like codes, that I know of, that run on a mac and would make excellent tools for viewing certain astronomical objects. The codes are Stellarium and Celestial. Both turn your computer into your own planetarium where you can search and view objects in space. 

Globular clusters vary in size quite a bit. They contain from a few hundred thousand to over a million stars. Probably best way to determine size is to measure its extent across the sky by telescope and then calculate that distance in km. One could also model the size by assuming the number of stars, the average size of the stars, and the spacing based on this size. One could build a globular cluster of 300,000 stars or so and determine the approximate size. You ask if 120-150 ly is the average diameter of such globular clusters. I'm confused by exactly what you mean but you have sampled a small range of sizes considering globular clusters can be well over 300 ly in diameter. 

Solar Flares obviously release extreme amounts of energy and extend thousands of miles out into space. Because they are so big I would like to be able to observe some of these events through a telescope but I am wary of damaging both my eyes or the sensitive telescopic equipment. How might I safely observe a solar flare through an amateur telescope? Might this be solved by using light filters to dim the amount of light entering the telescope or is a more specialist piece of equipment required? 

The middle line is the equator, the second and fourth line are the tropics, the first and fifth are the polar circles. What is the relevance of these bands on Earth? Do these exist on other planets? What purpose do they serve? 

Some planets, specifically Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune in our solar system, have planetary rings. 

Because scientists are now certain that dark matter exists but the exact nature of it is still being investigated. Its extremely important to understand dark matter if we hope to further our knowledge of the universe. Dark matter makes up such a significant part of the total mass of the universe that it must be accounted for in simulations and models of galaxies and other large scale structures in space. Money spent on dark matter research is certainly NOT wasted. 

It would look as shown below. And yes it would resemble a globular cluster except the stars move differently. Elliptical galaxies have an approximately ellipsoidal shape. Globular clusters are often associated with galaxies. The Milkey Way contains over 150 identified globular clusters. Shown below are globular clusters. 

There are many reasons why nothing has been detected. We could be too far away, no one is listening, listened at wrong time, and many more. But this does not mean there is no life on other planets. We just haven't discovered them yet. 

We have not discovered every galaxy in existence, nor have we watched each to see how it is spinning. Most of this answer will heavily be speculation. You have been warned! We have three classifications of galaxy: Spiral, Elliptical and Irregular. Irregular galaxies are thought to be quite young, and predominantly gasses that are yet to combine. Elliptical galaxies are thought to be like a disc, or elongated disk in shape. Spiral galaxies are theorised to be the older of the three, and it is heavily theorised that they are spiral in shape due to a super massive black hole at their center. We can see that it is thought elliptical galaxies will eventually become spiral galaxies 

(A) Outer radius of Mercury’s liquid core. (B) Average density of the solid shell that overlies the liquid core Conclusion Essentially, specific readings taken by a Laser Altimeter allow us to map out the three dimensional shape of a planets surface. Analysis of the shape shows us that the crust is thinner at the poles which is likely due to a liquid core. On top of this, Mercury is believed to have a small magnetic field (1% of our own) and this might be due to a liquid outer core circulating a solid inner core, acting like a dynamo. Though there is still much speculation given over what causes the magnetic field so this is unreliable to use for a solid footing. Aside from that there is the logical thought process that larger planets are capable of creating huge amounts of heat and pressure at their cores which create a molten core, or at least a molten layer. This is why there is much skepticism over Mercury because it is such a small planet that its core should have solidified long ago. 

No it wouldn't make a difference unless you moved it near another star or body. If it was moved such that something was close enough to exert significant gravitational attraction it would have an effect on our solar system. 

Wikipedia has a nice table located here, and here. Maybe of further use is the list of references associated with these tables. There is also a nice illustration depicting the rotational axes of other planets shown here. 

We have seen galaxies around 13 billion years old. Since these galaxies formed so early in the history of the known universe, are there observables about these galaxies that are apparently different from much younger galaxies. I suppose all current physics laws had condensed out by then but was just curious about the formation and 'aging' of such old galaxies. 

Earth didn't get here before GW's. GW's have been around since the early universe. We have just recently developed the technology to detect the large gravitational waves associated with very massive disruptions in the fabric of space-time. We also know that our sun is not a 1st generation star, so much of the matter used to create our sun and planets came from a much earlier super-nova explosion. 

Minor Planets Minor planets are things such as asteroids, they are usually small mass, rocky bodies. This is different from small mass bodies that might be predominantly ice or water. Dwarf Planets Size and Mass The IAU have not specified an upper or lower limit for mass to be considered a Dwarf Planet, therefore it is predominantly determined by one other feature called: Orbital Dominance Orbital dominance is achieved when a body has cleared it's orbit of all other bodies. For example planets are able to remove small bodies out of their area through impact, capture, or gravitational disturbance. Any body that is incapable of doing so is therefore classified as a dwarf planet. So if Jupiter was incapable of clearing its neighbourhood of bodies then it too would be a Dwarf planet. 

Why is the Hubble Telescope in space? Do we get enhanced clarity and range by placing it in space? What can it achieve from space that it could not achieve from Earth? 

Yes. There is a chance of one or more solar flares or CME's occurring during the eclipse and these would be noticeable during totality. There are actually two NASA jets equipped with telescopes and high-speed cameras to film the Corona and any such event. The plane will track the eclipse throughout its duration. 

This has not been confirmed so whether it is legit is unknown at this time. A recent report ($URL$ calls into question the original analysis that leads to the initial report of planet nine. The report that fueled initial interest is given below. (EVIDENCE FOR A DISTANT GIANT PLANET IN THE SOLAR SYSTEM Konstantin Batygin and Michael E. Brown Division of Geological and Planetary Sciences, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA 91125, USA; kbatygin@gps.caltech.edu Received 2015 November 13; accepted 2016 January 10; published 2016 January 20) 

You have to remember that the alignment for an eclipse is a very rare situation. It's not as simple as the occurrence of a new moon. The planet and the moon have to align just so in relation to the sun for an eclipse to occur. Sorry, no numbers here but just trying to emphasize that several factors have to occur between 2 fast moving bodies. 

There would be a tide of approximately 28 days due to centrifuge effect,the water being free flowing,about the mid point centre of gravity of the 2 masses. Our tides are monthly but appear daily due to earth 24hr rotation.Variation in sub-marine land masses and ocean baison cross flow have sub tidal effect that can lag or lead the moon phased tide.On a water depth of 2-4km it may,as an independent body, go towards the outside of the rotational system leaving one side dry so to speak. 

All biological life requires an electrolyte.Water is the only none reactive solution that can carry the solute,(salts,acids,alkali,) that would cause reactive change. Water has limits in its ability to remain the solution(evaporation:thereby restricting chemical mobility,)or (crystalisation/freezing:thus causing precipitation of chemicals in the "solid state".) Biological life ceases to evolve. 

There are many refractors/reflectors that can be obtained ready made and be more useful as the interest develops You would be wise to get the largest objective you can afford,although an interesting project kit it is minimal in aperture(ref: Galscope) 

Sometimes when using my telescope late at night or early in the morning, especially in the more humid of seasons, I notice i sometimes get dew buildup on the lenses. How can I minimize damp buildup whilst using my telescope? Simply dabbing away the liquid with a dry cloth doesn't seem to do the trick as I am still left with some water tracks and residue that I just can't soak up, this then means that all of the light is refracted providing a very fuzzy and blurry image. What preventative measures can i take to stop damp build up in the first place? 

Why does this happen? Is this because of our atmosphere? Would they twinkle if you were just in space? How about looking from another planet in our solar system? 

If you are not hoping to look for nebulas then I do not suggest a light filter, as this will also dull the stars. Examples of which can be found here 

Since the magnification is determined by focal length of the objective/focal length of eyepiece it is difficult to have an eye-piece with the same f ratio as the objective. Assuming pupil aprature 0.25" then the ideal eye-piece aperature will be 0.25" for most effective light transmission of the eye.A generally acceptable f8 would have a focal length of (0.25x8)=2". A 2" eye piece x 100 magnification would require an objective focal length of 200",for f8 this means 200/8 which is 25" diameter.This would give comparable brilliance at that magnification. Any deviation from the ideal means loss of resolution due to lens errors of manufacture,the combination of these errors result higher arc" resolution. You will find a lower magnification more useful as the lower mag system may effect finer arc",res and additional light to eye/optical system efficiency. There are no easy answers and sadley cost raises the barriers 

What does it mean for a star when people say it goes 'nova' or super nova, what are the differences? More importantly, can I safely observe these with an amateur telescope? I imagine they would be big enough to spot should one happen! 

White holes are purely hypothetical at this point and are considered only because it is assumed something like it could exist as the balance to black-holes. Reading this article seems mostly writers taking liberties with the information but poses an interesting question. What is a White Hole? 

Sometimes you can be trying to observe very faint or very small objects in the sky and it wouldn't pay to have these obscured or marred by a scratch or dust on the lenses. I keep to good practices and make sure to replace the cap on the lenses when finished in order to stop dust buildup but inevitably it will get a little dusty and dirty, taking this into consideration: What steps do I need to take to ensure that my lenses are kept in top condition? Can I simply use a damp cloth or sponge and dab the lenses or should I use a softer material, like someone with glasses might have a softer lens cleaner? Do I require a special cleaning fluid or can a good quality clean be done without any additional cleaning agents?