The official story is that the inscription is taken from Jefferson’s Notes on the State of Virginia, with the last two sentences being from a letter to George Washington. A manuscript. The quote isn't some black-and-white assertion against slavery. Thomas Jefferson had complex and evolving relationships with slaves. He owned lots of them (inherited some 135 of them), had a romantic relationship with one of them after his wife died (including kids), waived various fees, and was the key politician who banned importation of new slaves and then slavery itself in numerous states. It's just wrong to assume that a politician in the late 18th century should have behaved and acted like a radical social justice warrior in the 21st century. There is no contradiction between Jefferson's life and the inscription and Jefferson was an amazing politician and president who has improved the U.S. society dramatically. 

That's the modern translation despite the fact that the context makes it very clear that by definition, "Aethiops" was someone defined by having a dark skin. For thousands of years, "whitening the Aethiops" was considered the #1 idiom for "doing an impossible thing". One can't whiten a black because blacks are defined by their not being white. 

These questions are nicely answered in various historical books, e.g. Political Legitimation in Communist States. The short answer is that he didn't. If you click at this link, you will be told that first of all, contrary to an uninformed claim by another user, Lenin has never been considered a charismatic man during his life – simply because he obviously wasn't one. He didn't look like a leader, he was short (165 cm), he didn't have a haircut of a supermodel, and his voice was uninspiring, too. Also, if his political influence is subtracted, he was no influential star in philosophy. Intellectually, he could have been considered a marginal annoying mediocre bookworm. Lenin was never considered a natural leader of peasants or workers during his life. And those weren't really searched for in the socialist movement, anyway. The socialist movement didn't respect any Führer Prinzip, unlike the nationalist movements. Those who were building this Marxist paradise were supposed to believe that it was a historical necessity, not that they were lucky to be given an exceptional leader. He was just able to perform effective political steps at the right time. He threatened the founding of a new party and weakened his foes when it mattered, and actually founded the new party when it was optimal, and so on. It was a modern political strategy building on the example of people like Bismarck – except that his goals were very different. At the end, he got to the top. But the idea that Lenin was charismatic or had a cult of personality is just a posthumously fabricated fairy-tale of his ideological soulmates. Even Stalin who can be said to be much more charismatic wasn't really naturally charismatic. Just like Lenin, he was short, around 165 cm, had a bad skin, some scars from the smallpox during his childhood, and so on. These men just managed to accumulate a lot of power which allowed them to fabricate a virtual reality as well. And when the regime worked, many ordinary people only had the access to the virtual reality. During Lenin's reign, it was only the artificially invented idealization of the leader that had some cult of personality, not Lenin himself. 

The differences here cannot be explained merely by different translations, e.g. Hitler clearly doesn't talk about the next winter as Suvorov suggests. But even assuming that Suvorov was reading a translated version (I somehow assumed that he knew German and read the original) and that the translator made a mistake here - the context makes it very obvious that this is just some theoretical thoughts about something that could be done over centuries. It was by no means a strategy for the ongoing war. But that context was omitted because otherwise this nice quote would become boring. As I said, it seems that all "facts" listed in the books got the same treatment. That explains why real historians scoff at them - it is hard to take somebody seriously who has to invent things in order to support his claims. 

I couldn't find any numbers for the Soviet army, merely the continuously repeated statement of unclear origin mentioning 15,000 delivered messages. Compared to the numbers above this would mean that the Soviet army barely used homing pigeons. I also couldn't find evidence for any significant use of homing pigeons by the German army in WW2. You can see how the pigeons were used by looking at the "celebrities": 

One can easily find more rationales. In the end, the psychological factors causing countries to compete didn't go away, they are still there. The important difference now might be the globalization: with the economies of all countries interconnected a war between first world countries would be devastating for all parties involved and cannot be rationalized no matter how hard one tries. So the competition shifted into other areas like economy. 

I think the first time he is mentioned as "Alexander the Great" (at least in the sources known to us) is Quintus Curtius Rufus' "Historiae Alexandri Magni Macedonis", this "Magni" has been translated into English as "Great". Here it clearly refers to his talent as a military leader which allowed him to build up a huge empire. Quintus Curtius Rufus was a Roman historian, this book is considered to be written in the 1st century AD. Btw, Russian historians tended to focus on the word "Macedonis" which is why he is better known as Александр Македонский (Alexander of Macedon) in Russian. 

Note how it mentions seats on the platform but not in the elevator. From Te Aroha News, 28 September 1889: 

The book goes on to compare these numbers with the actual population and comes to the following conclusion: 

Note: this is an opinion question (especially the second part) and probably off-topic here. I'll try to answer it nevertheless. I'm not sure there is a single rationale behind this. 

Btw, it seems that the use of falcons by Germans is not confirmed and likely didn't happen. Pigeons were simply shot, both in WWI and WW2. Also, the "Brieftaubenverordnung" of 20th September 1940 banned homing pigeons in the occupied territories of Belgium and France. 

In his famous 1872 book "Русская история в жизнеописаниях ее главнейших деятелей" ("Russian history in the biographies of its main actors") Nikolay Kostomarov writes (rough translation): 

Trade unions have a certain influence over the economy and politics in each country and because they're organized in international organizations, their influence has a geopolitical dimension, too. After 1945, the Soviets and the communists had a lot of political capital due to the role of the USSR role in defeating Nazism. The Soviet Union was basically capable of replacing the (non-communist) International Federation of Trade Unions (which existed in 1919-1945 and had headquarters in Amsterdam) by the (pro-communist) World Federation of Trade Unions (whose headquarters were in Prague; after the fall of communism, the importance of this entity declined when communism ended and as a result, in 2006, the headquarters were moved from Prague to Athens). The Soviets and their sympathizers were able to promote their alternative views about the Marshall Plan and other things. This was dangerous from the American perspective. The U.S. and British trade unions would generally oppose the Soviet-led international organizations but the continental West European trade unions were somewhere in the middle. France was the ultimate "swing state" and CGC and Force Ouvriere were the French non-communist trade unions who opposed the Soviet line in the international organizations (the French CGT was a pro-communist example). That's why they got some funding from the U.S. At the end, in 1949, the (non-communist) International Confederation of Free Trade Unions (led mostly by the Americans and the British) separated from the Prague-based pro-communist international umbrella organization. However, the labor movement in Europe became so polarized that the entities were largely considered appendices of their political sponsors and the unions' importance decreased as a result. 

Ancient Romans used the word Aethiops/Aethiopem which was derived from Greek Αἰθίοψ ‎(Aithíops). But the other answer isn't right when it says that the word Aithiops had no meaning except for the land of "Ethiopia". Instead, the word is a combination created from αἴθω ‎(aíthō, “burn”) + ὤψ ‎(ṓps, “face”). So the Greco-Roman word for the blacks was basically a "burned face". The name of "Ethiopia" was derived from "burned face". In the Greco-Roman world, "Ethiopia" was believed to include the whole non-Roman Africa. It was the universal word for that vaguely known part of the world. The idea that old nations didn't recognize races is absolutely preposterous from a historical viewpoint. On the contrary, it's just the last 30 years when it became fashionable for some people to deny races and their importance. This denial has absolutely no precedent in any historical epoch. The original meaning of Aethiops was purely racial. This is demonstrated by dozens of proverbs and important texts. For example, the Bible's Jeremiah 13:23 

In this way, the oscillations of the electric current are converted to mechanical oscillations of the piece of the paper on the loudspaker (next to the magnet), and oscillations of the paper create oscillations of the air – the sound. 

You can't expect any stable shape of the distribution throughout the Bronze Age. Just look at the distribution of age in the recent 110 years: 

The question implicitly hides a misconception, namely the opinion that to succeed and establish policies, one needs a lot of "support", majorities in opinion polls, majorities in the Parliament, friendship of the media, and similar things. That's not how Otto von Bismarck did things. He used to have some connections to the old feudal order but was gradually losing their support. He was generally disliked by the public. He had to deal with hostility with Denmark, Austria, and France. He had no army backing him, no political party, and he controlled no seats in the Parliament. But he has defeated all these powers – the old order, public, working class, France, Italy, Denmark, and others – and prevailed. He was truly the first big skillful politician in the modern sense, one who knows how to switch between alliances and betray previous allies, and that's why he was also able to found the bureaucratic government of the modern type (which didn't depend on any previously recognized "power" or "class") – with all the aspects such as the welfare state and healthcare (that's how he bought a sufficient fraction of the working class and suppressed the influence of social democracy etc.) and many other things.