Roll up the pant-leg on the gear-side high enough to stay away from the gears. Wear tight fitting cycling pants that don't flap. Use braces as you have, or clips such as these to keep your flappy pants close enough to your legs. Stuff the pant-leg on the gear side in your socks. 

I bought one after a few days of cycling in new zealand. Narrow roads, wide cattle and log trucks with sleepy drivers, some near misses, and constant warnings to be very afraid of drunk drivers made it an obvious choice. Especially because of the swerving point above, which seems aggravated when riding a bike with 20kg of luggage strapped to it uphill. I've used it on all my cycling holidays since. Then again, I don't use a rearview mirror in city traffic in my hometown either. 

I appreciate the attitude towards the people driving around in a climate killing, lansdscape scarring murderweapon you display just in your subject but my first suggestion would be to soften your stance a bit, and take the opposing point of view. These people are likely not out to kill you. They are just not used to small, climatefriendly fitnessmachines on their roads. So from time to time when they quickly check the corner of their eye looking for a big hunk of metal they miss the small, soft piece of flesh, bones and lycra. Sad but true. Once you realise this some solutions present themselves. 

No cleaning (other than the waterbottle) no resting to let the oil seep in. [edit2, to answer some questions:] 

A pair of skiing goggles is my non-fogging option when it is really cold and/or snowing. Most models have vents that help air circulation along the glass and a coating that keeps them from fogging. The larger space between the glass and your face helps, so get big ones. When it isn't too cold, and there is no chance of snow I just skip the eye-protection. 

I think it is an issue of foundation mostly. Because roads get very heavy (as in weight) traffic roadbuilders spend a lot of time on the groundwork, compacting, digging away soft and unstable earth or sand layers and replacing them with gravel or other heavy rocky debris before the tarmac is laid down. Because a bicycle path only sees light bicycles less time has to be spent stabilizing the base before the tarmac can be placed. Unfortunately this means there is less of a hard pack underneath the pavement to keep roots away, and there is not as much heavy rocks and other stuff underneath the pavement stabilizing inevitable small shifts in the ground. So bicycle paths shift a bit more, and they are more vulnerable to getting pushed up by roots. What it comes down to -I think- is money. Building a solid foundation takes time and materials, and hence money. For a bicycle, anything paved is better than what was there before (nothing or running the gauntlet on the open road) so I assume municipalities choose to get the bicycle paths out there fast and cheap rather than roll them out slow but more expensive. Spending a lot of money on car-load resistant bicycle paths also just doesn't make economic sense for most municipalities. The good news: Here in the Netherlands a lot of municipalities have realized over the years that the cheap bicycle paths cost a lot more in maintenance and repairs, so the quality is steadily improving. 

I think you could take this technique pretty far, but probably not all the way (at least usefully). I see a lot of use for the first part of your plan: taking multiple pictures and reconstructing a 3D model. If you try this for multiple postures I think it should be possible to determine an optimal position for you on your bike based on just looking at the 2D area you take up perpendicular to your riding direction (through the cutout method described in the article about the chung method you linked). But this is where the use stops I fear. Some more insight might be gained by looking at the flow of air around your 3D model in something such as the fluid solver you link, but the accuracy is going to be too low to discern between different postures. When you go for that level of detail small things such as the ripples in your shirt or even the fabric of your shirt can have an impact, and the errors you made in the 3D reconstruction will be far larger than the differences you can make by slightly improving your posture on the bike even more than you did in the first step. Apart from this, I think that a fluid solver for movie effects is optimized for visuals first, not for scientific accuracy, so I'd be suspicious of any result it produces. If you want to try the full fluid mechanics simulation thing you would have to use a 3D scanner or some other very accurate method to produce the 3D models of you on your bike, and then I'd still try and find an actual scientific fluid solver. 

One of the main reasons I eventually give up my bicycle commute in winter is that keeping my bike -mainly the drivetrain- clean despite all the rain/dirt/salt/hail/snow becomes too much of a time suck. The weather means I feel I have to clean my chain at least every two or three days. But days are short and I have no shed. So on weekdays that means working in the dark under a streetlight in the cold. I know the cleaning is worth it, but after a few sessions with freezing fingers, eyes straining to find my tools I usually give up. What I am looking for is a minimal routine that will keep my chain clean enough despite the weather. [edited to add:] I'm currently trying the following, but I'm not sure how well it will work in the long run: 

Riding a bike in the wrong size (either too small or too large) for long periods can lead to all kinds of lower back, upper back, neck and shoulder issues en various leg injuries, mostly in the knee. Also, your power output can be reduced significantly. So a properly sized bicycle is important. However, "properly sized" really depends on the rider. Sheldon Brown has a lot of good info, but mostly it comes down to: