Coherentism Note their view on skeptisim of an external world (Brain in a vat / trapped in virtual reality / universe is a simulation arguements) 

I believe the simple answer would be that this intelligence is not naturally occurring, but engineered or created. Once created it learns naturally, but there is still the prerequisite of being created. 

Now not knowing anything about Hegel I of course do not know enough to get the joke, aside from the obvious juxtaposition in the pictures. What is this le sacre monstre according to Hegel, and why do the 3 views/person see it the way they do? 

Ah qualia, a source of much controversy in the field of philosophy of mind, some deny it entirely (What really?) others argue about what exactly it is... Before we talk more about it, let us loosely define what it is exactly : 

The difference between nihilism and and existentialism is that nihilism proclaims that there is no meaning, whereas existentialism (mostly) states that each individual must decide their own meaning. The Myth of Sisyphus written by Camus speaks of rolling a rock up a hill over and over only to have it fall back down. This is an interesting metaphor and Camus' argument against nihilism. The last two lines of the story I have quoted below, but you shoulds really read the entirety in a sitting when you have time. 

Ultimately, I think my position lies somewhere in the middle. While it is fine to act in accordance with a spiritual guide, and "do what you will", if you want to make a difference, you won't get far that way. You won't always feel like it, and your emotions will be conflicted, and for myself, the only way I will ever have the discipline to do anything is to set up my actions as a matter of my own integrity, and force myself to act no matter whether I feel like it or not. But at the same time, the internal pull to a particular cause can be dangerous, because coming from the wrong place, it can harm and ignore others, and even produce unexpected and undesirable results. I think it is essential to act on that which you choose to act on, not from obligation, but from a place of creativity and honesty. For example, it is not, "I think x about abortion, so I must do y". It is more like, "Given I think x about abortion, what could I do that would make a difference? What is the intention behind my opinion? Do I think that all people should be treated equally? Or is it that I want people to experience being taken care of? What can I do to fulfill on that? Do I want to do anything? Does it light me up?" It is essential to examine ones own motives. As Werner Erhard said, (paraphrasing): 

Cody and Joe gave good answers, but I'd like to add that a common form of argument that you find in philosophy and not so much other places is a Syllogism. This is an argument of the form "P implies Q, P, therefore Q." As an example, a simple form of the argument from marginal cases goes like: 

There seems to be an equivocation between "rational" and "believes only in things which are 'true.'" This is not at all what "rational" means: 

I am going to focus solely on Bostrom's argument for the simulation hypothesis, as opposed to metaphysical skepticism in general. First, note that Bostrom himself doesn't find this overwhelmingly likely: 

So, roughly, if you didn't exist and someone else did, it would be that other person marveling at the unlikelihood of their existence. Wikipedia has more. Nick Bostrom is the philosopher most strongly associated (in my mind) with these investigations. Some interesting consequences are the doomsday argument and the sleeping beauty problem. So roughly, I don't think the question you should ask is "how likely is it for me to exist?" but rather "how likely is it for someone like me to exist?" If you ask the former, I think the answer is, as you say, "miraculous". 

I think the difficulty in answering this question both validates the question and negates it at the same time. To even begin, we must ascertain what we mean by truth. Can anything actually be seen as a permanent infallible truth? Try as we might, we can only get perspectives; points of view; opinions. Even something trivial like "You need water to live", is just a highly probable assumption based upon considerable evidence and experience. It is not possible to know with certainty whether or not we have considered all points; whether there is something not yet understood or considered. Also trueness or truth ignores the passage of time as a contingency. Whether something is or is not true right now and whether or not it will be true tomorrow, are two different - even at times contradictory - assessments. From a philosophical standpoint, it is impossible to speak of truth or untruth without contradicting your own logic. Like Alan Watts said, "It's like trying to bite your own teeth or look at your eyes without a mirror." But...only from a philosophical standpoint. I have found the following way of thinking to serve me well. I think it is critical to question and pull apart my own assumptions. The more radically, I can disrupt my own habitual patterns of static assumption and certainty, the more space I have to consider and to see my own erroneous views. It is the same principal as solving a Koan. However, that said, John Stuart Mill stated (the only useful thing he ever said), "There is not certainty, but there is certainty sufficient for human life". And that's about right. If you don't pull apart the illusions that blind you, you will never know what's possible beyond "truth" - but if you try and walk on water before you can clearly see that it's not true that you can't, then you will drown quickly. That there is nothing true should become common sense if you think on it, but the way in which you use that thought or that thought uses you is what is critical. 

At the end of the second section of On Liberty, Mill gives a summary of the four reasons why there should be free speech: 

Suppose we believe the "thirder" position of the Sleeping Beauty Problem. That is, we believe that . Applying Bayes' theorem, we get 

I'm looking for references on population ethics, preferably those with a mathematical bent. Broome's Weighing Lives is a good example of what I'm looking for. 

The idea that our minds and bodies work according to some physical (as opposed to supernatural) laws is often sourced to de La Mettrie, though of course as with any major idea it's hard to give one source. The Wikipedia page on materialism lists thinkers going back as far as 600 BCE; the Cārvāka thinkers had ideas I think Anderson would find quite suitable, for example: 

Yes, of course. This idea is most famously discussed in Nick Bostrom's Are You Living in a Computer Simulation? Note that "Roko's Basilisk" is doing no real work for you here – you don't need any esoteric forms of decision theory to accept Bostrom's argument. 

A Facebook group Philosophy Matters posts philosophy related jokes from time to time. Today they posted this image : 

Or more simply stated, qualia is what a conscious mind experiences. So why should we doubt our qualia? This is the age old debate between the rationalist and the empiricist, the hard-line empiricist stating all we can trust is our experiences, and the hard-line rationalist saying only trust reason. This being of course a very shallow summary of the debate. There are many hypothetical arguments on why to doubt qualia, the inverted qualia thought experiment for example... however I believe you are looking for something more concrete. In that case we can go to something that everyone has experience with... Dreams, dreams are the strongest example that we can in fact be mistaken about our qualia. We can tweak some of the ideas in Descartes' Meditations to derive a convincing argument that we cannot always trust our qualia. There might be people who deny that they have ever been immersed in a realistic dream, only to awake and realize their experiences for the past few hours do not exist in the objective world, but we doubt their sincerity in such maters. 

Dissenters from this argument generally embrace the view that the question is misguided: ethical value doesn't come from having some set of capabilities, but rather arises through a shared contract etc. Carl Cohen defends this view, for example. Entire books have been written about this, if you are interested to continue researching it. On other fronts, you might be interested in the work that Varner, among others, has done to describe the likelihood that various species feel pain which can be roughly summarized as "vertebrates feel pain; insects possibly not so much". And Dan Dennett expresses some uncertainty as to what extent non-humans are conscious, but of course he is quite skeptical of most accounts of human consciousness as well. 

His home page has links to papers written about this, with reference to science and mathematical beauty. 

I found that Diamond and Koopmans have booth done some interesting work in this area. The blog post Kill the young people has a discussion of Diamond's paper, and Koopmans' "Stationary Ordinal Utility and Impatience" can be found here. Basically, they investigate the idea of "impatience" (valuing things which come earlier more) and show that under some reasonable conditions, population ethics must be impatient, a very counter-intuitive finding. It is often mentioned in the context of environmental ethics. 

I'm not sure what you mean when you say, . Much of how I would respond would be determined by the context in which your question is asked, but as a stand alone argument, "How can death matter to the dead person?" is solid; it just depends upon what it is being used to argue for. We can assume that this paper doesn't expect the post-death states (hell/heaven) to exist - or at least that they are not relevant for his argument. So we can cross those out - or at least we should cross them out if we are going to find a logical place to stand in defining a response. It is not wrong to consider hell or heaven as a counterpoint, but they are only useful in poking holes in the argument - the existence of heaven or hell is not known and therefore shouldn't be the backbone of any refutation. Aside from that, there are several points to consider: Does it matter if all plant and animal life dies out? The answer is less obvious than the author of the essay suggests. On one hand, if we all die simultaneously without any pain or suffering, then to every human being it should matter exactly none. Why? "How can death matter to a dead person?" There is no one left to suffer the loss of anyone else, and thus there is no one left to suffer; no resounding pain; no sense of loss; just silence. I have often thought to myself that the thought of my own death seems sad - if only for the mental image I have of people suffering after I'm gone. But if I die AND so does everyone else; there is no sadness. It just is. That said; the author's definition of mattering is unclear. Upon inspection, the 'not mattering' argument can be used anywhere. If human life seems to matter - does that lack consequences apart from those felt by other humans? If so, then it doesn't matter if I suffer - since my suffering will surely cease when I die - and so forth. If we elevate as the pinnacle of all , then we can argue that live or die, nothing matters at all, since we are inherently insignificant - so much so that as soon as our species disappears, goes with it. In other words; if the only thing that matters is what matters to humans; then what matters doesn't matter that much at all. If, however, we allow for the possibility that while human is important to humans, there maybe greater than those we can observe from our constrained human viewpoint, then perhaps the death of all life on earth matters a great deal. We can't know this either way; and the author knows this. What we can know is that one's being and existence can be given by the perspective that they subscribe to. The being and existence of one who believes that all life dying would be superior to somebody dying is going to be different than the being and existence of one who considers that there is some greater that gives human existence value. I don't know which way of being would be preferable, or whether either view provides an obvious state of existence that accompanies said view; I can only infer that one's existence would differ depending where they stood. 

I think you really need to understand what "utilitarianism" means to Mill. The caricature of utilitarianism as "the greatest good for the greatest number" is good as far as pithy sayings go, but it leaves a lot of complexity out. You might consider Mill's famous claim: 

While it's a big area, John Dewey has to be near the top of this list. Experience and Education probably serves as a good crash course. Since you specifically mentioned ethics, his book Moral Principles in Education may be of interest. The basic summary is that education should teach not just things like algebra but also "how to live a good life", which would include education about ethical reasoning. 

Your specific question (about abortion) has been discussed a fair bit. In general, people seem to agree that when the mother's life is threatened it's OK: 

Dennett talks about this as "Skyhooks" vs. "Cranes" A Crane is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on simple, fundamental principles. This is like evolution. A Skyhook (a crane hanging from a helicopter) is something which can build great complexity, but it rests on no firm foundations. This is like creationism. Some of the criticisms you bring up have been brought up by others who say that Dawkins doesn't differentiate well enough between these two in his Boeing 747 Gambit. He may not have presented the argument perfectly, but others have made it more rigorous. 

We are who we are in the present as an illusion which is something like an infinite regress of self-reference. If we ask who we are now, we attempt to find ourselves in the past (everything is past - on the cutting edge of the present, there is nothing), but the me who I would find in the past doesn’t exist in any way that is real. In fact, if I look into the past for a definition, I can imagine a self that exists only in reference to some further past, ad infinitum. When considering a solid you, that which is considering only finds that there is no such thing. You can find yourself in the present as action, but then there is no you that is inserted between experience and action. There is only doing/being and the one doing/being is not something that has existence apart from the doing / being itself. Self is not a fixed thing that exists with substance. If so, touch it/point to it. The only place the you from the past has existence is in a conversation about the you from the past. The person you are in the present is not grounded in the past. The you that you are is grounded in the conversation you are having with yourself about reality in the present. Freud, when speaking about Neurosis, said of the patient: