The NP den ganzen tag 'the entire day' is marked accusative, which is an indication that it may be functioning as an adjunct (and it is). Recognizing NPs that are adjuncts may be somewhat tricky. It's easier to recognize PPs and clauses that are adjuncts, however, because these categories are typically adjuncts rather than arguments. To build an understanding of these matters, it's beneficial to read what one can find about the argument vs adjunct distinction. Wikipedia is a place to start: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ 

The reasoning in the question is both right and wrong. First, however, here is a guideline for using who and whom: Always use who except when who immediately follows a preposition. In such a case, whom sounds better. The following variants are therefore most acceptable: 

The question appears to be concerned with establishing an understanding of dependency grammar (DG). DG is indeed increasingly being used in NLP circles as the most workable approach to syntactic structures -- dependency syntax is quite simple compared to constituency syntax. However, introductory textbooks that approach the theory of syntax primarily from a DG perspective are rare. There are at least two exceptions, though: Matthews, Peter. 1981. Syntax. Cambridge University Press. van Valin, Robert. 2001. An Introduction to Syntax. Cambrdige University Press. Matthews' syntax is primarily dependency-based, and van Valin's book devotes a chapter to DG. A large majority of textbooks on syntax ignore DG entirely, however. My interpretation of this situation is that developments in computational linguistics are out in front of theoretical syntax. Theoretical syntacticians are entrenched in a constituency-based view of syntactic structures, whereas the computational people have to make syntax work for their computational goals, and dependency is more workable in this regard. The question is asking for sources about DG, though. There are a number of non-introductory texts on theoretical DG, but many of them are not so accessible. However, I think the following text, although dated, is relatively easy to understand: Schubert, Klaus. 1987. Metataxis: Contrastive Dependency Syntax for Machine Translation. If one is willing to invest some time in a more comprehensive dependency-based approach to the syntax of natural language, then Richard Hudson's works would be good: Hudson, Richard. 2007. Language Networks: The New Word Grammar. Oxford University Press. Hudson, Ricahrd. 2010. An Introduction to Word Grammar. Cambridge University Press. And if one is particularly willing to invest time and energy in establishing a solid base in DG and its use for computational goals, then this conference would allow one to connect to the international DG community: $URL$ 

In this example, the ellipsis approach assumes that dog has been elided. On my preferred analysis, however, ellipsis has not occurred, but rather what is often a possessive determiner has become a pronoun. In other words, the form his is a direct dependent of the verb watch. This explains the varying forms in part, e.g. your vs. yours, our vs. ours. The -s appears to accommodate a different position in the syntactic hierarchy. On this account then, there is no motivation to distinguish between a predicative use of these words and other uses, since the predicative use is the possessive pronoun (not the possessive determiner). Any time the form at hand is not the direct dependent of a noun, it is a pronoun. The explanation works for German, as well, e.g. 

The German examples in the question all submit to an analysis in terms of LEE. In fact the ellipsis of just a 1st or 2nd person pronoun is a particularly frequent type of LEE in German, English, and many other languages. I can list a couple of sources (not by me) that discuss the phenomenon in its various forms if anyone is interested. 

In the first sentence, fat is an attributive adjective, and in the second sentence, fat is a predicative adjective. The distinction here concerns whether the adjective at hand appears inside or outside of the noun phrase (NP) to which it assigns its property. An attributive adjective assigns its property to the noun phrase in which it appears (the fat man), whereas a predicative adjective assigns its property to a "subject" expression in which it does not appear (the man). An orthogonal distinction is that between arguments and adjuncts, e.g. 

Based upon the a-sentences, one can argue that the b-sentences involve ellipsis; one assumes that the noun Fussballspieler has been elided (=omitted). The ellipsis account would assume that a null node is present in the syntax, occupying the position of the elided noun. If ellipsis has occurred in this manner, then the forms einer and einen are indeed articles as Thomas Gross' answer suggests, since there is in fact a covert (=elided) instance of Fussballspieler present. The primary syntactic trait of articles (definite and indefinite) is that they introduce nouns. The forms einer and einen would be classified as instances of the indefinite article by virtue of the fact that they are in actuality introducing a noun, albeit a covert noun. The alternative analysis of such cases argues that ellipsis has in fact not occurred. It sees the forms einer and einen in the b-sentences as indefinite pronouns. The primary trait of pronouns is that they occupy the position of a noun, referring to an earlier (or later) instance of the noun in context that they replace. In my view, there are solid emperical observations demonstrating that the latter analysis should be preferred. In other words, the einer in the example sentence in the question, i.e. 

Actually, much of the information you need about the distinction is present in Wikipedia, in these articles among others: $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ More information is available in many of the links in these articles. The reason why this is a good topic is that it's really important, and further, your professor may not be so aware of the distinction. My guess is that he/she does constituency grammar and has little awareness or knowledge of dependency grammar. This means that the topic would be good for your professor as well. The ramifications of the dependency vs. constituency distinction are of course really big, but the core difference between dependency and constituency is rather simple, and it can fit nicely into a 20 minute presentation. If you'd like more information, contact me via email (tjo3ya@yahoo.com). I can provide the information you need in the form of good publications from Encyclopedias of Linguistics. 

In English the distinction is apparent in the competing forms my vs. of mine. The appearance of the preposition of of course marks what would appear as the genitive in many related languages, e.g. 

I have encountered various analyses of and terms for the phenomenon, topic drop being one of them and left edge ellipsis being another. I have used the latter term, i.e. left edge ellipsis (LEE), in my writings. The examples in the question all submit to an analysis in terms of left edge ellipsis (LEE). LEE occurs in relaxed registers (everyday conversation, emails, text messages, etc.). The ellipsis reaches in from the left edge of the utterance, e.g. 

By assuming that why is the head/root of the clause why he did that, we can produce a coherent syntactic explanation of the acceptability judgments in 1-7. The wh-feature on why renders why the equivalent of a nominal category, which means that it can be the immediate dependent of a preposition. Since the subordinator that lacks the wh-feature, it cannot be the immediate dependent of a preposition. I address this issue (i.e. the analysis of matrix and embedded wh-clauses) directly in two of my/our publications. I would be happy to provide copies to anyone who is interested (my email is tjo3ya@yahoo.com). And one further point: the overarching issue is touched on briefly in an (in my view convincing) argument against syntactic movement. Observe the following acceptability contrast -- the examples are taken from Wikipedia: 

Moving on to your reasoning, it is, as stated, both right and wrong. It is right insofar as the pronoun who/whom belongs to the subordinate clause who/whom he lost, but it is wrong insofar as it also belongs to the matrix clause; it is the object of the preposition for. The example involves what is known as a free relative clause. The root of a free relative clause is the pronoun. This pronoun has a dual function. It is both part of the matrix clause as well as part of the subordinate clause. Here are some more examples of free relative clauses: 

These facts are accommodated more easily if Mr. is head over Smith. If the opposite were the case, the good Mr. would qualify as a constituent and we would expect it to be identifiable as a constituent; but it clearly is not a constituent, as the proform substitution test reveals: *he Smith. A second argument demonstrating that [Dr. [No]] is the better analysis is that it establishes consistency in hierarchical analysis across English and Japanese. English is more head-initial than head-final and Japanese is of course almost completely head-final. A third insight that supports the analysis is prosody. Phrasal stress tends to fall on an element that appears lower in the phrase. The phrasal stress falls on No, not on Dr: Dr. No. This situation can be compared with compounds, which have the phrasal stress on the first element, e.g. truck tire. Such compounds are widely taken to be head-final in English, i.e. [[truck] tire]. In essence what this all means is that No is in apposition to Dr. We have the same structural analysis as with standard appositions, e.g. [my friend [Tom]]. 

The pointy brackets indicate the elided words. These eight do not exhaust the list of ellipsis types, but they are the most widely acknowledged. Note that small clauses are not included in this list. To my knowledge, small clauses are not generally taken to involve ellipsis. Here are some examples of small clauses: 

The appearance of the material in parenthesis is optional in each case. My question concerns the analysis of this phenomenon. Does anyone out know what it is called? Is it considered a form of ellipsis? Is there an established analysis of the phenomenon? 

The functional words and elements have been removed: are, -ing, at, and by. The content words, in contrast, remain: arrive, tomorrow, noon, train. Note that the subject pronoun we can be viewed as a functional element in this case, since its meaning is certainly understood from context. I think most native speakers of English would judge the reduced sentence to be ungrammatical, although they would understand it if they know the context in which it was produced. Such sentences are described in terms of telegraph style. Headlines are a good example of language that has had the function words removed. While the distinction between function word and content word is not always clear, in many cases, distinguishing between the two types is not so controversial. Some widely acknowledged function words are the definite ad indefinite article, auxiliary verbs, and many prepositions. Typical content words are nouns, verbs, adjectives, and adverbs. The function words form closed classes, e.g. the number of prepositions in a language is small and limited, whereas the content words form open classes, meaning that new content words are being added to the language on an ongoing basis.