I am an employer; I own and operate a software company. I completely understand the sentiment behind your company's statement (though I would express it differently than you have summarized it here). One thing companies see from this side of the negotiation is that a surprisingly large number of people see companies as a commodity resource. This is summarized by statements like this, "I can earn $75K here or $80K at company X. I guess I'm leaving!" In this case, the company is being viewed as having nothing unique or valuable in itself; it is a means for trading some labor for some money. Depending on the company, this can be profoundly off-putting. I realize that when I get a new employee, they didn't suffer through the years of skipped paychecks, foreclosure notices, 120-hour work weeks (yes, really), hardship on my wife, and the years of my childrens' childhoods spent wanting rather than having. I get that, for sure. But all of that was done in service to a dream. At some point in the past, your employers have poured their hearts and souls into building their companies, and risked marriages, health, and (much more importantly) years or decades of their lives to try to build something-- generally to be demonized for it ("greedy owners", "the 1%", etc). The statement you gave can alternately be translated as something like, "We really, really want to make this a fantastic place to work for people, and we don't mind paying you well... but we have to take precautions against the employees who are not willing to labor alongside us; we can't always tell which is which until a few years of service (usually around 4-6). On the other hand, my goal is to try to pay new employees a base starting salary that puts them in the 85th percentile of their job-peers. If I find someone good who's really into it, the way I have been, and after we establish trust that we're both all-in on this team, I'll generally pay them whatever they want, even if it's a 10%, 25%, or 100% raise. If they are great, they are worth it (not just to the company, but to me personally--who wants to waste his life working with terrible people?). All that said, here's my advice: Go in and treat them like the people they are. Tell your boss or whoever, "Hey man, I really like working here. You all have made this a great work environment with a product/service I feel like I can really be proud to be a part of and I plan to be here a long time. You've seen me take time off, and you've seen me work 80 hour weeks for a deadline. You know I'm all-in on this and I just wanted to tell you that I really love it here. In my personal life, I'm working on a few dreams that my family and I have and one of the keys to getting that is for me to be able to work at $xxxK/year, which is a goal of mine. I would love to be at that pay rate now, or even reach it over the next 3 years. Does that seem do-able?" Don't be arbitrary about that number; don't base it on the market rate for your job. Base it on your real, live dreams. Want to travel? Want to take six months to work remotely from Nepal? Want to buy a boat? Want to take your family on a mission trip to Sudan? Base it on those goals, and how you can achieve them. You don't have to tell what the dreams are, but be a real, live person with a real heart and soul -- and talk to your boss like he's a real, live person with a real heart and soul. If they say yes, then great. If they say no, then ask them how that could become a reality. Take on new responsibilities? Done. Mentor some of the newer employees? Done. Do I need to transfer to a different role (that still fits)? Done. If none of that works... well, you've gotten clarity about your dreams and you should go find a company that's a good fit =) Not a commodity paycheck mill, mind you. A company that's a good fit with your life and dreams. I hope that helps. 

As a sysadmin, I've occasionally had work to do that could only be begun after business hours and that needed to be finished before a set time. On those occasions, I would get to start late in the day so I would be well rested when work started, and I would not be expected to be in until the following afternoon. I would also know that restoring the service would take e.g. 30 minutes, so I would not continue working with the job too long - I would always make sure that I wrapped up the job (even if unfinished) in sufficient time that I would be able to spend those 30 minutes to get the service back online. I would also plan for the time to send my report to my manager and anyone else concerned, and I'd take the time to jot down notes during the work so that I didn't have to formulate the entire report after the work was done. Oh, and also remember to eat properly - coffee and sugar isn't sufficient, you need actual food to keep going. Eating something with actual protein and fat will keep you focused a lot better than three cups of coffee. 

I'd recommend a polite refusal without any room for argument: "I'm sorry, that doesn't work for me tonight." If this brings follow-up questions, e.g. "why?", or complaints, e.g. "But it's not that far out of your way", then you just repeat "I'm sorry, it doesn't work for me." You do not need to give a reason. "No." is a complete sentence. The coworker may well get upset, but there is literally not a single word that they can object to. They have nothing to argue against, no way of explaining that you are able to do what they want because Reasons. 

In addition to taking it up with the boss, as Aleksander suggests, you need a strategy for the people who are coming to you with requests that should have been entered into your ticket system. My very strong recommendation is that anything that takes more than 15 minutes to fix doesn't get fixed until there's a ticket in the system. In order to get people to respect this, you need to explain why having a ticket is important. There are some reasons you can give them: 

By actually apologising. And that means making a real apology, not the "I'm sorry you were upset" kind of nonpology. You should express regret that you did something that hurt him, acknowledgement that his hurt is real and valid, and how you're going to try to make sure it doesn't happen again. Here's an example: "John, I'm so very sorry that I spoke out of turn and upset you the other day. It was wrong of me to ask about something so personal, and I really regret hurting you by bringing up something so painful for you. Next time I'll think twice before I ask about something like that. I hope you can forgive me." You should also be aware that John is having a really hard time right now; his reaction might be disproportionate, because his feelings are all over the place. Anxiety, worry and grief may make him snappish; he may be subconsciously looking for something to be angry at because anger is a more acceptable emotion than sadness. You may be the target of that. If so, be the bigger person and accept it. If the situation doesn't get better, you could also go talk to your manager or someone else you trust and tell them that you said something that hurt John, and you've apologized but there's still strain between you and you'd like advise on how to improve matters so you can be a better coworker. Showing up to take responsibility for fixing problems is what a good person, and a good coworker/employee, does, so any reasonable manager should appreciate it. Edit: Since this has come up in comments: I don't think you actually did anything wrong, at least not intentionally. The error was that you misjudged the situation. When it comes to something that's very painful, many people want to choose how, when and to whom they talk about it. Having someone who's not close bring the topic up can feel very intrusive, in addition to it bringing the painful subject to mind and thus affecting the work day. Some people prefer to handle a painful home situation by putting all thoughts of it aside during the work day and focusing on work only. John appears to be one of these. Again, you acted with good intentions, but the outcome was nevertheless that he was hurt. And when we inadvertently hurt someone with words, the right thing to do is to apologize, just as when we inadvertently step on someone's toes or spill their coffee or in any other way cause them hurt or problems. 

1 In fact, that category contains pretty much everything that’s mentioned dismissively in the highly upvoted answer by “Masked Man”. 

It’s hard to judge without being there but — in addition to Horia’s answer, with which I agree 100% — it seems to me that HR was fishing for reasons to explain the no hire. They may not have invented the reasons out of thin air but the points you gave are unlikely to constitute the sole reason. That said, all points taken together could well create the (unintentional) impression that you weren’t really interested in the job. As an aside, if you fail to stifle a yawn, offer an excuse and potentially a very brief explanation to dispel the impression of disinterest. Take it as a learning experience and move on. 

The answers here suggest that most users of the site aren’t from the UK and don’t know the culture, or the Daily Mail. In fact, at my current and previous workplaces in the UK, the Daily Mail would absolute be considered “not safe for work” due to their openly contemptuously racist and sexist contents. The employer would definitely not order it to the office, and while employees may of course bring it — and read it — doing so openly at work would most certainly be frowned upon (and result in a rebuke from either colleagues or a superior), the same way that looking at mildly “NSFW” content on the internet at work might. — Forget racism for a second: How would people here feel if their employer had Playboy lying around at work? I don’t object to the magazine nearly as much as to the Daily Mail but I would feel distinctly uncomfortable (not just) on behalf of female employees. Workplace equality committees would have a field day. The same is true, and to a much larger extent, for the Daily Mail. In addition, there’s a healthy culture of employee empowerment (read: complaining loudly!) in the UK: if employers don’t like something about the workplace, they are expected to complain (“offer feedback”). This ranges from the food in the canteen to the colour of the wallpaper1. It obviously extends to objectionable contents being displayed at work. Of course if your employer (or somebody with their blessing) ordered it then there’s clearly a different culture at work: for one thing I strongly suspect that you don’t have a workplace equality group. I would still say that it doesn’t hurt to ask your coworkers how they feel about this. And not every complaint needs to be escalated to the top immediately — but you can make your objections known if you do so in a non-pushy way. On the other hand, if you feel that your workplace environment largely approves of displaying Daily Mail material at work and you are genuinely unhappy about it then it seems that there isn’t a great “cultural fit” and unless you want to fight an uphill battle to change this, it might be time to look for different employment. — I want to emphasise that it would be silly to something so drastic over the Daily Mail. Doing it over a fundamental lack of cultural fit at the workplace, however, seems apt. 

As others have said, the issue here isn't whether your feeling is "correct" or not. The feeling is there, you can't logic it away. What you can do is decide how to deal with both the situation and the feeling about the situation in a constructive manner. You've said that you are a very competitive person and that's what drives you. That's not wrong in and of itself. But there are a few things you need to consider here: 

As keshlam says, the only way is to actually tell people that you don't want it celebrated. If you don't want to tell everybody, you can talk to your boss and maybe one or two more people that you trust, to make sure they can squash any attempt at celebration as soon as they hear of it (which they will but you might not). You don't need to give a reason other than "I know that everybody means well and I truly appreciate it, but I'd really prefer not to have any type of celebration". This is another instance where "No." is a complete sentence. They don't get to judge whether your reasons are "good enough"; only you can make that judgement and you already have. If it turns out that your boss and coworkers would prefer to pretend to care (by doing something you have told them you don't want), rather than actually care (by listening to your needs and not pushing something on you against your wishes), it's a clear signal to start looking for a new job. If they don't accept your boundaries on such a personal matter, they won't respect them on other issues either. 

If you cannot contact the staff that's already departed, then the next thing to do is to keep a close contact with the people who have not yet done so. Talk to them, and more importantly, listen to them. Make sure you know what they are having problems with - whether it's directly sales related or if it's that they are getting a back ache from an ill-fitting chair, or that guy over there who's always yelling in the phone and making it hard to hear what their own customer is saying. A good question to ask is "what if you could change just one thing here to improve your work situation, what would that thing be?". Then, be honest. You may not be able to fix it - but you can be honest about the chances of doing so; you can maybe find some compromise that will improve whatever the issue is a little. You can be the person they trust to have their back. You can make sure that the management doesn't chew them out for asking for whateveritis. All this will make it more likely that they will actually tell you the truth when they start hitting the wall, and thus give you a chance to help them. And you need to build up that trust before it happens.