The listed price tells you something about the expectations of the vendor and their estate agent. It's a leading indicator, hinting at where the market may be going next. The transaction price tells you something about the actual market during the period of the sale, in the period between the property going on the market and the date of exchange. It represents a real meeting of supply and demand - it is a market price. It only becomes available in the weeks or months after completion of the transaction, so the market will already have changed by the time one can get all the data. 

That very narrow definition of labour shortage, "when no labor is available for a task at any price", is rarely used, because it's a very rare phenomenon. Market forces kick in, raising prices sharply enough to suppress even relatively inelastic demand, long before the shortage becomes absolute. So the phrase is much more commonly used to mean that there is a temporary constriction in supply of a particular type of labour, usually leading to a large, rapid increase in its remuneration. Hence, when you hear the phrase, that's much more likely to be the intended meaning. However, in the very narrow definition, the canonical example given is usually that of many trades in Western Europe, after outbreaks of the Black Death in the Fourteenth Century had halved the population. However, even that example is problematic, as the evidence is that women were largely prevented from taking men's jobs, so the shortage was as much about culture as about physical limits: 

Marginal cost is irrelevant to total revenue. It's relevant to profit, but not total revenue. Total revenue is just price x quantity. Marginal revenue is a monotonic decreasing function. That is, as quantity increases, marginal revenue decreases. So, let's take the quantity Q to be the point at which marginal revenue is zero. For quantities below Q, marginal revenue is positive, so total revenue increases with quantity. For quantities above Q, marginal revenue is negative, so total revenue decreases with quantity. Hence Q is the turning point of the curve: it is the point of maximum total revenue. Elasticity of 1 means that a tiny % change, $\Delta$ in price in one direction (equivalent to multiplying price by $1+\Delta$), will be met by a reciprocal proportional change in quantity in the other direction, equivalent to multipying it by $\frac{1}{1+\Delta}$: that's straight from the definition of elasticity. So total revenue, the product of price and quantity, remains the same: $$(1+\Delta) P \times \frac{1}{(1+\Delta)} Q = P \times Q$$ Hence marginal revenue always 0, when elasticity is exactly equal to 1. 

Eurodollars can and do leave the US. They can be anywhere in the world: any bank outside the reach of the US Federal Reserve (henceforth "the Fed"). That's what makes them Eurodollars: they're US dollars in deposit accounts beyond the reach of the Fed. That money is said to be "brought onshore" when it is transferred from a deposit account outside the reach of the Fed, into an account that is within reach of the Fed and its regulation / protection. This changes it from being a eurodollar to a dollar. A US-based bank can have offshore banking subsidiaries and activities, and that's how it can hold eurodollars. The whole point of a eurodollar is that it takes it outside the reach of the Fed. 

No, a merit good is not simply a good with benefits that the customer is unaware of. That imperfect information can be part of it, but it's only one part of the story. The benefits may be externalities. Or they may be priced in, but the benefit time is so long that customers' hyperbolic discounting means they would never be realised without external intervention. A merit good does have some characteristics of normal private goods: there is some scarcity; and a non-zero marginal cost. And it has some characteristics of public goods: the market on its own fails to deliver anything close to economically efficient quantities; and intervention is required to mitigate this. Merit goods are not a superset of goods with positive externalities; some goods with positive externalities are public goods, not merit goods. 

Income tax is not the only taxation. And taxation is not the only source of revenue that pays for those services. You have to look far beyond income tax rates. So don't forget to take into account all the other taxes, public transport fares, supplementary health care costs, other payments (at point of use or elsewhere), as well as any other revenues from trading by state enterprises, including profits from the Sovereign Wealth Funds (GIC/Temasek/...). 

That assumption is not true, and so your conclusion does not stand. We usually classify production factors into labour, land, capital, enterprise. As you can see, labour is only one of the four factors. But all four factors incur costs: land still needs rent, enterprise still needs profit, capital still needs investment. Another way of looking at it, is that even if the supply of labour is effectively unlimited (because so little of it is needed to produce anything), the supply of other things is still limited, i.e. there is still some scarcity. There is still a limited amount of iron in the world, or copper, or cabbages. And money is part of markets, which are the main mechanism for managing those limited supplies. 

Economics is still recuperating from the shock of the irrational. Some try to extend the rational-agent framework, for example with penalties for partial information, and so on, to rationalise, post-hoc, observed sub-optimal actions (such post-hoc rationalisation being a very common manifestation of human irrationality). A confidence-tricksters' tools still out-perform these extended models. There's a lot of very good empirical work going on in behavioural economics. One could choose to axiomatically ignore it, but that would be to hold a pre-judged belief as superior to any and all empirical evidence. That doesn't seem very rational to me. 

Yes, undervaluing environmental impact is a subsidy, within the context of the IMF report that you are referring to. Here's what that report says in its abstract (my emphasis): 

Short answer: no. Slightly longer answer: It sounds like it's written by someone with no self-insight who was unaware that humans are just mammals with slightly-enhanced intelligence. Do you really need it refuting? Do you sincerely believe that all your actions are meaningful expressions of conscious will? Did that start at a particular age? Was a switch flipped in your brain on your 18th (or 21st or 25th or 40th) birthday, causing you to become a rational agent despite all that had gone before? The full answer is contained in a whole field of science on this subject - psychology. Indeed, many good universities have whole libraries dedicated to it And that's a bit too long for here. As you're interested, then you could start with behavioural economics - there are plenty of books on that alone. Here's Bertrand Russell for starters - philosophy rather than economics, so let the etymology of the word "philosophy" guide you: 

The annual growth rate of the global population has been in decline since about 1967 (five decades ago). The absolute annual growth peaked in 1987 (three decades ago). Malthusians claim that: 

There are two ways to look at the value of a financial instrument. One is the underlying asset base, the other is the yield. Bitcoin has no underlying asset base and no yield. Therefore, its only value is whatever people imagine it to be. In other words, it's completely overvalued. But that does not mean it is on the verge of massive corrections. There is an old saying (attributed, as they often are, to Keynes) that the market can remain irrational for longer than you or I can remain solvent. 

Money is only inflationary in so far as it's moving around. So for there to be an inflationary or deflationary signal, that means that either the amount of money moving around has changed, or its velocity has changed. And what does it mean to have money "moving around"? It means that it's being used to buy goods or services. And that's how it affects prices - because it affects demand. So, yes, to elucidate: it's as you say- "if the millionaire wouldn't have destroyed the money but spent it, he could have bought a lot of goods with it, and the sellers of those goods could have bought still more goods with that profit and so on. As now those goods are no longer being bought, the sellers have to slightly reduce prices, so their goods aren't wasted in their warehouses. This means prices will drop a little, and this is how the economy "feels" the difference" 

There isn't a typical answer. The vendor may want paying in whatever currency represents the highest proportion of their costs, as this reduces their currency risk. But there may also be restrictions on what currency they can trade in; how much of some particular currency they're allowed to hold; there may be capital controls in place; some currencies might be easier to hedge than others; trade in some currencies might attract that country's tax authorities, if significant movements have to be registered; ... and so on. They might want to do business across various buyers in a basket of currencies, as a way to minimise currency risk through diversification. They may prefer to do business in currencies with a higher liquidity (USD, GBP, EUR, CHF, AUD, JPY, CAD). There are lots of variable factors in play. And it's a negotiation between vendor and buyer; the above is written as if the vendor holds all the power, but similar issues apply to the buyer too. For example, the buyer may want to pay in whatever currency represents the highest proportion of their income. 

No one knows what the "real worth" of a company is. One could consider it to be be equal to the net present value of all its future cashflows. But no one knows what those cashflows will be, so its "real worth" is unknowable. If the market is efficient, then the market capitalisation of the company (share price multiplied by number of shares) represents the market's best guess at what that real worth is. That is to say, it reflects the market's averaged expectation of all future cashflows, discounted to today. So if a company's share price doubles, without any change in the number of shares issued, then the market is saying that it expects the net present value of all the company's future cashflows to have doubled. 

Summary Bill Nordhaus has made several significant contributions to the economics of climate change. That's something of an understatement. His contributions are not just in the pricing of carbon; they but span microeconomics, macroeconomics, (econometric and other) modelling, the philosophy of economics, and the economics of innovation. Modelling He's been one of several key figures in the development of integrated assessment modelling - see for example his paper in Science, An Optimal Transition Path for Controlling Greenhouse Gases, from 1992. Such modelling became a cornerstone of the Stern Review (through Chris Hope's PAGE model), and is a live and ongoing area of development at several major universities. Philosophy He's been a significant contributor to the discussions about how to design more meaningful measures of economic welfare, including his 1972 book chapter with James Tobin, Is Growth Obsolete: the discussions about what economic growth is, and the necessity of capturing the value of what we now call natural capital and well-being, have been core to the evaluation of the potential damage costs of anthropogenic global rapid climate change. Innovation He's "carried out extensive research on the determinants of technological change" - the words (p38) of the International Association of Energy Economists, which awarded him their 2011 "Outstanding Contributions to The Profession Award": this work has been important in the discussions about climate change mitigation, for example with regard to induced innovation, and learning curves for decarbonisation technologies. Energy resources There's also his 1973 discussion of the allocation of energy resources, which remains pertinent to the discussion of climate change mitigation today, though the forecasts about dominant technologies turned out to be a mix of prescient and ... less prescient. And finally His full CV is here, and shows both the breadth and depth of his interests. So while it's fair to say that his discussion of the application of a Pigouvian tax to greenhouse gas emissions is significant, it's just one part of a much larger body of work on the distortions caused by system boundaries that were drawn far too narrowly within neoclassical economics; and possible remedies to those distortions. 

The bank hasn't made £1080 out of nothing. Bob paid that money into the bank. It wasn't in the bank earlier, and it is in the bank now. Alice's account has been increased by £1000. And the bank has £80 extra that it earnt by lending to Bob. It's helpful to distinguish the money that the bank holds, from the amount of money in the whole system, and from the amount of money the bank owns. £1080 has left the rest of the system, and entered the bank. The bank's own capital starts at £5000 and finishes at £5080 (ignoring any interest it's paid to Alice, and its operating costs). Alice's account starts at £500, and finishes at £1500. Bob's account starts and ends at £100. 

It's not theoretically hard to stimulate the economy. It's just the means to do so are terribly unfashionable. And that means it's politically hard. We've had two similar depressions in the last couple of centuries: the Long Depression in the second half of the nineteenth century, and the Great Depression in the first half of the twentieth. Each saw significant monetary contraction as a policy response. Which was astonishingly daft. But after the Great Depression, we also learnt that monetary expansion was insufficient when there's a large debt hangover and demand is suppressed: hence we got the famous analogy of monetary expansion being like pushing on a piece of string. For many centuries, a once-in-a-human-lifetime jubilee - a cancellation of all personal debts - was seen a way to cure these huge debt hangovers. And they do, broadly speaking, provide a means of cutting the closed circle of monetary expansion which takes place through savings and loans. These jubilees used to happen once every fifty years - and that was, roughly speaking, a human lifetime. A jubilee removes all of the demand-suppression effect that personal debt has: it removes wealth from those with the lowest propensity to spend (thus has a small negative effect on demand), and increases the wealth of those with the highest propensity to spend (which has a much larger positive effect on demand). The net result is a return to increasing demand. In some ways, the bailing out of the banks in 2008 was the very opposite of a jubilee: commercial borrowers (bank bond-holders) were bailed out, and private borrowers were left hanging. Expensive and ineffective. A jubilee cancelled all private debt, but did not touch commercial debt. The other very unfashionable intervention is fiscal expansion. Keynesian expansions were a successful response to a demand-led depresssion, when the multiplier was higher (as it is now: even Lagarde of the IMF admitted this); but they also got used in subsequent decades in other circumstances too, when the multiplier was lower, and showed less success. And that's when they dropped out of favour, and remain so in many countries now, despite them being part of the right thing to do in the current particular circumstances. 

It depends on the market. In most markets - in particular, most retail markets - the supplier first sets the price, by offering their goods/service at an advertised price. In other markets - in particular, many auctions - the purchasers between them first set the price. In some markets - for example, some openly-traded financial instruments, and some betting exchanges - both suppliers and purchasers specify a bid stack, so both of them are directly involved in first setting the price. Over time, suppliers and purchasers interact repeatedly to discover prices that converge on the equilibrium. 

Double-entry bookkeeping guarantees that for every credit there is a debit. It's not really different for a bank than for you or I. I can claim that I've got an account with myself for 10 squillion pounds, but everyone will ignore me. The only balances that matter are the physical currency that I hold, and the accounts I have with other people or institutions; e.g. my bank account. It's the same for a bank: the balances that matter are the physical currency that it holds, and its accounts with other people and institutions. Predominantly, other banks, including Central Banks. Clearing Houses are institutions, or groups of institutions, that act as intermediaries to ensure that when one bank has a bunch of transactions with another, the net balance is transferred correctly while minimising counterparty risk. And the Central Bank offers a settlement service: for example, banks with sterling deposits will (typically) have an account with the Bank of England, which carries out settlement between banks.