I've found Vitamin C to help with sleep (not sure why, it's usually Cal-Mag that's recommended for sleep), which is pretty crucial to recovery. If you're getting enough sleep then it probably wouldn't help, but if you're not, then it could be worth doing for the potential sleep benefits. 

As a rule, unless you're on steroids, one rest day minimum, no matter what. In fact, two or three rest days is better, and given your core muscles include the back muscles, and larger muscles need more recovery time, you should be leaning towards more for your ab work (if you're not yet balancing your ab work, you should start). 

It depends. With ibuprofen in particular, the anti-inflammatory properties are beneficial. Initially inflammation is important for healing an injury, but too much inflammation is detrimental. Based on that I prefer to take ibuprofen if the inflammation persists, but not immediately after getting the injury. Pain killers can also indirectly contribute to healing. If the pain prevents you from getting adequate rest, your body can't repair itself as effectively, so if taking a pain killer helps you sleep better that could actually help you recover from the injury faster. For your specific situation, I wouldn't expect any painkiller to be particularly beneficial. If you feel pain only in certain positions rather than constant soreness that doesn't suggest inflammation, and if you can rest without feeling pain you wouldn't get any benefit from painkillers. I would suggest finding a massage therapist who specialises in trigger points/myofascial release. It's something you could do yourself, but given the short time frame you describe a skilled practitioner is more likely to get you the results you need by the time you need it. If that isn't an option, I would look into buying a foam roller. Lie on it with your back, find a point that hurts and steadily roll back and forth on it for no longer than a minute. You shouldn't necessarily be looking for where you feel the pain when you bend over, but for where you feel the pain from your bodyweight on the roller. Do it on both sides, and focus on your whole back. Do this several times per day. If it's not a serious injury it should get a lot better. You could even take the foam roller to the tennis tournament and do it between matches. Any time you treat muscle issues yourself they have a tendency to keep coming back for quite some time, but the temporary relief is often enough to let you do whichever activity it is you needed to do. 

Kicking off the running shoes would be a viable alternative, but I'd actually go one step further. Don't wear running shoes for the cardio portion either. Better proprioception is better proprioception. Just like the elevated heel affects your lifting technique, it also affects your running technique, and once again, not in a good way. A thick heel encourages heel striking while running. Technically you can go for a forefoot or midfoot strike with normal running shoes, but it's easier with zero drop shoes (shoes without a difference in sole thickness at the front and rear). Also, running with thin soled shoes encourages a change in running technique with less impact that is overall much better for your joints. Use VFFs for your cardio and your lifting, you have no need to change shoes and you get benefits for both. 

Ellington Darden in The New High-Intensity-Training has this to say about training the lats with chinups. 

If you're thinking in terms of calories, then maybe - people are a little too eager to say it's all about calories consumed and calories burned, when in fact you can have a pretty wide range of results - but really bad food is food made with unhealthy ingredients, and that can't be reversed. If the ingredient list on the brownies is intelligible to you, you're probably fine, but if it has a bunch of compounds you don't recognise, the detriment to your health isn't related to (lack of) exercise. 

Don't rely on calories, it's a weak science - physicists and mathematicians playing nutritionist. There's too many examples of people gaining weight on a calorie deficit and losing weight on a calorie surplus (as high as 5000 calories per day over!) to put any stock in the hypothesis that calories have any significant relation to weight loss or gain. It's far more important to look at what you're eating, and after that look at how much you're eating, and the best type of diet to go on is one that starts off with a few foods that are known to work for the majority of people and slowly add in a new item every week, tracking how you feel and what happens after you add it in. You'll discover which specific foods cause you problems, and know to avoid them in the future. 

There's no rule preventing you from doing pull ups with weights. You can get a belt to attach weight plates too. Works the same as any other lift, except the baseline is your bodyweight instead of 45lbs for the Olympic bar. 

A couple books by Stuart McRobert. Either Beyond Brawn and The Insider's Tell All Handbook of Weight Training Technique or Build Muscle, Lose Fat, Look Great. The third is essentially the first two in one book. You could probably get away with just the technique book, as detailed instruction on lifts is pretty sparse. I've only seen Starting Strength go into that kind of detail, but unfortunately it only covers barbells, and not everyone has access to a gym with barbells. Beyond Brawn covers a lot of issues that are often ignored in other books, for instance procedures for checking weights before you lift to make sure it's safe, weighing weight plates to make sure you're actually loading the same weight on both sides rather than having a 1-2lbs different causing an imbalance that could eventually lead to injury. The technique book acknowledges that not all exercises are suitable for all people, and rather than saying squats with free weights are best, you should only do them, it actually goes into a fair bit of detail on how to best use alternate options such as leg press machines if squats aren't a safe and viable option for you. For definitive sources on nutrition, there isn't really one. Julie Daniluk has a great quote; "7 billion diets for 7 billion people," and that really is the truth. When you consider food intolerances, allergies and heredity what could be excellent advice for one person could be terrible advice for another. That said, her book - Meals that Heal Inflammation - is quite good. One, inflammation happens with exercise, so having a diet that doesn't aggravate it is always a good idea, and two, it sets out a program for figuring out what exactly is the diet for you. It starts out with a core set of foods that generally don't cause problems for the majority of people, and then has you gradually add additional foods to your diet so you can see how your body reacts to them. Even if you choose not to follow her program, or get her book, anything you do read and follow probably should be along those lines. If the person writing the book doesn't understand that different people have different needs, they obviously don't understand the topic of nutrition well enough.