Denying the antecedent: "if p then q,not p, therefore not q" OK that's clearly invalid, but I was recently in an argument with someone who asserted some p in support of some q, and I pointed out that p was false. He accused me of denying the antecedent, although not in those words. My point was that, since one of his premisses (p) was false, his argument was unsound (rather than invalid). Is that correct? And how often is challenging the soundness of an argument confused with denying the antecedent? 

You say "one can try out the sentences 'White unicorn' and a 'white existing unicorn'. Here the adjective, or qualifier 'existing' actually adds something to the sense of the sentence; after all, for those who know that unicorns don't exist, to be told that they are adds something to their knowledge of the world. " But the expression 'white existing unicorn' is not a sentence, but rather a noun phrase. As soon as you make it into a sentence, you get existence in either case. (A) some unicorn is white (B) some existing unicorn is white. The first asserts that some, i.e. at least one, unicorn is white. The second asserts the same thing, but adds the redundant information that the unicorn is existing. If you object that (A) could be true because it says in some story that a unicorn is white, I reply that in this sense (A) is elliptical for "according to some story, some unicorn is white". This does not assert the existence of unicorns. 

Well, Zeno and Chrysippus argued that everything is fated, as follows. “When a dog is tied to a cart, if it wants to follow it is pulled and follows, making its spontaneous act coincide with necessity, but if it does not want to follow it will be compelled in any case. So it is with men too: even if they do not want to, they will be compelled in any case to follow what is destined”. Diodorus Cronus also formulated an enigmatic argument (known as the Master Argument) as follows. It is clear, he says, that the following three propositions cannot all be true. 1. Everything true about the past is now necessary. (I.e. you can’t do anything about the past, it’s done). (2) The impossible does not follow from the possible. (3) There is something that is possible, and yet neither is nor will be true. (i.e. there are some possibilities that will never be realized, no matter how long you wait) Diodorus accepted 1 and 2, and so rejected 3: whatever is possible either is true or is going to be true, he thought. So you can’t do anything about the future. The argument is entirely unclear, probably because key parts of it have been lost. 

Are you thinking of his theory of 'The Gaze' in Being and Nothingness (chapter 1, section 4)? There are also many other discussions of vision and the visual field in that work. Sartre enters a park and discovers he is alone. He is at the 'still point' of the world, his self is 'focus of its visual kingdom'. But then someone else enters the park: 'the intruder himself stands at his own centre of things'. And so on. 

Like many terms in philosophy, 'abstract/concrete', 'general/specific' derive from the Latin used by the schoolmen in the middle ages. The adjective concretum means hard, solid, material, whereas abstractum literally means drawn out from, i.e. abstracted. It is in some ways similar to the distinction between material and immaterial. William of Ockham discussed it chapters 5-9 of book I of the Summa Logicae, but as he is a nominalist he argues that the distinction is linguistic only. 'Humanity" is a verbal modification of 'human', and "Socrates has humanity" means no more than "Socrates is human". 'General' comes from the Latin 'genus' meaning 'race' or 'kind', which is a translation of Aristotle's Greek word genos. 'Specific' comes from 'species', meaning outward appearance, shape or figure, and is a translation of Aristotle's eidos. "Are there any comprehensive resources on the early history of their development specifically with respect to language?" Difficult - you could try looking at Joyce's Principles of Logic, which is a manual of traditional (not modern) logic. Mill's System of Logic covers the abstract/concrete distinction in Bk I c ii sec.4, and see c.vii of the same book, on the 'predicables', the traditional part where the genus/species/differentia &c division is covered. 

This is undeniably difficult. The section at 4.1212 onwards is where he gives his take on the internal/external relations doctrine. The holding of internal relations cannot be asserted by propositions, but rather shows itself in the propositions (in den Saetzen), by an internal property of the proposition which presents a state of affairs. A property is internal if it is unthinkable that its object does not possess it (4.123). He also says (4.121) that propositions cannot represent logical form, which mirrors iself in propositions. “That which mirrors itself in language, language cannot represent”. A proposition shows the logical form of reality, or exhibits it (er weist sie auf). So in this sense, what can be shown (logical form, internal structure etc) cannot be said. Passing to “The limits of my language mean the limits of my world”. I imagine he means, consistent with what he says above, is that whatever falls within the limits of our language includes all that can be said. What can be shown, however lies outside our language, or perhaps ‘at the limit’. Note also his remark later on at 5.6331 about the form of the visual field – hard to explain without his diagram, which shows the eye and the visual field on the page itself. He means that the eye itself would never appear in the visual field. “The subject does not belong to the world but it is a limit of the world”. So in summary, “What can be shown, cannot be said” and “The limits of my language mean the limits of my world” are not necessarily contradictory, if ‘what can be shown’ is at the limits of language and the world. Note also, if what can be known is limited to what is said by a proposition, rather than what is shown, then there are things that can be shown, but which we cannot be said to know. If that is the case, his first statement does not imply there are things that we can know (and be shown), since what is shown is unknowable, in the sense we cannot say what it is, in a proposition of the form 'S knows that p'. 

Quod sic: The Statue of Zeus no longer exists (it was destroyed by fire in the 5th century A.D.) Therefore, there is something (the Statue of Zeus) that does not exist. Contra: How can there be anything which does not exist? [edit] This question was put 'on hold' by five of the more experienced members of this site, as being unclear as to what was being asked. I am not clear what is unclear about the question, but I will provide a bit of background. I was actually repeating one of the medieval questions that the scholastics asked. The question is whether 'everything exists' is true, i.e. so that whatever thing in the range of quantification you select, is an existent thing, or whether you could find something in the domain that doesn't exist. That is the question, and it is a deep and fundamental one for our understanding of quantification. I then gave one argument for (quod sic – it is so) and one argument against (contra). The argument for is that the Statue of Zeus does not exist (it was destroyed), therefore, on the grounds that Fa implies Ex Fx it follows that something does not exist (where F = exists). The argument against is that there cannot be anything which does not exist, for to 'be' something is to be, and to be is to exist. So we have two opposing arguments on the question, what is the correct answer? I provided an answer myself, see below. I hope this helps. 

This is a well-known problem in the philosophy of language and it is well-known that there is no simple answer. Neither of the two answers above even alluded to this fact. There are two answers commonly given, both of which are flawed. The first is that 'Tom is thinking of N' really means 'Tom is thinking of his idea of N'. The standard reply is that if we want to talk about an idea of a thing rather than the thing itself, we use expressions like "Tom's idea of N" rather than 'N'. Frege ("On Sense and Reference") says "When we say 'the Moon', we do not intend to speak of our idea of the Moon, nor are we satisfied with the sense alone, but we presuppose a reference. To assume that in the sentence 'The Moon is smaller than the Earth' the idea of the Moon is in question, would be flatly to misunderstand the sense. If this is what the speaker wanted, he would use the phrase 'my idea of the Moon'". I alluded to this above. I also added another argument. Let's grant that 'Tom is thinking of N' really means 'Tom is thinking of his idea of N'. But then you still have the same problem: 'Tom is thinking of his idea of N' also has the form aRb, and so logically implies that for some x, aRx, i.e. that for some x, Tom is thinking of his idea of x. If you try to avoid this by the same manoeuvre, you get trapped in an infinite regress. Alongside this, it's very common to bring psychology into the question. E.g. Rex above says "There is some difference between thinking about actual objects and pretend ones, but it's cognitively subtle." But this is a logical problem, not a psychological problem. "Tom is thinking of Frodo" appears to have the logical from 'aRb', and in standard logic, aRb implies for some x, aRx. Any satisfactory answer either needs to take this on board, or to reject standard logic. The second answer commonly given is that 'Ex aRx' follows, but 'x' ranges over all sorts of non-standard objects, such as 'non extant objects', whatever that means. Rex gives the example of the true proposition '3 < 4'. This implies that something is less then 4 (namely the number 3), even though the number 3 is not a physical or concrete object, but an abstract object. That's broadly correct, but doesn't answer the question. The problem was 'Tom is thinking of Frodo' in standard logic implies there is such a thing as Frodo. However, the second horn of the dilemma is that there is no such thing as Frodo. This is not analogous to the case of '3 < 4'. For there is such a thing as the number 3, and the number 4. But there isn't such a thing as Frodo. So both of the well-known replies above are wrong, and it is also well-known that they are wrong. Another standard reply are that 'Tom is thinking of Frodo' is false, yet another is that it is meaningless, since no proposition with a fictional name in it can have a truth value My own answer to the question is simply that 'Tom is thinking of Frodo' doesn't imply that there is such a thing as Frodo, and so is consistent with 'there is no such thing as Frodo'. This means that we can't interpret it as having the logical form 'aRb'. 

This was a well-known problem in the middle ages. They solved it by distinguishing the existential import of affirmative from negative propositions. An affirmative proposition does have existential import. If we read "there is something that does not exist" as (1) something is non-existent then it is false, because it is affirmative, and thus implies the existence of a non-existing thing, which is contradictory. On the other hand if we read it as the negative proposition (2) something no longer exists then it can be true, if 'something' is satisfied by the Statue, which no longer exists, and therefore doesn't exist now. I.e. the domain of quantification can include non-existent things, but not in such a way that we can say anything positive about them. I still see a problem here, however. What do we mean by the 'domain of quantification'? What do we mean by 'including' such things as the Statue? If the domain includes the Statue now, i.e. if at this very moment in time it still includes it, then surely we are saying something positive about the statue, namely that it is now in the domain. But if conversely we say it is no longer in the domain, then how can we quantify over it, even to make a negative statement about it? Interesting how many of the answers above say that what exists is the idea of the Statue. This is wrong. It is not the idea which no longer exists, for the idea still does exist. What no longer exists is the statue, not the idea. 

I don't think he says this in the Metaphysics, but he does say (De Anima iii, 7) that "the soul understands nothing without a phantasm." Thomas famously discusses this in Summa I q. 84 a. 6. A 'phantasm' is broadly what 20th century philosophers used to call a 'sense datum', i.e. data directly present to sense which capture the accidental attributes of a substance. 

Yes, you can you correctly infer from the ordinary language sentence "Food cannot be found in any house (in this area)" that "There is AT LEAST [one] house (in this area)". This is because the existence of houses in the area is presupposed, not asserted. Note that the first reply confuses the way the English sentences would be rendered formally, with the sentences themselves. It is of course correct that the two formal renderings are equivalent: (x) [x is a house in this area -> not: food can be found in x ] Not for some x, [x is a house in this area and food can be found in x] But the first English sentence is not equivalent to the first formal rendering. “Food cannot be found in any house in this area” presupposes the existence of houses in this area. The classic example, discussed in Strawson’s Introduction to Logical Theory (?) is “all of John’s children are asleep”. This presupposes the existence of John’s children, and is clearly not equivalent to “it is not the case that John has some children who are not asleep”, since the latter is true when John has no children. 

A predicate, from the Latin praedicare, which is itself a translation of Aristotle's κατηγορῆται, is something that is 'said of' something else. Thus in 'Socrates is bald', the predicate 'bald' is said of Socrates. To say that existence is not a predicate means that existence is not really said of any individual, i.e. is not a property of an individual in the way that being bald, being white etc are properties. If it were a predicate, then 'Socrates does not exist' would be saying of some individual that he lacks some property, namely existence. But that is absurd: how can there be some individual such that there is no such individual? "Blue buttercups do not exist" is not saying that there are such things as non-existent blue buttercups. Rather, it is saying that no buttercups are blue. 

Well it is a terribly broad question, but the brief answer is that the apparent contradictions between Greek scientific thought (which is what I assume you mean by 'Hellenism') and Christianity were resolved in the late thirteenth century by Thomas Aquinas. His masterful synthesis became accepted as Catholic doctrine and so it has remained ever since. Obviously there is a longer story than that, namely how Greek thought was transmitted to the Latin West, how the medieval universities originated, and there is the question of whether there was any continuity between medieval 'scholastic' thought and the early modern 'enlightenment' thought. I would strongly recommend Bertrand Russell's History of Western Philosophy which is long enough to cover the entire history of two thousand years of thought, but short enough to read in a weekend, if you are a good reader. It's over 50 years old but I have never read a better book. It is also entertaining. I would also recommend James Hannam's book God's Philosophers, which dispels some of the myths surrounding the Middle Ages, and the role of the 'renaissance'.