Once you can clear a tabletop, you can clear the same size and space double. It's all about removing the mental block that says it's a different jump. It's the same jump, with a hollow middle. That's all that's different. Just get your basics down, make sure you clear it cleanly several times on the tabletop, get muscle memory going, then try it on a similar size jump without the top. Good luck! Something else to look at, check out the landing ramp when you move on to doubles. Riding tabletops will make you complacent about not watching where and how your wheels sit when you land. You definitely don't want to case the landing(hit the lip of it) with either wheel. You also don't want to undershoot it and land in the middle. But also be careful about not overshooting the landing ramp, as landing on flat ground also sucks. A whole lot of how the physics of jumping a bike work is based on landing on a decline. 

Finding a longer recessed nut. They only make those in a couple sizes, and you really should have them threaded on quite a bit to be sure they are secure. You're screwing with your ability to stop here, after all. Moving the brake ~2mm forward may change the brake pad position relative to the rim. Just a tiny bit, but it may be enough if you were already at the edge of the brake's ability to reach the rim. 

The cable should be pulled through the pinch bolt on the brake, making sure any breaks in the housing are seated in housing stops on the frame, until it is tight enough that the arm on the brake is just beyond it's "relaxed" position. Then tighten that bolt, check that it works, and if it does, leave about 3" of cable coming out of that bolt, trim the excess and install a cable end. Otherwise, looks like you did a very good job installing a cable, for I'm assuming the first time? 

You should pay attention to both. Ideally, if I wanted to make the strongest wheel possible, I'd build a 36 spoke wheel with a double wall rim with eyelets, and double butted spokes, and lace it 3-cross. All of these components help absorb or redirect impact. Double wall rims are definitely the biggest part of this. The torsional stiffness of a double wall can definitely keep things rolling straight. I've even had a wheel with two broken spokes that had a very tall double wall rim, that I rode like that for 2 years before replacing those spokes, because the rim wasn't that far out of true. Of course, this was on a fixed gear with no brakes, so brake rub wasn't a problem... Eyelets reinforce the spoke/rim interface, making it stronger and helping to avoid nipple pull-through. Spoke count makes a pretty big difference simply because the more spokes, the more impact gets divided between separate spokes. The cross pattern matters because every point two spokes cross, some small part of the energy divides off to the crossed spoke. More than 3-cross can be a problem though, since you start having spokes crossing at the j-bend where they go into the hub, which can cause more problems. This last one is going to seem a bit counter-intuitive. Double butted spokes are thinner in the middle than they are at the ends. One thing this does is make the spokes a little bit compliant. Whatever forces are acting on them, they can stretch or contract just a little to adjust for. Also, the weak point of straight-gauge spokes is at the J-bend where they enter the hub. Any mechanic will tell you, that's where they break. The double butted spoke adds a perceived weak point, the middle of the spoke, where it's thinner. Since that part is the smallest bit compliant, it can absorb more impact without breaking. 

I've had some experience overhauling pedals like those. First and foremost, some pedals are not made to be rebuilt, and you may destroy them getting them apart. You may need to (carefully) clamp the pedal body and (carefully, again) use a punch and hammer on the axle to push out the "crank side" bearing and axle, then you can use a drift or punch to push the bearing out of the non-crank side, if there is one. Something to remember, not all pedals use actual sealed bearings on both sides, some may use a DU sleeve bearing or bushing one side, and some may also use non-standard or hard-to-source needle bearings. If they are a "standard" bearing, it's entirely possible to rebuild. But what constitutes a standard bearing for your area and how involved you want to get is up to you. If you got 30+ years of use out of those pedals as you say in the comments, it may be time to hang them up and get a shiny new set of LOOKs. 

In the comments, it looks like Criggie gives you a very helpful rundown of the Physics of why that causes more wear. Sheldon Brown is a great resource for a lot of things, but in the long run, he was just one mechanic, sharing info with the world, and didn't get to put everything there or be completely comprehensive. I can tell you from my experience as a mechanic, you want enough b-tension to keep your pulleys off your cogs, and that's about it, too much more, and as Criggie said in that other post, your chain will have less contact with your smaller cogs, and will wear them faster. As for a citable source, PDF of Shimano general instructions Page 20 tells you how to set proper B-limit screw tension for several systems, even though it doesn't give a specific reason for why it's like that. 

I can't think of any reason that would be migrating in the frame unless it wasn't secured enough to begin with. You should check the tightness of your quick release. 

Considering the health concerns, between any number of skin-borne infectiions, diseases and just the general grossness of other people's sweat touching me... I don't think the bank of shared helmets is a good idea at all. There are deodorizing and disinfectant products out there, I just did a quick google search for "bowling alley shoe rental spray" and came up with a lot of answers, which will probably go a long way towards getting those safe to use for multiple users. However, there just isn't any info at all about whether that stuff is safe on helmet foams or glue used to attach helmet foam to shell. I would worry about the risk of making the helmet less effective. The best case scenario would be for each employee who uses them to have their own helmet. 

The 7-speed cassette standard has been functionally discontinued for new wheels. Most new wheels come in 8-10 or 8-11 speed compatibility. Since the 7-speed cassette bodies were shorter, you can install a 7-speed cassette on a 8-speed body using a 4mm spacer behind the cassette. Alternatively, as you said, you can use the 7 shifter on an 8 cassette, you'll just have to tune out one of the gears with the limiters and cable tension. 

650c x 25 or so should work fine as a replacement for that if all else fails... This is because they are the same ISO Diameter. That's an International Standard for measuring tires that takes the diameter of the bead as the measurement, since that's the primary interface from wheel to tire. Most tires are labeled by their inflated diameter, + or - some cheating on sizes, deep tread patterns and just generally not having good standards in the industry among different countries making them. ISO takes none of that into account and simply measures where the tire meets the rim. Both 26x1 and 650c are 571mm ISO. The second number in any of the Metric tires is simply the width. Your 26x1 is about 25mm wide, so you should look for a 650cx25 tube, or thereabouts. One more thing, I say that size or thereabouts because tubes are rubber. They stretch. It usually isn't a problem if they are just a little big or a little small. Given the choice, err on the side of them being a little big. So even if the closest you can find is 26x1.25 or 650cX28, that should work fine too.