Someone invents a machine that creates electrons. It takes in some electrically neutral matter, and produces electrons of equal mass.1 Let's consider two quantities of negative charge: $q$ is the amount of negative charge that a typical individual might reasonably want to create and use, not counting in lab experiments. $Q$ is the amount of negative charge that if added to the Earth, would soon destroy human society as we know it. (It wouldn't necessarily kill everyone, but it would trigger a huge leap backwards.) I'd like to keep $Q\over q$ within a few orders of magnitude of $10^{10}$. This way I can keep $q$ in the budget range of an upper-class individual, while making $Q$ too expensive to create outside a major government attempt. What are reasonable values for $q$ and $Q$? 1 Of course this violates the principle of conservation of charge. Some skeptics claim that the machine actually sucks the electrons from another part of the universe, but it doesn't really matter. 

I'm considering the following scenario: Over the course of a couple of weeks, a global plague wipes out 99.999% of humanity, leaving just 75,000 people alive. These people are spread out evenly; in every regional and social group, only one in 100,000 survive. That means 14,000 people survive in China, 80 in New York City, and so on. For these people to recreate the world, they would probably want to stick together. A society of 75,000 people is sustainable, since it includes plenty of doctors, engineers, and every other important skill. But if humanity is split up into tiny groups, scattered across the globe, long-term survival is questionable. The question is, how would these people find each other? Global communication media such as the Internet and cellphone networks will shut down, and most survivors won't even be thinking about finding others until the plague is over. There will be a few surviving pilots, but they won't be enough to transport whole populations, let alone decide on where to go. Practically speaking, how will the survivors manage to join together? 

Assuming no wars or serious plagues, anywhere from 0 to 18 quadrillion – or more. If each couple has an average of four children, at about the age of twenty, then after 900 years the population will be 17,592,000,000,000,000. If each couple has an average of one child, at the age of twenty, humanity will end in about 250 years. The problem with the 18 quadrillion estimate is the lack of land and resources. live science theorizes that the Earth can support a population of up to 10 billion, long-term. If people will completely ignore sustainability, I'd guess that the limit is about 100 billion. However, if technology improves significantly, or many other planets are colonized, than 18 quadrillion is plausible. In fact, you could go even higher – a nontillion (1,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000,000) people is doable with just six children per family. 

Suppose a group of people get transported back in time (say 2500 years). Then, in a manner reminiscent of A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court, they try to re-design modern technology. Assume that there's no shortage of labor or materials; the only real lack is knowledge. What kind of group would have enough knowledge to recreate modern technology within 50 years? Would one average college-educated person be enough, or would it take hundreds of experts? Would there be any particular points that they would get stuck at? For argument's sake, we can define modern technology as: laptop computers, kidney transplants, DNA sequencing, artificial satellites, and nuclear power plants. 

A black hole is so heavy that it will warp the space around it like a magnifying glass. Pro's of a human 

A black hole is so heavy that time itself behaves differently. This is because we dont merely live in space or in time but in spacetime. Spacetime can stretch depending on how "heavy" something is. For example, every 60 years our satellites need to add 1 second to their own clock because on earth time goes a tiny bit slower. This is exactly the same near a black hole as on earth except that it is magnified so much that once you pass the event horizon someone flying outside it would see you falling forever. Spaghettification Spaghettification happens when gravity on the close end of an object is higher than the further end. (On earth this would be your feet.) Because a black hole is much more powerful than earth it will stretch you from the closest end to the furthest until you are basically one long string of human. Gravitational Lensing 

If you want the best possible space travel you should use space corridors. Basically, you want to have set points in space to travel to and use them as a highly monitored highway.Ships could jump into FTL there without a problem. The rest of space would not need monitoring except for a couple million km around the corridors. Just put satellites/monitoring stations with quantum entangled particles around it and if something was going to happen everyone would immediately know because quantum tunneling is instant. Change particle A here and particle B changes in andromeda for example. 

For me, never as long as the current rate of inventions etc. keeps going. Especially when space travel will be a thing. You could get your own spaceship and explore star systems far away. I'd probably do something like that. Favorite things to do would probably be: 

How to find it? Black holes are by definition invisible the only way to find one is to look around to see stars being blocked out by them. How to get data? To get data from a black hole you would have to study the effects on what it does to the surrounding area and not the black hole itself. Sizes of black holes: A "small" black hole is an instant death due to spaghettification of the human and the probe. 

A large black hole is a slow death because the event horizon spans much further out where the gravity is still "survivable". This would probably be the most amazing way to die because you would see the universe slowly fading away. On earth maybe 100+ years might pass because of time dilation while for you only 10 minutes might have passed. Event horizon: It's very simple: You pass it and there is no way to get you or your data out of it. A black hole by is by definition black because it sucks in everything. X-Rays, radio frequency waves, entire stars and also light. This means that once you're in you'll have to play cards with yourself until you and the shuttle disappear from existence. Time dilation: 

There is something that already exists, that if you do not have it, having a lot of intelligence and technology can be tremendous disadvantage. It is wisdom. Possessing a lot of intelligence and/or technology without the wisdom to appropriately apply these things is quite destructive. With intelligence and technology comes new discoveries, new discoveries can be dangerous, especially if misused. Many times, with new discoveries, we only partially understand the situation, and there are hidden dangers that we not realize the danger that they pose until further investigation has been done. We generally posses fair amounts of both in our current culture/society, and thus are quite attuned to discovering and eliminating the ill effects. If you need more motivation, take a look at the early history of X-Rays, $URL$ 

The other answers are great, but tend to focus on luxury items, and items that are valuable because they are scarce at the time. Hand tools, quality made hand tools would be quite valuable. They will be instantly recognizable and testable by most people you are willing to trade with. Additionally, your potential buyers will actually benefit from these items materially (their work will be made easier), and thus may be more willing to trade. These tools, being useful and only slightly different in design than they alread had, will be worn out and discarded or melted down when they reach the end of their life. My particular choices 

High amounts of UV will do it. Single celled organisms would be sterilized, whilst those with a dead skin layer would be relatively fine, though likely subject to higher amounts of mutations and thus skin cancer. You can adjust the dose to keep the whole planet sterile, but perfectly livable for any organism that has developed sunglasses and clothes, and they can grow plants within a greenhouse (if you have dosed your planet with very large amounts of UV continuously). If you need a mechanism to explain the UV, go with high amounts of X-rays hitting an earth type atmosphere, resulting in down-conversion by the atmosphere to UV radiation. If necessary, you can construct the history of your planet so that it develops complex life, that is then killed off by successive gamma ray bursts nearby. $URL$ You will need more than one, of course, because a single gamma ray burst will only effect one side of the planet. Additionally, how sterile do you need it? Your story may be able to function with most complex life killed off, and the only life on the planet are single celled organisms around a deep thermal vent. 

Put a very small amount of propellant in a fused shell Fire at target using conventional propellants 

Geographic/Geometric Jamming can be overcome by directed transmissions (shaped beam radio frequency or laser) with direct line of sight (LOS) to orbiting satellite constellation. Levels appear to involve infiltrating a building, finding a bad guy, then fighting him. Saves are available when you are outside (beginning save point), and at any time that you can re-acquire direct LOS with one of the satellites (middle and pre boss save points). Not every piece of the sky will always have a peek at a satellite, so the lack of a save point near some windows, roofs, docking bays, etc should not be too jarring. The same methodology can be used to explain the sparse save points on an outdoor level depending on the terrain, LOS to ground based repeater stations, and robustness of your satellite constellation.