Let's look at the energetics of removing material from a white dwarf. Very, very approximately, the energy required to remove 1 kg of material from the surface of a massive object out into space is of order its potential energy: $-G M / R$, where $M$ is the mass (in kg) of the object and $R$ is its diameter in meters. To remove 1 kg from the surface of the Earth requires about 60 megajoules. To remove 1 kg from the surface of a 1-solar-mass white dwarf (radius about 0.01 times that of the Sun) requires about two hundred terajoules. That's about 50 kilotons TNT equivalent. So on one level, it's feasible. (Leaving aside the engineering problems.) It's also an insanely expensive way to gather relatively common elements. Now, there is a way of letting nature do it for you. Classical novae are binary systems with a white dwarf and a low-mass main sequence star which is orbiting so close to the WD that it overfills its Roche lobe, leading to accretion of material from the outer part of the main sequence star onto the surface of the WD. Over time, this material builds up until a runaway thermonuclear reaction takes place, which blasts a mixture of accreted material and original WD material out into space with velocities of several thousands of kilometers per second. (This may prove somewhat inconvenient to collect.) So, provided you're willing to wait several thousand or tens of thousands of years between classical nova outbursts, you can extract material from a white dwarf this way, although it will be mixed with accreted material from the companion star and fresh thermonuclear byproducts (probably mostly helium) from the runaway burning of the nova outburst. If you really want to collect "stellar-mass" quantities of matter, it would be much better to scoop them out of the surface of a giant or supergiant star, where you don't have to fight gravity so damn much. 

In many sci-fi works, spaceships do not trigger a nuclear explosion upon destruction. Presumably this would be because of sophisticated fail-safe measures. However it occurs to me that having a ship explode on destruction would provide a severe deterrent to anyone trying to attack the ship. (Mutually Assured Destruction.) Especially when predicting bloody conflicts such as in war, it would seem the fail safes should be removed. So what reason is there to not disable these fail safes as a deterrent? Is it an environmental concern because radiation could affect nearby planets? EDIT: Some answers have addressed the fact that some engine types will not necessarily explode even without fail safes. Some others may not explode violently enough to cause damage in space to anything that isn't very close. However this question is intended to be more concerned with why fail-safes would be put in place on an engine that is prone to violent explosion, such as an antimatter engine with a sizable antimatter reserve for extended voyages. Assume enough antimatter and short enough combat range that the ship would stand a chance to destroy the attacking ship if it exploded. 

They could be raising an army. If a superior species were to enhance humanity with superhuman abilities they might still fall short of the superior super species, but still be useful. Especially if the superior species can enhance a lot of humans. 

I'm afraid the short answer is that's it's probably impossible to tell unless you set up your new solar system and actually do N-body orbit integrations to see what happens over time. Things like eccentricity, obliquity (tilt), and precession variations can be chaotic (or not) depending on the orbits and masses of the planets. It's unlikely you'll have the same Milankovitch cycles we do now, because you've changed the interactions of the planets by changing their masses and orbits (changing their diameters makes no difference). For example, changes in the Earth's eccentricity currently depend primarily on the gravity of Jupiter and Saturn. Since you haven't changed the masses of those planets and have barely changed their orbits, their influence would be roughly the same... except that you've made both Venus and Mars several times as massive as the Earth, and since their orbits are much closer to Earth's than is Jupiter's, this probably would have an effect. (E.g., the gravitational force of Venus on Earth at closest approach is about half that of Jupiter's; in your new system, it's about three times stronger than Jupiter's.) It's a little hard to tell what you've done with the Moon: "has only 14% of Earth's gravity" -- does that mean its surface gravity is 14% of the Earth's (as compared with the current lunar surface gravity, which is 16.5% of the Earth's)? Assuming that plus the change in the Moon's size, your new Moon is actually almost twice as massive as the old one. Since it's further away, the change in the gravitational influence of the Moon almost cancels out. However, the tidal effects will be a little different: crudely speaking, the new Moon's tidal effects will be about 75% as strong, making the Sun's influence relatively stronger. You could guess that the periods for the obliquity (tilt) and precession variations would be a little longer than they are now (since the general history over the past several hundred million years is for the periods to get longer as the Moon moves further out in its orbit) -- if everything else in the solar system were unchanged. 

More photosynthesis is the logical answer. The oxygen in Earth's atmosphere is the result of photosynthesis. So if plants could photosynthesize more then you would get more oxygen. You could also however increase oxygen by decreasing oxygen consumption from animals. If large areas of the planet were uninhabitable to animals but not plants (Radioactive maybe?) they would produce more oxygen, and animals in areas that are inhabited could have higher oxygen consumption. 

Alright, I am going to try and get past the fact that your story seems to have some sort of hybrid star-gate/vagina that teleports babies out of nothingness. On to your question, they can't produce genetically viable babies with only one genetic source. Bacteria and other organisms that reproduce asexually are far simpler, and still mutate rapidly. Bacteria can survive because they replicate so much that genetically nonviable offspring can simply die. If humans were to mutate rapidly they would lose to significant an amount of children, and if they didn't mutate and had a single parent they would be clones. (so again doesn't work in your story.) Also, if they were all genetic clones they would all be the same gender as their parents, and mutation would not reliably create males from females. There must be a second gene source. If you want to avoid the male passing on genes, you need another gene source. Since you're already getting this magical aether involved, you could simply make them get genes from the aether magically. 

The classic "original affluent society" argument made by at least some anthropologists is that people in hunter-gatherer societies spend an average of about three hours a day hunting and/or gathering food (and probably another three hours in food preparation, tool-making, maintenance, etc.). See this Wikipedia page and references therein. Edited to add: the anthropological studies are based on people with advanced stone-age technology (e.g., the San of the Kalahari), which means bows but not guns. So you might be able to make the time a little shorter with guns (and they would probably help make up for not having a group of hunters, who can do more searching and coordinate with each other). On the other hand, guns won't help you gather plants faster, and some studies suggest that most of the calories that hunter-gatherers consume come from the gathering (and trapping small animals); big game is prestigious, but not as important to actual survival. 

You can't define locations in 3D space using only two numbers (e.g., one angle and one distance, as you've done). You seem to be thinking of the Galaxy as perfectly flat, which it isn't. Think about locations on the surface of the Earth, which is a 2D problem: we use two (angular) coordinates: longitude and latitude. You can think of this as an angle measured from the North Pole (that's longitude) plus a distance along that line (latitude). But if we want 3D locations on the surface of the Earth, then you can add something like altitude from sea level. If you want something Earth- or Sun-based, why not use the Galactic coordinate system plus a distance along the direction vector? 

The computer hardware side would be vastly different, but that doesn't necessarily mean the code would be different at all. Theoretically if it were possible to make fast mechanical computers they would likely also work by preforming vast strings of binary calculations. Unless they were to design a computer where each switch had more than an on/off state, instead having three or more states. 

So how do you board a spaceship that is able to defend itself without teleportation? I am aware of this question How can a pirate board a spaceship without teleportation? but it only seems to answer what would happen boarding a defenseless ship. In this case the accepted answer involves space harpoons, which would likely be broken off by shots from the spaceship being boarded if it had any kind of defenses. So my question is would there be any way to board a spaceship given that: 

I mean easier than doing the calculations, you can go underwater and try to throw a punch, and you'll see it doesn't really work. You generally need a weapon to fight underwater, and then a cut basically kills as it is really hard to stop bleeding underwater.