Actually, it was the Sicilians, not Italians. The mafia is an ancient way of life adhered to generally in Sicily for at least 1500 years. The adherent to mafia is known as the mafioso. The code of conduct for the mafioso is known as omerta. It is sort of a poor man's chivalry that stresses vengeance and eye-for-an-eye justice. Sicily was frequently invaded in ancient times and the inhabitants developed mafia as a way of resisting these invaders. When Sicilians later immigrated to other places they retained mafia and continued to practice it. Outsiders tend to see mafia as a type of criminal conspiracy, but actually the Sicilians use it for everything, both lawful businesses and criminal activities. The advantage of following omerta in crime is that it is first and foremost a personal code that requires no courts or authority, so it can operate as a method of justice without a central authority. In criminal activities, this is an advantage because such activities lie outside the courts. For example, if you buy dope and your dealer rips you off, you have no recourse. If you call the police, they will just arrest YOU, not give you justice (this actually happened, btw, some woman called the cops to complain about her dealer ripping her off). For those living within mafia, they always get justice. The advantage of this system compared to undisciplined criminals who have no code should be obvious. There is a similar system local to Naples called the carbonari, but this was never developed to the extent of the mafia. The Carbonari had the same origin as the Mafia, resistance to foreign invaders. 

In Herodotus it reads the following of Anoosis, the blind pharoah, and Amyrtaios, a pharaoh living over 700 years after him: 

In a backhanded way, yes. First of all, the Arabs and Moors were driven out of Iberia 300 years before Columbus set sail, so at that point the effects from the occupation were of a historical nature. Columbus' family was from Genoa. In those days there were two maritime empires: Genoa and Venice. This is where the most advanced technology and culture was situated. So, you might ask why did not Venice or Genoa discover the new world? The answer is that they did not have the energy and sense of adventure and freedom. Both Genoa and Venice were hidebound with tradition and conservatism. That is why adventurers like Columbus went to Spain: they were open to new ideas and freedom to do what you wanted. Venice had so many regulations and rules and petty bureaucrats an explorer could not even get started. In Spain and Portugal the sea was wide open and there few rules. If you had money you could do whatever you wanted to do. Fighting off the Moors had engendered this sense of freedom and independent action in Iberia. So, indirectly the Moors could be said to have created the conditions for the Age of Exploration. 

The Peoples Republic of China was not originally on the security council, as it did not exist in 1945 at the time the security council was created. The Peoples Republic of China inherited the Republic of China's seat on the council when it took over the ROC's place in the United Nations in 1971. Originally the United States supported the ROC's place on the security council. The reasons for this obviously are subject to interpretation and were highly political. Possibly one factor was that the council was going to include Britain and France (both former colonial powers) and the US saw the ROC as an ally and counterweight to the European presence on the council. Also, the US may have seen the need for an Asian representative on the council. This latter motivation, having all continents represented, is also suggested by the fact that the United States also supported having Brazil on the security council, although this was firmly opposed by Britain and France. 

During the period 1945-1949, there was no German state at all, just an occupied "territory" so the only justice system were the military courts of the Allies (the US, British, French and Soviet Union). In 1951, shortly after the Federal Republic of Germany was created a treaty called the "Status of Forces Act" established that allied troops occupying Germany would be immune from prosecution by the Germans and this is still the case today. Revenge killings were common in the immediate aftermath of the war. The situation in 1945-6 was completely lawless. Many areas did not even have a water supply. There were gangs of starving people armed literally with clubs and knives roaming around. In the rare instances where a soldier got murdered, which sometimes happened in the context of a robbery, the soldier's unit would just go looking around for people to kill. Just to give you one anecdote from the book "Savage Continent": there was an American soldier on the road and he came up on an old German man who he asked for the time. The German pulled a watch from his waistcoat pocket and as soon as he did this a Red Army soldier who happened to be walking nearby immediately stabbed the man through the heart and grabbed his watch. The American then drew his pistol and marched the man to the Russian Army office. After the American expained what happened, the Russian army commissar opened a box of medals he had, pinned one on the man's chest, kissed him and sent him on his way. As far as the particular event you are referring to, Maurice Rose was one of 11 U.S. generals who were killed in action during the war. An article appeared in the German press claiming 110 German soldiers were executed in reprisal. Apparently this was based on the accounts of civilians who found a heap of corpses of German soldiers and assumed American soldiers had killed them. The situation in this sector of the front was that there were Waffen-SS units active in the area, so executions of POWs were very common. It is possible the soldiers had been executed just for being Waffen-SS and it had nothing to do with Rose at all. The perpetrators could have been regular army or military police. A "field killing" like this points to regular army using automatic weapons. Usually MPs did away with people either near or inside their prisons which were located in towns, so in this case they were probably not involved. 

You may be thinking of the Ancient Discoveries series. The episode on the steam engine had a mention of China, but on a different topic. Steam engines, due to the heat and pressure of steam, require strong metal fittings which was technology not available anywhere in the far east until the 19th century. The rotating ball of Heron I would consider to be a jet, not a steam engine, because it has no mechanism. The fundamental mechanisms of the steam engine are the crank, the piston, and the governor, the last two being the difficult parts. 

In general, yes, sort of. First of all there are two main divisions of Russians, the Bolshoi Russky (great Russians) and the little Russians. Then beyond this there were innumerable so-called "Slavic" tribes (Pechenegs, etc etc etc). It is important to realize that the "Slavic" peoples have widely varying ethnicities and it is only language similarities that tie them together. For example, the Serbs are completely different culturally and genetically than any of the eastern slavic tribes, who are primarily Finno-Ugaric. Even among the Finno-Ugaric slavs there are big differences between the tribes that are more from Finland compared to the so-called Turkic tribes that are from the Ural mountains. A third type which is ill-defined are the swamp-based tribes, which are very ancient, dating long before the Varangians who come from the Mansurian Lakes region. There are even also the remnants of Mongolians who date from the Golden Horde days. Anyway, getting back to the Russians. Even though the Russians (meaning the Bolshoi Russkiy, the great Russians) are described as "slavic", this is only because of their language, not because of their ethnicity which is of Scandinavian origin. Both the great Russians and little Russians came from the Baltic region and presumably invaded there from Scandinavia. Ethnically they are completely different than the Finno-Ugaric peoples. For example, great Russians have blond hair, but Finno-Ugaric people have black hair, one of many differences. The general tradition in Russia itself, at least before the Revolution, was that the Bolshoi Russky were the "original Russians", meaning the Rus tribe itself, and were a major group of Varangians (the oath takers). They came during 400-500 A.D. The little Russians were Scandinavians who came later during the Tuetonic invasions 800 A.D. to 1200 A.D. It is difficult to verify such things because they are oral traditions. I am merely repeating what the Bolshoi Russky, or people close to them, have told me. In any case, before the Revolution there was a clear difference in physiology and culture which differentiated the two different kinds of Russians and was obvious at the time. During the revolution the Bolshoi Russky were all killed systematically and the little Russians became assimilated into the population, so further studies of these matters is difficult. (By the way, I hope you appreciate that I am going to have to eat downvotes to provide you this answer.) 

Comino, the smallest of the three Maltese islands, is covered in terraces and walls, which seems to indicate that at one time the entire island was heavily occupied and cultivated. As late as the 19th century I found notices that watermelons from Comino were well regarded. However, currently, the island is unpopulated except for two hotels and a couple of tourist spots. I know that various islands in the Mediterranean like Sardinia and the Balaerics suffered terrible massacres and raids by the Barbary pirates from 1400-1800. Was this the fate of Comino? Wiped out by Barbary pirates? Or was the depopulation a more modern phenomenon? 

Not often I get to upstage Semaphore on his own turf, but here it goes... One of the first translators of Japanese works was the brilliant German polymath, Julius Klaproth. He made several translations from the Japanese in the 1830s, the first of which was of the Sangoku Tsūran Zusetsu in 1832. This important book, first published in 1785 in Japan, had been brought to Europe by Isaac Titsingh who had made a manuscript translation from which Klaproth worked. Now, this, of course, was not the first Japanese book translated into a western language, but in terms of fame is perhaps the most notable. The actual earliest book is hard to determine, but one candidate is the Osacka Monogattari published in Yedo (Tokyo) in 1668. I believe this is a translation into Latin. There is a copy of this incredibly rare book in the British Museum. 

The United States has always had up to the present time a large, in fact, dominating military capability over the Soviet Union and this has always been well known to our military leaders and strategists, including the President. The average American on the street with no specialized knowledged of military economics, logistics and technology, has often had an exaggerated idea of the threat posed by the Soviet war machine. This is largely because politicians tend to speak out mainly when there is some threat of some kind, so the news tends to disproportionately create stories which emphasize some threat or other, even though in the large, the Soviet empire has never posed a serious threat to the United States. The Soviets themselves, and their successor state, the Russian republic, has always been acutely aware of their inferiority and has focused its resources on developing specific technologies that give them a defensive or deterrent capability. ikalugin's comments about the various types of dysfunction in the NATO organization have a certain validity. NATO's purpose, however, is to be more or less a bureaucratic/diplomatic soldier's club, not an effective fighting force. In the event of a war, the Russians would be fighting the combined military forces of the United States, not NATO. In a real war, technical superiority is usually secondary to material and manpower quantity, and in both of these departments the United States dominates Russia, especially in its productive capacity. For example, Russia has about 300,000 men in its army and the United States has over 1 million, and the American soldiers are much better trained, equipped and supported. If you factor in the US economy, which is 8 times the size of the Russian economy, it is obvious the US would annihilate Russia in any all-out war. 

The origins of the term are somewhat obscure. In the book "The Rise of the Standard Model: Particle Physics in the 1960's and 1970's," the authors write: 

Documents The only documents thought to be relevant to Hebrews in Egypt are the Amarna letters, which are clay tablets found both in Assyria and in the royal palace of Amarna in Egypt. These are diplomatic letters and in numerous instances refer to the habiru occupying the region currently known as Israel. In some cases there are Egyptian writings which refer to apiru and it is believed to refer to the same people. The heiroglyphics for this word are: 

It took between 7 and 10 days, depending on the ship and the weather. The ships sailed out of Liverpool and Queenstown. Here is a notice from "London and Its Environs: Handbook for Travellers" (1889): 

When the South seceded from the Union, some of their representatives, such as Senator Jefferson Davis, explicitly vacated their seats in Congress. Congress refused to recognize this and treated the vacations originally as resignations, this happening January to June, 1861. On July 11, 1861, the Senate expelled the remaining 10 Southern senators who had not explicitly vacated their seats. Later, they expelled more senators from border states such as Missouri and Kentucky. In the House, the representatives from South resigned en masse. From a legal point of view, the southern states were still considered "states of the union" by Congress, but they had no representation since all their seats were vacant and Congress refused to accept representatives from those states. Thus, "re-admission" was actually re-admission to Congress. The territory of the states was still considered as territory of the Union and that's the way it was administered: as a territory. This legal situation had a huge impact on the post-war politics. The main issue was that the radical northerners wanted to pass the 14th Ammendment to the Constitution, abolishing slavery, but since none of the southern states would ratify the amendment, it could not pass. In the end a deal was struck by which the southern states would be allowed back into Congress on the condition that they ratified the 14th Amendment.