Since payments to app developers are denominated in USD it does make sense to raise prices. The pound sterling has decreased in value relative to the USD by about 30 percent since May 2014, which I'm selecting as the arbitrary peak for comparison. So if they kept the same prices as before the recent slide, an app would make about 30% less relative to 2014. Even relative to Jan of 2016, the app would make about 14% less in USD. As I'm involved with a few IT projects I can tell you that the marginal cost of production is never zero for a "finished product". In technology there is no such thing as a finished product. You can't put it in a box and deliver it and then say to the customer that it's their problem now (well you could but it wouldn't keep you in business very long). I think it is perfectly reasonable to adjust app prices to reflect what appears to be a new normal exchange rate. Edit 1: On the marginal cost of an Apple Store app: The question states that the cost of one additional sale is zero for an app. I disagreed in my above answer, but much too strongly and incorrectly. The marginal cost of some apps is equal to or close to zero. Usually, these apps take the following pricing structure: a free version with advertising, and a paid version. Then there is another class of apps that benefit so strongly from economies of scale and maturity that their MC is near zero (Facebook, Spotify, ect.) They do make up the vast majority of apps. This means that for all intents and purposes, the marginal cost of an app is zero. But I would argue that some apps with small but enthusiastic user bases likely do have some marginal costs and set their prices near zero anyways because of consumer expectations. Each user generates bug reports, which generates cost, and small development teams are disproportionately affected by this situation. It is one reason why pricing software is so difficult. 

Although this question will be flagged and closed I assume, I would recommend getting a variety of texts. Mankiw has a good intermediate macro book, that can get you from zero to a foundation, however his introductory book isn't as good. For econometrics, Woolridge gives a good bang for your buck, but I like Gujarati's basic econometrics as well. For time series, Enders' "Applied econometric time series" is my bible. For micro I'm not as sure, I didn't have any great experiences with introductory texts. I can't really give a good opinion on the intermediate level either, as I've only used Varian's. Once you get an idea of the concepts the best thing to do is to delve right into academic journals, so that you can start learning how to read them. Just that skill will help you be able to catch up fast. I assume you're already strong in linear algebra and your other math, and some of your engineering will carry over to economics, especially your ability to think about minimizing and maximizing. Good luck! 

When people talk about growth models, they usually mean some adaptation of the Solow model. It is a pretty ambitious task to take on this project as an undergraduate if you plan to estimate a growth model (it is ambitious for some PhDs). I would recommend looking at the one child policy using a non-econometric approach, and perhaps make reference to literature that ran a growth model that included some mention of the years or policy in question. 

I believe that you may be looking at a spurious relationship. You are looking at the same data transformed by a scaling factor (the currency) and regressing it on itself. Of course they will be related. If they weren't scaled, they would be perfectly co-linear. What you really want to know is if there is an effect of changes in the relative value of Yen to USD or Euros on the operating income of the company. You should start by visualizing this relationship by graphing it. Graph the relative value of Yen in your time series, then graph operating income in your time series. Do they move together? Look for structural breaks. For instance, they may have only begun to move together in the last year, that can really mess up an econometric model if you don't account for it. After you have finished analyzing it graphically, I suggest reading up on co-integration and the Engle-Granger method. Some literature that are good places to start are: Stock and Watson(1988), and Engle and Granger(1987). This part of time series econometrics enables you to work with variables that are NOT STATIONARY. One problem with first-differencing such as you mentioned in your question, is that it throws away the very relationship you want to know about. The Engle Granger method enables you to analyze the relationships that matter economically, and is still statistically sound. The world of time-series economics is a lot of fun, but make sure you stay grounded in the economics behind your data. Don't ignore the little things in your data, they may be the most meaningful. Don't be surprised if the relationship you thought was important actually is not important. That tells you just as much as if it is! There's so much to talk about with the fascinating area you are delving into but I hope this can be of interest to you. 

luchonacho's answer is good to keep in mind but it doesn't mean you can't do what you are proposing, only that you should have a good reason for doing so. Since you are only using your estimated variable in case 1 and case 2 I'm going to focus on those. In both case 1 and case 2 you are estimating a simple linear regression with X as the regressor and y as the dependent variable. This implies that you believe X and Y are related in a strictly linear sense. So your beta hat is telling you the slope of the line between X and Y. You then raise h to a power of beta hat. I assume h is another variable. Essentially this is just a transformation of h. You are raising every single value stored in h to a power of beta hat. If that's what you want to do it seems to be a valid way to do it but I'm struggling to interpret what z would mean without knowing how your variables are related. I'm also struggling to see why you need to do the transformation in the first place. With a few details on how the variables are related, or perhaps a link to the some of the literature your work is citing I might be able to be of more assistance. As it stands right now, I would say that your regressions using the variable z are meaningless economically and have significant statistical issues as well. I strongly recommend taking a step back and thinking about your specifications again. 

You should be confused by Japan's version of QE. No one knows the long term implications, it has never been done before. I don't know that much about Japan's QE other than the monthly totals, but the concept behind QE is simple. Normally, when a central bank wants to stimulate economic activity, they will do so by reducing the returns on saving and therefore incentivize consumption. To do this, they need to lower market interest rates. In the past, they usually did so by controlling the rate at which banks lend to each other, or to the central bank. In the US, this is the Federal Funds Rate. But what happens when you have reached the zero lower bound of the central bank's rate and you need to further influence market rates. In the case of the US and Japan, the answer, in part, was to have the central bank buy debt. But it was not just a small amount like they normally would to change their rate, QE saw the central banks buying huge amounts of debt. This debt purchasing was designed to serve a singular purpose: drive down long term interest rates. Why would this be helpful? Well with low short term rates, the market for interbank lending would be very liquid, and would not risk the so called "crunch" of credit that occurred during the recession of 07-08. But that was done almost immediately as the crisis revealed itself. When QE kicked in in earnest, long term rates did begin to go down, but it did not have the immediate effect that central banks thought it would. Unlike short term lending, the long term market is much more slow to adjust to changes in prices, and to some extent the Fed got around that issue in the US by providing forward guidance on their plan to continue QE "For an extended period of time". Even now in the US, QE rolls on, but under the guise of reinvesting the proceeds of original QE assets into even longer term securities. But Japan started QE earlier! They practically invented it! Why didn't they recover as quickly as the US? Well they kind of did. In 2010 they posted 4.2%gdp growth after -5.4 the year before. Unfortunately they didn't maintain it. The reality is that most highly developed countries, (US, Germany, Japan, ect.) are in a period of stable but slow growth. In fact this is the norm in history. It was only the massive upheavals of the 20th century that allowed for massive GDP growth in developed countries. I think it is unreasonable to expect an average of 4% GDP growth in developed countries in the current epoch. But we've also seen a positive side effect of more sedate GDP growth: lower inflation. There are plenty of theories as to why inflation is lower in developed countries than it has ever traditionally been. I like parts of all of them. One is that globalization and fewer barriers to international trade has lowered prices of goods and services globally by increasing efficiency. Another theory is that the strategies of central banks are more effective at maintaining low inflation than they are at bringing down high inflation. In particular, inflation targeting regimes, such as the one currently employed by the Fed, seem to be effective at maintaining well anchored market expectations, and help to reduce market shocks. As to whether a country can become richer by printing money without inflation the answer is: kind of... There is interest rate risk to QE. If rates go up, QE loses money for the central bank. But since the central bank controls interest rates, they don't really have to worry about it. The Fed will make money on QE, and the BOJ will probably make money on their QE (although they bought non-government assets in addition to government, so I'm not as sure about those). Does making money on QE make the country richer? Not really. But does lowering the yields on government bonds make a country relatively richer? Yes. With cheaper government debt, the government is more able to conduct expansionary fiscal policy without having to worry about too much interest. In the case of QE it is even better because your own central bank owns the securities so you practically are performing seigniorage! Of course this assumes that the government then uses this money to improve the production of the country, but if you throw enough money at it, it can't help but make your country richer. Now, the final question is: what happens in the long term as a result of QE? Is there a risk of inflation as QE securities mature? I've thought about that question a lot in the last few years, and I think that in the case of the US there is limited risk of inflation from maturing securities. The fed can roll them off at a very slow rate, and by tapering the reinvestment of the securities, they can ensure a slow, gradual decrease in the size of their balance sheet, and low inflation. In Japan the issue of the types of securities is more of an issue. The US only did QE through government backed securities and mortgage backed securities (to a lesser extent) and both are flexible with their maturity schedules. I have not looked at the maturity schedules of the BOJ's QE securities, but I hope that they have the same flexibility to reinvest at least some of the proceeds of maturing securities. Regardless, monetary policy has certainly entered a new era of complexity, and there are risks to the new strategies in terms of accurately communicating the intentions of the central bank in a timely manner. The biggest risk of inflation isn't anything financial, it is the risk of the wrong signals being sent to the markets of the world by the communications of central banks. I'll try to add citations at a later date (I have several which I was thinking of as I wrote this answer).