Who himself was deeply influenced by both Christianity and the Greek classics. Mary Midgeley, in her book Science & Poetry wrote that it is a mistake to treat God as a common criminal that one can haul up in front of a court to be judged. To do this already reduces him to our stature, our scale. This is not to say that a critique cannot be made. If one takes Platos conception of the soul seriously: introspection of the self leads to an introspection of the city - secular and spiritual. In these terms one cannot say that God can chose a free death. Is then the death of God chosen freely by the Christian West? One certainly recognises the similariy of the father and the Son here. 

As a first approximation it holds. But lets consider whether we can find personal experiences in science, and universal experience in art: Understanding why & how a certain mathematical equation works and what it means is individual to the person. Of course one can argue that equation is available to anyone. The experience of childhood drawn upon by so many poets, and I mean by that its illumination & intensity is a quality that is available to everyone. Of course one could argue that each persons childhood is particular to that person. That is when one investigates the picture becomes complicated. 

He is talking about the miracles of Dionysius; which rather than the simple, virtuous & good life that Socrates advocates and exemplified by the miracles of the God of Christianity; he advocates ecstasy & terror; the two emotional poles of the Bacchic revels of Greece. Thus strife; thus tragedy; and thus redemption - a curiously Christian word to use in this context. Rather the straight & narrow path over a flat plain (the rational path); he advocates the adventurous path, that climbs mountains, and drops into abysses (the irrational path); this path is redeemed because of the applause of your peers; and by your own sense of living life fully. In Aristotelian terms; rather than occupying the golden mean of virtue; to take an example - say courage (lache); one traverses all three points; the place of quietism, that of recklessness and that too of virtue. This is a re-evaluation of the Aristotelian virtue of courage; which is identified as the rational path; the path of reason; but as Nietszche opposes this; his path is called irrational; this, one should note, is not the same as crazy, mad or stupid; for Nietzsche used his reason to adopt this position. Or so it appears; still one might suspect he is misunderstanding Aristotle deliberately... Further one can apply Kants categorical imperative here and ask can everyone live the Dionysion life; or can everyone live the Apollonian life; a close examination would reveal that this isn't possible; and one is lead to the notion of a stratification of society... 

Mathematicians are always insisting that manifolds need not be embedded, and by Occams Razor, are best thought without the surrounding ambient space. For example, the surface of a table is a 2d manifold that is embedded in space. A line on a page is a 1d manifold embedded in a 2d space. To visualise them without embedding one has to remove the table, or the page. Rather like the Cheshire cats smile without the Cheshire cat. It appears that all manifolds that we can lay are hands on naturally occur in an embedding. Are there any that don't? Well, spacetime seems to be the only one. In what would spacetime be embedded in? Are there in fact any others? 

In Platos dialogue Crito where Socrates is urged by Crito to flee before he is executed. Socrates refuses and outlines a theory of social contact between a citizen and the city. I had understood social contact theory to have begun with Rousseaus Social Contract. What are the major differences and innovations between these two statements? 

It's closer to noting that the motion of physical bodies is determined - and we are, to be reductive, also physical bodies; but Sartre is pointing out that we are not merely and only physical bodies. Thus there is a gap - compatibilists will say that this gap can be bridged; hard 'determinists' might say it can only be bridged by denying free will altogether. 

I once read a popular maths book that declared an ant which is moving along the edge of a ruler was doing trigonometry when it decides to cross the breadth of it in a diagonal manner. Ants don't do trigonometry; the author is simply confusing how we might model the situation with the doings of an ant and how it might be thinking. When Paul sums up his day by the word 'fine'; doesn't mean that he is doing addition, or integration as a mathematician is doing a sum or an integration; he may be saying 'no worse than when I saw you last', or 'nothing significant has happened in the intervening interval' or even 'something significant has happened, and obviously you're nosing around to find out exactly what, but I don't trust you so I am keeping quiet'. None of this is mathematical on any sense - but thinking, feeling and emotion. 

Nonsense has always been a condition of science, as has sense. The two form a dialectic at several different levels and in different ways. It requires much nonsense to produce a little new sense. We are the inheritors of a long history; of thought reflecting on itself. One recalls the long apprenticeship of mathematics through Babylonia today as mere data, as lacking sense; with Greece adding sense - that is proof; the same goes for astrology - the divination of futures, the coronation of kings through the movement of stars that even today casts a long shadow as mere nonsense until Galileo picked up his telescope. This is the dialectic of intuition and technique. Every beginning is intuitive, and every ending saturated with technique. Beginnings are playful, endings totalising. Towards the end a backward look at beginnings becomes scornful. One has grown up and ones face is set to the future - towards an end. This - the attitude of Janus. We are divided creatures having the capacity to look both ways. Assuming the posture of reverence to the past, the future is discounted. Assuming the posture of rapture towards the future, the past becomes a kind of nonsense. Being embodied creatures we cannot transcend this condition; rather we transcend it only to find ourselves in a new landscape whose contours resemble the old (the Nietzschian return). Take the Langlands conjectures in Number Theory. Their development was not through logic, but through intuition. A new vision born. This is the reverse of the dialectic of intuition & technique. Through a long apprenticeship of technique, a long lonely march in making the abstract cohere and become sensible & sensual in the Understanding, Langlands achieves enough clarity of vision to have a vision. One must not confuse the formula for the thought. Abstraction is the name of a certain magical strategy in mathematics amongst others. But this isn't the condition of mathematics to mathematicians. Rather it is making the invisible Sensible to the Understanding and Sensual to the Imagination (the Kantian perspective). One could point to Conways The Sensual Quadratic Form. Isn't language abstract - can you hold a word? Being one of the conditions of our existence & essence this abstraction is concrete. But Number being not such a condition, when spiritualised it is vision, and materialised it is measure. Through measure - the ladder - to spirit and to vision (Wittgenstein) The doxa and data of Babylonian mathematics, at its time, then a beautiful vision, operating under a materially signifying star lost now; thus nonsense - now. To turn towards your first question - about the 'increasing nonsense' of the contradiction between QM & GR. There are deep differences between the two theories. Physicists assume that the unity of the world as it presents itself to us should be reflected in their theories. This of course is a metaphysical assumption. This may be actually true, but on the epistemological level, the world may be arranged as such that we can never realise it - that is through our physical theories. Verlinde remarked as much in an interview. The 'nonsense' produced, is then thought operating intuitively; headway is made in certain directions, other directions prove false; bridges are built, torn down and built again. One might point to Ashtekars New Variables in as unblocking an old path in the quantising of GR; causal nets as a new thought; TQFTs placing Feynman path integrals on a formal basis as solid achievements amongst others. Gravity thought thermodynamically is a new direction theorised by Padmanubhan & Verlinde; one recalls here Bekensteins application of thermodynamics to Black Hole physics and Hawkings later assertion of it. Chris Isham, Doering & others are exploring QM in the context of topos theory which are a generalisation of set theory whose logic is intuitionisitic. Further they may or may not have 'points', and what points there are may have shape - this is getting away from Euclids dictat of a point being a breadthless. Toposes have been arranged in a series whose infinite incarnation gives logic shape. This is known as homotopy type theory. Urs Scheiber is using this to synthesise vast swathes of mathematical physics into one coherent & consistent system. One also notes the introduction of inconsistent & paraconsistent methods in mathematics with slow seepage across the border to physics. Much more 'nonsense' will have to be produced before some sense can be distilled. The Topologist Alexsandrov said at the beginning of Topology that he felt threatened by the immense production of topological papers until he realised that they were 'nonsense' meaning containing ideas of little significance by moving away from the mainline of mathematics. But one should recall that ideas that move away from the mainline may find their proper context for their full expression much later - for example Lord Kelvins theorising of Knots as a model for atoms, reducing atoms to pure geometry; or Brouwer reacting against Hilberts championing of the formal and infinite (Cantors Paradise) by retreating to the intuitive and constructive. One should recall that Physics is a tradition with roots going back to Antiquity, and before; and with a future no less long. One doesn't need a deep understanding of Modern Physics to understand that the world is mysterious. This has been the condition of men at most times. Most thinkers at most times have remarked on it. Only in a civilisation saturated with technique is this familiar and widely understood observation become unfamiliar, strange and bizarre. It takes only a little thought to see that knowledge is infinite, that we are finite, and thus what we know though adding up to a great deal for us, is always at the beginning of the infinite. The simplicity of this thought has become a platitude, and like all platitudes have suffered the indignity of being ignored. This does not make it wrong but to really know it, one has to experience it. This what William Blake, the English Poet & Artist meant when he wrote in the Song of Experience, the Marriage of Hell & Heaven: 

Type-Identity and Multiple-Realiazibility offer two mutually exclusive possibilities; the truth of which we cannot definitively assert. A: To paraphrase the first, we can say animals have brains, and brains have minds; for this we have empirical evidence. B: To paraphrase the second, we can say possibly minds can occur in artificial brains; we have no empirical evidence for this supposition; only certain circumstantial evidence: Turing machines, simulations on computers, a physical theory of matter and force. If we had definite evidence we can definitively rule out one or the other; thus they would be definitively mutually exclusive possibilities; but we don't have this now, we may have this in the future (unless it is an undecidable problem); thus all we can say now, is that both possibilities are possible; or both A or B are possibly true. 

Foucault develops a notion of bio-power, a power over bodies in their plurality (ie populations), rather than in the singular (individuals) Q. Under which Hobbesian power(a) does bio-power lie under? If it in fact does. 

But do the same goes for properties? One can argue in the following way: red is a property of red flags, or of red apples; but not red is not a property; for no thing instantiates not redness; that is not redness does not cohere in some substrate - here a flag, or apple; even though whiteness, which is an example of not redness, coheres in a white wall. Q. Is this right? All this, I think, takes it for granted that properties cohere in some substrate or substance - this is a commitment to a specific ontology; we may choose something else; the obvious choice being a world where all that there is are bundles of properties, and no substrate or substance to which to hang them on; there, existence is also a property - a property which all existing entities have. Q. Given this ontological commitment; then is not P also a property? 

Finally, in the Christian tradition miracles are associated with Saints; in Islam this is much less important; and she adds: 

James Dean was an actor; his labour goes into acting; to alienate him from his labour is to typecast him in a certain role whereas he wanted to fulfill his potential as an actor by playing different roles. Once he has starred in a successful film playing a certain part - the troubled teen - the temptation is to have him play the same part; and then for him to play a part in the star-system; this is the pressure of capital on film-making as an art-form; it turns film into a commodity or a genre.