According to George Berkeley, what we perceive, exists. I usually suggest a better formulation: something exists if you can interact with it. Some remarks about this: first, existence is not space occupation (a common but arguable argument). Second: interaction is a complex feature, but covers perfectly this feature; third, existence is subjective (a consequence of the interactive feature). In consequence, if we can interact with a field, it exists. If there are other fields we cannot interact with, they don't exist -for now-. 

The problem with religion is not faith. Faith is belief in something unproven, and that is not essentially bad. All our childhood we grow believing -having faith- in what our parents say, and proof comes afterwards. As long as the object of belief is coherent, blind belief is not harmful. Even when adults, we act based on a lot of blind beliefs: if your child tells you he saw your keys on the couch, you act based on such belief and go looking for them in such place. The problem of religion is incoherence. If a religion prays love, but rejects people who deny God, it is incoherent. Even if the main commandment is to love, you can find arguments -absolutely logical, but based on the incoherent statements- to hate, harm and kill others. That is, to act against love. The reason of this mechanism is really simple: coherence just expresses mathematical logic over our behavior. If correctly applied, a big set of logical statements are always coherent. But if one wrong statement enters the accepted set, all the statements lose validity. In other words, incoherence justifies everything (EDIT 20171128: see Wikipedia, ex falso quod libet: religion books with small contradictions, a la "god is love, and non believers will be punished", can justify mass murder or whatever crime). Religious books are the main source of incoherence. That is why religious people struggle to discuss and interpret scripts. But such task is useless. If a religion is properly discussed, and incoherences are correctly eliminated, the result should be equivalent to science! (religions wouldn't allow denying one of each two or three phrases of the book). That is the reason why religions don't accept science and ask for blind belief, a vicious circle. 

A person can lie by commission or by omission. Probably the situation you've seen was a lie by omission. For example: John: are you having sex with another BOY? Ann: no! I swear! John: (OK, then I assume she's not cheating on me) Then, if Ann is having sex with a GIRL, her answer is still true, but she's lying by omission: by not saying that she's cheating john, but with a girl. In this case, the judge will clearly see a lie by omission. It is very difficult to "sincerely forget" something that is absolutely noticeable and is happening now, and it was just omitted. If it can be sincerely forgotten, the judge should take it into account and do not qualify the fact as a lie. 

An universe of one particle assumes at least two entities: the particle and the non-particle stuff. In addition, the configuration (a particle), assumes a differential n-dimensional space. The lack of other particles does not imply that the particle would not move. You will ask "movement, in relation to what point of view?" The problem here is the definition of movement: a change in a temporary-spatial configuration is a rational assessment of some change (that we still do not understand): without a human observer, not only movement is not possible; time and space don't exist without a human subjective assessment (see Kant, regarding time and space). Movement is a human, rational subjective approach about changes of an object. In addition, particles are a rational understanding of some natural context. Particles don't exist in nature. The real universe is about empty space filled by quantum fields. Particles are some manifestation of quantum fields which we perceive as our reality. All mass is just interaction (Feynman). The idea of a unique particle in empty space is pretty naive. Has a particle some volume? If so, it can easily be named a planet... How would an isolated entity exist without interacting with others? Only what can be perceived exists (Berkeley). How can a particle exist without a systemic configuration as a group of interrelated parts (this is the same question as the previous ones, just reformulated from the systems theory perspective)? If so, this is our known nature, with your body on the center of the universe: while you don't leave the particle (the whole big bang debris) you can measure any movement. 

Therefore: 2 is... 1. Customarily a set, or formally, a proper class; 2. a subjective interpretation (an idea of the set); 3. a symbol related to the subjective interpretation; 4. a distinctive property of the set (having a couple of things inside) 5. an objective fact (the physical existence of two objects sharing a relation, even if the relation is only mental -the subjective interpretation-). "The set(1,2) of all sets(1,2) having two(3,4) elements(4,5)": personally, I take it. 

The answer is that they are never the same. Everything changes permanently in the universe, there are no boundaries between things, mass is just interaction. The fuzzy nature is completely different to the universe of things you experience. Things are a product of your mind (and your body, to a certain extent). So, the person you are dreaming of, don't exist anymore. But our mind has the amazing capability of defining boundaries between atoms, approach them as complete and isolated entities, and use them to think. We don't have yet a minimum of understanding of how our minds can do such task. Then, the person you are dreaming of exists into your ideas, and that's enough for you to keep you surviving. If you feel it's the same, it's the same. If you feel there are differences with reality, well, it's you that will decide if such person is the same. Since we are a child, we get the approach of understanding things (for example a coffee stain) as if they would be immutable, permanent and persistent, even if they are not. So, it's your mind that is telling you that the person on the other side is you yourself, while you can see your image. 

Rich and poor are opposites in this particular case, so they are mutually exclusive, the same way as believers and non-believers. But they are not mutually dependent or proportional, exactly like believers or Star Wars fans and non-fans. The existence of rich does not imply a similar amount of poor. As stated in another answer, rich/poorness does not follow a zero sum behavior. Money represents the amount of participation in society. There are poor societies, where people does not interact too much and has a low participation. Other societies interact a lot and most people participates. Another way to understand this phenomenon is by understanding money. A bill is a certificate of the debt that society has to someone. If I help others a lot I generate a lot of debt from them to me, and I get a lot of bills. The central bank of my country calculates the total amount of social debt and prints enough bills to cover such debt. My government is responsible for such bills to be honored when I present them to someone: if I want an apple, I get one of my certificates, give it to the tender in exchange. Legally, he's forced to accept it. If everybody helps the others, we get rich. If no one helps nobody, social debt decreases and we get poor. In consequence, rich/poor is more a cultural /personal-interactive feature than a limited resources circulation behavior, which is clearly unfounded. 

You can steal a bank and perhaps you can help more people than the bank that initially had the money, that is clear. Breaking rules can often be positive. But that's not the point. Rules exist in order to allow healthy interactions (for a theory of interactions, check the links on my profile). Usually, a healthy interaction is the one that produces constructive results for both interactors (e.g. you solve a problem with a creative agreement, not by killing the other). Ideally, a rule that generates a common positive interactional result should never be broken, because it will always be better than breaking it. The problem about assessing interactions is its systemic nature. The results of a rule are propagated throughout thousands of subsequent interactions. When society creates rules, we try to estimate all their impact. That is the reason it is very difficult to define "good" rules. Society just do its best in establishing rules. But the effect of rules is usually only observable with time. In consequence, some rules can be "negative". In addition, most rules can cause advantages for some and negative for others. But none of this two arguments is a valid justification to break the law. Then, even if we die, it is correct to respect law, because it is us who define them. That does not mean at all not to be reactive against negative laws. If time shows that a law is negative, it is our duty to fix and change it. Of course, our sociopolitical dynamics force us sometimes to get divided in order for bad rules to be eliminated. Divisions are always destructive, cause negative interactional results, so that is the way that normative issues are naturally forced to be solved. Breaking rules is incoherent, and not socially desired. Laws being broken is a signal to pay attention, and enforce or change them. 

"ism"s are commonly not tools but ideological trends: liberalism, buddhism, materialism, etc. Skepticism has several flavours. Anyway, let's talk about being skeptical. It's probably a fallacy to ask others what to believe. Maybe a simple rule would be to be skeptical to subjective knowledge (personal, religious, metaphysical ideas) and more open to objective knowledge. But again, this can be another trap: how to know what is subjective and what is not? The majority could be wrong (argumentum ad populum), for example, 84% of people have religious beliefs[1], but religion is considered a subjective issue by excellence. Majority, authority, trending are not definition elements. Then, the best judgment about being skeptical comes probably from improving education, to develop a critical thinking. In the meantime, being skeptical (even to this answer) is not a bad idea. [1] $URL$