These are known as two-line elements (see also nasa.gov, satobs.org). On both lines, the first field after the line number is a NORAD ID, which you can use to query a database such as N2YO. The second line gives geocentric orbital elements for the epoch given in the first line. The last line looks like an error estimate by observation analysis software. The first convenient visualization service I found was Orbital Predictor, where I naively pasted the above TLE data with a name less appropriate than "Mentor 7" or "2016-036A." 

Since a solar eclipse is a coincidence of a new moon and an ascending or descending lunar node, the interval between solar eclipses must be a common multiple of a whole synodic month (or lunation, 29.53 days between same lunar phases) and half a draconic month (27.21 days between same lunar nodes). These line up around eclipse seasons, 173.3 days apart on average. The saros cycle of 18.03 years is 223 synodic months, 242 draconic months, or 239 anomalistic months (27.55 days between lunar perigees or apogees). This multiple coincidence of phase, node, anomaly, and time of year makes the saros especially useful for prediction. However, there are other relationships between eclipses. Between consecutive saros series there is another interval called the inex: 358 synodic months, 388.5 draconic months, or about 28.94 years. George van den Bergh showed in 1955 that the interval T between any two eclipses can be expressed as T = aI + bS, where I and S are the inex and saros periods, and a and b are integers. Some such combinations have names: 

I am using this index page to download GDR2 data files. $URL$ But it keeps giving a different number of links. Sometimes it shows 16,000 files, sometimes 31,000 and the max I have seen is 61,237. What is the correct number I should download? GAIA GDR2 documentation does not list the total number of files available. Interestingly, if the index lists less than 60k files, it still has the closing /html tag so it would appear I have a complete index file, but the contents are not complete. 

I understand the Moon was perhaps five Earth radii away when it first formed (assuming it was formed by a giant impact of a Mars-sized body), and Earth has since transferred its rotational energy into the moon's orbital energy. How fast would Earth have been spinning at the point the Moon was formed? Assuming it was spinning very fast (day under 10 hours) would this have caused a noticeable decrease in effective "gravity" at the equator? Presumably the Precambrian microbes could have reached equatorial orbit really easily, assuming they had a space program. 

Hipparcos measured the parallax (distance) of stars, along with their colors in two wavelength regions (B_Tycho, "blue" and V_Tycho, "green"). Using the color information you can make a reasonable estimate for the stellar temperature, and coupled with the parallactic distance, this would allow you to get an estimate for the stellar radius. But Hipparcos does not provide us with any good information about stellar metallicities, ages*, radial velocity, rotation, or surface gravity. * - aside from stars that you can group in position and velocity space to identify as belonging to stellar moving groups with defined ages. 

I made an extract of GAIA DR2 data for parallaxes greater than 500mas. Surprisingly I see a very significant number of sources with parallax greater that 1000, making them much closer than Proxima. This should lead to excited newspaper headlines, but i haven't seen those yet... Am I missing something? You can see my extract of data here: $URL$ Some GAIA source_id rows to look at include: 4039503676370417664 4042946384760661504 4042338732771057920 4046453826887613696 But there are many more. The closest source I find is 4062964299525805952 with parallax of 1851mas. It has a phot_g_mean_mag of 19.63355... Would I be right in assuming this is a brown dwarf? Another thing I note is that there is a surge of vmag 19/20 sources within 10 parsecs. These are obviously so faint GAIA doe not detect similar sources beyond 10 parsecs. To give some numbers I count 1722 sources (most mag 19/20) within 10 parsecs and only 606 sources in a shell of equal volume beyond that. Again, would these all be (a very large number of) brown dwarfs? 

As the solar time Wikipedia page illustrates, we can split a solar day into a constant 23h56m to complete a rotation relative to the stars (a sidereal day) and a variable ~4m to compensate for one day's orbital motion around the Sun. The Sun's apparent motion around the equator determines how much more than 360$^\circ$ the Earth must rotate from one solar noon to the next. But the Earth orbits the Sun in the ecliptic plane, which is oblique to the equator. If that orbit were circular, the Sun's ecliptic longitude would change at a constant rate (see Note below). One degree along the equator spans exactly 4m00s of right ascension; one degree along the ecliptic, measured around the equator, may span ~8% more or less than that. At an equinox, the ecliptic crosses the equator at a 23.4$^\circ$ angle, and one degree of ecliptic longitude spans 3m40s of right ascension. The Sun appears to move slower than average around the equator, so the apparent solar day is slightly shorter. At a solstice, the ecliptic is tangent to a $\pm$23.4$^\circ$ declination parallel, and one degree of ecliptic longitude spans 4m22s of right ascension. The Sun appears to move faster than average around the equator, so the apparent solar day is slightly longer. 

Short answer is: yes. Longer answer is: correcting for the time dilation effects of Earth moving around the Sun's gravitational potential is actually relatively standard in almost all branches of astronomy. To the point where running that correction is a sentence in a paper (sometimes less), and is probably why you had trouble Googling for it. (I'll caveat all this by saying I'm mostly familiar with exoplanet transit and RV timing issues, but they should be the same as what the pulsar folks have to deal with). As some background, the base time-keeping system used around the world is International Atomic Time (TAI), which is a weighted average of over 300 atomic clocks determined by the International Bureau of Weights and Measures outside of Paris. Importantly, TAI is strictly continuous: there are no leap seconds added. This is important if you care about sub-second timing precision. What we use as normal "clock" time is Coordinated Universal Time (UTC), which is TAI with leap seconds subtracted off. Those leap seconds are present to deal with the fact that 86,400 SI seconds are 1 to 3 milliseconds less than one mean Solar day, and so ensure that our clock time is linked to the position of the Sun. The most recent leap second was added just this past New Year's, making UTC = TAI - 37 seconds. Even further down the time-keeping rabbit hole is Barycentric Dynamic Time (TDB), which accounts for the variable relativistic time dilation over the course of a year that you asked about. TDB has a fixed offset from TAI of 32.184 seconds due to how the zero-points of the the two systems were defined, and otherwise stays within 1.6 milliseconds of TAI - depending upon where Earth is in its orbit. Effectively all precise times reported by astronomers these days are the barycentric Julian date in the Barycentric Dynamic Time system (BJD_TDB). This is the Julian date an event would appear to happen for an observer located at the Solar System's barycenter using TDB as their timekeeping system. Note that the fact this is at the SS barycenter does matter, since observations on Earth will see similar events up to ~16 minutes apart over the course of the year due to light-travel time delay (Roemer Delay, for the aficionados) across the Earth's orbit. So yeah, this all has to be accounted for all the time. As I said, these days the transformation is standard enough that you usually just list a time as "BJD_TDB" and don't have to explicitly discuss the transformation. For more reading about astronomical timekeeping, see Eastman et al. (2010). PS - In case you're wondering why Barycentric Dynamic Time is abbreviated TDB and Coordinated Universal Time is UTC, it's because we all use the French abbreviations. 

The XDF data release has images in FITS format, which includes a world coordinate system to map image coordinates to celestial coordinates. Then you can query SIMBAD to see what galaxies are near those coordinates. For example, I loaded a WFC 60mas/pixel image into a FITS viewer, which indicates that the face-on spiral at center left of the PR image is near J2000 3h32m40.8s -27d46m16s. (To align the PR image with the equatorial coordinate grid, rotate it about 50 degrees clockwise.) SIMBAD found this galaxy at that location, B-band magnitude 22. To do this in Python code, you could try using astropy.wcs to get celestial coordinates from the FITS image and astroquery.simbad to look up objects of interest. 

I'll begin by saying that for exoplanets, the answer to your question is an active area of research, and currently there are no observational constraints on what rocky exoplanets would look like to the human eye. Also, this may be a lot more complicated an answer than what you want for a computer game. If you want to hunt around for this in the astronomical or planetary science literature, what you're trying to do is determine the reflectance, or albedo spectrum, of the planet. That's what tells you how much of the incoming light is bounced back off the surface for you to see as function of wavelength. Note that this assumes the planet is not hot enough to thermally emit in the optical, which will only start to matter if it's >3000K or so. This albedo spectrum is determined by the surface properties of the planet: what it's made out of, how shiny it is, the scattering properties, etc. Once you have an albedo spectrum, you then can multiply it be the incoming radiation from whatever primary star you've chosen. That's what will make a planet seem slightly more orange around an M-dwarf, and more "normal" around a Sun-like star. To get to how a person would see it, you'd then need to then multiply that resulting reflected-light spectrum by the spectral sensitivity of the human eye, and then convert that final observed spectrum into a color. For the planetary albedo spectrum, there aren't a lot of sources in the astronomical literature. The best I can find is this paper. You'll probably have more luck looking through Solar System planetary stuff. For the stellar spectra, you can try here, but that presumes you're comfortable with astronomical FITS files. For stars hotter than >4500K (the Sun is 5800K), you can probably just assume that the incoming radiation into the planet's surface is blackbody of whatever temperature you want. Unfortunately, I am not familiar with the spectral sensitivity of the human eye, or how to go from an input observed spectrum to a single color value. 

Meteors are very small, typical ones are the size of a grain of sand, and bright fireballs are only a few grams. So they are nowhere near as big as "rocks" and there is no way to image them. $URL$ $URL$ $URL$ But let's say you could fly next to a shooting star in a UFO and image it that way. The next problem you would face is that the meteor is incandescent and and it would be difficult to get anything but an overexposed blob in a regular camera. 

barrycarter provided the answer: Using curl, I got 61240 lines total, but that includes some headers, so I think 61237 is correct and your browser may just be timing out. In particular, the last file on my list is "GaiaSource_999922404314639104_1000172126596665472.csv.gz", which seems correct, since the first number increases with each file and seems to finally "wrap around" with the last file. – barrycarter Apr 29 at 3:54 

Suppose we want to make the Sun appear only as bright as the full Moon does in a 5-inch telescope. A difference of 14 magnitudes is a factor of 400 000; we can either add a filter transmitting 2.5 millionths of the light (including UV and IR), or reduce the aperture diameter by a factor of 630. We can achieve that by covering the 5-inch aperture with either a large #14 welding shade, a similarly dark solar filter, or a mask with a 0.2 mm pinhole. However, angular resolution is inversely related to aperture. For a wavelength of 500 nm and an aperture of 0.2 mm, the Rayleigh criterion gives 1.2 * (500 nm / 0.2 mm) = 0.003 radian = 10 arcminutes, about 1/3 the angular diameter of the Sun. Even large sunspots would be blurred beyond recognition. A 1.0 mm hole would give 2 arcmin resolution but make the Sun too bright for direct viewing.