While I am not a fan of annual performance reviews, they do exist for one specific reason - to have documentary evidence of performance that can be used for annual raises (and if you think your job is to write code and that you don't need to show accomplishments in your annual review, I am not at all surprised you have not gotten a raise.) and to be able to help differntiate who to keep and who to get rid of if they need to reduce staff by some arbitrary percentage (Ie. get rid of 10% of the staff in every department, vice we no longer need the XYZ department) sometime during the year. Even if your organization is not giving raises in a particular year, the evaluation may make a difference in what you get the next time they do so. To understand evaluations from a corporate point of view, you have to understand that the desired raises far exceed the amount of money budgeted. So everyone is rated and then senior managers get together to decide who will get those raises and who will have their rating lowered so that they don't get a raise or get a smaller one. This is the only reason why it is critical to your own pay level to be careful about what you put in these documents. People who do not know your work are basing decisions about your salary based on what you and your boss say about you. If you don't give them any reason to see you as special, they won't see any reason to give you more money when 100% of the employees want more money. If you don't make a case for yourself as a suprior performer, then your boss likely won't even try either. Especially if he has others who are making a case for superior performance. Appraisals are often not so much about finding the best and worst performers (who are generally already known) but for finding ways to differnentiate among the decent but not outstanding performers. 

I have solved this problem in the past this way: ADP installer (Database Developer) Then in the cover letter I noted that the parenthetical title was what I actually did and the other was my official title. (Why was I an ADP installer when I was really a developer, it had to to do with jobs available in a government contract they expanded the work but the contract only had a particular set of jobs that were officially contracted for.) 

List both in separate listings. Pick the one that is most useful to the job you are applying and list it first. Add enough detail of what you did that is it clear you did something at these internships. In the cover letter, explain how you logistically did two internships at the same time and why you chose to do so. Be prepared with recommendations from both for when you are called to an interview. 

As an interviewer, I am unimpressed if the interviewee has no questions. It generally indicates that he wants any job and not my particular job because he doesn't care enough to interview me or that he is not interested in what I have told him so far. The exception is that if he tells me he was planning to ask about XYZ and I covered everything. However, it is far worse to have bad questions. If all of your questions are "What's in it for me?", I'm not going to hire you. I look for team players. I want people who want to know how we do business, what the corporate culture is like and what kinds of tools we use and what our processes are like. Benefits and salary should be covered when an offer is made not in the interview unless the interviewer brings them up first. Working from home is an organizational culture issue as well as a benefit, so it is OK to ask about it, but not to come across as feeling entitled to a benefit no one else has if they say they don't allow work from home. Also, don't say you want to work from home because you have children to care for. I want you working when you work from home, not taking care of children. Remember, they don't know you can produce great work at this point, so don't give them any ideas that you might not. Overtime can be another tricky one to ask about. For the most part, I would stay away from this until you are sure they are interested in you (a second interview or at the time of the offer) and if possible, I would ask people at your level not senior managers. If you have the chance to chat with the people you would be working with directly and casually ask roughly how many hours a week they put in, you are more likely to get an honest answer than if you ask the senior VP or the CEO who will often swear to you that they never require overtime. Ask casually about the hours they work, don't ask if you will get overtime pay (assume you won't unless they say differently but you can confirm this when you get the offer) and try not to indicate that you will be unwilling to do what it takes to get the job done. On the other hand if you are unwilling to work overtime and are interviewing for a job that often requires it, it's best to bring it up during one of the interviews. You won't get as many offers, but you are likely to be happier with the ones you do get. 

OK you have to realize that in many places your ranking has nothing to do with how your immediate boss perceives your performance and everything to do with how well he can defend your rating to the other managers. There are almost alawys a limited number of the higher ratings that they have the budget to give out. If he can't think of anything more you can do, you might be caught in a situation where: 

I would say that your team sees no value in stand-ups and they are going through the motions. Less capable people are often threatened by someone wanting them to talk about their non-existent progress. Likely you were asked to back down because what seemed like successful stand-ups to you seemed to be something quite different to the others. So at this point all you can do is model the behavior you want. Give good status reports. If something is taking more than one day, talk about the percentage completed, the issues you have getting everything done, etc. Do not take more than five minutes though. Ask for help on something to show it is ok to ask for help. If you have some time available, you can ask if someone needs a hand. I am not sure that your company is ever going to get any benefits of stand-ups unless they do some other parts of agile as well. Since the lead doesn't attend, they aren't even really status reports that help management keep abreast of progress. If people aren't committed (or possibly allowed based on how tasks are managed) to help each other out (as a self-organizing team would do), what is the point in listening every day to everyone say what they are doing? 

By taking the emotional reaction out of the equation, the noise becomes much less distracting and eventually you no longer notice it. You could also wear noise cancelling headphones even if you don't want to play music. 

If, after asking a few questions about this new job to get a feel for what it involves, you are not interested, then thank them politely, tell them that you are not interested in that position and move on. Otherwise, feel free to pursue. Sometimes when they tell you that they have another position you qualify for, they are having trouble filling that position and then they may be very interested in you. Usually when we recommend someone for a different position than the one they applied for, we see something about them that makes them a particularly good candidate from our perspective. If we didn't like you or your resume, it wouldn't matter that we had anopther position you could qualify for, we won't tell you then. And sometimes it is a new postion we haven't started advertising for. And we would love to not have to pay recruiting costs. So if you are interested in the position they want to talk about, you probaly have a decent chance at it. 

I have done interviews for jobs where the ability to handle stress professionally was far greater than the average development job would need. Those techniques would not have been acceptable to test if they could handle stress. If you feel you must test for the ability to handle stress beyond the normal interview stress and the stress of answering technical questions, then just pause for a few seconds after the person gives an otherwise correct answer. This makes them feel that you expect more and can be extremely stressful. It also involves no lying and no wierd questions that make them wonder what planet you came from. 

About the bad eval, discuss with your boss how he wants to measure your progress. Showing a good attitude towards improving is half the battle. But first you have to fix the perception that you are slow because deadlines are not met. You need to insist that deadlines are changed when new work is added whether is it is new requirement to the project or other new higher priority work. You need a project plan that is public and you need to formally move the deadline every single time, some other project inserts itself into your life. You need to make sure that the boss knows the deadline had been moved and that the project stakeholders know the deadline has been moved and why. You need to show the time you are working on the project and compare it to the initial estimate. If the project is over the initial estimate, you need to show what additional functionality they had and how many hours that took. This requires record keeping. Every time someone adds something to your list to do, ask you boss the priority of it compared to other things you are working on. Never switch tasks unless your boss tells you specifically that it is a higher priority and he approves the change of the deadline on the previous task. It is your job to let him know that the other work is affected, it is his job to set priorities. Likely it is your lack of communication about the deadline is the problem. Stakeholders are very aware of what the deadline is and are very annoyed when it is not met if they don't know up front it has been superseded by something of higher priority. They have no idea that you were working on something else unless you tell them. 

You have to be able to work with co-workers of any age, sex, sexual orientation, religion, race, etc. You don't have to be friends with co-workers, just be polite and friendly. You should never expect that only people your own age are in a workplace. 

You want to become the person they will walk through fire for. Then they will care about the company goals because you do. But first you need to gain their trust. In my career I've had 4 different managers like that and the people that worked for them showed a dedication that other managers simply don't get. They had a common groups of qualities. First thing is to criticize in private and praise publicly. I know that sounds really basic but most of the managers I have observed fail on this one. And praise often. And praise them to people higher than you in the organization and do it in their presence so they know you are telling management about their good qualities. Say thank you. Give gift cards for performance on a particular project if you have the budget for it. Heck do it onece a month out of your personal funds if you have to. One 25 gift certificate isn't going to kill you and it means a lot to the people who get them. Give the gift of time off. When you expect them to work overtime - make sure they get some comp time (even unofficially) afterwards. If the company has an awards system, make sure to nominate one of your people in every awards cycle and let them know they were nominated even if they don't win. Your job is to help them by removing roadblocks to getting their work done. So talk to them about the roadblocks and what needs to happen. Have an open door policy and schedule time to talk to them individually. It will take time and patience until they will be willing to open up to you. Once they have seen you identify and remove some roadblocks they wil be more open about the problems. Never shoot the messenger. You want people to come to you with problems and they won't if they are afraid you will punish them for having a problem. Encourage them to come to you with possible solutions too. If they bring up something without a solution, ask them what they think should be done to fix the issue. Listen carefully. Pitch in to help when things are tough. Nothing is more demotivating than a manager who leaves at 5 and expects you to work until midnight to meet a deadline. If you need to go over and beyond for a particular project, make sure they understand why and make sure they get credit for going beyond the call of duty. Make the goals achieveable. They have been burned by this, so they need to know you will be reasonable. This isn't always in your control, so fight for it in management meetings and if you lose, make sure they know that you presented their side. Some managers seem to think they must always take the company side. People laugh at these people when they tell you that this policy is the best thing since sliced bread when it clearly is not. You can't afford to have them disrespect you because you try to tell them that management above them is perfect and all decisions are great. Tell them the truth. "Yes this policy is not perfect and yes we tried to get something else in its place and were shot down. But it is what it is and how can we make the best of it?"