Problem solved. The human species has already found the most sensible way of coping with fear. It's called training. The armed forces and emergency services personnel are the exemplars of the training necessary to make people respond appropriately in high stress situations and be able to make the right sort of decisions. This doesn't guarantee they will always make the absolutely correct decisions, but they will cope far, far better than untrained personnel. The two secrets that make training work are repetition and knowledge. Repetition is repeated exposure to carrying the right procedures and protocols necessary to deal with whatever emergency or battle situation they face. Knowledge comes from being having it explained, again and again, the mechanics and dynamics of what they have to face. In theory it sounds fine to genetically engineer people to fear less, but they will lack the skills, abilities and training necessary to do what is required when emergencies and battles happen. Fear keeps the ill-equipped and incompetent from taking unnecessary risks. Stupidity, of course, plunges many of them into it, and too often with fatal consequences. Genetically engineering people to be smarter might be a good way of reducing stupid risk-taking. 

There are two possibilities (other than the comprehensive set of possibilities suggested by Zoey Boles [see her answer for details]). The simplest explanation is that his clock has simply gone haywire. Assume there is an automatic reset for the correct time and date every twenty-four hours, and the mechanism keeps getting it wrong. The other explanation is that the apocalypse involved a time distorting catastrophe. The clock is correct, but he is being continually shifted random amounts of displacement backwards and forwards in time, up to intervals of fifteen days. A corollary to the second proposal is that the bunker isn't a bunker it's an experimental time machine. The time machine has malfunctioned and its experimental subject is being shifted around in time. This has gone on long enough that the psychological factors have distorted his perception of reality to such an extent that he no longer knows what is happening to him. Since two possibilities somehow mutated into three, it may be time to leave the bunker again and find out what is the date and time --- this time. 

In a case like this, steal from the best. Simply imagine there exists a negative gravitational substance akin to HG Wells' Cavorite. Your hypothetical antigravity substance doesn't need to launch vehicles into space, it only needs to provide sufficient lift to elevate steam-powered airships to enough altitude to sail the seven skies. Wells in his novel, The First Men in the Moon, described a number of other applications, instead of lunar travel, which Cavorite could be used. While Wells' sphere was enclosed completely in Cavorite to enable it to travel to the Moon and back. If an aircraft was partially covered with Cavorite this could provide enough to stay airborne. The amount of lift could be varied by opening and closing shutters coated with Cavorite. The antigravity substance doesn't need to be exactly like Cavorite. If necessary it only needs to reduce the pull of gravity and make other forms of flight more practical. However, if the substance exerted enough force against gravity then it would be the ideal lifting mechanism for gigantic steampunk airships. 

Regrettably none of this information gives sufficient idea about how to determine, precisely, the muscle mass for the fox tail of a GM human. However, it may be able to provide an approximation of the necessary musculature. 

The main problem with wrapping even a small star in a force-field to power a spaceship is that freakingly hugely massive compared to the mass of the spaceship. many orders of magnitude and that means many multiples of the the power of ten. Shall we say quadrillions of times more massive. This means instead of powering a spaceship you have just made the spaceship plus its small star power unit much, much, much massive and therefore correspondingly more difficult to move. The spaceship could do the sensible thing of approaching a star wrapping its force-field around it and recharge itself from the next leg of its journey. When the spaceship needs to refuel or recharge it repeats this procedure with the next suitable star it encounters. This will save stupendous amount of energy needed to lug around the mostly dead weight of the star. OK. Taking another tack. If the spaceship can actually wrap a star in a force-field and together move around the cosmos it will a technique to reduce the star's mass to what is effectively an infinitesimal amount (compared to the star's original mass). This could be done by manipulation of the Higgs field in the vicinity of the star. This would be an extremely useful technique for spaceships, because reducing their mass to near-zero would enable spaceships to be accelerated to extremely high velocities with only minuscule amounts of energy. This is mass manipulation instead of the gravity manipulation suggested by the OP, but it will do the job well. Generally efficient energy storage can do a better job of powering spaceships than carrying around a star to do the same thing. The force-field itself could act as a trap for solar energy radiated by a star and then contain it until the energy is needed. Force-fields could be used to direct and channel the stored solar energy so it is available when and where it is needed. If this solar energy, even from a small star, is stored and captured the amounts will be astronomical. This should more than enough to power even quite large and massive spacecraft. Please note for simplicity this answer assumes that force-fields of the kind necessary to enshroud stars can exist. If the OP's fictional world has portals and panspermia, then the existence of force-fields is trivial. 

Source is here The identification tag can be bar code, if their technology has progressed to the equivalent of the later twentieth century or simply their name or it could be registration identification code like vehicle number plates. The later preserves their anonymity while helping to make them identifiable. 

Typically history shows there are three causes of war. Resources, power and ideology. The answer is obvious. You built it into your scenario. Disputes between the two colonies over how martian resources will be used and controlled by the new corporations. The dark triad for war all in one sentence. This will depend on how the colonies align themselves with their new corporations. Again this is about resources, power and ideology. What they share, who they share it, and what territory do they control in common? Also, any societies are culturally and ideologically as close as these two are, will have micro-differences of opinion and interpretation based on shared values. Remember civil wars are bloodiest of wars. Those differences will be almost invisible to any outsider, but will be up there in lights for members of those societies. Sadly, it only takes one or two in the colonies to find political advantage in stirring up trouble against the other colony. Particularly if there is resentment against any of the new corporations. This can historical. Corporation Z, back on Earth, was a ruthless exploiter of people and resources and a major backer of oppressive political regimes. While Corporation Y did all the right things and is everything a good corporation should be. The problem is Corporation Z is offering the colonies a better deal than Corporation Y. Now factions in the colonies will start taking sides. Soon it will be one colony against the other. Time to modify the security-droids for impending conflict. 

Stephen Dole's Habitable Planets for Man (2nd edition, 1970) estimated the smallest habitable planet would be, In Earth units, mass 0,40, radius 0.78 or 3090 miles, and surface gravity of 0.68. This assumes density of material similar to that of the Earth. This provides a baseline habitability. If you use the surface gravity as a lower bound, you jiggle around with density and the planet's radius to shrink or expand to your heart's content. As for higher densities that demands exotic planetary compositions, you can count me out on this score. I agree with Luis Hendriques' comment. If you want higher density planets don't try and explain it. We can all play let's pretend and leave it at that. 

This beauty is Moloch horridus or the Thorny Devil. A native lizard of the Australian Outback. Reasonably biologically plausible that a sapient alien might have evolved from creatures like these. Presumably if a strapping lad was attracted to a female alien in armour, then there would have to be communications capabilities like shared cultural values or they shared personal traits in common. This is the simplest approach to dehumanizing humanoid aliens, of making them radically different in their surface features while retaining a generally humanoid anatomy. It could be as simple as giving your humanoid alien the feeding habit and mouth parts of a lamprey or even a leech. For example, sitting to dinner with a humanoid that feeds like a lamprey would take an extremely strong stomach. Aliens covered with venomous spines would be plain dangerous to keep company, let alone getting intimate with. This approach involves adopting biological traits from known animals or variants thereof and grafting them onto to your humanoid aliens. Traits that would be repellent to an average human being. This repulsion is normally what causes mere humans to dehumanize others. Obviously this can include humanoid aliens especially with unexpectedly different structural or behavioural features. 

There are no known room temperature superfluids. So, finding non-toxic room temperature superfluids is easy. They're part of a null set of a null set. Nothing easier. All known superfluids exist at temperatures close to absolute zero degrees Kelvin. Absolutely not, at room temperature. JDlugosz has made the interesting suggestion that certain metamaterials might exhibit superfluid properties like zero viscosity. Metaliquids like this, are in the correct sense, metaphysics in that they belong to physics beyond the physics we know (this is the definition of metaphysics). :) 

How can non-theocracies exist in worlds with powerful active gods? This depends on whether your "extremely powerful, omnipresent and active" gods interfere very much in the affairs of mere mortals directly or not. The fact that they are "omnipresent" indicates that all the gods in this world will be everywhere all the time. None of your animus locus usual stuff of local deities ruling the roost in this particular neck of the woods. Their influence and power will be everywhere. That sets in play an interesting dynamic. Basically if any gods are in conflict with one another that conflict will be expressed throughout the world simultaneously. The people in one kingdom won't be able to appeal to their deity to protect from some other deity because both deities will be present anyway, and equally active. This suggests one reason why non-theocracies are possible. Because there is no advantage appealing to any one deity, all deities will have influence equal to their power and activity. This will allow mere mortals to go about their business, making decisions, getting on with their lives, and basically behaving as if the gods didn't exist. Because the gods will be simply part of the background, in fact, they might as well be part of nature. Unless -- This is the major caveat. Unless the gods interfere directly in human affairs. But why? Individual human beings are smaller than microbes to omnipresent gods. For example, planet Earth has a surface area of 510.1 million square kilometres, and a human being occupies about one to square metres or roughly one-five hundred billionth of the Earth's surface area. Even the largest empire may only occupy one percent of Earth's surface area. Hardly worth noticing. Now the OP hasn't specified that his gods aren't omniscient, but in this inquiry we can assume that the gods are capable of immense oversight and surveillance of the microbes that swarm and multiply on the surface of their planetary stamping ground. However, why should they pay much attention to these microbes. Oh yeah! There is the prevalent concept that the gods need us to believe in them for their ongoing existence. There is all sorts of fancy analysis that can applied to this notion to disprove it. But simply it's piffle! It's a notion based on our overweening delusion in our own self-important in the cosmic scheme of things. Frankly we're microbes compared to planetary scale deities. There's no good reason for deities to meddle in human politics. Theocracies may arise in the ordinary way that theocracies arise. Human belief kicks combined with politics feeding into the usual power struggles and this may make theocracies a more likely form of government, but it may not necessarily make them inevitable. Most especially if the gods don't directly run nations or even use individual humans as their agents, then it might look like the extremely, omnipresent, and active gods may only look like an active nature. This makes non-theocracies possible because theocracies might not be inevitable, so they can exist in worlds with powerful active gods. However, this ultimately depends on what kind of activity the gods get up to, but if the gods go around and appoint emperors and empresses of their choice in voices of thunder and lightning accompanied by earthquakes and rains of frogs, then all bets are off. 

I suggest trying this article "The Graphic Demise of FTL" by G David Nordley at his website and it is in PDF format. So you can download it to study at your leisure. What is good about Gerry's article is that he lays the groundwork by explaining the basics of special relativity before tackling the relativistic paradoxes arising from faster-than-light events. Don't expect the answers to be obvious. Take your time and try to understand one bit at a time. The question you ask about travelling to the Sun with an instantaneous FTL drive should be straightforward and easily answered. I haven't seen anywhere where someone has calculated or shown how the calculations are made to work out the time for a FTL vessel to travel from one place to another and back again. If this puzzles you, take heart you are not alone. 

Assume that the ancestor of this vampire/zombie parasite was a brain parasite that ultimately consumed the entire body of its host and it parasitized early hominids, but the early hominids were good at detecting its presence in the infected. This has the effect of subjecting the parasite to strong selective pressures. Forcing the parasite to develop more and more mechanisms to conceal its presence in hominids and later in humans. Somewhat like the Eumenides wasps it would have progressively developed ways of first taking control of its host's body. Eventually developing virus-like mechanisms for hijacking host cells to undergo metamorphosis into what would become the adult vampire stage of its life cycle. The adult vampire would retain the capacity for metamorphic regrow, so the loss of vital parts could be replaced. All the traits of the zombie/vampire creature will have arisen from natural selection due to the evolutionary arms race between host and parasite. Presumably the zombie stage has poor coordination and a lack of speech because the parasite has taken control of the motor cortex of the host and inhibited other parts of the brain that might interfere with its dominance of the host. Its dietary requirements may have evolved simply because trying to devour uninfected humans would be a clear signal that this wasn't a normal human being but a zombie/vampire. On a more cautionary note: for a remarkable parasite of this kind to have evolved, because if it didn't evolve it would need to be engineered and while that would be simpler explanation it does open a lot more awkward questions, it would take an extremely long time. There are a considerable number adaptations that would have to develop and that can only happen with a lot of time to do so. This is only a guesstimate: probably several hundreds of millions of years. Basically much longer than the complete history of human evolution. This suggests it mainly happened somewhere else where there was more time for it to do so.