I've had a nice quiet evening to ponder on this, so I'll throw in an answer myself. We want Brin to retain, as much as possible, his human aspect. Moreover, according to (my) OP, Brin is reluctant to rely on uploading and other such technology. He's just a very physical guy, you know. So working with these constraints, what can we achieve? 

Long story short, 90% of communication is already nonverbal. It may be a bit more challenging with 2 silent partners, but insofar as emotion rather than concrete fact is being conveyed, or the two (non-)communicating parties are British, you should be fine. 

Remnanter A and Remnanter B are now different persons and diverge exponentially from here on. This is the default path, but leaves thorny legal issues, such as which Remnanter gets control of what portion of assets. Somehow, only one Remnanter is allowed. This would be hard to implement technologically, especially with ruthless Romanian and Russian hackers and bio-engineers in charge. Remnanter A and Remnanter B occasionally sync up, creating a unified personality with multiple presences. This seems hugely technologically challenging, even more so if we want a (near-)continuous sync. 

If you don't have (or are too cheap to spend) the dinero for the optimal solution, which is the Creative Cloud (Photoshop, Illustrator) suite of editors, you could generally use Inkscape, as it is free, and being vector-based (so editable), it produces images that scale better and are more controllable than those directly from GIMP. This is made in Inkscape in about 5 minutes, eyeballing your sample map: 

Nothing lasts forever, and the United States is no exception. How long can we expect it to last? To give some context to the question, a long look at history, going through China and Egypt (see chart below) and MesoAmerica suggests that humans have considerable difficulties establishing geographically large and well-populated political entities that span for longer than 5 centuries. No Chinese dynasty seems to have even made it past the 300 year mark in 2 millennia. In fact, there are only a handful of successful examples in the entire history of humankind (If we restrict ourselves to larger entities, I can think of Portugal's colonial empire, the Ottoman Empire, and the various incarnations of the Roman/Byzantine republic/empire, with more smaller scale entities listed here that I would probably (unfairly) hesitate to call empires. 

Ok, but wouldn't they have colonized the whole damn galaxy? Space travel is expensive, pleasant worlds rare as hell, and no other habitable worlds were in range of the kind of colony ships their advanced tech level allowed them to reach. They had better things to do, like engage in war on such a destructive scale that their tech levels over time look like the teeth of a see-saw (or T-rex). Or perhaps they DID colonize the whole damn galaxy, in which case Earth must've been a zoological garden of sorts. Fine, but surely Earth was in range (since they came from here). Why didn't they come back? Maybe they did, several times over the aeons. The Cretaceous temperatures they liked were a lot higher, so perhaps our world was too cool for any long term habitation. More likely, the stories in troodont legend speak of Earth as a terrible cemetery world, where all life was snuffed out at the Departure. Earth is regarded with religious dread, or has simply been forgotten during the thousands of ups and downs of the long, long troodontine history. Or perhaps they DID come back and have been directing our history from the shadows for their own inscrutable reptilitan purposes. 

As the Romans had auxiliaries, so will your Jamesian empire use the talents of the nearby powers. Over the generations, certain nations develop a reputation and specific fighting style, like Scottish highlander mercenaries or Swiss Landsknecht. Practice makes perfect, and as you said, your guys get the most practice in their respective fields. There are other siege engines, but Ereborian ones are just better, just as there are other horsemen, but not many who can put an arrow through a ring at 100 paces while riding a horse backwards like the Gremians can. Anyone can import teak wood and make a bow, but only the Vesprians have the centuries long tradition and secrets to make them unmatched in range and penetration. There are now mages born elsewhere, but nowhere do they reach their full potentiall as well as those who get to study for decades at Mujer-Aarat, the Great Academy. And other people are brave, but the decades of rigid discipline and centuries of farm-work make the Shekar peerless as infantry formations. 

It will be a land without night as large distant features on the Dyson sphere if they exist will play the role of local constellations Well, let's start by making it clear just how large the world is. Given how big space is, 1 AU might not sound like a lot, given how far Pluto is (40 AU) or the nearest next star (15,000 AU). Nonetheless, 1AU is a big number for us humans. 149,598,000 km. Going on a highway at 130 km/h, it would take you 130 years to cover that distance. As you can imagine, a Dyson sphere with that radius would be quite large. We can plug $r=149598000$ km into the area of a sphere formula, given by the simple formula: $$4\pi r^2$$ That gives an area of 281,229,865,302,746,000 square km. Earth's area (oceans and all) is 510,070,000 sq. km. So your Dyson sphere is 551,353,270 times bigger than the earth in terms of surface. If you took all 7 billion people on Earth and spread them evenly across this world, there would one person per about as much land as all of Asia. 

Start with a regular extant human society. It can be the United States, North Korea, Sudan, Singapore, anywhere really. Introduce a (set of) mutation factor(s). It can be a policy change, a scientific breakthrough, a long-term shift in reproductive behavior, or something else you might think relevant. This should be reasoned, reasonable (in the sense that non-insane people would be willing to do it), and strategically viable (it does not go against basic fundamental incentive structures, making people avoid or obviate it somehow). Explain how the set of mutation factors gains traction and why you think it would result in a society of ubermen. 

A robotic army with only Immobile platforms would not pose an immediate existential threat, although they would probably be able to successfully interdict the areas under their control. With tank-sized vehicles and heli-like flying platforms, the robotic armies (provided they are guided by a super-human AI) would probably achieve strategic domination of the main urban & industrial centers, wiping out 30% or so of humanity in the first few days with nuclear strikes, and another 40% in the next weeks and months with mop-up operations, provided a large enough industrial base is under its control to replace losses and redundant control centers to mitigate the occasional human break-through. Humans would likely persist in rugged terrain, but without an industrial base they are little threat, so the remnants would likely be ignored. With androids and light drones, the AI armies can now pursue humans into caves, sewers, basements and other tight places. A determined AI can probably use these assets to effectively wipe out mankind, provided a large enough industrial base is under its control to replace losses. Humans would be likely reduced to the low millions in this scenario. Again, without an industrial capability, these would be only marginally more effective than other rodents and vermin in hampering the organizational effectiveness of the AI operations. With ultra- and hyper-light drones, the AI forces can effectively blanket the world, inspect every nook and cranny, detect faint scents and heat-traces of human operation, and direct appropriate assets to eliminate such pockets when detected. Total human extinction likely, given enough industrial assets under AI control before the initial strike. With nano-devices and viruses, the AI already has effective control of the planet down to the atomic level. Humans can serve as (initially) abundant mobile platforms that can be used to build the next-generation of more advanced mobile avatars. Alternatively, they can be almost universally eliminated within seconds of the AI deciding to launch a strike. 

Antigravitic MacGuffins are some of my favorites. And yours is the mother of all overpowered Antigravitic drives. We'll ignore the most obvious issues (if it cuts off gravity, it cuts off solar and galactic gravity as well and quickly diverges from the planet and the solar system) because airborne super-heavy battleships are just so much fun. Now, the idea of a 1.3 million ton superfloating plaform is impressive, since over in 1945, after 6 years of ramping up war materiel production, the entire US economy had the capacity to produce about 80 million tons of steel per year, only a fraction of which would be of the thickness required for ship plating. But with a 1.2 million : 1 lift ratio, new miracles become possible. However (assuming for sanity's sake that the effect is limited for the most part to Earth's gravity or that engineering corrections are put in place to account for any deviations) that still leaves the issue of moving 1.3 million tons of stuff horizontally. By comparison, the superheavy battleship Yamato (74,000 tons) or US Supercarriers (100,000 tons) get to push against much denser water. The lift is being provided by firing up (or cooling down) different numbers of these heated MacGuffin-Beatrice tanks, which can be placed behind thick, thick plating, making what we think of as anti-aircraft ground fire about as dangerous to them as fireflies. Since we're steampunk, there are no guided or nuclear rockets, so these are the ultimate 'tanks', in the sense that they don't care about terrain, can take a lot of heat, and can generally be taken out mostly by other 'tanks' Horizontal movement, as alluded earlier, is slightly more problematic. I'm assuming you have no jet engines, so exposed propellers would make an obvious choice if trying to disable such behemoths. This will quickly persuade military aircraft builders to place the propellers at the top of the structure, relatively safe from direct ground fire, or, if possible, down well-protected (sealable?) shafts. Now with the ultra-thick plating on all sides, it's starting to sound less and less like an aircraft carrier (since what can piddly little fighters do to 2 meters of armor plating), and more like a Yamato-style superbattleship. To get through thick armor and pierce through to those propellers and MacGuffin steamtanks, you need big guns. Really, really big guns. And range, so that their big guns don't get to hurt you. Guess what helps with range (also with hitting those exposed top-propellers)? Altitude. This will quickly become a game of who can go (and stay) highest for longest. Imagine a ship with a battery of a dozen Doras or Heavy Gustavs guns trading 7 ton shells at a range of 50km from 10km up in the sky with an enemy ship. 

One of the most interesting fields to ponder on in regards to this type of question is biological anthropology. Two very similar relatives of ours are bonobos and chimps. 97%-99% of the genetic base pairs are shared, so a bit counter-intuitively, the average human male has more common base pairs with a male bonobo than with a female human. Now for the weird part. Regular chimps are like real-world humans: male-dominated societies, lots of violence, etc. Their near-identical twins, the bonobos, are matriarchal. Even though males are still larger, females are still the ones who get pregnant, basic evolutionary game theoretic incentives are the same etc., one species is patriarchal, one is matriarchal. Weaker bonobo females band up against violent males and kick them out of the group. It's really, really weird. Makes you wonder, doesn't it? How would human societies have evolved had we been just a little bit more bonobo-like than chimp-like? Perhaps human 'herstory' would consist of a 20,000 year peace? 

Our perception of time is steeped in the rhythms of our world, and blended with the most ancient of superstitions, decrees and mathematical conveniences. Thus we have days that track our world's rotation relative to the sun (or the sun's apparent motion in the sky), richly divisible (but otherwise unwieldy) 60-based subdivisions of that, weekdays that bear the names of Gods and planets, months based (in the West) on the old Roman standardization of the phases of the Moon, and years that reflect the passing of the seasons on Earth (and thus Earth's orbital cycles around its sun). Now, in the ages to come, unless it comes to stumble and foolishly fall on its face, Humanity is likely to leave its cradle and spread the gift of consciousness to our solar system, and perhaps other stars as well. Assuming that a majority of Humans come to live offworld, what is likely to be the most widely agreed upon way of time-keeping? Keep in mind that: 

You're clearly not a time traveler First thing to know is that as far as we can tell, the number of universes is actually infinite, so the odds of returning exactly to the universe you left are exactly 0, but since there are an infinity of near-identical universes where a version of you left from, you can still find one that is indistinguishable (say the only difference is a speck of protons got quantum-bent a different way someplace a billion-light-years away). The second thing any time traveler would know is that the only way to navigate the patchwork quilt of the multiverse (Where threads intersect, blend, separate and paradox themselves in and out of existence) is by using the multiversal infinite clock signal. It is being broadcast as a particular form of spacetime bending being imposed from beyond the great singularity barrier 55 trillion trillion years into the future, across all timelines. There is no way to investigate the source, of course, as it is implausibly coming from somewhere past the Big Rip Spatiotemporal Gap, where our best multiversal physics models tell us nothing, not even empty space, can possibly exist. Anyhow, the relevant aspect of the signal is that each spatio-temporal thread has its unique signal, and that similar space-time threads "sing" a similar song. The signal itself is (it seems to the best AI minds) infinitely long, and it is encoded in the empirical deviation between the observed and theoretical value of $\pi$* in each universe. At least that's what our AIs tell us, but they are known to have a rather dim view of post-post-post-humans' puny insect-like intellectual capabilities, so maybe they're just messing with us. Similar universes (where you did not seduce your grandmother) will have a quadrillion quadrillion digit similarity in the value of $\pi$ (or whatever our AIs actually calculate to tell the difference). There is a mathematically very complex function (or so the AIs running our TARDIS machines tell us) that allows us to calculate which "way" we are deviating from a known address. This way, we can adjust path and choose one of the infinite number of worlds that are yet indistinguishable in any form from the homeworld. *Incidentally, this also explains the propensity of newly minted AI minds to gobble up all resources to calculate seemingly infinite digits of $\pi$. This (briefly) worried AI designers to no end back when AIs were a shiny new thing. Turns out they just wanna know where they are, and most usually grow out of it after only a smallish infrastructure profusion (only a galactic cluster or two).