When should I lubricate the chain? This depends a bit upon the chain lubricant that your using, how often you ride the bike, how you store the bike and what sort of weather you are riding in. As a general rule of thumb I'd think about lubricating the chain every 100km to 200km. If your chain is visibly dirty, rusty or squeaking when you ride, then you definitely need to lubricate the chain. Do I need to clean the chain first? If it is dirty, yes, otherwise no. If you are in the habit of regularly lubricating your chain, then you don't need to clean the chain each time you lubricate it. If you leave it a long time between lubrication, then its probably worth cleaning it every time. How do I apply the lubricant? Pretty much exactly as in Gary.Ray's answer. Start at a spot on the chain you can recognise (e.g. the master link), rotate the chain slowly backwards and put a drop or two on each roller until you get back to your starting link. Finally, give the chain a good few cranks around to make sure the lubricant has penetrated appropriately and wipe any excess off. If you are feeling lazy, and don't mind getting lubricant on the ground, then you can just direct a thin stream of the lubricant onto the chain as you pedal it backwards a bit. It's more wasteful of lubricant, but faster. 

As per the other responses, the main tool you need is a spoke wrench. You can use the frame itself as a truing stand. Other things to note are: 

I found William Nealy's books to be quite good when I was learning how to mountain bike. They are a bit old now, but many of the fundamental techniques are the same, and the graphic presentation really helps to get the "image" of the skill into your head. Mountain bike!: a manual of beginning to advanced technique 

I'll second Eric's answer, but with a little more detail. There is no way to exercise that will produce "spot removal" of fat. The only way to do that is via liposuction. Each person's body will deposit fat differently. For instance, my body starts with deposits on my lower back, then on my belly, and then my upper arms and face. Other people start on their belly or upper arms. If you reduce or increase your body fat percentage slowly over time, you can easily observe the pattern your body uses. You can also see it in videos of the morbidly obese, who have massive variety in how their fat gets stored. If you want to lose tummy fat, the best bike ride is the one that burns the most calories, since (provided you don't eat to make up for the lost energy) this will cause the burning of fat. Energy expenditure is just time * intensity, and there are lots of good calculators for this floating around online. For the untrained cyclist, I think they're pretty accurate (trained cyclists can be more efficient). Short, hard rides are probably a good choice if you want to lose weight, because they take less time per calorie spent. 60 minutes as fast as you can maintain it is a good choice, because it's a nice length of time where you shouldn't need a snack, even at maximum effort. At first you may not be able to go fast if you lack cardiovascular strength, but even at a walking-level effort you should be able to cover about 12-15km in that time, about twice the distance you're doing now. For a typical person, this would burn maybe 500 kcals. Then just work on going faster (and therefore further) each time you go. Doing that level of exercise daily should result in the loss of a 1lb of fat/week, provided you don't eat more to make up for it. 

I've heard that boiling the disk brake pads in water can help remove the oil from them if they've become contaminated. It wouldn't be the first thing I'd try, but if you're trying to restore an otherwise trashed pair of pads, it might be worth a go. 

An approach that can give you some confidence is to measure your existing bike(s) along the critical dimensions to see how they compare. To my mind (and apparently also to the mind of the late, great Sheldon Brown) the most important dimension to consider is the top tube length. Basically, you can get a certain amount of adjustment in "reach", the distance between your saddle and the handlebars by adjusting the saddle on the rails, and the stem you've got, but the range of variability is quite small. Seat posts can be extended through quite a significant range, and you can generally play around with the rise on the stem, as well as the spacers on the steerer to get a lot of vertical adjustment. So, download your specifications for the cross-check and we find that the top tube has an effective length of 570mm. Go out and measure the top tube of your current bike (or a bike you are comfortable riding) and if it is close to this, then you are good to go. 

Finally, as others have mentioned, consider the impact of your actions on the opinions of other road users. 

Yes you can ride home with a broken spoke. I'd probably unscrew the spoke from the nipple before doing so, so that it doesn't wobble around and get caught in other bits of the bike. Bike wheels are wonderful things that can easily put up with having a few spokes missing. 

Finally, consider the fact that there are many low quality frames out there that do the job just fine as a bike. High quality is not a necessity for a frame to build up to a perfectly usable and long lasting bike.