You don't explain what is meant by "difficult to reach" but let's assume it means the person just needs to respond to important emails and phone calls the same day during business hours, and that is currently not the case. What issues would be resolved by allowing the CEO to read this person's email? Is the employee not responding to clients or partners? If so, then maybe the person is overloaded or in the wrong role. Why is this employee difficult to reach, in the first place? Travel? Other responsibilities? The CEO, HR, or that employee's direct manager needs to work with that employee to work out a communication protocol that is acceptable to all parties. If the employee is just irresponsible, then there no sense in creating additional management overhead for the CEO by having him babysit the employee. The CEO should be able to trust those working for him to do their jobs, and should focus on higher-level strategy rather than the lower-level details that he has presumably entrusted to this employee. If this person cannot communicate reliably and can cause damage such as allowing a deal to fall through by not responding within a reasonable amount of time, then those duties need to be given to someone else. This person may be able to be delegated certain tasks through whatever system actually works. 

I would put it in much the same way you've written it here. You mentioned that your job is stressful and demanding and you're not growing career wise. Make your direct report think about what's keeping you at the company and what reason you have to stay. Perhaps they think that you're comfortable with what you're doing and you don't really mind that you haven't been given anything extra, perhaps they're just thinking that you want what everyone else is getting? Below's a few talking points for you. Be extremely clear about what you want and where you want to end up. Most people don't want to stay in the same job for the rest of their lives, so let your manager know what you aspire to, what's driving you. Show that you're keen to learn. Don't forget to tie it into a benefit to the company, why should they put you through the training? How does that turn into a benefit for the business and how will they get a return on their investment? Will they end up losing the "invaluable person" they have in their current role? Talk about how you could up-skill/cross-skill someone else into your role. If you're determined to reach a goal and there's a roadblock in the way, ask "How can we overcome that?". If it's something that simply cannot be overcome, then you really don't have much option other than to look for another job that will provide what you're after. On a side note It's best not to let things slide for so long, if you're determined to get something, letting it go by for 7 years without having a path to your destination doesn't exactly scream determination. You have very little reason to show loyalty to a company that can't keep it's promises. At the end of the day you need to look out for yourself. "You're #1" as someone else here put it! 

I have joined as a team lead in a new company but yet no reportees are assigned to me . In this company timelines and accuracy of response to client are very important as compare to my previous organizations as client is technical and very strict. Work pressure is high in my current project and team members normally work for 12-14 hours to complete their daily task. Now, as I am new to this project I need help from others to get my work done but as I said team members are too busy with their work that they normally execuse me by saying that they also don't know about that and you need to find out it by your own or they give very short answer for my questions which don't lead to any understanding for me and becomes really difficult for me to how to ask next questions again for more clarification. With this my personality is that I found it difficult to ask questions to other and their such behavior are creating worst situation for me. As I have IT experience of more than 8+ years my project manager is expecting me to deal this situation by my own and expect from me that I should know how to get help from others. Kindly help me to deal with this situation as I want to know how to improve my way of asking question that will lead others to answer my question even in their busy schedule or is there any specific way of asking questions to others which triggers others to help me 

To answer your question directly... Yes you should support him if that's part of your job. You should do this regardless of what you believe will be a good fit for this person given their current skills. The Why This person appears has the drive to get into development. Employees tend to work rather well if they enjoy what they're doing. Happy employees are productive employees and productive employees means FTE well spent. Now to address your concerns If you believe that this employee doesn't have the skills needed for development; then let them know. There's nothing wrong with this; give the employee tasks to do at home if it's something that's simple enough that they can google. Get them to learn the basics before you teach them how to code. If it turns out that it's something that they just aren't able to learn then you can raise it with your manager and let the manager know that you don't think that they'll be a good fit for the role. In short; start with the basics. If you're there to mentor this person, then tell them what they need to know prior to being shown how to code/develop. If they can't grasp the basics then so be it; but until you provide someone with the rope, they aren't going to trip themselves up and fall flat. (Who knows, they may even be a great fit) 

You have already identified plenty of reasons why this is a bad idea. It's possible he just hasn't thought it through, and thought it would be a convenient solution to head off similar issues with other employees. If you are comfortable talking to him directly, go for it. If not, inform an appropriate manager of your concern and ask them to talk to him about it, possibly not naming you (if that is a concern). If this goes through, then at best, your CEO will have to spend more time duplicating someone else's effort in reading emails, and at worst, he is potentially exposing himself to legal liability down the road. If the someone does something inappropriate and he does not intervene because he didn't have time to read an email thread about sexual misconduct or bribery or other illegal activity, it won't look good that he has all these emails in his inbox. Maybe he hires a secretary to handle his email at some point. One could argue that he should have been aware because he had unfettered access to everyone's email, but he failed to act. 

Points not covered by other answers are in bold. Yes, of course it's unethical to deceive your employer in the manner you are already doing, and you know that already. Otherwise you wouldn't have felt compelled to insert bugs. The question to ask yourself is, if you were working from the office instead of home, and your boss could drop in at any moment to ask you to walk you through the file you're currently processing, would you say or do anything differently? If you are paid hourly or filling out a time sheet stating how many hours you worked, you are lying, which is blatantly unethical. Depending on your region, if you are salaried, it may be illegal for your employer to require you to work a certain number of hours. This is a protection against requiring overtime without compensation, but it is not a "get out of jail free" card. Many companies only offer benefits to employees who work a certain number of hours, such as 30+ hrs/wk, and on the flip-side are required to offer those same benefits to all employees who are eligible. This is pretty standard in the US, as far as I am aware. Under some employers, you accrue PTO based on the number of days or hours you work. If you are taking advantage of any such benefits, you implicitly agree to work at least this many hours, even if that means sitting at your desk in your home office and staring blankly at the wall 7+ hours a day or doing your job manually. Failing to tell your employer that you have automated your job and are not actually working enough hours to be eligible for benefits is unethical, especially when a part-time employee working 10x as many hours as you would be denied. If you signed an employment contract and it contains an intellectual property clause granting ownership to the company for any IP you develop, they already own the scripts and it is either implied or explicitly stated that you must provide them to your employer. You have already stated that your scripts occasionally require modifications, so your employer will need to retain someone to maintain your scripts whether it ends up being you or someone else. A truly unscrupulous person would try to repeat your formula with additional employers, to the point they are raking in multiple full-time salaries and working only 1-2 days a week. Even if it weren't unethical, you are doing yourself no favors in terms of your career or professional development if you are not spending your time practicing your skills and training on additional technologies. There are careers in automation that value what you have done, and will pay you more than a job that boils down to manual data entry. If you just continue your current deception and spend the rest of your time on leisure, your skills will stagnate and you'll be screwed when you do eventually get fired or laid off. 

One of my friends younger brother asked me a question and I am writing this question in his words His Question :- Hi. I am a Senior software engineer in my company with IT experience of more than 5 years. I want to know how normally guys in software industry prepare for their interview. Reason behind this is there can be thousands of questions if interview is on any technology such as Java and DotNet and all this concepts are scattered in different books. If any interview is scheduled and than I try to read this books than it takes lot of time to read all this concepts and if another interview is after 1-2 week than I normally forget atleast 50% part of what I read and I need to start it again. My Answer :- I told him that I normally search interview related questions in Google and while looking for answer I also start to make notes of this questions and answer in very short words and whenever I have any interview I follow the same process and it will help me to reduce the time and efforts required for preparing interview as normally if we are not working in certain concept of technologies than we normally start to forget it. It was my answer to his question but want to know what normally other software professional do in such condition when they also face same situation 

Similar to another answer here. State the facts. That is, your suspicion is just that, a suspicion and it doesn't appear to the reason why you'd choose not to hire this candidate. I think that the way you've summed it up already in this question provides valuable feedback to the candidate. Provide the factual feedback that you're not comfortable with the candidate's level of understanding of topics that they should know. Back this up with your observations during the interview. For example... Facts When I asked questions X, Y and Z whilst you were able to provide an indepth explanation but where unable to explain follow up questions that are designed to show a candidate's fundamental understanding of the question. Consequence Because of this I'm not comfortable that you have a sound understanding of topic A, B and C. Meaning that you have not been selected for the position at this time etc etc Resolution If you're looking to apply to a similar job in future. I would recommend you look into X, Y, Z so that you can answer questions more efficiently when probed for a deeper understanding. Note: Don't confuse your suspicion of this candidate googling answers to things as the reason why you've chosen not to proceed with them. Whilst it might be a byproduct of the candidate not understanding the topic you're asking about. Fundamentally it's the lack of knowledge that is the problem, not what they may or may not have been doing on the other end of the phone.