The decline of Spain I think it was in the end of XVIII. century. 1º The Absolutist regime was becoming obsolete and needed to modernize to the parlamentary regime and the economic liberalism. 2º The continue war against UK damage spanish economy a lot. The merchant fleet was nearly destroyed, the textile industry, in spite of the success, was sinking. The agriculture and mining production was weak. The politicians with landslide support started the reform, however, the french revolution, slowdown the reforms. The example was the Count of Floridablanca, liberal politician and lawyer. He was the prime minister in the last absolutist monarchy government favour to liberal reform. However, before the reforms started, the king decided to substitute the prime minister for the Count of Aranda, a military stadist. However, due to Count of Aranda was alarmed in order to intervene in French revolution (he take into account that spain was not ready fot that adventure), was subtitute to Manuel Godoy, a politician that rejected any kind of reform and was decided to invade france. The decisions made from the king was Due to he thaught that spain needed a military leader in order to face French revolution and Napoleon. A great mistake that the king committed because spain was not ready for any war. The plan of invasion of Godoy to invade was really bad planned. Spain invade french south with 55000 men poorly equipped joining in the war. The war started with victories but temporary because the french army DOUBLED the size of spanish expedition army. General Antonio Ricardos sent a urgent letter to madrid asking for reinforcements, however, the letter arrived to late. That was the spanish situation of the communications between head government and the army, really BAD. Manuel Godoy passed from being the prime minister that attacked france to ask for peace rapidly, he lost all his reputation and he became the future loyal servant of Napoleon´s brother. At the end, spain was invaded by french army. The war against Napoleon put the spanish administration even worse than before. Later the transition was more caotic and with civil war. A lot of time lost, that provocked a late industrial revolution. 

Another thing to take into account is that, in the archaic age particularly, armies would often meet on the field of battle and then agree to settle the differences by having one warrior from each side meet. This form of battle would have been more akin to the gladiatorial matches of later periods. Since the Greeks, and even the Romans to some extent, had a romanticized concept of naked warriors it is quite possible some of these matches might have taken place naked. By the classical age, these one-on-one contests were not as common. Soldiers would have wanted to wear as little as possible, especially if the weather was hot, but they would also want protection. Hoplites usually wore greaves, vambraces, and a chest-plate. They would also carry a shield and spear, with some carrying a short sword as a secondary weapon. I have read accounts that the Spartans would occasionally cast aside their clothing and fight naked if they wanted to show total scorn to an enemy that they did not fear. Maybe there is something to that, but I have yet to see anything conclusive from primary sources that indicates this ever happened. On the other hand, while art is usually just art, sometimes it is a window on the society. Some ancient pottery art I have seen depicting the Spartans, while showing them with shields, helmets, and spears, shows them with nothing else on except a garment that covers about as much as the loincloths in 300, though of a different design. $URL$ I came across a reference in Plutarch's writings (Life of Lycurgus) which seemed to indicate that Spartan men wore only one garment on a regular basis, and that this garment left them bare above the waist. The only references made to their complete nudity was during their exercises and their games, during the latter of which the young women and girls would strip themselves and join the young men and boys. Plutarch also mentions that Spartan boys learned how to march barefoot and go naked during their training. Plutarch mentions that at the age of twelve their undergarment would be taken away and only one upper garment given them each year. This garment was a red cloak, which they would wear as Spartan soldiers once their training was complete, along with whatever armor was issued to them. The cloak itself, however, was not worn during battle, as it would be a hindrance to movement. Plutarch does not mention whether or not the Spartans wore any other clothing, so it is possible the Spartan soldiers may well have been naked in battle other than their armor. I have seen it pointed out that they would not have wanted to wear metal armor on their bare skin, yet we know that they would line the inside of their armor with a layer of leather. Keep in mind, also, that their shields offered a great deal of protection. 

I need an emblematic, inspiring, not-too-long quote or image from the World War I Christmas Truce of 1914. It should be historically accurate, but (in an appropriate context) it should be fairly easy for a reader to recognize it for what it is. For example, it could be a quote in broken English from a German solder or officer. It could be a quote in any of the three languages. It could be the lyrics of a song that was sung, in the language the song was actually sung. It could be a short sentence about lighting of candles or about playing soccer. I see things on the web, but I have no way of judging if what I see is historically accurate, so I thought I would ask the people who would know! It would be helpful to know the geographical location of the majority of the "Christmas Truce" activities that occurred in 1914. (I realize that they didn't all happen on Christmas itself, that's okay.) Edit: So what I need is song lyrics or a quote, either from the time, or something emblematic that was written later; and the primary geographic locations, e.g. "Belgium." 

A Jewish relative who had grown up in Vienna fled from Germany to France to escape persecution. Then Germany invaded France, and this relative went into hiding. He and his wife hid successfully until shortly before Liberation. I wonder how common that was. Did the chance increase, that a neighbor would denounce you, as the end of the war approached? Perhaps because shortages of food and fuel became more acute? 

This question is about the history of the Dominican Republic. Look at the uniform shown in the beginning of Rita Indiana's video "Da Pa' lo' Do'," which means "There's enough for both," where "both" means D.R. and Haiti. What historical period does this uniform represent? Red jacket, blue trim, white pants. I wonder if this was the Spanish infantry uniform. During what period(s) was the Spanish infantry active in the western part of the island, or along the border? But perhaps this is the Haitian army's uniform, and the setting is the Haitian occupation of the eastern part of the island? What about the second character's uniform? It's a strange blue -- not a navy blue. Is this a low-budget or non-historically correct version of the navy I see for that period when I look in google images? Or is it supposed to represent the ragtag style dress of the Haitian revolutionary forces? I am very, very confused what sides these two soldiers are supposed to represent, and what the historical period is supposed to be. I understand the theme of the song and the video but I'm having trouble getting the details. Bonus question: what was the D.R. called during Spanish rule (1861-1863)? I would like to know, ideally, what it was called in English and also what it was called in Spanish, if there was a different name in the two languages. 

Most lower class Romans and slaves wore only a knee length tunic, if they even had that much clothing. Many in modern times have indicated that wearing an undergarment was considered being naked, yet the Greek word that was usually used in the period to refer to someone who was naked was gymnos, which means a complete lack of clothing. Those who try to say otherwise often do so because the idea of public nudity makes them uncomfortable, so they use modern cultural mores to influence one's interpretation of history. Historical studies of the culture of the time indicate that public nudity was not at all unusual for fishermen, or for those working in the fields or in mines, even in cases when there were women present. Nudity in public was also not uncommon during athletic events. The author of the book of Hebrews makes reference to this in Hebrews 12 verse 1, in which he uses the analogy of a runner laying aside the garments and running naked to represent stripping off sin that weighs down the Christian. This is not an analogy that many people in modern Christianity are comfortable with, but the early Christians would have understood the analogy just fine. I have seen many insist that the Romans couldn't have crucified people naked or that Peter couldn't have been naked on his boat because they "can't imagine" complete nudity in front of passers-by including women and children could have been acceptable. I would say that how we imagine the past to be does not determine that is how it was. Nudity has been used in punishment throughout history, and has also been common for those working in physical and dirty jobs (fishermen, miners, etc.). Defeated people throughout history had their clothing taken away to shame them. This shame was not the shame we have in modern times due to the mores that originated in the Victorian era, it was because to be denied clothing was the mark of a slave, though the same people who would have been shamed by having their clothing forcibly taken would willingly lay it aside to work or exercise if it was their choice. The shame, then, was due to forced nudity, not the state of nudity in and of itself. A modern analogy might be that a person would likely feel embarrassed and shamed if they were attacked and had their clothing stripped off of them leaving them in just their underwear, yet when they go to the beach they might be perfectly willing to wear a bathing suit that covers no more than the underwear would. The problem with many people today is that things like this in history don't make them feel all warm and fuzzy and so they dismiss it due to their FEELINGS. Well, feelings don't define the historical record, and if someone thinks they do they are dabbling in the wrong field.