Since [9] is focused on discussing regionally-targeted geoengineering techniques, the presumed global spread of SAI is here being mentioned mainly as a potential disadvantage. I think Jones et al. are actually raising two concerns with their work: 

Source: kartoweb.itc.nl Assuming that this is the convention used in your data, the conversion formulae are refreshingly straighforward. $x = d\sin(\alpha)$ $y = d\cos(\alpha)$ One thing to watch out for: like most programming languages, Python uses radians, not degrees, for its trigonometric functions. If your angles are in degrees, don't forget to run them through the function before taking sines and cosines! Incidentally, having each measurement in a separate text-file is probably a recipe for inconvenience and confusion. If I were you, I'd have "combine measurements as columns in a single file" as the first step in my processing workflow. 

The Petersburg data looks plausible under this interpretation (EMXT −3.9°C to 33.9°C over the year). 

No, not at all. ‘Abrasion’ just means that some material has been removed from your stone by mechanical action. Of course it would be possible to abrade your stone so much that it was completely destroyed, but this isn't implied by the term ‘abrasion’ itself. 

Amphibolite facies (staurolite zone) metasediments from the Scottish Dalradian. Source: Dave Waters, Dalradian Metamorphism album. 

At first glance the siting seems strange, since there is no major settlement or road below the structure. However, it does overlook a river which, around 3 km downstream, feeds into the Tenjin water storage dam. In the current Google satellite imagery the riverbed is mostly dry and ongoing engineering work is visible in it, presumably also related to debris/sedimentation control. Similar hillside structures can also be seen on some of the slopes around the dam itself. 

In general, a good answer to "where can I learn the basic concepts of X" is "a textbook on X". For sedimentary concepts, you might try Nichols (2009), for instance. Academic papers are a publication vehicle for new research, so you'll seldom find much introductory material in them. For terms like "intracratonic" and "intramontane", you might also find it useful to learn some common Greek and Latin prefixes and suffixes. If you look for "intra" in a list like this one, you'll find that it's Latin for "within", and you might be able to guess that "intracratonic" refers to something occurring within a craton. If you just want to look up terms as you go, and you're happy with brief definitions, a specialist dictionary might also be helpful. For Earth Sciences, Allaby (2008) is a good concise dictionary, though it might be a little too concise if you're a beginner. 

There is no significant geomagnetic influence on the cycle of glacials and interglacials. I think the easiest way to determine this is to consider geomagnetic reversals. A reversal obviously involves the largest possible change in the direction of the magnetic field (a full 180°). It also involves some of the largest changes in field intensity, because during a reversal the field intensity drops to a small fraction of its usual value before regrowing to ‘normal’ levels (e.g. Raisbeck et al., 1985). So, if we're expecting geomagnetic field behaviour to have any influence on climate, we'd expect the most obvious effects to appear at reversals. We can look for this effect by comparing a δ18O record (which gives a proxy for global temperature and ice volume) with a record of magnetic reversals. Here's a figure of the LR04 stack from Lisiecki & Raymo (2005), showing those two records for the past ~5 Myr: 

Exciting stuff! Here's the project website. According to a presentation at EGU this year, the building is currently under construction. A group at the University of Maryland is conducting similar research, and has already constructed some experimental sodium dynamos. I'm not aware of any such experiments involving nickel. Despite its high reactivity, sodium is easier to use for such experiments because of its much lower melting point and density. Nickel's melting point (1455°C) is only 83° below that of iron, so liquid nickel in an iron shell would be a tricky proposition. 

You say you're "not given the declination angle", but you also say "the horizontal direction of magnetism of these lavas is due west". That's your declination angle, right there! Since I assume (from the very round-numbered location) that this is a homework exercise or similar, I won't work through the rest of the calculation here. However, if you need more guidance on VGP calculation, I can recommend Chapter 7 of Robert F. Butler's freely available book. 

Strongly deformed high- to medium-pressure pelitic granulites from the Qianlishan Complex. Source: Yin et al. (2014). 

It’s true that there is a posited mantle plume below Hawaii, so it seems likely that there might be increased thermal heat flux at the sea-floor. (Incidentally, I’m not sure what would make this mantle plume ‘the most important’, or even how one would quantify the importance of a mantle plume.) However, Von Herzen et al. (1989) found that 

The chart cuts off at 900°C, by which point the rock will generally be melting, putting it into the igneous rather than metamorphic category. Effects of heating on common plastics Fortunately for this question, efforts to dispose of waste plastic have led to a lot of research on the effects of heating. Williams and Williams (1997) is a particularly useful reference. They report the effects of heating a sample of mixed plastic waste (low- and high-density polyethylene, polypropylene, polystyrene, polyvinyl chloride, and polyurethane) in an inert nitrogen atmosphere at temperatures ranging from 500°C to 700°C. Here’s what they got out of it (yields are in percentages): 

Communisty has done a good job of giving the winners in various categories, but I think it's also worth mentioning the runner-up UTC+12:45, which is only used by the Chatham Islands, population 600. But UTC-12:00 beats this one, unless there happen to be enough ships in UTC-12:00 to furnish more than 600 people. And UTC+10:30 with 382 people seems indisputably lonelier. UTC+08:45, mentioned by Tbb in the comments, is another candidate, but as the Wikipedia article says it's not officially recognized. 

Apply the saturating field along (say) the x axis of the sample. Apply the 300mT field along an orthogonal axis -- the y axis, say. Measure the total magnetization vector in a 3-axis magnetometer. Calculate the SIRM as the sum of the magnetizations along the x and y axes, and IRM−300mT as the magnetization along the y axis. 

While the Antarctic ice sheets are far more stable than the north polar sea ice, they do actually move: at the South Pole, the motion is only about 10 metres per year, but coastal glaciers can move much faster. 

It's an interesting question, but in practice I think it's impossible to answer. It's very difficult to measure the rates of many of those processes, and the divisions between rock types can be quite ill-defined (for example, in migmatites). There's no scientific instrument we can point at a chunk of the earth which will tell us "in this region, 29.4 megatons of sedimentary rock became metamorphic rock during the past year". What we can say, at least, is that the global balance of these processes is not constant over time. For example, during the Deccan Traps eruptions there was an increase in the rate of formation of igneous rock through solidification of magma. The classic rock cycle diagram you posted probably encourages this kind of question, because it makes it look like a neat, closed system with well-defined boundaries and comparable quantities of each rock type. It's a very useful simplification for many purposes, but remember that these processes are occurring at or near the earth's surface. This whole system sits on top of the mantle (which is vast compared to the volume of crustal rock), and material is continually being passed between the two, so it's far from being a closed system. 

The S-ratio is commonly used in rock magnetic and enviromagnetic studies to quantify the relative abundances of minerals with high and low remanent coercivities. As most frequently defined (e.g. by Evans and Heller, 2003), it is calculated as −IRM−300mT / SIRM, where SIRM is the saturation remanence magnetization, and IRM−300mT is the remaining magnetization after applying a 300mT reverse field to a saturated sample. In my experience, the usual procedure for determining the S-ratio on a discrete sample is: 

References Loren A. Raymond, David A. Bero (2015). Sandstone-matrix mélanges, architectural subdivision, and geologic history of accretionary complexes: A sedimentological and structural perspective from the Franciscan Complex of Sonoma and Marin counties, California, USA. Geosphere, 11(4), pp. 1077–1110. doi: $URL$ E. A. Williams & P. T. Williams (1997). Analysis of products derived from the fast pyrolysis of plastic waste, Journal of Analytical and Applied Pyrolysis. 40-41, pp. 347-363. Yin, C., Zhao, G., Wei, C., Sun, M., Guo, J., & Zhou, X. (2014). Metamorphism and partial melting of high-pressure pelitic granulites from the Qianlishan Complex: constraints on the tectonic evolution of the Khondalite Belt in the North China Craton. Precambrian Research, 242, pp. 172-186. 

One interesting and relatively new technique is by the detection of geoneutrinos. These particles are produced by radioactive decay in the Earth's interior. They are uncommonly suitable for probing the deep Earth because -- unlike most particles and waves -- they can travel through thousands of kilometres of rock with very little absorption. Of course, this very same characteristic makes actually detecting them something of a challenge, and detectors tend to be rather large (in the thousands of cubic metres). Araki et al. (2005) gives some early results -- but as the Wikipedia article shows, there are more and bigger detectors on the drawing boards, so we should expect to see more geoneutrino results in the coming years and decades. This abstract gives the best elevator pitch I've found so far for geoneutrino research: 

However, to answer a slightly broader question, it does seem that the ozone layer is capable of repairing itself when emissions of ozone-depleting substances are reduced. The Montreal protocol was enacted in 1989: 

For more detail on how measurements are taken at Mauna Loa, and how the data is checked to make sure that it’s not contaminated by local influences, see this detailed NOAA page on measurement procedures. The section on ‘Data selection for background air’ is particularly relevant to your question. (Thanks to jeffronicus for providing this link in the comments.) As to your final question: 

No, no such changes have been observed. Laclare et al. (1996) summarize various published solar diameter data from observations made between 1970 and 1995. Here's Figure 6 from their paper. 

References Allaby, M. (2008). Oxford Dictionary of Earth Science. Oxford University Press. Coleman, R. (1981). Footpath erosion in the English Lake District. Applied Geography, 1(2), 121-131. Nichols, G. (2009). Sedimentology and stratigraphy. John Wiley & Sons. 

Apply a saturating field with a pulse magnetizer (or, at least, apply the strongest field possible with the equipment). Measure the saturation magnetization in a magnetometer. Apply the 300mT reverse field with the pulse magnetizer. Measure the new magnetization in the magnetometer. 

The data format you have (magnitude and direction) is usually referred to as polar co-ordinates. The data format you need (horizontal and vertical offsets) is Cartesian co-ordinates. There's plenty of good material on this online. For a friendly introduction, see e.g. this page on "Math is Fun!" (or your favourite high-school maths textbook). Converting between the two systems involves a bit of simple trigonometry, and the exact formulae depend on how you're measuring the angle in your polar co-ordinates. Mathematicians tend to measure anticlockwise from the positive x axis in radians. Geoscientists usually measure clockwise from the positive y axis in degrees (like a compass bearing): 

The estimates of Newton and Kepler, and the similar estimates of dozens of their contemporaries, were produced by treating the Bible as a historically accurate document and deriving a chronology from it. I think that a detailed explanation of their techniques would be off-topic for Earth Science, but the Wikipedia page on the Ussher Chronology (which provides probably the most famous biblically-based estimate of the Earth's age) goes into reasonable detail about the methods used for such calculations. 

Source: NOAA Naturally, the shape of the annual cycle varies depending on the measuring station's latitude (you can see that the South Pole record is out of phase with the northern hemisphere records, as you'd expect), but the trends are an indisputably excellent match. If there were some confounding local influence at Mauna Loa, we certainly wouldn't see it reproduced at other sites thousands of kilometres away. 

I assume that you meant to write ‘Does the Hawaiian geological situation not affect the readings?’. I hope I’ve made it clear that it doesn’t, and that Mauna Loa is so widely used precisely because of the absence of local influences on the readings. 

Evans, M. E. and Heller, F. (2003). Environmental magnetism: principles and applications of enviromagnetics. San Diego: Academic Press. Lowrie, W. (1990). Identification of ferromagnetic minerals in a rock by coercivity and unblocking temperature properties. Geophysical Research Letters, 17(2), 159–162. 

Magnetohydrodynamic experiments intended to create laboratory analogues for the Earth's magnetic field generally use molten sodium rather than nickel. You can read about the details of one such project, DRESDYN, in this arXiv preprint. 

References James S. Hazlett, Monroe, R. and Wicander, R. (2006). Physical geology: exploring the Earth (6. ed.). Belmont: Thomson. ISBN 9780495011484. B. L. N. Kennett; On the density distribution within the Earth, Geophysical Journal International, Volume 132, Issue 2, 1 February 1998, Pages 374–382, $URL$ 

References Laclare, F., Delmas, C., Coin, J. P., & Irbah, A. (1996). Measurements and variations of the solar diameter. Solar Physics, 166(2), 211-229. 

I'm not a tectonicist or a science historian, but as far as I know the ‘pole flight force’ or Polfluchtkraft was introduced by Wegener in his theory of continental drift. Essentially it's just the application of centrifugal force to continents (or, if we are now considering it within the plate tectonic paradigm, to plates). As stated in the Wikipedia article you link to, this force is far too weak to account for plate motions, and this very fact was one of the reasons for the scientific community's rejection of continental drift. Modern tectonics doesn't seem to consider it even as a measurable contributing factor. The only modern references I've found to it have been in historical contexts, such as in Krause (2007). The subtitle of this paper, ‘Vergessene Begriffe der Geologiegeschichte’, translates to ‘forgotten concepts of geological history’, and as far as I can tell this is an accurate summary of Polflucht's current status. 

I think that it's referring to hundredths of an inch, and "hundreds" is a typo for "hundredths". This FAA information sheet says: 

The methodology and equipment for palaeomagnetic studies in the 1960s and 1970s was often rather primitive by today's standards. For example, Doell and Cox (1967) imply that the standard procedure for getting a palaeomagnetic direction was simply to measure the natural remanent magnetization, and assume that it represented a reliable primary magnetization direction if it proved sufficiently resistant to one or more of the standard demagnetization techniques. In contrast, in a modern palaeomagnetic study, I'd expect a far more elaborate methodology: ten or more AF or thermal demagnetization steps per sample (possibly with a pilot study to compare effectiveness of demagnetization methods), measuring remaining remanence at each step; inspection of data in various projections; palaeomagnetic directions obtained by fitting one or more demagnetization components using, for example, PCA (Kirschvink, 1980), Linefind (Kent et al., 1983), or some form of great-circle intersection analysis (e.g. McFadden & McElhinny, 1988); and rock magnetic work (e.g. coercivity spectrum analysis) to provide a better idea of what's carrying the magnetization, and when and how the magnetization components were formed. Stability tests such as the fold test or reversal test might also by employed to check the reliability of the remanence. In this context, I remember once being told that some large proportion (tens of per cent) of palaeomagnetic directions determined during the early days of the field had subsequently been invalidated when sites and samples were re-analysed using modern methodologies. Occasionally I come across an individual study which explicitly invalidates an earlier one; for example, Turner et al. (1989) revised the findings of Kennett and Watkins (1974), citing ‘serious errors in the interpretation of the results’. I've never come across a published study which attempts a quantitative survey of how often such invalidations occur. Does anyone know of any publications which provide such a review of early palaeomagnetic studies and their reproducibility -- or lack thereof?