[where p is pressure, t is time, z is height, and w is vertical motion in height coordinates] Often in general meteorology you can estimate dp/dz using the hydrostatic approximation, which assumes gravity and buoyancy approximately balance. This allows the equations: 

Of course, the wind speed rules aren't standardized globally, as this WRAL meteorologist discusses. In fact, they aren't even entirely consistent in the US, as the Hurricane Center uses a 1-minute average for sustained winds for hurricane intensity, and 3-5 second period for gusts. So, even having done coursework on meteorological measurement systems, it's about as muddled to me now as it is to you. Probably report the most recent 2 minute average as the actual wind, and the highest instantaneous or 5-second average as the gust? (with requirement that it exceeds set criteria as DavePhD's answer alludes to, if you wish) 

I always found this style question interesting as a meteorology graduate teaching assistant, as there often seemed to be a variety of ways to attempt to answer it. It's also often one of the earlier abstract type of questions in lower-level meteorology courses, and thus one I really encouraged my students to avoid resorting to help with the answer too quickly on, as exercises like these prove vital to developing persistence and creativity in trying to derive meteorological equations - and if you can't learn to fight through questions like these, you'll be lost in dynamics/thermodynamics/etc and beyond... So if you're in a course with this type of question assigned, as much as it's painful, if haven't gotten your own good answer yet, please keep retrying and rereading on your own until you come up with something, even if only partial or uncertain. You'll learn more that way than by reading answers in the long run. And then come back after the assignment is over and learn some more here! 

However, do note that Buys Ballot is really an imperfect estimation. There's three big caveats/adjustments to consider: [in all following description, replace left with right (and vice versa) for Southern Hemisphere] 

Mooncalc.org offers a pretty comprehensive set of tools for viewing the moon. Click on the location you want, then drag the slider on top through the day to see which direction's sky the moon will be in (or times where it will not be visible). And it shows the moon's shape you will see (I presume that's as viewed with nearest horizon down?) (For those interested, suncalc.org is their sister site for the sun.) I'm not an astronomer, but this article from Goddard Space Flight Center looks like it offers a very solid discussion of libration, and the causes due to moon's orbit, the relative location of the moon from different viewing locations, and the tilt of the Earth in relation to the sun. 

(image from NASA MODIS satellite) That spline is the blessing that led to the growth of your country... and its the great challenge of the country today. 

Which shows eastern Washington and western Idaho have gone near 7-10 years since seeing a tornado warning, more just about anywhere else in the country. The danger of severe convective weather is remarkably low in that region of the country overall. 

Now that doesn't mean working from radar isn't helpful. The "precipitation nowcasts" are probably better for you, taking out the complexity of all that Z-R relationship stuff just mentioned to just give you a mm/hr (though the site may well not be taking enough into account to give worthwhile values in all situations). But you can have some comfort from the fact that in the US we do regularly use basically the same idea to what you're doing to identify floods and even roughly track snowfall areas. But unfortunately it's a real pity it doesn't seem most countries like Japan offer as many detailed radar products for free as we get. In the US, the NWS gives us storm-total precipitation plots directly, which provides us the total return accumulation (since last reset) so we don't have to track the aggregation ourselves. Plus we have direct access to the full radar data files, which would remove the overcome the value stratification issues from the imagery and simplify the process. But unfortunately I couldn't find anything about any rawer data files in my searching other than for the US site in Okinawa. Your method does sounds fairly decent, particularly for Nagano since it appears to have it's own radar (based upon that earlier list). I do imagine it'll still have some errors at times, being off by a fairly decent percentage sometimes. Even here in the US, we're only just starting to cautiously venture more into more high resolution official snow analyses. So it won't be nearly perfect, but it'll probably have some reasonable utility, and perhaps is your best method on this avenue. However, I want to give you a couple more options that may well end up being better for you, depending upon your interest: Initial model plots: Global models, like the American GFS, use large amounts of data to create their initial conditions. And so among their products, they offer current snow cover plots. Pivotal Weather offers a useful tool to mouseover and get values at any point in a plot like this one: 

** All of the links given with times will need to be adjusted to current dates if reading this at later times or else will appear dead ** Once upon a time I dealt with such files, but not in quite a few years... and Google wasn't the best help at first in finding documentation on what the .ascii is exactly... but thanks to Kevin Goebbert's code here, I was able to find the description page for the model in question is located by removing the .ascii and inputs (and thus here): And so right now it lists: 

This tweet from Brian McNoldy includes a graph suggesting that tropical cyclones are typically getting named earlier in the year in the Atlantic: 

Obviously detailed hydrological models are the only way to properly incorporate the varied topography and other unique factors in each situation. But it would seem useful for a lot of folks, whether tens of miles downsource of a mountain stream (such as might've been vital as the Big Thompson flood started), dozens of miles down a valley from a dammed waterway (like those further down the Feather/Sacramento Rivers tonight), or hundreds of miles down a flooding major river (such as the 1993 Mississippi Flood), especially given the varying warning networks in place around the world, to have a rough scale of how quickly an unexpected flood might translate downstream their way. Is it a matter of hours, days, weeks? A rough worst-case scenario of how quickly they may have to react is what is desired. Would seem a reasonable formula for a loose estimate might reasonably include the volume of water flowing, the expected channel size, and the elevation change (or alternatively, just the speed of the water... but if you knew that, you really don't need any special formula!). Does such a formula like this exist? Or are there good empirical estimates for those different situations I presented? Or is each case just so unique that there's no hope of such an estimate? 

From Wikipedia And that goes really well with Why Is It Colder in the Mountains Than at Sea Level As tbb noted, the band near 30 north/south tends overall (climatologically) to be drier and hotter due to descending air caused by the Hadley circulation. As to why this area stands out in comparison with other locations at the same latitude, the moisture in the air has quite a bit to do with it: 

Agree with Ash, I think it's a mistake. Dimensionally: $$\frac{S}{4}(1−A)$$ is going to have the units of $S$ has because $A$, albedo, is a unitless ratio. Insolation comes in over an area, so is measured in $W/m^2$ as you've got. The only way I can see you'd get units of $W/m$ is by multiplying by a distance somewhere, perhaps by integrating its values over a latitudinal distance or something... but that's not really insolation (or exoatmosphereic flux as you call it!) anymore. No, all values of S should be $W/m^2$. 

As Fred said, it's just an unfortunate word choice that makes you think the professor is suggesting air flows towards the high. Indeed, a surface high pressure south of Sydney would be the circumstance to have the air circulate around it in such a way as to "draw" air onshore from off the shore... even as it's actually really flowing somewhat away from the high. There's a long-range model forecast showing exactly this setup building after a strong low potentially passes by this week... and so Sydney may be held cooler again just in time for Boxing Day: 

Typically changes like cooling and slackening winds are not conducive to storms, and as the graph shows, are rebound soon after the eclipse end. It wouldn't seem it's much trouble to include the eclipse... just include a single if statement that checks a date variable holding the next eclipse time. And then, if it is the eclipse, just modify the insolation variable, probably just by the percentage of the sun's area covered up (which there's probably pretty simple equations to calculate?). Just seems most haven't really taken the time, perhaps in part because of the event rarity. Because major operational models are improved during quite regular cycles, including such a rarely-applicable feature like that may end up as more maintenance work than the benefits are worth. There may not be much in the way of dangerous weather created during an eclipse, but that doesn't mean there is no weather. The next US eclipse in 2024 does offer more potential to be a more weather significant encounter. Most high-end severe weather in the US occurs during spring as shown with: 

Though I imagine it's unlikely there is any significant correlation because daily and annual temperature variation really only impact a fairly shallow layer of the crust, I wondered whether the actual data backs that up. I could envision a few unlikely causes, such as the expansion\contraction, rainfall amounts, or crazy things like the little differences in earth-sun distance. So what say you? 

(ETA images courtesy of Iowa State's MTArchive) The plots are two days apart. So how do you get the conditions to change from the left image to the right over such a period? While clouds, storms, and sunlight differences can help drive small contrasts, the only way to get such a large, widespread boundary... is to have winds develop that draw the contrasting temperatures tighter together...