Source: exrx.net. Workouts that emphasize your upper chest will be forward pushing motions angled in the direction of your head such as the 'incline bench press' or 'decline push-ups'. Update: Corrected this answer. I was mistakenly calling the upper pec the 'pectoralis minor' when it's actually the clavicular sub-region of the 'pectoralis major'. Sorry about that. 

When you do workouts that push your heart into the anaerobic range (think faster than a light jog) your body's oxygen intake will max out and it will start metabolizing anaerobically (without oxygen). The byproduct of anaerobic metabolism is still a controversial topic (due to traditional teaching vs current research) but it's basically what causes the 'burn' you feel from a hard workout. If you don't take the steps to process the byproduct of an anaerobic workout you'll feel more sore the next day. That's why going from a sprint to a dead stop is a bad idea. So how do you recover after an anaerobic workout? Do a proper cool-down aerobic workout (like a light jog) to provide the oxygen and circulation your body needs to process those byproducts created through the anaerobic (or strenuous) exercise. 

You have a few options... Option 1 - Gradually increase intensity overall: You can continue with the same intensity for each round like you have been. Just increase the speed of the high speed legs when they start to get too easy. When I kick up a notch I usually do it in 1/2 mi/hr increments which would be a little less than 1km/hr for you. You should still continue to see benefits as you increase and adapt because it'll keep forcing your V02 MAX and anaerobic threshold to increase as you push harder. The downside to this plan is, you probably have some good days where you run really well and some bad where you don't really run as well; especially as the workouts start to become a lot more difficult. A more dynamic plan will enable you to adjust to always be pushing your maximum. The pattern for this workout would be: 6k 13k 6k 13k 6k 13k 6k 13k 6k ... And the high intensity length (13k) would increase by 1k the next workout if you feel like you need to push more. Option 2 - Increase until you break: Start below your current maximum and gradually increase beyond. What I mean is, if you're 13km/hr max now, start at 10 (or lower) and for each round of high intensity increase the speed 1km/hr. Keep increasing until you hit your real maximum (when you don't see yourself doing another high intensity round any faster) then decrease at the same rate until you reach cool down. The benefit of this pattern is, you'll be pushing your maximum during every workout. So, some days you'll hit 16k/hr others you'll only reach 13k/hr. You push based on how much you can handle. This becomes more important as you reach the absolute maximum you can do. Because of the length of your workouts (45 min is a lot for HIIT) you could probably do your whole warm-up and cooldown using this. Ie, start at 6k/hr, increase to max, cool back down to 6k. The pattern for this workout is: 10k 6k 11k 6k 12k 6k 13k 6k 14k 6k 15k 6k 16k 6k 15k 6k 14k 6k 13k 6k 12k 6k 11k 6k 10k 6k The really hard part about this workout is the round right after you reach your max. It takes a lot of discipline to stick to the routine because the max will take a lot out of you. If that isn't challenge enough for you, I don't know what is... Try it this out and see how it works for you. You could probably even develop one where you peak multiple times during the workout and increase/decrease at a faster rate. 

Satisfy the craving... As long as you're capable of only indulging a little, it doesn't have a measurable impact on your progress, and it's a 'physical' craving not an 'emotional' one; it shouldn't hurt. Just keep in mind that not all cravings are equal. 

Eat bananas after a workout. A healthy source of potassium is essential to prevent muscle soreness. If you have ever drank (alcohol) heavily you may have also experienced muscle soreness. This is due to losing a lot of electrolytes (salt, potassium) due to the diuretic effects of alcohol. 

Don't run constantly... I smoke occasionally (definitely not a regular habit but rare occasions like when I drink) and have sports induced asthma (you may suffer from the same). Don't worry, it goes away when you get into better shape. I know how it feels because I have to go through it every time I decide I'm going to start getting back into shape. What I've found recently is simple. Change from running to a light jog at regular intervals. I found that the burning lung feeling is no longer an issue. You can still get some effective running in without the miserable feeling afterward. If you listen to music while you run, goto this site and download one of the intervals podcast mixes. They're programmed with audio cues that let you know when to switch from running to jogging. SideNote: I actually didn't realize how much worse off I was (I always did cardio solo when I was younger) until recently when I worked out with a buddy of mine. We both did about the same run (even though I'm probably in better shape physically) and he felt good when we finished whereas I felt like I was about to die. I just assumed that everybody felt like hell when they first start trying to get back into shape. I didn't know it was possible to go from out of shape to working out and walk away feeling good immediately afterward. BTW, I was actually diagnosed with sports induced asthma by a doctor when I was a kid and an asthma attack almost killed me. 

Water isn't your only concern To hydrate properly it's important to restore water and electrolytes. Especially if you're doing strenuous exercise in a hot environment where you sweat a lot. Electrolytes are important to replenish because, if you don't you can become water drunk and potentially die. By electrolytes I mean salt and potassium. Gatorade is a popular sports drink because it replenishes not only water but also salt and potassium (even if it does have too much sugar). You can find other powder mixes to replace electrolytes such as Emergen-C elector mix or you can make your own with salt and mortens diet salt (which is pure potassium). Google around to find the correct ratios. Dehydration usually starts rearing it's ugly head with an irritable personality and headache followed by light-headed-ness. If you get that far you're in trouble and should do everything you can to find a source of water to drink. It's not only how much you drink but how you drink It's also important to sip water when you drink it. If you drink too much too fast your body doesn't have the time to properly absorb so you urinate a lot of it out. I always hear people use the 8 glasses as a hard and fast rule. If you chug 8 glasses of water a day you aren't necessarily gaining the benefits. Plus, how much water you require depends largely on your environment. Too much in a cold environment will make you pee a lot because your body is conserving the energy that would otherwise be wasted warming excess water in your bladder. To little in a hot environment and your skin won't be able to perspirate properly leading to heat exhaustion and dehydration. Way too much in any environment and you could die. Sometimes dehydration has less to do with water and more to do with what else you drink What most people don't realize is that coffee, tea, and anything containing caffeine are diuretics. A diuretic is basically a compound that makes you urinate a lot and thus lose more water mass than you would normally. 

Large doses (Ie, greater than 1000mg) are usually only taken as a measure to lower cholesterol in place of statins or other prescribed medications. Also, the 'slow release' or 'no flush' formulas have been known to cause liver damage if taken in large doses. pantothenic acid (B5): 

Source: exrx.net. This is the region that makes up the majority of the muscle mass in the Pectoralis Major. Adding a decline to a bench press or doing exercises that push forward in a manner that is angled toward your hips will emphasize this region. Upper Pec - Pectoralis Major (Clavicular Head) 

I agree with everything md5sum says but there are a few thing's I'd add. What the link points out is that, while aerobic exercise burns more calories during the exercise (and soon afterward), the anaerobic exercise continues to burn calories well after the exercise (up to 38 hours) because your body uses a lot of energy during recovery (reversing the residual affects of the anaerobic exercise). It's important to know how to distinguish between aerobic/anaerobic exercise. Check out this heart rate chart. 

Avoid compound exercises until you heal Compound exercises are exercises that utilize a wide range of muscles such as running, dead lifting, sports, push-ups, pull-ups, etc. Basically, exercises that use a wide range of muscles almost always utilize your core. Not only do you want to avoid using your back but also your abs until the damage is healed. The only exception to this rule would be low impact exercises like swimming. Your best bet is to either limit yourself to a very small subset of isolation exercises that strictly avoid using your back, quit exercising and let it heal, or hop in a pool. The pool is probably your best bet as it will allow you to stretch and use the muscles as they heal without causing any additional stress/injury. 

Don't increase your low intensity intervals to be much more than 6km/hr. If you do, it'll start to rob you of your recovery between intervals. If you want more of a challenge, just increase the intensity of the high intensity intervals. 

Look closer, sprinters have muscular everything... People tend to lump all different types of running into one category but it's more complicated than that. Marathon runners run long distances, within an aerobic heart range (ex 133 < 152 bpm for a 30yr male), maximizing distance by decreasing load as much as possible. Typically, if you do a dedicated endurance running regiment your body will favor Type I (slow twitch) muscle mass which uses energy (oxygen, glycogen) more efficiently and reduce Type II (fast twitch) muscle mass which trades efficiency for power. That's why experienced marathon runners will typically appear very skinny. Sprinters are the opposite. Sprinting requires exercise to be pushed into the aerobic ranges up the V02 max (ex 152 < 190 bpm for a 30yr male). The body has a limited amount of time it can maintain an anaerobic intensity due to the impurities that anaerobic metabolism create. To increase the intensity and duration you need more Type II (fast twitch) muscle mass and an increased ability to process the impurities created by anaerobic stress. That's why you can hit the 'runners high' during an aerobic workout where you feel like you can keep going forever and you get the 'muscle burn' from doing anaerobic workouts. So why are sprinters so muscular? First, increase your anaerobic range to be higher by doing HIIT (High Intensity Interval Training) workouts. Basically, do short hard bursts for of activity (like sprinting) for a few minutes followed by recovery periods to allow your body to recover from the anaerobic stress. The rule is, the harder you push, the harder you will be able to push. Second, here's where distinguishing between marathon runners and sprinters will start to make sense. HIIT training (including sprinting) uses your whole body. Make no mistake, high impact, high intensity exercises work your core and upper body as well as your lower body. Unlike endurance running, it's actually beneficial to focus on all muscle groups as long as you're not just putting on unnecessary bulk. Third, Type II muscle burns lots of energy and I mean a lot. Not only do sprinters have a lot of Type II mass from head to toe, they also have highly optimized circulatory systems. The high energy burn and increased blood flow lead to a very low body fat percentage giving a very defined 'cut' look. In conclusion, Type II muscle mass and upper body strength is bad for an endurance runner because it adds weight and unnecessarily consumes more energy. But, for a sprinter Type II upper body mass is generally a result of working out and also a good counter to balance the force being exerted by the lower body. 

Properly warm up your muscles. If you have ever worked out with a heart rate monitor you probably already know that your body doesn't go from 0-max very well. It takes some time for your circulatory system to fully adjust to the increased intensity.