I've always had difficulty in distinguishing phrases from compound words. To me, spelling a compound word without spaces between the constituents seem to be mostly arbitrary. For example the spelling of English words/phrases "mountain lion" and "junglefowl" seem totally arbitrary to me. I don't understand why the first is considered a phrase and the second is considered a word. Sometimes I hear a definition based on semantic shift along the lines of "if the newly formed entity presents a semantic shift, it's a new word". But there are many phrases with important semantic shifts that are not considered a single word like "beating a dead horse" and vice versa. I've also observed that some compound words in Turkish (I couldn't think of English examples but I'm sure they exist) present certain phonetic, prosodic or morphological changes compared to their phrasal origins: 

There are two things going on here. As it is correctly stated in the question, the primary use case of the -(y)En suffix is to modify the head noun when it's the subject of the embedded clause. Let's call it the use case A. 

The exact pronunciation of vowels differ from language to language, from dialect to dialect and even from person to person. Vowels are also influenced by the other surrounding sounds. So the short answer to your first question is: No, that chart does not fully describe the exact vowels as pronounced by a native French speaker. Vowels have many distinguishing features like back/front, open/close, rounded/unrounded. These features together form a vowel space and that chart is a two dimensional representation of that vowel space. But the vowel space is continuous; for example, Turkish also has an open vs. close /e/ but the Turkish close /e/ is more open than the French close /e/. IPA does have diacritics to notate finer distinctions but they're rarely used in the context of a single language. Furthermore, vowels have other distinguishing features like buccal/nasal, rhotic/non-rhotic, short/long etc. French happens to have nasal vowels too. They're not represented in that chart (but they are here). In short, there is no substitute to listening to native speakers and practicing (a lot). Having said that, learning how to pronounce the generic IPA sounds can be an excellent starting point for almost any language. 

Nişanyan gives this table in his etymological dictionary of Turkish (Sözlerin Soyağacı, ISBN: 9789752896369): Front consonants: ب‎ ت‎ ث‎ ج‎ ز‎ س‎ ش‎ ك‎ ل‎ م‎ ن‎ ه‎ ی‎ Back consonants: ح‎ خ‎ ص‎ ض‎ ط‎ ظ‎ ع‎ غ‎ ق‎ Unstable consonants: د‎ ذ‎ ر‎ ف‎ و‎‎ You can look here for what consonants they correspond to in Ottoman Turkish (it didn't change much since then). Basically, emphatic consonants (and some others) were used with back vowels and the rest were used with front vowels. To my experience this explains 80%-90% of the vowel changes. But different words have different histories. For example words that were frequently used by common people were further assimilated (vowel harmony, devoicing at coda position etc.) in less predictable ways while words that were used by the educated classes remained closer to the originals. 

Turkish has 5 to 8 noun cases (depending on who you ask) and invariable adjectives. Same is true for other Turkic languages (with differing number of cases). 

Geoffrey Lewis's book Turkish Language Reform: A Catastrophic Success is an excellent resource about the Turkish language reform which aimed to "purify" the Turkish language by replacing borrowings from Arabic (and, to a lesser extent, from other languages) with supposed "pure Turkish" words. As the title says, it did succeed to a great extent, but not without consequences. It's not a linguistic book per se, but it provides valuable background and historical perspective on the attitude of different groups of people towards Arabic borrowings in Turkish and their replacements. One can build a very good understanding of the sociolinguistic aspects of the phenomenon on it. On a personal note, I just want to add that as a native Turkish speaker and a linguistics enthusiast, it's one of my favorite books of all time. 

You're observation is correct and you're not missing anything. The original case information is simply lost with (and ) participles. So is most of the original tense information by the way: is for relative non-future and is for relative future but finer distinctions are lost. If context is not enough to recover the lost information one has to use more specific verbs or circumlocutions. For example, if the object is a person, one way to express the original case information is to use the reflexive pronoun "kendi" in that case: Komşumla konuştum. O gelecek. → Kendisiyle konuştuğum komşum gelecek. So, yes, "geldiğim köy" may mean "the village I came to" or "the village I came from", but also "the village I come to", "the village I had come from" etc. Ambiguity is a fact of real languages, we just have to learn to live with it. 

In Turkish, the glove compartment of a car is called "torpido gözü", the literal translation of which is "torpedo compartment". None of the dictionaries I have access to has an etymology for the usage. I scanned the words for glove compartment in quite a few languages and apparently the Romanian word is "torpedou". Romania and Turkey are not immediate neighbors and other neighboring countries don't seem to use this word. But I can't rule out local or slang words. There seem to be quite a few car models in the past named "Torpedo" and there may be a connection but I couldn't come up with a specific explanation. So... Does anyone know the etymology for this usage or at least does anyone have a hypothesis? If not, is there any other languages that use the word "torpedo" for glove compartment (slang or local words are welcome too)? Maybe it can shed some light on the issue. 

The Farsi word "جادو" /dʒɒ:du:/ is thought to be cognate with Sanskrit "यातु" /ja:tu/, with a similar meaning. On the other hand, "voodoo" is thought to be ultimately derived from one of the Gbe languages of West Africa. With such a large geographical distance between Indo-Arian and Gbe, no obvious possibility of contact and small phonetic similarity (/CVdu/), I'd bet my money on pure coincidence. 

I'm trying to compile a list of possible types of word origins as a preliminary work before trying to design a database of etymological relations between words (mainly for Turkish but the ultimate goal is broader). By types of word origins, I mean things like evolution (with sound shifts from older forms), compounding, derivation (with affixes, ablaut, reduplication, analogy etc.), borrowing, calque, phono-semantic matching, different kinds of semantic shifts etc. I'm equally interested in historical phonological changes and historical semantic changes. Are there any established classification of etymological relations between words? Can someone refer me to some previous studies on the field? 

First of all, I understand that these typological distinctions are not absolute and almost all languages show signs of almost all morphological strategies but most display a certain tendency towards one or the other. I also understand that agglutinative languages are said to use bound morphemes called affixes for many grammatical functions where isolating/analytic languages prefer independent function words like adpositions and particles. What I'm not sure about is how an affix is differentiated from a particle. As a result, I'm not sure about how to distinguish (mostly) agglutinative languages from (mostly) analytic languages. I'm a native Turkish speaker. In Turkish, affixes undergo certain (mostly predictable) phonological assimilations (like vowel harmony) according to the base morpheme they're attached to. Less often the base morpheme also undergoes similar (again, mostly predictable) changes. This is how I differentiate, say, a case suffix from a postposition. The former undergoes the assimilations while the latter doesn't. For example: 

Here, I can tell that the first one is a case suffix because it undergoes vowel harmony and voice assimilation while the second is a mere postposition because it doesn't undergo similar changes. Are these criteria applicable to other agglutinative languages? If not, what other methods are used to distinguish an affix from an independent function word? 

According S. Starostin et al., Estonian , along with Finnish comes from Proto-Uralic . I have no knowledge of Uralic languages nor access to any mainstream Uralic books, so I can't comment on how reliable this reconstruction is. If you believe the Altaic theory and its particular reconstruction by them, Mongolian comes from Proto-Altaic . Here, I have to say that their case about Turkish and related forms not being Arabic because of "front vocalism and final e" is plain wrong. Turkish is a very regular reflex of Arabic , including front vocalism and final e. I personally noticed many similar errors and dubious claims about Turkic in their Altaic dictionary and others pointed out other problems concerning other languages. So it's by no means mainstream. Furthermore, based on these reconstructions and some others, they also reconstruct a Proto-Nostratic , which is the answer to your question if you find them "remotely credible". 

What is the linguistic term for words like sir, mam, miss, pal, bro, dude, buddy, son, mom/mum, dad etc.? Although I understand that there is a fair degree of overlap, I'm not looking for the term "title". Titles are used with the addressee's name. I'm specifically looking for the term for the words used without (instead of) the addressee's name. 

What is the etymology of the Latin suffix "-ālis" (and related forms like "-āris") as in "nātūrālis"? Do we know any corresponding suffix in other Indo-European languages? 

To me, these changes prove that, in the minds of the speakers the newly formed entities became new words; they behave like a single word instead of a phrase. So I can understand why they are considered compounds instead of phrases. Is there any objective definition that separates a compound word from a phrase? 

Of the top of my head, French comes close. According to Wikipedia "the approximants [j], [ɥ] and [w] correspond to /i/, /y/ and /u/ respectively. While there are a few minimal pairs (such as loua [lu.a] 's/he rented' and loi [lwa] 'law'), there are many cases where there is free variation". Also many linguists consider Proto-Indo-European *i and *u as vocalic allophones of *y and *w (or vice versa). Some people also suggest that PIE laryngeals had vocalic allophones. I'd guess approximant/vowel allophones not to be uncommon cross-linguistically. 

The first thing that is going on is that -(y)En is also used when the head noun is the the modifier of a possessive construction functioning as the subject of the embedded clause. Since it's an extension of the use case A, let's call it the use case A'. 

The alphabet looks made up. Lots of angles with not enough curves and loops, not very practical for pen and paper. Therefore I believe it's a substitution cipher (but probably not English). Here are some observations: 

The second form can also be the indirect version of (he was coming) and may also encode other types of (somehow related) aspectual/modal/evidential information (for example when the speaker has just noticed that "he's coming"). But I've never seen a thorough analysis of "-Dİr" forms like . These forms, among other things, may be used to encode that it's a guess made by the speaker. They can be used with (the Turkish equivalents of) "I'm sure that", "I think that", "probably", "maybe" etc. It does not necessarily encode inferential evidence which can also be done with the indirect form above or periphrastically (, "he must be coming"). In fact, it can be used in case of total lack of evidence to express pure guesswork. Does lack of evidence and pure guesswork count as evidentiality? Or is there another term for it? Note: Here, my analysis of "-Dİr" forms are not very relevant. There are too many complications in their usage. My question is simply: "Can a form that expresses lack of evidence be classified as an evidential?" 

The second thing that is going on is that sometimes -(y)En can also be used when the subject of the embedded clause has low definiteness and animacy and the head noun is in dative -(y)E, locative -DE or ablative -DEN with a directional or locative function (not when they function as indirect objects). In rare cases, it can also be used when the head noun is the direct object in accusative case -(y)İ. Let's label all these use cases the use case B. 

The example in the original question is what we can label as the use case B'. It happens when the head noun modifies an argument that would be eligible for the use case B in a possessive construction. 

Of course all these points can have alternative explanations. Someone needs to do a letter and digram frequency analysis. I wish I had more time :) 

Modern linguistics does not rule out the possibility that all languages of the world descended from a single language. But the mainstream consensus seems to be an agnostic one: Most think that this hypothesis is not testable, at least not with the current data. Languages change. More you try to track those changes back in time using scientific methods (comparative and internal reconstruction), less you become certain about the properties of the proto-language. For instance, now linguists have a pretty clear picture of the properties of the Proto-Indo-European language, the ancestor of English, Spanish, Russian, Hindi an many others, conjectured to be spoken some time between 7th and 4th millennia BC. But there are many unresolved problems and uncertainties. These uncertainties cause problems in so called long range reconstructions. When you try to apply the comparative method to proto-languages, most of the time you come up with things like "the word for 'foot' must be a consonant followed by a vowel followed by a consonant followed by a vowel (CVCV)". Obviously it doesn't help much. So, most mainstream linguists seem to be inclined to think that these uncertainties make long range reconstructions unfeasible past a certain point in time. But some linguists do nevertheless work on long range reconstructions using more or less accepted methods. (check here for example) Besides, we have very good reasons to conclude that Hebrew cannot be the proto-world language. It's a part of the well-studied Semitic language family. It has current (like Arabic) and historical (like Akkadian) relatives. There is ample evidence that together they go back to an older proto-language: Proto-Semitic. And there is also evidence that Proto-Semitic, in turn, goes back to an even older proto-language called Proto-Afroasiatic. The "convincing" examples you give are not convincing at all. The English word "direction", for instance, has a well established etymology that goes back to Proto-Indo-European, through French and Latin. Those are chance resemblances. If you scan enough words, you're eventually going to come up with some words with somehow similar meanings and that look somehow similar between any two languages. So, this definitely isn't a scientific method. Scientific comparison requires regular correspondences. Many of them. Try to find some material on how Proto-Indo-European was painstakingly reconstructed by linguists with more than a century's work. In short, no, the Edenics is not rejected because it tries to legitimize something from the Bible. It's rejected simply because there is no scientific evidence that supports Edenics and there is ample scientific evidence that rules it out.