You've got a situation where belief is pretty powerful - but for whatever reason, disbelief is even more so, since a few people being skeptical can cancel out the belief of a number of other people. So the things that end up being successful in your world, tend to be low-level "maybeso it could happen" because it "only" has to overcome "it maybeso might not", instead of "it doesn't work that way" or "I haven't seen this work" It might be useful to talk about, hmm, knowledge? The difference between things we know because we're told, or because we logic or reason them - and the things we know because we know them, instinct and impulse, in the body not the mind. Us, we know we walk on the ground, and people and things don't go flying off without cause... we believe it is because of gravity, and so believe in all its associated theories, until or unless something proves it wrong. One is obviously going to be a lot harder to alter than the other - it will be a lot easier to alter the details of gravity theory (like, say, the exact acceleration downwards) than convince people that if you step wrong you might fly upwards into the air. After all, they'll look at each other and ask who has seen this happen, and not believe it when the answer is, no one. Pumpkins won't appear in midair because instinctively, impulsively, they know it hasn't happened before and it probably won't happen now, even if some fast-talking wizard (plus or minus alcohol or more mysterious intoxicants) tries his level best to convince them it might, in order to make it possible to do so. That disbelief makes it hard to start new phenomenon, find new spells, or make things work quickly. If you want to make it even harder to play into that feedback loop, you can include non-human minds in the mix. Animals might not believe things, by being taught or reasoning, but they probably do know things, like that they always fall to the earth, and don't float off through the air. Birds know how they fly (whatever theories mere humans have), and they're really sure pumpkins doesn't spontaneously appear in midair with them. It would probably drastically cut down your wizards' ability to propaganda themselves some laws of magic. Otherwise, I think you might be underestimating how beliefs change over time. That rain dance takes a few weeks to brew up clouds because people are unsure to begin with, but when it actually rains some will wonder if the dance is possible. A few seasons down the road, and most will "know" the rain dance pulls up clouds within a week or so - and a decade or two later, it strongly rains the next day. People are superstitious, and there's nothing they like better than to think they have influence. It just takes time for their observations to match up with what's happening, and feed belief-power back into the spells. Generations pass on the ritual of great harvests, and "soon the fields sprout" becomes the "quick sprouting" which goes to becomes "seeds sprout and quickly grow" becomes after a bit more time "plants sprout and mature so quickly you can see their fruit" and after that, it's just a jump from "the plants appear and grow food so quick it's as if they come from the air" over to "and then the pumpkins appeared in midair. Great harvest festival, yeah!". It may take generations to get there, but this is a world, and it has a history, and so it has generations to spare. And people will believe, both to think it and know it, those things they themselves have seen and experienced. I expect wizards would latch onto groups of people, and theories of magic. Probably most would be sincere and working with what they actually believe they can do and how, but since their power depends on feeding the latter to the former, the more shortcuts and shenanigans they come up with to spread their propaganda the better off they'll be. Cults with a bunch of fanatically believing followers might be able to believe strongly enough to support more flashy effects in front of others, converting them to the power of the magic through observation (you saw it, it must be real). Others would build up bigger and more plausible effects (rain dances, harvest rituals), that will take time to build a proper belief in, but which will have a lot more power once people buy into it, because a lot believe in it pretty deeply. Exoticism will help - it has been done in that faraway place, there is a secret from this mystic-seeming people, anything to make people believe it happened elsewhere, makes them believe its possible. Religion or calling on outside gods or forces can also help because it gives outs and explanations for failure, or mechanisms for creating stories to help fill in the gaps of what people think works, before it can be tried for real. Ritualization can be used to great effect like this because it's complex and opaque enough to let people turn correlation into causation, people don't expect to understand it unless they're specialists, and nonspecific 'changes to the ritual' could be used to change the effects (especially if planted well in advance as rumors - insta-feedback on how far you can stretch belief). Your commoners might not know magical theories to begin with, but wizards will quickly correct that - the more people they tell their theories to, the more they find supporting proof, how about that. Possibly there will very eventually emerge some broad consensus, about what magic is, what it can do, and how the experts do it - think of it as the difference between what the experts in science say they are and can do, and what the average layperson thinks they're doing. Or, more likely, there will be multiple, competing systems based out of different groups or populations which were taught competing theories of magic, and have seen their own wizards produce results enough to know that is, in fact, how magic works. It'll turn to religious wars pretty quick. Maybe you think I've given a lot of power to the wizards? The thing is, people have believed lots of things, and believed them pretty strongly, without a helpful feedback mechanism that makes the things we believe eventually real. Also, if you think the wizards have power? Wait till you see how much power the storytellers have... especially since good narratives have lots of drama, which means about as much bad stuff as good stuff, as many wrong paths as right ones. And that's only the magical mechanics - if belief shapes reality, can you bear to think of the horror of the narrative-magics warping people, how people think and behave and what they're supposed to do? it'll be chaos! To think there are answers where they have dared to give wizards the powers of psychology... 

Throw a party! So, you can block the telepath form reading with tinfoil hats. On the other hand, both a group mysteriously in tinfoil hats, and a group who mysteriously cannot be read, will be highly suspicious if approaching the guards or the telepath. The guards may notice group, the telepath might look to see their intentions (and see, not just a "lack of negative" but a lack of anything), and if the group cold overcome the guards and telepath while on full alert, they wouldn't need the tinfoil advantage! And getting caught will expose the plot, the tinfoil advantage, and the group. So... buy up stocks of tinfoil - lots and lots and lots, please. Pick up some spray-paint, some paper, and, critically, glitter. And throw a party! The point is, make lots of tinfoil hats. Make paper hats. Make mixed hats. Make tinfoil not-hat acessories, clothing accessories, and other decorations, and also craft with paper ones, add paint and glitter and decorations liberally. This crafting step can take as long as you need. Openly tell people you want to plan a party or parade, in honor of whatever holiday or event is closest to your chosen time. Make sure your group knows you've got something planned for the day after the party. Those of your group in the know, must wear a thin layer of tinfoil under regular caps, and only take them off if they're very sure they won't give anything away (like timing, date, or tinfoil advantage). And, on the chosen day, have your group wear their souped-up, decorated, shiny tinfoil hats. Let them hand out hats (tinfoil, paper, mixed) to anyone and everyone. Drape passers-by with tinfoil decorated scarves, belts, toys, necklaces (made of paper, of course, to be cheap). Hand out sugar, sprinkle confetti, and basically get people laughing, worked up, joyful and a bit reckless. Make sure the wine and beer flow liberally (seed the crowds with people willing to share their flasks). Get everyone hyper. Everyone, everyone is suddenly wearing tinfoil hats. Your group wearing them (and other decorations) will not stand out. People are up and active and excited, making them harder to read - and masking that chunks of the population will be wafting in and out of readability as hats get passed around, donned, swapped out with paper ones, or forgotten. your group being mostly-unreadable will not stand out. Now is the time to act! (please remember to let your group know that, it's not tomorrow after all! It is happening today!) Grab some young and reckless teens (not known for sound decision making), Maybe a few of the party-reckless adults, and prime them with the idea that, poor telepaths, the local one (or couple) should be included in the fun. Include as many as you can in your group, and approach the telepath's location. The guards will see the tinfoil, but so many people are wearing them. The telepath will notice some are invisible to their senses, but those who are visible - are harmless, looking to invite the kid to party with them, have fun, cheer them up! They are handing out the decorated hats and drapes! (oh-is-that-why-people-are-hard-to-read, the telepath goes) The telepath will probably, sheltered kid, think them harmless - maybeso even let them in. Certainly not let the guards overreact to harmless kids, fuelled with sugar and alcohol! And, yeah, once each group is close enough, and once the guards have been told they aren't a threat, once the telepath is within reasonable reach - your group surges forward, with a shout of good natured cheer, and proceeds to an old fashioned assasination. If they managed to get close enough, the atmosphere wild enough, the camouflaged people thick enough - they might seem to have simply tried to sweep the telepath up in their celebration, and some dastardly rogue assassin took advantage (instead of the whole group being in on it). If the group has enough people, assassinating several telepaths at the same time in different locations might get really good results. The remaining telepaths will be reeling, and the overlapping coverage will be in tatters. There will once again be zones uncovered, there will be unrest, a scandal of how telepaths managed to be surprised like that. The gurads will be crippled - c'mon, how much will they have leaned on the telepaths for answers of where to go and what to do, instead of investigating, planning, and acting on their own? The group can openly beat their chests and voice outrage about the monsters who have defiled their innocent festival, and launch their own investigation that (accidentally) completely muddies the waters. They can question, or have "clean" allies question, just how effective the telepath setup could be if they didn't see the "rouge assassins" plotting, or even striking, just because of a holiday! Some can carefully use this proof-they-are-not-omniscient as an excuse to bring up questions about how certain they are, that the kids were that sensitive, that accurate, that they hadn't made other mistakes in the past, let the guilty go, or pinned crimes on a nearby innocent. As an extra bonus, they may drum up enough doubt to discontinue the telepath program or even set the telepaths against the government! After all, the surviving telepaths will not be pleased to suddenly be questioned on their certainty and reliability after their group had already been attacked! As a side note, if tinfoil hats are really, really rare in your world, or if your people aren't quite so likely to get caught up in a society-wide party, a slightly more staid alternative would be to periodically hand out hats to groups of teens and kids, sell them at other times, and basically take a long route to making them a passing fad. Once they're not-unheard-of, spreading hats to a smaller population segment (teens and kids will always leap at shiny things), or hosting a smaller party might still work to yield the "cover people" for the telepath to read (made up of reckless teens who mean no harm) to get the groups close enough for an assassination.