Marxists claimed that all aspects of the social life were determined by the class struggle. This included law. In other words, they claimed that all laws and all legal procedures were established to the benefit of one class that dominated the society. In particular, all legal system in the capitalist countries was made to protect and benefit the dominating class, which was "bourgeoisie" in their terminology, which is usually translated as "middle class", but this translation is not adequate. And of course the legal system in a socialist country (like Soviet Union) had the goal to protect the interests of "proletariat". They denied the possibility of existence of a class-neutral legal system. EDIT. All references that I can find are in Russian. Here is a relatively recent one: $URL$ Let me translate the title and a part of the resume: 

The attitude to religion a) changed with time, and b) was different to different religions. In the beginning 1920-30-s, there was a militant anti-religious policy. Many churches were destroyed, or simply robbed and closed, many priests were prosecuted. Some were killed, others imprisoned or exiled. But the main religion (Russian orthodox) was never completely banned. Other religions were banned/prohibited for political reasons. For example, the Greco-Catholic (Uniate) Church was prohibited after WWII. And only after the collapse of Soviet Union it was legalized again. The reason was political. In 1940-s and early 50-s there was a civil war in Western Ukraine. Greco-Catholic Church supported the insurgents who fought for the independence of Ukraine. The attitude to Russian Orthodox Church changed dramatically during WWII. In 1941-42 Soviet Union government felt so insecure that they tried to mobilize everything which could help them to win the war. It is at that time the official ideology changed from "Proletarian Internationalism" to Russian nationalism. And the church was enlisted. Since then it had almost official status within the state, though anti-religious propaganda never stopped. But after WWII the Orthodox Church officials were not prosecuted, I mean those who were loyal to the state. 

It is well known when and how this celebration was established: on February 28 1908 there was a demonstration of a women social democratic organization in New York. In 1909 Socialist party of America proposed to celebrate "women's day". In the beginning it was celebrated by social democrat women's organizations on different dates in different countries, the date floated because they wanted it to be a Sunday. In 1914 the celebration in Petrograd (now St Peterburg) happened on March 8 (23 February Julian style), and this coincided with February revolution. (It was actually a part of this revolution:-) In 1921 the date was officially set on March 8 by the Second International Communist women conference. This history clearly shows that it is very unlikely that those involved in establishing this celebration had in mind any ancient pagan feast:-) 

People who were declared handicapped because of some medical condition received some pension (material help from the state) and other benefits. There were several categories depending on severity of handicap. Those who could and wanted to work also worked. There were co-operatives of handicapped people who could do certain simple kinds of work. This applied to all sort of illness, including mental illness, including schizophrenia. Those who were considered dangerous were confined to mental hospitals. Source: I knew several of such people. They were not permanently confined in asylums, just hospitalized for short time of treatment. EDIT. Another aspect of this matter is that some normal people who criticized the regime were declared insane and confined in mental hospitals against their will. But this is another matter, probably not related to the question. $URL$ 

"Allowed" is not an exact term here. Nothing was "allowed" in Soviet Union. Everything was decided by higher authorities, including which movies to show. A lot of foreign films were purchased by the Soviet Union and shown in movie theaters. (In fact much more than in the US). After the WWII many German films were obtained as a part of the war reparations and they were shown in the movie theaters. Later they purchased movies from all countries (not only socialist ones), translated them into Russian and showed in the movie theaters. They were very popular. I would say more popular that Soviet movies (I am speaking of 1960s-1970s). I remember American "Magnificent Seven", "Oklahoma as it is", French "Fantomas", a lot of French and Italian comedies, all principal movies of Fellini, Antonioni, Bergmann and Kurosawa and many others which I have seen in my youth. But there was strict selection, of course. Those movies which were considered "politically incorrect" were not shown. Some movies were shown to more narrow audiences (their circulation was restricted, but not completely prohibited). With the spread of video recorders almost everything became available, but not in movie theaters, only for private screening. For example, I could see "Caligula" and "Star wars" on video. They were not shown in the theaters. 

The Wikipedia article you refer to gives a reference which says that this change "increased speed and stability". Which can be explained, of course. Suppose you have two gauges, 1524 and 1520 with the same tolerance, say 4. This (very roughly) means that the first one will really have width from 1520 to 1528, and the second from 1516 to 1524. ("Roughly speaking" because really there will be some probability distribution of the width, but we can consider a simplified model. In any case, 1524 is only the AVERAGE distance. The true distance varies. Hopefully within the tolerance limit.). Then probably 1528 is too wide for "speed and stability" of the existing rolling stock, and again it is easy to explain why. The wheel has inner rim which is on the inside side of the rail. This inner rim is needed for stability. If the distance between these inner rims is much smaller than the gauge, there will be an instability. Shortly speaking the change can be justified exactly in the case when it is difficult to tighten the tolerances. On my opinion, this is a purely engineering question, and I doubt that this was "Brezhnev's decision". Though of course he could stamp this decision, as a very important one for performance of the railroad system. And the question is purely technical, hardly belongs to "History". 

The Seleucids ruled over several very different peoples with different cultures, so strictly speaking there is no such thing as "Art and Architecture of the Seleucid empire". There is Hellenistic art but it was common to all Hellenistic states. There is Iranian (Parthian) art of the time when this part of the world was ruled by the Seleucids, and there is Armenian art of that epoch, etc. Some of the finest Greek (Hellenistic) arts is connected with the Seleucid empire. The ruins of Pergamon and the Pergamon Altar. The dating is not exact, and I cannot say exactly whether Pergamon was under the jurisdiction of the empire at the time when the altar was created, the boundaries were fluid at that time. Venus of Milo is another famous example. It is the work of Alexandros of Antioch (wee Wikipedia). Antioch was one of the principal cities of the empire founded by Seleucus I Nicator himself. But the place where the statue was found, the island of Milos, was not a part of the empire. Either Alexandros was a traveling sculptor, or it was purchased somewhere and then delivered to Milos. The city of Hatra was probably built at the time of the Seleucid empire: $URL$ but Wikipedia says it was destroyed by ISIL. 

That the development of the US strongly depended on investment from Britain. British colonies are independent since 1776, and long before that they were self-sufficient (Otherwise they would not fight for independence:-) British rule in India formally started much later, in 1850. It is true that there was an East India company before that, which controlled most of India since approximately 1750. So there is no evidence that money coming from India somehow played a substantial role in the development of the US. 

Mark C. Wallace mentioned ideological reasons but there were also economic ones. Free trade was always important for the US including trade with China and other countries in the east Asia. Japanese attempts to conquest China triggered US sanctions, and gradually these sanctions became more and more severe, until Japan attacked. Free trade with Europe was also important, and German conquest of Europe was certainly inconsistent with this. There is nothing special about Roosevelt here, of course. But the interests of business were always very important for any US government. I also strongly doubt that most Americans were pro-isolationist. A reference: Niall Ferguson, War of the world, twentieth century conflict and descent of the West, Penguin Press, 2006. 

There are many books written about this but I am not sure that there is a name for the "filed of study". For example, Carlo Ginzburg, Cheese and worms. The Cosmos of a Sixteenth-Century Miller, $URL$ There are also many books, mostly in French which have "Daily life" in their titles, like Edmond Pohnon, La Vie quotidienne en l’an mille, 351 p. rééd. en 1992. Here is a similar book in English: The Year 1000: What Life Was Like at the Turn of the First Millennium: An Englishman's World" by Robert Lacey and Danny Danziger It is not only about ordinary people but ordinary people are included. 

This is an extended comment. The words "need" and "can" in the question have no precise meaning. There are various types of historian of science. Some go into details, with various degrees of rigor, some don't. Both types of history can be interesting in principle. However unfortunately there is a large class of historians of science who simply do not understand enough the science they write about. They use whatever they need about science from popular secondary sources, or restrict themselves to many literal citations, without really understanding the text they cite. 

After the war and after the territorial changes resulting from this war, there was a massive "exchange of population". Germans were forced to move from new territories of Poland and Czechoslovakia to Germany. Poles were forced to move from Soviet Union to Poland. Ukrainians were forced to move from Poland to Soviet Union. All Germans from the new Kaliningrad region of Soviet Union (=former east Prussia) were moved to Germany. The numbers of people moved in each case were millions. At the time when this happened (the years immediately after WWII) there was no East and West Germany (as separate states. There were Russian, British, French and US occupation zones, but movement between them was possible). People who were moved were not resettled on some well defined territory. They were just scattered over Germany. (Same thing happened to other resettled people). Political organizations of those displaced Germans who demanded return existed in West Germany for long time, but I am not sure whether they still exist. (In Soviet Union and Communist Poland and Czechoslovakia, no political organizations independent of the government could legally exist). This kind of massive population exchange had a precedent in the 1920th when a similar thing happened between Greece and Turkey. I do not know any earlier example. Later the same thing happened with newly formed India and Pakistan, and on a smaller scale in many other cases.