Psychology is both a taxonomy of individual experiences and a system for comparing experiences to a baseline. We observe a set of behaviours which differ from the observed norm, and we infer that these behaviours are brought on by stressful experiences, and so the concept of PTSD is created. But (and keeping in mind the distinction between psychology and neuroscience) we are talking about a discipline which deals in fairly subjective data, and tends to arrive at conclusions which are predicated upon a set of unexamined assumptions received from broader culture. So, in an attempt to work all of that into a "hard science" answer to your question, I agree that evidence shows that to experience terrifying events causes a certain set of observable consequences for those involved. In that sense, you should expect PTSD as we define it to appear in any society which is likely (in the context of their culture/psychology) to have the same basic worldview as ours. However, I see no "hard science" reason why ours is the only possible worldview, so you could maybe tell a psychologically interesting story about the kind of society that does not have a concept of PTSD. 

A familiar trope that is sadly very much in line with reality is that if they have sufficient money, influence, manpower and cunning to begin with, they could begin by seizing control of the many (and large) areas of the planet that other people with money and influence tend not to think about very much. They could, for example, deal with/infiltrate/ultimately control the hundreds of little terrorist groups we probably haven't heard of. They could operate in any or all of the countries that westerners can't name and tend to lump together as our vague concept of "Africa". The only thing they would have to be careful of is not interfering with (and thus attracting the attention of) all the other powerful developed-world interest groups that are operating under more or less the same general principles right now, i.e. don't interfere with the supply of minerals to US corporations, recruit too many sweatshop labourers, or pirate any essential shipping routes. Think what had to happen for you to hear about Al Qaeda; now as long as our shadowy organisation doesn't do something like that, they're free to control the Afghan heroin trade, the South and Central American cocaine industries, any number of diamond and rare earth mines, and oil fields; think of the manpower they could muster simply by feeding and housing the millions of desperate people in any number of different places, or by creating an ideology that spoke to the even larger number of people with a great deal to be angry about and very little to lose. The best part about this strategy is that if any one of their proxy groups or individual operatives were to attract attention, it would be trivial to cut them loose, and let people's prejudices lead them to assume "those people" are "naturally like that". Anyone who suggested there was a monolithic organisation arming hundreds of unconnected terrorist groups and drug cartels, inventing new religious sects, and working in accordance with a colossal master plan would be dismissed as totally demented. Meanwhile, when the world powers responded by crushing the little people who got caught holding the rocket launchers, burning their fields, bombing their villages, and so on, they would only be exacerbating the desperate, unjust and anarchic conditions that made the developing/underdeveloped world ripe for their taking in the first place... 

I would address both questions with the same solution. To host more and more people underground mine the rock (carve out chunks) where you want another room or where you wish to enlarge a cavern. With the mined rock, you can then build defenses (walls, rock-fall traps, ammo for catapult/slingshot, etc). 

Dog are man's best friend. Just bring them into the shop at closing and lock the doors. They have keener hearing and much better noses for smelling trespassers. They can also be quite fierce and drive away sneaky thieves. Then there could be physical protection like complicated locks, metal bars, or multiple security points (different locks). Pay protection money to the thieves so that you aren't a target at all. 

Plausability There are other methods of sleep, see polyphasic sleep schedules, where you can sleep for multiple periods of time instead of once or twice a day and still get the needed REM cycle. Here is a site with some various polyphasic sleep cycles. The side effects seem minimal, but most concur that a full 8 hours of rest is better than short periods of rest. 

While most Mexican states don't have their own flags, each US states do and the provinces of Canada do. There is also already a vague ethnic diversity among the states/provinces, you can tell where someone is from just from their accent, slang, or language. Also to take into account is the Native Americans who were here before colonists. Their land could have become a country if colonists respected their land/rights more. 

I upvoted @Mormacil's answer, but let me give you an analogy that you may find useful. In some countries, you can refer to a building by a street address: 1854 Jackson Lane. You could find Jackson Lane and go in the correct direction and somewhere adjacent to 1853 and 1855 you'll find 1854. 

This would be called sports. This caste would become professional athletes. In one sense, the original Olympic Games reflected preparation for war: hammer throw, spear throw, wrestling, running, jumping, shot put (strength), etc. Add more modern martial sports like archery, fencing, shooting, biathlon, etc. Add in orienteering (quickly moving over terrain with a map and compass), and more abstracted martial activities. Perhaps sports are restricted only to this caste. Perhaps these sports are restricted only to this caste and other castes only participate in others (badminton, baseball, soccer, table tennis, bowling). Or perhaps anyone can participate in these sports but only clans within this caste compete in the Olympics. It would be oriented towards the level of weapons that are known. If your society has firearms, target shooting, skeet shooting, paintball competition, etc, would directly contribute to military prowess. But being in great physical shape with high stamina, endurance of pain, eye-hand coordination, etc, would give you a huge advantage over more sedentary people. I'd have more problems trying to imagine a society in which no killings occur. Not even accidental (manslaughter)? Really? No one dropping something out a window onto someone's head? No one pushing someone in jest and the person falls down the stairs to their death? No one using the wrong ingredients in a food dish and accidentally poisoning someone? Not one single person getting angry and stabbing someone with a kitchen knife in a moment of passion? I can conceive of a world where murder is extremely rare and warfare doesn't happen, but... 

If you look at Europe countries can get pretty small. Theoretically, North America could contain hundreds of countries. If you wanted maybe a more realistic number you can counted just the states/provinces of Mexico (31), United States(49-not counting Hawaii), and Canada(10) there could easily be 90 nations/countries. Wikipedia describes nation-building: 

The simplest solution: Slime sealant Similar to what is used in tires to fix holes. When there are no holes it sits on the inside of the armor. When there is a hole the slime will get sucked out (by the vacuum of space) and harden (chemically?). This will only be a temporary solution though and won't last forever. Replacements With a smart system, and an armor system made of up equally sized segmented parts, when the exterior receives damage then said segment(s) could be discarded and replaced by new piece(s) until the new pieces run out (from storage/armor repair layer). You would need an additional minor armor/layer of protection to protect against radiation. 

Any entrance/exit/doorways windows/viewing opening Space being a vacuum The type/amount/duration of damage being inflicted 

Freshwater Assuming the several magnitude 9 earthquakes, resulting tsunami's, and general destruction somehow didn't kill you and destroy any flotation device; there will only be 4.5 viable ways to get fresh water. 

Depending on the height of the floating landmass they may not receive much rain. Rain clouds (stratus) are at 6,500 ft (1.98 km) or lower. Landmasses above this may not receive much rain, and any lower than 2 km would block portions of the earth from receiving rain beneath their floating mass. However thunderheads (cumulonimbus) can reach up to 50,000 ft (15.24 km) and have hail, lightning, and torrential rain. So with this type of cloud it is fully possible for higher floating islands to receive heavy rain and other intense weather conditions. Floating islands present a different condition than mountains which have a base and cause air to go up cool and lose its moisture. With no base the islands won't catch as much air (and their shape may not be conducive in making air rise) so most weather should be natural and unaffected by the floating islands, ie carried by the wind. Especially the smaller islands, if they range from , then you can compare them to hot air balloons or planes which are bigger than a car and don't affect the weather at all. Something else to keep in mind is the freezing level, about 2 degrees C per 1000 ft (.31 km). So if on the surface its 75 deg F (23 deg C) the freezing level is about 11,500 ft (3.5 km). Any floating island above this height will most likely not have rain but snow and ice. 

Firstly, I agree with the comment/answer regarding a post-scarcity society. In a context where no resources were scarce and all goods were essentially fungible, I could imagine people operating without concepts of value or ownership. If you need something, grab it from the nearest replicator; when you don't need it anymore, throw it in the nearest universal recycler. Likewise, when you need a place to sleep, just find the nearest empty bed/apartment. Another context where I could see this way of thinking maybe proliferating would be in an extremely "primitive" culture, especially a nomadic one as mentioned in another answer. If you're living off the land, and everything you need can be made from things found readily in the environment, with skills possessed by every member of the society, then there may be no need for concepts of value or ownership. Need a spear? Grab a stick and a sharp/abrasive stone to carve a point. Don't need it anymore? Throw it away, it's just a stick. Time to sleep? Build a lean-to or humpy out of whatever is nearby, but don't bother hauling it with you when you leave. I feel I have read accounts that suggest Indigenous Australians lived much like this — they mainly worked with wood and grass. They did however also have art/craft, and so I assume some objects would have had more significance than others (e.g a well made and decorated didgeridoo would likely have been valued and owned, but a piece of bark used as a plate would not be) 

First, a great idea. The problem is the practical issues, as you suspect. Besides everything decaying/breaking/exploding -- as mentioned in other answers -- everything would be covered in a thick coating of dust. Not to mention that people who fell asleep in bathtubs, pools, the ocean -- or even on the beach -- would drown and people who fell asleep outdoors might well die from the cold, be eaten by animals (unless they, too slept), or be sunburned beyond recognition. And security cameras all over the world would have recorded either sleeping people or emptiness for as long as they were powered. (Probably overwriting in a loop, so you'd only have the last few days or weeks.) 

I believe the instant you put something into one side of the portal, out comes out the other, as if you stepped through a doorway. Do you mean what happens if you turn off the portal while the object is halfway through when the portal closes? If you want to destroy something -- as in the game -- it's easier to open up one side of the portal high above the target and one side on the floor beneath the target and let the target fall repeatedly through until it reached terminal velocity, then close the portal, so the object crashes at high speed into the floor. Or open a portal high above the target and then open the other side under a very heavy object so that it crashes onto the target. 

The theoretical principles are discovered A "proof of concept" is achieved The technology is engineered to the point that it's actually useful The technology is engineered to the point that it is affordable/marketable 

Just an idea that occurred to me – if you wanted a world that was geologically plausible on a planet similar or identical to Earth, you could always use the geography of Earth at an earlier time period, or even Earth with a higher/lower sea level. This doesn't allow you to "alter it in any way you wish", unfortunately, but it would allow you to browse the various continental configurations throughout the Earth's life and choose the one you like the best. Geography is a fairly different concern than geology, and you have a lot more freedom in this regard. You can probably draw a political map any way you like, as long as you account for certain reliable factors from human history such as civilisations liking water, political borders being demarcated by natural geographic features like rivers and mountain ranges, and powerful states having a preference for controlling their whole local landmass given the opportunity (e.g "Manifest Destiny" in the US, various attempts to "unify" Europe) Some resources: 

The only reasonable solution I can see would be if the sun appeared similar to our sun to people on the ground, but was in fact something with far less mass orbiting far closer. No natural entity or phenomenon really seems to fit these criteria, so it would have to be some kind of megastructure. It could be purely artificial, like a moon-sized heat lamp essentially, or you could posit that some advanced technology (magic) allowed the creation of a miniature star, fuelled by some means other than its own mass. Perhaps an extremely handwavey wormhole type arrangement siphoning off plasma from a real star elsewhere and containing it within a field of the appropriate size? 

Based on the assumption that this human can just fly and is invulnerable (can't be damaged) without any other powers this is quite simple. To neutralize is to render (something) ineffective or harmless by applying an opposite force or effect. If the human is average in other regards all you need to do is to contain and/or restrain him. This could range from a straight jacket to solitary confinement. Depending on how much he can lift while flying to bring the man down might include heavy nets, ropes, or missiles (he can't be harmed but the force of an explosion could knock him down). If the goal is to kill the man I think suffocation or drowning would be the best options. 

Depending on the craft shape they could use an underwater launch system. There is a system that in theory can shoot supplies into space and the cannon is mostly underwater. Basically a long barrel (submerged underwater except for the end) is used to fire the spacecraft, like a gun, into space. This type of system would not require land and could be modified to launch various sized/shaped spacecraft. 

.5 Any sealed water container filled with fresh water pre calamity and unbroken. Will humanity recover? No, unless there are additional magnitude 9 earthquakes that reform landmasses without killing off the original survivors (of which there need to be at least one male and one female that are viable partners). This disaster would revert the world back to the stone age basically (further probably) since there would be no electricity, no TP, no gas, no tools (unless you saved a towel or hammer(which doesn't float very well)), no fire, no agriculture, etc.