There is no consensus among philosophers on the nature of self-deception but there is an extensive philosophical literature. Some of the following references may help. Central books are : ▻ BOOKS Brian P. McLaughlin and Amelie Oksenberg Rorty (eds), Perspectives on Self-Self-Deception (Univ. of California Press, 2018). Michel Christoph, Self-knowledge and Self-deception: The Role of Transparency in First Personal Knowledge (mentis-Verlag, 2017). Annette Barnes, Seeing through Self-Deception (Cambridge Studies in Philosophy), (Cambridge University Press, 2017). Mike W. Martin, Self-deception and Morality (University Press of Kansas, United States, 1986). Mike W. Martin (ed.), Self-Deception and Self-Understanding (Univ. Press of Kansas, 1985). M.R. Haight, A Study of Self-Deception (Brighton: Harvester, 1980). Herbert Fingarette, Self-Deception (London: Routledge & Kegan Paul, 1969). (Despite its age, this book is much referred to.) Among very many articles : ▻ ARTICLES Kevin Lynch, 'Self-Deception and Stubborn Belief', Erkenntnis (1975-), Vol. 78, No. 6 (December 2013), pp. 1337-1345. Tamar Szabó Gendler, Self-Deception as Pretense, Philosophical Perspectives, Vol. 21, (2007), pp. 231-258. Herbert Fingarette, 'Self-Deception Needs No Explaining', The Philosophical Quarterly (1950-), Vol. 48, No. 192 (Jul., 1998), pp. 289-301. Dion Scott-Kakures, 'Self-Deception and Internal Irrationality', Philosophy and Phenomenological Research, Vol. 56, No. 1 (Mar., 1996), pp. 31-56. Alfred R. Mele, Self-Deception, The Philosophical Quarterly (1950-), Vol. 33, No. 133 (Oct., 1983), pp. 365-377. Hope this helps. 

Mill speaks of a 'mental crisis' and this has associations different from 'medical psychiatic depression'. There I agree with you totally. Etinson as you have quoted him does not satisfy me. It's all too vague. What you might find helpful is an article by Anna J. Mill unless you have come across it already : 'John Stuart Mill's Visit to Wordsworth, 1831', The Modern Language Review, Vol. 44, No. 3 (Jul., 1949), pp. 341-350. This has a wider scope than its title suggests and she ranges, so it seems to me, perceptively over the Wordsworth/ Mill relationship, including the episode of the mental crisis - and after. The article is not terribly long but is even so too long to quote from extensively and any summary of mine would be interpretation where you need to make up your own mind. Hope this helps. 

If all humanity were instantly and painlessly killed, this would not prevent all further suffering. At most it would prevent all further human suffering. Even this is not certain, since in the present conditions of terrestrial life, evolution might re-create humanity, replete with all its sufferings. There seems to be an implicit premise that there is a balance of suffering over happiness, pleasure, well-being. If suffering is a disvalue, then these other states when valorised might (how can you calculate ?) outweigh the disvalue of suffering - might be morally more significant than suffering. In which case the termination of a no longer sufffering humanity would create a less valuable world than one in which a suffering humanity enjoyed a balance of happiness, pleasure or well-being over suffering. Even is this premise is not implicit, my argument still applies. 

I should say that some fairly significant differences separate Locke and Hume. 1 LOCKE : 'Experience : in that all our knowledge is founded'. But for Locke experience has a dual nature; it has two sources. 'Our observations employed either about external sensible things, or about the internal operations of our mind, perceived and reflected on by ourselves, is that which supplies our understanding with all the materials of thinking. These are the two fountains of knowledge from whence all the ideas we have, or naturally can have, do spring' (Essay, II.1.1). HUME, by contrast, does not divide the sources of experience in this way. Our experience has one source : perception or sensation, referred to as 'ideas'. From ideas derive impressions (memories of ideas - 'the faint images of impressions in thinking and reasoning' (Treatise, I.1.1). So experience is twofold for Locke, single for Hume. 2 In Hume, impressions cause ideas. In Locke, while sensation is necessary before the mind has anything to think about, reflection is an independent power that comes into play when the materials of sensation have been supplied. There is no direct causal relation between sensation and reflection in Locke as there is between impressions and ideas in Hume. 3 The notion of an 'idea' has a double reference in Locke, though he does not always appear to be aware of this. From one angle it is 'whatsoever is the object of the understanding when a man thinks' (Essay, 'Introduction', I.1.8). This is something like a propositional content. From another angle, an idea is a psychological event, an occurrence with antecedents and causes. The same double reference is present in Hume; possibly the propositional content aspect predominates in Hume but the matter is unclear. 4 Locke recognises persons as continuants; they are the subjects of experience. Experience can be attributed to them (Essay, II.27). For Hume it very much looks as if there are no continuants. Or to reduce the claim to safety : the continuing self is an illusion. Moreover, it is an illusion generated by experience. The succession of impressions and ideas creates the illusion that the succession is being experienced by a continuing subject (Treatise I.4.6). (Then to whom or what does the illusion occur ? Hume grapples unsuccessfully with the problem in the Appendix to the Treatise, and never returns to the topic again.) 5 Though Locke's position in the Essay is that we have no innate ideas since all ideas derive from experience, he does allow a non-empirical element into his moral epistemology. In his political writings, especially the Second Treatise of Civil Government, he assumes that by the use of reason we have access to the Natural Law which discloses the existence of natural rights. We can know by the use of reason that there are natural rights. Hume, on the contrary, offers a non-cognitive ethics. Reason can establish no moral truths. The origins of morality are to be traced to the 'passions', centrally the emotion of sympathy. (Hume, Treatise, III.1.1-2.) 

1 A pattern is relative to a description; and we supply the description, which is usually tailored to human interests quite likely in many cases of evolutionary origin. If half the occupants of a street are murdered, one after another on successive nights, this is a pattern. At least the police will think so. But it is only a pattern because we link the occurrences in the light of our interests, our concerns. There are an indefinite number of respects in which the occurrences show no pattern at all so far as we are concerned : the height of the victims or their age or their voting behaviours will be ignored, all else equal. Our interests dictate the patterns we detect. Patterns of occurrence are constructed as patterns in light of our interests. No interest, no description, no pattern. 2 A different type of case is that of 'seeing' patterns in random phenomena. You might present me with a square of paper on which there are hundreds of disorganised dots. I 'see' a face among the dots. The 'face' does not exist in any sense independently of my perceptual patterning. 

The context is Theaetetus' definition (151e) of knowledge as perception. ▻ TWO PROBLEMS - (1) Berkeley takes for granted that sensible things exist continuously when not perceived by finite minds. There is no logical necessity to assume this. Perhaps they do pass into and out of existence according as they are perceived by finite minds. It may be counter-intuitive, but so ? ▻ TWO PROBLEMS - (2) We are all familiar with the 'myth of the given', we know about the theory-ladnenness of observation, we know that perception involves inference (as when I see that a poker is hot). But there is, or so it seems to me, an irreducibly passive element in perception. If we are to perceive something then, it strikes me, there must be something to be perceived, something which is not purely a product of our own minds. Something is given in perception - presented to consciousness - if nothing like as much as was once widely thought. Now, this does not fit well with the idea of God, 'that active principle' (Principles, I §66). God is on Berkeley's account a purely and wholly active mind or spirit. Nothing is or can be presented to the consciousness of such a being. Therefore God does not perceive and is incapable of perception. It follows that God does not perceive sensible objects, and ensure their continuous existence, in our absence. REFERENCES G. Berkeley, The Principles of Human Knowledge, 1710. G. Dicker, Berkeley's Idealism: A Critical Examination ISBN 10: 0195381459 / ISBN 13: 9780195381450 Published by Oxford University Press, 2011 Dale Jacquette, 'Berkeley's Continuity Argument for the Existence of God', The Journal of Religion, Vol. 65, No. 1 (Jan., 1985). Jonathan Bennett, 'Berkeley and God', Philosophy, Vol. 40, No. 153 (Jul., 1965), pp. 207-221. George Pitcher, Berkeley, London : Routledge, 1977. 

The quick answer is that you can question the truth or validity of a claim without impugning the knowledge or veracity of the source. It never follows logically that if you question - even if you doubt - a claim and ask for its credentials you are assuming or implying that the claim-maker is ignorant or deliberately deceptive about the matter. Examples : 

There is no name for the fallacy involved here, so you're not missing one and no-one can tell you what the name is. The argument you cite is invalid but not all types of invalid argument embody specific, named fallacies. So far as I know there is no specific name for the fallacy embodied here. But it is easy to see what is wrong. The argument is missing a minor premise. As it stands : 'If A were not true then it would be impossible to determine whether B is true or not, therefore A is true' is invalid. : from (a) 'If A were not true then it would be impossible to determine whether B is true or not', it does not follow that (b) 'A is true'. (a) could be true, and (b) false : and this is impossible in the case of a valid argument. In no valid argument can the premises (a) be true and the conclusion (b) false. But your argument is an enthymeme, an argument with a suppressed minor premise. The suppressed - unstated - premise is : 'It is possible to determine whether B is true or not'. Put that in, and you get a valid form of argument : If A were not true then it would be impossible to determine whether B is true or not; but it is possible to determine whether B is true or not : therefore A is true. So, yes, it is fallacious as it stands; but no, it is not fallacious if we add the suppressed premise. And no, there is no name for this fallacy. 

Therefore p We cannot validly infer the antecedent 'p' from the conditional schema and the affirmation of the consequent 'q'. The conditional could be true ('If p then q') and the consequent, 'q', true. Yet 'p' could be false. This would violate the rule that a falsehood cannot be validly inferred from truth(s) : If p then q (true) q (true)