While it is not to do with marriage, it is to do with nationalism, his Wikipedia article confirms that in 1877 Cecil Rhodes, the British colonial magnate (present-day Zimbabwe was formerly known after him as Rhodesia) wrote a will leaving much of his wealth "for the establishment, promotion and development of a Secret Society, the true aim and object whereof shall be for the extension of British rule throughout the world...the ultimate recovery of the United States of America as an integral part of the British Empire, the inauguration of a system of Colonial representation in the Imperial Parliament which may tend to weld together the disjointed members of the Empire and, finally, the foundation of so great a Power as to render wars impossible, and promote the best interests of humanity." He later decided that this was too ambitious and in his last will hoped to achieve the same ultimate end by leaving money to enable American, Commonwealth and German students with leadership potential to study in Britain at Oxford University, in the hope that this would encourage links between future leading men of those countries and those of Britain. ("Rhodes Scholars"). Again according to Wikipedia,: 'Eight former Rhodes scholars subsequently became heads of government or heads of state, including Wasim Sajjad (Pakistan), Bill Clinton (United States), Dom Mintoff (Malta), John Turner (Canada), Norman Manley (Jamaica) and three Australian prime ministers: Bob Hawke, Tony Abbott and Malcolm Turnbull'. Dean Rusk, the US Secretary of State in the 1960s, was also a Rhodes Scholar. 

As a non-expert I would guess that: a) It is hard to study without much of written sources; one can tell if an inscription is in Greek, Latin or what but it must be much more conjectural whether an excavated group of huts was occupied by Thracian speakers or some other group. b) As Thracian and Illyrian were later replaced in most of the Balkans by Slavonic languages, most modern inhabitants of those areas feel less connection to (I say less connection to, I do not say none) and desire to preserve the memory of those cultures. (Albanian may be descended from Illyrian but Albania is a small, poor country with limited resources.) c) As far as I know, the Thracians and Illyrians mostly failed to burst into other nations' histories to compel attention in the way that say the Goths and Vandals did when they overran large parts of the Roman Empire. 

I'm going to add three short anecdotal stories told directly to me by someone who lived a long time in the USSR. I am going to tell these stories as much as I can in her voice. These are her personal stories of her life under Soviet rule. This woman was a retired professor so she was respected and considered more fortunate than most in the grand scheme. To be fair, this was in Romania which suffered under Ceaușescu -- and so in some ways represents the worst examples of life in the USSR -- but also note that these stories are also fairly recent (circa mid-late 1990's) after the official collapse of the USSR (the Yeltsin era), a period that supposedly represented new economics but in reality many of the old systems were still in use, especially in communities located away from the urban centers. These stories go to how economics were enforced in subtle ways... Food Supply In the small town where she lived there was a food store. Each person was given a specific day of the week when you would go to the store. On that day you would go early in the morning (before sunrise if you were smart) and wait in line. When it was your turn you went inside and you were told what was available and asked what you needed. While the store had many shelves they were mostly empty but it did not matter because your order was filled for you and put into a bundle. You were told how much to pay, given your bundle, and sent on your way. Afterwards you left the store and headed home. You would get home and open your bundle and then try and figure how you would make it last for the week. Rice was a good thing for making ends meet and you might get 2 kilos (~ 4.5 pounds) of rice in your bundle, but you had to open the package and carefully sift the rice to remove the small twigs and pebbles that were always there. A 2 kilo bag usually yielded about 1.5 kilos of rice afterwards. Sometimes on your way home neighbors would greet you and ask how your "shopping" had gone. Now just because you asked for something did not mean you got what you needed, because often the store did not have everything you needed, but the important thing was that you always were satisfied -- even if you were not -- because to be unsatisfied with the food distribution was disloyalty and that was a bad thing. So when asked about your shopping you always answered "very good". There were people who sometimes were unhappy with the meager bundles they had and sometimes they forgot themselves and expressed their unhappiness. Under Ceaușescu being unhappy with what the State provided was disloyalty. Knowing someone was disloyal and not reporting it was also disloyal. And disloyal people had a strange habit of disappearing. Even after Ceaușescu was gone people would still ask how shopping went and you would still always answer "very good" just to be safe. Healthcare We had excellent hospitals and doctors but if you needed emergency help and called for an ambulance the first question they would ask was not "Where are you?" or "What is the problem?" ... the first question was "How old is the patient?" and then they would ask the questions you would expect. When you retire you are considered non-productive and therefor a drain on society. So when you need medical care you are de-prioritized. If the answer to the first question is "25" the ambulance will arrive promptly, but if the answer is "60" it might be a couple of hours sometimes. It sounds cruel -- and it is -- but once you stopped being productive the State wished you a good retirement but they also expected to live only a short while longer. Of course living as long as possible was the one safe way to defy the State. Exit Visa Her children had been living in other parts of the USSR and during the Gorbachev era they had come to the United States and become citizens. So when she retired they asked her to come and live with them. At first she refused but eventually they convinced her and she filed a request to emigrate. The following are the steps she had to take in order to get approved: 

While there seems now to be a reaction, for decades following Ataturk it was part of the national identity to which the Turkish elite aspired to insist that Turkey was 'part of Europe' (which on usual geographical definitions only a small part of it, around Istanbul, really is). Likewise that it was a 'secular' state even if most Turks were Muslim. This is probably part of the same tendency found to varying extents in many Asian countries in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Europe seemed so much more powerful, successful and more advanced that they wanted to copy it, in the hope they could become powerful, successful and advanced too. This was partly a 'love-hate' relationship as one of the motivations was to beat the West at its own game. As in the late nineteenth & early twentieth century Japanese learned European methods to build up their armed forces and industry, and then used them to defeat a partly European power Russia in the Russo-Japanese War in 1904-5, and as Ataturk had done to fight off the Greeks, British and French to preserve Turkey as a new state. The Turkish alphabet is based on Latin but with several changes to fit their language e.g. no letter 'w', an extra letter like an 'i' without a dot to make the sound 'uh', various vowels with umlauts over them which at least look Germanic. Another part of Ataturk's modernisation & westernisation programme was to adopt German Criminal Law and Swiss Civil Law as the laws of Turkey. Could part of what is happening in Turkey now be explicable by the fact that the relative economic, industrial and military decline of Europe and the West in recent decades, and gradual rise to power of other parts of the world, mean that it no longer seems self-evident that copying Europe and the West is the road to success? 

Wikipedia, which the question quotes, is of course not guaranteed flawless. Africa was actually mostly partitioned in the late nineteenth century, not the twentieth. There was though some adjustment of colonial boundaries partly in Britain's favour, at the expense of Germany, after the First World War. I do not think there was necessarily any contradiction between this and Britain's then policy of free trade. Things did change in 1931 in response to the Depression and resort of other countries to protective tariffs. Britain then abandoned its long-standing policy of free trade to impose a 10% tariff (customs duty) on imports from outside the British Empire. From then on this to some extent skewed colonial markets in favour of British manufacturers as people living in British colonies had to pay a 10% higher price if they preferred to buy say German or Japanese manufactured goods compared to British ones. This was to some extent to the colonies' disadvantage. However, not entirely so; it also meant that the colonies gained the same price advantage selling their produce within Britain and the British Empire, as any competitors from outside the Empire had a 10% tariff slapped on their produce. 

She has one "luxury", an old small car that had become hers because she was a professor. As a retiree she was able to keep the car and also had a small fixed pension and of course the apartment she lived in. In order to get her exit visa she was required to "restore and return" to the State what she had been given by the State. This meant she had to fix up the car, including a tune up and new tires, and clean and paint the apartment. She was allowed one suitcase for her exit and only clothes and necessary items (medicines, toiletries) were permitted, not even personal pictures would be allowed. She even had written a textbook that was used at the college she had taught at and she was not allowed to take that either. Before she left she visited many friends and even some former students. To each of them she gifted her personal possessions. Better to give these to people she cared about then to let the State take it all. 

Conclusion As I mentioned, because she was in Romania these stories are probably not typical of the USSR as a whole, but you can see the pattern of economic controls through oppression. Restrictive supply & demand, rationed healthcare based on age, and the ever present "What the State gives, the State can take away." She says that the purchase cost of things was much lower there, but on the plus side now that she is living in the USA she no longer has to filter her rice for twigs. :) 

Is anyone here familiar with the details of the Constitutional Convention of 1787 enough to know if any of the actual participants of that event left any writings that either corroboration or dispute the duties of the presidential electors as described in Federalist Paper #68 ? Minutes of the convention? memoirs? personal letters? etc...