The novel Possession contains some spot-on mimicry of several different writing styles, including lengthy poems by two fictional Victorian poets. The character of RH Ash in particular feels as if there is some model, or models, for him. He has a very distinct style and a distinct set of interests (including naturalism and Greek and Norse myths). Is he similar to Tennyson, or Browning, or some other real poet, or an amalgam? Or is he purely Byatt's creation? 

Poets had been using it since at least Middle English, such as Geoffrey Chaucer in Canterbury Tales: 

In other words... the king parties hard, and the rest of the court with him. So it would be an easy choice to make that nobody does really connect Claudius' outburst with a guilty conscience. They're all having a really good time, and maybe they think he's just drunk. Or perhaps simply don't care. They do all seem pretty out of it. Nobody cares that Hamlet was passed over for kingship. When Fortinbras comes in, there's nobody to tell him that they don't want a Norwegian (with a French name for some reason) to replace the Danish king (with a Roman name). The entire state of Denmark appears pretty rotten, not just the guy at the top. 

I could never quite put my finger on a specific problem. Are there any internal inconsistencies in Catch 22, or was I just confused by Heller? 

Mr Anderson then goes on to examine the eponymous speeches where he feels peripeteia happens in the positive sense. 

The old money have, over decades and centuries, developed a highly indirect (hence, euphemistic) and repressed society, whereas the new money would be far more direct. No doubt they feel some irritation and impatience for the silliness and lack of forthrightness of the old money. 

So, either the intention to convey a particular meaning is evident in the work, and therefore it already means that, or the work doesn't convey that intention, making it irrelevant. This itself could be a fallacy: Does the author even have intentions? - as James Downey argues: 

Are keteks (the form: palindrome [allowing for conjugation, etc.], n [≥2] thoughts) based on some real-life form of poetry, or are they purely fictional? 

Douglas Hofstadter wrote a wonderful meditation on translation, the book Le Ton Beau de Marot. It contains literally scores of translations of the same poem from French into English. Each translation preserves some aspects of the original: meter, rhyme, various aspects of tone, wordplay, vowels, consonants. Some are close, some are loose. Some are whimsical, some are serious. Each of them is the same poem; each of them is different from all others. There is no way to capture everything about a poem in translation. You can't even read the same poem twice: the "translation" from the page into your head will always vary a little. A great poem, I'd say, is one that will vary more between readings, making it evergreen. I don't think it's fair to say that translation "takes away" from the meaning of the poem. There was never any single "meaning" for it to detract from. A translation adds to it, creating a new poem which is somehow conceptually related, but the original remains right where it was. A poem -- indeed, any text -- is a dialogue between its author and its reader. The "meaning" of that dialogue is the change it produces in the reader. The author never really knows the reader's state to start with, and can't point to a unique transformation that they can be certain will take place. The author may have a variety of hopes for it, and the totality of those hopes are expressed in the text as you see it. Change a single letter and you get a different thing. Substitute a word for its "synonym" and you still get a different thing. That's why Tom Robbins had a character declare, “There are no such things as synonyms!" So in every translation, something is lost, and something is gained. That "something" could be anything, any aspect of language. You can hope to arrive at a similar effect that a native reader would have had upon reading the original, but even that native reader won't have a single "meaning" for the poem. So how close you come to achieving that effect is itself a new dialogue. 

Note: I'm not a professional historian, so my knowledge of the times is a bit vague and from school textbooks. The events of Estha and Rahel's childhood takes place in the 1960s. That is more than ten years since India gained Independence, and thirty years since the death of Sri Narayana Guru. Sri Narayana Guru had started a social reform movement in Kerala rejecting casteism and aiming for emancipation of the lower castes and casteless people. Mahatma Gandhi also strongly supported uplifting the untouchables, as did a number of other leaders of the Indian Independence movement. The net effect was that, officially, there was no discrimination towards them, and indeed, the government had to undertake various measures for their welfare. While there was a lot of discrimination, the lower castes were not actively prohibited from education, or even prestigious jobs. Progress was slow, but there was progress. Further, Velutha's age makes it likely that his birth or childhood coincided with Sri Narayana Guru's life, so Velutha may have been a direct beneficiary of his movement. Another factor would be the Communist movement. Kerala, the Indian state where the story takes place, was officially created in 1956, and has always alternated between Congress and Communist governments since. Kerala's first government was Communist, which started radical reforms. Lower-caste leaders of the time, like Dr. Ambedkar, had complained about the paternalistic attitude of the upper-caste people towards those beneath, so it may also be possible that Ammu's family maybe indulging in this by "letting" the untouchable get a good job. To conclude, the events of The God of Small Things takes place in a Kerala that was well on the way to social reform. 

I remember reading a story when I was young (so 1990's) about a group of kids, possibly middle school or high-school age, that end up traveling to an alternate reality that's in black in white. I believe they end up going to it while they were in school, so they appear in another school on the other side. The kids stand out because they were in color while everything else was in black and white. Eventually the kids start turning black and white themselves. It also turns out that if they completely turn, they're stuck in this alternate world forever. They end up escaping by finding an item buried in someone's bag (or purse, unsure) that hadn't changed yet and use it to get home. I remember it feeling sort of Goosebumps-esque, but I looked through the list of books and didn't see it. I read it in the 90's, possibly very early 2000's. It was an American story and in English. I don't think it was a full-length novel, but might have been shorter like a Goosebump book, but I'm fairly certain it was not in a collection, it was an individual book. 

He's referring to Bilbo's retirement to Rivendell. Bilbo's plan was to relax, listen to the songs, translate some books, and work on his memoirs. As Gandalf put it in the next line: ‘He felt better at once'. I don't think Frodo had Bilbo's longer-term prospects in mind. He didn't know that a journey across the Sea was in the cards. All the rest Bilbo was expected to get was at the Last Homely House. Frodo (and Hobbits in general) don't seem to think much about the Afterlife, and the uncertainty of what happens when you go The Elves Know Not Whither. "Rest" doesn't seem to figure into it: maybe for Elves, in Mandos, but not for Men. It is a bit of an oddity for Tolkien to have used a phrase there with such clearly Catholic overtones. He generally tried to avoid evoking our religion(s) into Middle-earth. Tolkien's ear sometimes failed to notice when his turns of phrase had other meanings. (Every time he mentions "Tirion upon Túna" I still mentally add "... upon Rye"). So I think here he's referring simply to the straightforward event: Bilbo went to Imladris, to rest, peacefully. 

This isn't the first instance of controversy after Carter took the reigns. A biography of Lee by Marja Mills also ran into trouble. How Unauthorized Is the New Book About Harper Lee? from Gawker (July 18, 2014): 

It seems that Sredni Vashtar, like many of Saki's stories pitting children against adults, was inspired from his childhood. Saki had lost his parents at an early age, and was fostered by tyrannical aunts. From Reading Saki: The Fiction of H.H. Munro by Brian Gibson: 

People often fail miserably at accounting for their own biases even when simply observing something (so they might unconsciously ignore things) - biased observation Even for the things that they do manage to observe, people do not write down every last bit of minutiae, but only selected bits - biased reporting A summary is by definition a product of the writer's judgement on what is important and what isn't from the larger text (which has already gone through conscious and unconscious filtering), and therefore is a direct application of their biases. 

In a part of The Book of Mythicality by Rhett and Link, in the chapter about picking a fight (I believe), there's a couple of pages dedicated to an Autostereogram. I've never been very good at these and I was unable to see the image. What was the image? Why was this particular image chosen? 

A single, physical, consolidated book is easier to read, rather than going from page to page to read a panel. It's also easier to take to different places to enjoy, rather than having a desktop screen or laptop (old-school e-readers wouldn't handle this material well while newer kindle fires could). Another source of revenue. People that REALLY enjoy a web comic might find it as a way of contributing money to the author to buy the physical book. People like to receive things for money, so it's a good way to support the artist and still get something in return. 

Another example is the Nurse in Romeo and Juliet. There's great comic effect to be mined out of a large man playing the Nurse: just as the portrayal makes the man look un-masculine, the nurse looks un-feminine. And so when she makes coarse jokes ("Now, by my maidenhead -- at twelve years old."), the effect is enhanced. Falstaff, sneaking out dressed as a woman in Merry Wives is a similar gag. Now, this is a very careful comic balance for Shakespeare to walk, because he also played women in serious ways. He had not just great dramatic female roles like Cleopatra and Tamora, but great female comic characters for whom femininity is crucial. This is most visible in "cursed" characters like Beatrice in Much Ado or Kate in Shrew: the roles aren't funny if the audience doesn't fully accept them as attractively feminine. The audience would, of course, have been aware that these characters were portrayed by boys. Several of Shakespeare's greatest comic female characters dress as boys: Rosalind, Viola, Julia. Again, there's a delicate balance where the audience is being asked to accept that these are boys-playing-girls-dressed as boys. It worked only because the audience was fully imbued in the trope, and simply accepted it. I think of it as similar to the effect of intercutting in modern cinema: the world doesn't jump perspectives like that, but since you've been trained to accept that as the language of cinema, it doesn't give you even a moment's pause. It's not so much "suspension of disbelief" as genuine belief: that's the way this world works. Of course, they only believe it in the theater. They don't accept boys-dressed-as-girls in real life. Unless, of course, they're drunk. So the effect of using Bartholomew is to make the drunken guest seem more despicable, and thus funnier. It also helps that this keeps the prank as a "boy's club" moment. Women, especially young women, were usually portrayed as more refined in their sensibilities. Even low-born characters like Audrey in As You Like It (" I am not a slut, though I thank the gods I am foul") have some touch of propriety. Women do participate in pranks (like Mistress Quickly in Henry IV, part 1), but are usually less coarse about it. I'm certain Shakespeare could have written a woman into the scene without breaking the drunken-fraternity nature of the the prank, but it was certainly in character to make it an all-male moment. 

I believe you're only thinking of "unreasoned judgement/preujdice" when talking about bias. If that was all, sure, there might be texts which are unbiased about something (but not, in general, unbiased about everything)*. Was that the debate topic using such a narrow definition? If not, Everyone has biases: tendencies to favour or disfavour things. Now: 

I'll only address the question from the translation requirement POV: what would you call a person who uses fetishes for magic, given the culture is African (as opposed to, say, Haitian), but in the context of Western literature? Given various factors, I feel this would be more appropriate than actually giving a nuanced description of such a person in African culture: 

In the beginning, Macondo was a city solidly set in reality. Magical things happened, but everybody agreed they happened. However, as time passed by, gradually the hold of Macondo on reality started slipping. Things became increasingly illusory. There are several instances of this: