I have a set of Xero Lite XSR-3 Wheels. I tend to ride dirt, gravel, and some singletrack on my cross bike and sometimes some cross races. Would I be able to swap this wheelset on to my cross bike to save weight or should I stick with my heavier duty 32 spoke wheels. $URL$ 

What's the difference between regular chamois cream and women specific chamois cream? If my partner also rides, are there disadvantages to both male and female users sharing the women specific type? 

I'm trying to get started with some wheelbuilding. I've got a Park Tool TS-2.2 truing stand. Can I just rely on the calipers to provide a guide for centering the rim and dishing rear wheels or will I need separate dishing tool? 

You could probably find a short travel fork designed for a hybrid bike and put that on your cross bike. However, I havn't seen this happen at any races that I've been to. It's more typical for non-pro riders to use a mountain bike instead of a cyclocross bike to compete in cyclocross races. The shocks do soak up a bit of pedaling effort, which is why they tend to be less desirable. Most modern MTB shocks can be locked out, and that's probably preferrable for the terrain of most cyclocross courses. Your best bet to reduce the effect of bumpy terrain is to adjust the tire pressure according to the conditions. You may want to consider tubeless tire systems to prevent pinch flats at lower pressures. Smooth tracks will warrant high pressures, but rough courses may be more optimal riding at lower pressure. Pro races set tire size limit to around 33mm, however most non-pro events have very loose restrictions on actual tire size. So consider running larger tires at lower pressure if you are concerned about the jarring effects of the ride without suspension. 

Get some boombot Rex Speakers, they sell an optional bar mount. You can use them wireless as well. They are not super cheap, but it's a nice product. You can put it on your bag as well. $URL$ A budget option would be CycleTunes from Biologic, they strap on to your stem (assuming you have the space). It's not wireless, but you can put an mp3 player or something inside of the case. $URL$ 

I have the EighthInch Freestyle Splined Crankset. These are very similar to profile bmx cranksets. I purchased a larger sprocket to use with the crankset. I've used a crank puller to remove the drive side crankarm, but couldn't figure out how to remove the sprocket. It won't just slide off the axle. It fits on the crankset with very small splines. What should I do to remove the sprocket (aka chainring)? 

Surly Cross Check - Geared Cross bike with bar end shifters and canti brakes All City Space Horse - Geared road / light touring bike with canti brakes and STI shifters. Salsa Casserole - Geared road / touring / city bike with STI Shifters Raleigh Roper - Geared Cross bike with Disc Brakes and STI shifters (no horizontal dropouts) I personally own an all city space horse and find it very versatile. I have rode it off road (Hilly billy roubaix in West Virginia), for a short 4 day bike tour, for commuting, and hilly road rides around town. I like the cross check (and have one of those too), but the default setup leaves something to be desired (I'd prefer STI shifters). However, If you're willing to tweak it yourself, it's also a great multi-purpose bike. There is a reason I see these things everywhere. I know people who ride the other two bikes and can vouch for them as well. Any of these would be a great choice and they are all around a similar price point. It's hard to go wrong with any of them. 

You likely tightened the cones too tight. Read up on the proper procedure for cone adjustment and be sure to grease it up well. $URL$ OR $URL$ 

Would I be able to have a local framebuilder retrofit an existing steel mountain bike frame to install internally routed cable guides on the top tube without disassembling the frame? I would probably prefer to install lugged guides for this. Why? Certainly not for performance reasons. I just like internal routing, which I have on a couple different bikes already. Less external stuff to get caught on while riding and easier to accommodate frame packs for bikepacking. 

I find that the fit of a Bern helmet (specifically the Watts) in my case varies depending on the liner. I purchased mine with a summer liner and bought an additional winter liner for cold weather riding. I couldn't wear a big hat when using the winter liner and the ear flaps let too much air pass to my ears and left me cold. It was hard to add another hat or balaclava underneath to keep my head warm (I have a shaved head and need extra coverage, and also enjoy having a hat on when I take off the helmet). FWIW, the fit issues could just be due to me not having a mop of hair to help fill out the helmet. I almost always ride with a hat under the helmet to help it stay snug. If you are not going out in < 20 degrees Fahrenheit conditions, then the regular winter liner may be fine (or If you buy it sized for the winter liner initially, which then could have fit issues if you swap in a summer liner for warm weather riding). I preferred to use the Bern Watts with the summer liner while wearing a smartwool balaclava underneath and optionally ski goggles (with the goggle clip) on really harsh days. The wool was breathable enough and warm and provided total head and neck coverage in the winter. I used the same setup for skiing as well. 

Get an ortleib messenger backpack classic. It will hold a ton of stuff and it's waterproof in case something bursts inside (it will stay inside). If you want to go real fancy get a mission workshops vandal. It is a great multi-purpose bag and it expands to fit a lot of stuff. Watch the video demo: Grocery Run - Vandal Roll-Top Backpack You may also want to consider a quick release handlebar basket, depending on whether you have drop bars or not. 

People patch tubless mountain bike tires all the time. You could use a slime tire patch kit, used frequently for Motorcycle, ATV, and Dirt Bike tires as those patches are a bit more durable than standard bike tube patches. It seems like all the amazon review are from mountain bikers. I've used a regular bike tube patch on the inside of the tire as well. It's best to use the larger patches to cover as much area as possible. With a tear that small, I wouldn't be too concerned running it as long as it doesn't get any bigger. I've been running a couple sets of tires patched like this with no ill effects. Alternatively, I've also run a tire with a park tool tire boot for months without any issue. 

I've got drop bars with Shimano Tiagra STI shifters and want to use a Rando Bag on my small front rack or a handlebar mount bag. Currently the shift cables jut out between the drop bars and hit in to the sides of my bag and can't be bent around it. I have to run the cables under the top flap of my rando bag to get them out of the way, but this makes it hard to access the contents of the bag on the road. What can I do to prevent this cable from interfering with my rando bag that doesn't involve switching out my shifters? 

I've worn my knee warmers under my tights, it worked well to keep me warm and they stayed in place well. However, the tights were the kind that went over top of my standard bib shorts, not the kind of tights with integrated chamois. If you want to try and wear them over your tights, you might need to get a larger size kneee warmer, depending on the thickness of our tights. You might also have trouble with them staying put, since they tend to be held up partially by the bottom of your cycling shorts. Personally, If it's colder than my comfort zone with just tights, I'll usually wear a pair of stretchy synthetic knickers on warmer days (like chrome telegraph knickers) or some breathable shell pants (north face resolve) on colder days over top of my tights to help kill the wind and retain more heat. 

Panaracer Ribmo PT. These tires never flat on me. They are really thick and tend to be pretty good for fixed gear riders as well. The panaracer T-serve is also a bit lighter, but has good flat protection too. 

Ski goggles with double paned lenses with a wide field of vision are best for winter if fog is an issue. The double panes help avoid condensation due to the air barrier between the lenses (and the fact that most double pane goggles also have anti-fog treatment helps as well). Additionally, they are more enclosed, which keep your eyes from tearing up due to the chilling air at very low temperatures. Some ski goggles have really terrible peripheral vision though, so shop around. For warmer days, I tend to use MSA Safety Works safety goggles with anti fog coating that work well and have good peripheral coverage without obscuring my vision. They sit far enough off my face that they prevent fog when I'm stopped. Wool balaclavas are good to protect your ears and neck, while being breathable enough to stop you from sweating too much. You have to see what works for you for setup of the balaclava, sometimes it can direct your breath from your nose up in to your glasses or goggles. Some people leave their nose exposed. Some people prefer a neoprene mask for face protection instead. Bern helmets or other less vented commuter helmets such as nutcase or giro reverb tend to work well in winter time since they don't have as much extreme airflow. For regular helmets, you can tape over vents or get helmet rain covers to reduce the chilling effect. I prefer to use a bern watts helmet with a smartwool balaclava. As far as shoes, If you prefer not to wear cycling shoes, then boots with wool socks (no synthetic or cotton in really cold weather) and platform pedals are the best option. You can add supplemental heat with chemical toe warmers or insoles (I prefer the insoles). You can also add windproof overboots to your current setup if you're still too cold. Ski Gloves or Lobster Mitts (looks like 2 double wide fingers and thumb) are good for drop bar setups, but if you have flat bars you might even be able to get away with full mittens. Gloves with a breathable, but windproof shell is preferred. I often use ski gloves with hand warmer pockets, so that I can use chemical hand warmers on really cold days. 

I assume you are looking for a cube CLS LTD PRO based on other questions you asked. If so, that bike likly came with Schwalbe Smart Sam, Active 622x44 tires. Tire sizing terminology is a bit weird. Despite the same sized rims, mountain bike companies and road bike companies use different terms to describe tires that fit the same rim sizes. It is even more confusing due to mixing of metric and imperial measurement systems. If you're looking for the same or smaller tires you'll probably want to look for 622x44 size. The first number is the rim size (622mm) and the second number is the tire width (44mm). If you wanted larger tires, they would probably be described differently since they would likely be mountain bike tires, they would be described as 29x2.2 (which effectively means 622mm rim with 2.2 inch tires). The 29 is to describe the effective outer diameter of the tire, not the rim size, you may even see it described as 622x56 instead of 29x2.2, but it's hard to say. Sheldon brown has a good page that goes in to detail about various tire and rim sizes and may be better at describing the oddities of tire and wheel size descriptions, it's a good read. $URL$ 

What is the best way to treat saddle sores? Loose clothes, Gold Bond medicated powder, or Moisturizer? What seems to help reduce the painful symptoms of saddles sores once you already have them? I know how to prevent them, so I'd prefer to focus on what to do after you find yourself with this problem (like after you decided not use use chamois cream). 

Big Shot Bikes Polo Bikes are interesting and rather small. It does appear these are discontinued now. However, Mixie bikes and the Salsa Mini-Velo are other small bike alternatives. 

Without using manufacturer specific parts: Can I use a wheel with a thru-axle hub on a standard quick release fork or frame dropouts (with an adapter)? Can I use a wheel with a quick release hub on a thru-axle fork or frame dropouts (with an adapter)? We may also want to consider that there are also different thru axle sizes, commonly 12mm, 15mm and 20mm. I think the most common size of thru-axle currently is 15mm 

I figured out how to reassemble this after some examination of the assembly diagram. I took the body cover off (see item labeled #4 in diagram). Then I reassembled the spring / tensioner assembly without tension on the springs. I used a magnet to hold the bolt in place while I did this. Then I attempted to put the body cover back on. I couldn't exactly squeeze it on due to the tensioned back section. So, I put it on loosly with a few threads of the three bolts screwed in. It was loose enough to hang on there, but it was at a slightly awkward angle due to pressure from the tensioned back section. I then was able to slowly tighten the bolts and force back the tensioned back section with a screwdriver until I could snap the body cover in place. The bolts held the body plate down and prevented it from moving due to pressure from the tensioned back section. and I completed tightening all the bolts and now have a functioning pedal. 

This happens during nesting season. These birds get aggressive and try to protect their territory near the nest. They should stop this behavior when nesting season is over. One main suggestion I've seen seem to be to look them in the eyes. Also, you might try to put wire ties or ribbons in your helmet facing up and back to deter the attacks. However, this seems to be an issue with Australian magpies as well, they are much larger and can cause crashes and more serious injury. Some Related Links: Avoid Magpie Attacks: $URL$ Chicago Residents attacked by blackbirds: $URL$ Magpie attacks: $URL$ 

I upgraded my cell phone and now have a Droid X2 without cell service that I'm not using for anything. Can I utilize my old Droid X2 phone (or any android phone without a cell phone plan) as a basic cycle computer, GPS Router Tracker, or Navigation tool? How will the capabilities stack up against a dedicated cycling GPS such as a Garmin 800? I would be using this on the road completely data free. However, I think the GPS functionality should still be functional, even without data service. I should be able to access an internet connection at home to upload or download data to the phone as well as install apps. 

The best light I've seen on AA batteries is the Busch & Muller IXON IQ. It is a solid commuter light and can run on AA batteries and can run for 5 hours on high. However, my opinion is that there are so many usb rechargable lights that are much brighter and that you would be better served with something like a cygolite metro or nightrider lumina and keep your AA powered light as a backup.