This is most likely pure fiction. Faberge made his famous eggs for Russian royal family since 1885. Out of all of pre-1901 (i.e made before Queen Victoria's death) Faberge-made imperial eggs only one is not accounted for in lists of tzar's property seized by the Soviets during the Russian Revolution - the Mauve egg, made in 1897. All other eggs are traceable at least until 1922. Could Victoria have that egg shattered? Definitely not by her own hand - first, none of the eggs are known to leave Russia before the Revolution, and she never visited Russia in person; second - there is no record of how the egg was lost, and its destruction by the English Queen would definitely had been notable enough to leave a trace in history. On the other hand, Queen might've referred metaphorically to one of the several occasions she disrupted Russian Emperors' plans - in time of her rule, Britain's and Russia's interests often clashed. In this case, from this short phrase it's impossible to tell which of four Russian Emperors whose time in power intersected with her own she meant. 

It is. In Soviet history there are multiple instances of badly implemented policies causing resistance from population, which sometimes resulted in government issuing statements in the spirit of "we didn't really mean to do this, it's all foreign spies'/overzealous bureaucrats'/ trotskyists' fault." In this case, global economy crisis forced Soviet government to step up their collectivization attempts. The peak of this was in the beginning of 1930 - statement issued on January 5, 1930 proclaimed that collectivization efforts are to be completed by 1932, and even sooner in the main grain-producing regions - Ukraine and lands along the Volga river. The forced collectivization caused by that led to massed peasant uprisings: by March 1930, GPU registered over 3000 incidents involving over 2000000 people in Ukraine alone, according to some researchers [1]. As a result, collectivization efforts were scaled down, and several party leaders were accused of causing the whole debacle. They later were shot as trotskyist spies. This seesaw of first ramping up collectivization and then backing down continued until 1933, when the whole system of government control over agriculture was overhauled which led to better harvests and overall improvement in relations between government and peasants. 

I am wondering whether most dogfights ended decisively and if so, whether many relatively inexperienced pilots knew they were probably going to die or at least have to eject from their planes. Or was it possible for even a new fighter pilot to at least have a chance of running away rather than engaging either a better pilot or a numerically superior group of planes? 

That stress, specifically the hormones released in response to stress, actually kills neurons I think was first demonstrated by Sapolsky within the past 30 years or so. Needless to say, before the 20th century when even insulin and various vitamins were not understood, such hormones were far beyond the understanding of medical science and even today many see psychosomatic illness as "imaginary" -- Just snap out of it, soldier! Also, higher death rates in the past due to inferior medical treatment limited the sample size and perhaps something about the continuous bombardments that modern technology allowed induced PTSD at rates not seen in previous wars. 

Newton and his contemporaries I think all had Latin. This is a primary effect of the education system of his and earlier times; math and physics were secondary in education. Even in Turing's time, his interest in math and chemistry was not apparently well regarded. He should have been spending more time on Latin and Greek, according to his instructors. 

Warning: answer contains a source in Italian only. Short answer: I never heard of such a thing like a "general policy" among Roman commanders concerning the usage of looted gold. There were some "moral guidelines", prohibiting for instance looting of temples and shrines, but (as the examples below demonstrate) these were often broken, and each commander acted according to strategic and/or tactical needs. This thesis is supported by many records of different behavior between different commanders; this dissertation thesis offers an example of what I am saying. Long answer: 

What evidence support either version? I am particularly interested about the French version, as I have some vague idea of the English one. 

The ancient Seleucia was founded along the Tigris river around the year 305 BC, and abandoned in 165 AD, due to the river mutating its course (Wikipedia). However in 780 AD the Catholicos (=Patriarch) of Seleucia was the most important Christian authority, overseeing over a quarter of the world's Christians [2]. This fact alone suggests that the city was far from an abandoned site, and rather thriving. Some sources refer to Middle Ages Seleucia as Seleucia-Ctesiphon. So let's assume that the Catholicos was based in Ctesiphon; the destruction of Ctesiphon was perpetrated by the invading Arabs, who later founded Baghdad. However Again there is an inconsistency, as the Arabs burned Ctesiphon (or Seleucia-Ctesiphon) in the VII century, and founded Baghdad one hundred years later. Where were the Catholicoi(?) based meanwhile? All this is in disagreement with the most common view that Seleucia was abandoned because of Roman attacks and replaced by Ctesiphon in the II century. The neighboring Ctesiphon, was in turn abandoned in the VII century after the Arab invasion, while Baghdad was founded in the VIII century. Everything appears like a giant naming mismatch. [2]: The Lost History of Christianity, P. Jenkins, Harper Collins 

I am not saying it is the only thing but the difficulty of becoming literate may have prevented the development of more than one potential Chinese innovator who was born into a family that could not afford education. I think of Faraday who had humble beginnings and he was not the only one. Importantly, who knows what would happened to Western science without Faraday? It is possible that another person motivated and capable of making his discoveries might not have come along for a generation. If not Faraday, I am sure there are other examples of people who benefited from being born in the West. 

I just wondered if the equivalent of nazis researching baptismal records, etc. occurred in the USA with Chinese Americans being forced to find proof of their national origin or face being interned; indeed, are there any incidents of Chinese Americans actually being interned? I would guess there were very few, I mean literally only hundreds, of mixed-race children in the USA at that time, but how were such children treated? Were there any laws analogous to the nazi Nuremberg laws applied -- for example, Jews who actually practiced Judaism fared worse than Jews who were merely "racially" Jews -- did Japanese Americans who actually spoke Japanese have more problems than more assimilated Japanese Americans? 

Other than over-hunting, several other causes have been advocated. Climate change This is ruled out both by the bigger and clearer picture that we have (which includes extinctions over 50.000 years) and by several examples were extinctions did not occur necessarily with climate change (the best example being the survival, until mid Holocene, of a Mammoth in an Alaskan island, see. Guthrie R. D., 2004, Nature, 429, 746). Indicators of global climate change do not show any correlation with extinction patterns. Over-hunting Over hunting is the other hypothesis, and currently the most accepted one. The survival of megafauna in Eurasia and Africa to present day is explained by the fact that these animals co-evolved with our ancestors over 2 million years, and had time to develop means to defend themselves. On the other hand, megafauna in the other landmasses was naive to unknown and relatively small sized humans, which might have proved fatal. The lack of killing sites is explained with the exceptional rapidity of the extinctions. In New Zealand, for instance, the extinction of Moas was more rapid in the North than in the South Island, because of different human population densities. Accordingly, in the North it's more difficult to find butchery sites, whereas in the South more than 100 have been found already. Other causes are summarized in Burney and Flannery 2005. Burney D. A. and Flannery T. F., 2005, TRENDS in Ecology and Evolution, 20, 395 In their recent study, Turvey and Fritz 2011 claim that their results: 

I realize that 150 years passed between this conversion and Jews being invited back to England but I wonder if, as in Spain, it would not have happened for many years even after that? I also realize that there was antisemitism in Protestant countries, too, but it seems like, as in the case of Holland, there was more tolerance of religious minorities and in particular Jews there. 

I am going to suggest that its extreme heaviness was a major feature contributing to its value. If you sell something by weight then the heavier it is the easier a given weight is to carry especially if you want to conceal it. Of course, its rarity and physical qualities are major contributors also. 

I think eunuchs have been influential elsewhere, too. Besides being trustworthy around harems they were in a more general sense trustworthy: They had made a "commitment" I think in the sense that they as eunuchs had limited employment possibilities and were easily recognizable. 

I can't give a definite answer but I am going to suggest that something Fermat said gives a clue. He was discussing why he did the mathematical work that he did and he said something like, "I wanted to show that the ancients did not know everything." So I wonder to what extent that people's attitude changed, discoveries made by scientists and mathematicians that contradicted what was in ancient books. People stopped trying to rediscover and started to try to discover. 

According to Rezanov's journal, they spent those days sightseeing and visiting Russian diplomats in London. They visited Westminster abbey, London Tower, Greenwich observatory and Newgate prison, amongst other places. He doesn't write much about his entourage, save for Horner - expedition's astronomer, who needed to buy his instruments in London. It seems that this was the main reason for visiting London - as soon as astronomical equipment was delivered, Rezanov returned back to Falmouth. Source: Резанов Н.П. Первое путешествие россиян вокруг света, описанное Н. Резановым / Н.П. Резанов // Отечественные Записки. - № XII; 1824, pp. 25-37 and 328-351, retrieved here (warning, old Russian) 

In the beginning of the next day, Alexei Rykov was called to testify, and from then on the interrogation is basically both accused trying to dodge questions about spywork, and prosecutor trying to catch them on technicalities. At one point, under pressure from interrogator, Rykov says that both he and Bukharin were involved in Polish espionage: 

The whole event was a bit more complex than a simple annexation. In XVI century Astrakhan Khanate was a point where clashed interests of Turkey and Crimean Khanate on one side, and Russia and Nogai Horde on the other, due to the importance of the city as a trading hub. The rulers changed often (basically, if a ruler leaned to one side - the other side raided the khanate and installed their marionette). Russia only came into the picture after conquering Kazan - it came in contact with, and consequently became an ally to the Nogais. In fact, the expedition of 1554 was planned by a request from Nogay Horde ruler (well, one of the rulers - by then it was already falling to internal power struggle), and Dervish-Ali was a Nogai proponent - who actually was Astrakhanian Khan before Crimeans raided the city in 1547 and installed their own ruler. So, the goal of the expedition wasn't the conquest of the city - it was reinstallment of an allied ruler. Nogai forces failed to join the Russians for some reason, and thus Dervish-Ali became a vassal to Moscow after the victory. He almost immediately switched allegiance, though, and tried to achieve independence with Osman backing - but that, as we know, did not end well for him, and, as it was normal for Russia back then, rebel's lands were confiscated by the Tzar. After that, most of the Nogai Horde became vassals of Russian tzar, and the rest broke away and allied with Crimea and Turkey. Source (russian language) 

Aristotle, Politics, 1335b 19-20 Other sources include Aristophanes and Euripides. All of these sources are of accessory character. The fact that philosophers advocate a practice can mean that such a practice was not abhorred, but does not mean that it was common use. As for theater, and especially Euripides, one must consider that art often deals with exceptional situations, e.g. an exposed baby who reverses his faith and becomes king of Thebes. An authoritative source is instead Polybius, XXXVI, 17 

I have recently written an answer to the question you have linked. There I explain in detail how, alongside preexisting polytheistic religions, the Arabic Peninsula was largely monopolized by Judaism and Christianity by the 5th century. The structure of religious belief was then not different from that of other countries of the time. By the 6th century, Mecca was emerging as the most important centre in the peninsula. It became known as the Holy City, and there were Sacred Months during which the Arabs from every corner would gather there. Already before the advent of Islam, the Kaaba was a temple. It was believed that Abraham had built it, and pilgrims would circumambulate it much like modern Muslims. Before the prevalence of monotheism, the land was divided between a mostly nomadic north and a sedentary South. The latter was a pragmatic society, that did not leave many writings concerning religion and philosophy. In fact, we do not know very much about the structure of ancient religons, when compared with the Greek one, so your comparison is somewhat unfair. Source: The Cambridge History of Islam 

It has been mentioned that any escapee from a camp faced an often hostile local population, maybe one with which they shared no common language. In some countries, local collaborators were police -- imagine running away from police in current times: How far would you get? 

The laws applied to not only Blacks but also Asians. At one time I think Chinese in the USA could not effectively marry at all due to immigration policy. Jews could legally be discriminated against in housing and employment. Hotels also did openly discriminate against Jews. But as far as I know, there were no laws that prevented intermarriage. Is this correct? 

In the book Slavery by Another Name which contends that the system whereby prisoners were leased to farmers and large companies to do work basically was as bad as slavery or even worse we see the possibility of Whites who were sentenced and became part of this system could be considered slaves. Sort of like Cool Hand Luke showed us about chain gangs. And in fact, the movie I am a Fugitive from a Chain Gang was based on a true story in which a White was sentenced to serving time on a road gang which may not have started out as him being in chains but ended up that way. So in some sense Whites could end up for all intents and purposes as slaves although Blacks were disproportionately members of these gangs. It could also be argued that in present times, many prisoners are more or less slaves and some of them are White.