Wilayat al Faqih is traditionally not a position, but a principle, or theory. The principle says that an Islamic Jurist as a guardian of people. There has been several different views on what this means, and if the Islamic Jurist is a guardian in all things, including secular, or only a guardian in religious matters. Ruhollah Khomeini expanded on this principle in a series of lectures in the 1970's where he argued for Islamic Jurists to be guardians of the people as a general rule, even for secular matters. He later used this view as a basis in the Iran constitution. In that constitution he created the position of Wilayat al Faqih. This was a new invention, and this is why no other country than Iran has had this position: Khomeini is the one that created this position, and he created it for himself. So the problem here is the statement "even though its existence was provided for under shariah law from the starting of Islam religion". This is incorrect. 

Due to the nature of trench warfare, some form of poison gasses would have been really useful in the trenches. In the trenches the gasses really would’ve been really useful with the limited mobility of the soldiers and would resulted in maximum enemy casualty. So what types of poison gasses were used in WW1? 

I know that dogs were used in WW1. I know that they weren’t vital, but didn’t play a reasonable role in helping the soldiers in the trenches. However, there is one thing that confuses me: How were dogs used to aid in communication in the trenches? Such a task of getting them to deliver a symbol would take intense time wasting training. Something that can be invested in troop training. Other than communication, there only other uses were carrying equipment (not vital) and as a physiological comfort. Does anybody have any-more uses? 

Nothing happens at all. This is essentially a question of two parts. Part one is unstated, but important, and it is the question of who is legitimate monarch. First of all, legitimacy does not, as Tony Robinson claims, rest on blood. Legitimacy rests on being accepted as legitimate. This sounds like a tautology, and on some level it is, but on another level it is not. The rightful monarch is the one that is accepted as rightful monarch, and this is often stated in some act of law. In many cases that law is a list of rules on who is "the rightful" heir, but who is it take makes up that list? Right, whoever is currently in power. There is no "God given" correct succession. No-one has a right to be a King or Queen that exists outside the peoples acceptance of him/her as monarch. The legitimate succession is therefore the one that is accepted as being legitimate. In England, the rules of succession has been changed several times, most lately in 2013, mainly to make succession gender-neutral. England even was a commonwealth between 1649 and 1660, and there was no monarch at all. Now, British law is complicated, so exactly what laws are relevant and still valid is beyond me (apparently the Treason Act of 1351 is still valid, just as an example, and had to be modified when changing the succession in 2013), but Wikipedia claims that the relevant laws all say that the succession are legitimate descendants of Sophia of Hannover. So whether Edward IV was legitimate or not is irrelevant. Saying that the Windsors are illegitimate is therefore incorrect. Had Edward IV not been accepted as legitimate somebody else would have been monarch today. This is the ore truth in the TV program. But it does not make Queen Elizabeth illegitimate. The current British law says that the legitimate monarch is Elizabeth Alexandra Mary of Windsor, and she also is the one that is accepted as the monarch. But what would happen if theoretically it is shown that the current monarch is not the lawful monarch? Most likely, what would happen is that a law would be passed, making the monarch the lawful monarch. It is of course quite possible that the current monarch somehow is implied by the scandal himself/herself and is forced to abdicate. Say that it turns out that Queen Elizabeth is not the legitimate child of George VI, and that she has been active in keeping this a secret. Who then becomes monarch? Well, whoever has the support. Although in this hypothetical case the nearest legal heir to the throne really is Prince Richard, Duke of Gloucester, it is also quite possible that Prince Charles instead gets to be monarch. He might not be the legally correct one, but he is born and bred to be monarch, and giving him the title would be easiest, as otherwise pretty much the whole royal house needs to be changed. He also seems quite popular. This will likely also require an act of law, but since Prince Richard is unlikely to have a large amount of followers in the parliament sitting and waiting to make him King, it's a law that would be easily passed. Or perhaps it would be the final nail in the coffin for the monarchy and Britain might be made into a commonwealth again. So onto part 2 and the stated questions: 

I have a basic idea about the Schieffen plan and I know that Germany attacked Belgium in the First world war. But I am slightly confused about this topic, as despite the fact that the schieffen plan did involve taking the French by Surprise, a proposal with Belgium to let the German troops pass would’ve been a lot faster and would’ve meant less blood-shed and gore. This raises the chance that Germany, may instead have been trying a country expansion or a conquest just like they did with Alsace and Lorraine. There is one other chance, which is whether Germany attacked Belgium because they had a treaty with Britain where if they were attacked Britain would step in (Britain were in the triple entente). So, I was just wondering which of this is the most likely reason as to why Germany chose to attack neutral Belgium? 

The sea peoples are in Egyptian sources referred to as "foreign people of the sea". It is in other words a name they use for any sea-faring foreigners that attack Egypt. Some of the sources list the names of these sea peoples, making it clear that it is not one people that is meant. The theories mentioned on Wikipedia may therefore all be correct at the same time. 

What he is saying is that the Romans did not destroy the temple. The Jews themselves did. Your quote above seems to say that the date was not a coincidence, and that maybe they decided to burn it down partly because it was the same day as the previous destruction. Josephus is painting a very positive portrait of Titus, claiming that he offers to save the temple and let the Jews continue to worship there as before. If this is true of just Josephus doing what he is paid to do as propaganda I don't know. But your quote seems to me to be a part of that: Josephus making it completely clear that the Romans in no way is to blame for the destruction of the temple. 

It depends how you count is; 11 years or 16 years. In either case, the rise from Orphaned Buddhist monk to founding a new empire in a little more than a decade could be a bigger achievement than the other answers. He ruled for more than 30 yeras, and the Ming empire lasted for more than 250 years, so he was fairly effective too. The people in the other answers tended to have only a short term impact on History. This man belongs on a "most important people in history" list. 

Get a foot in the door, a local power base Extract wealth from locals. Send wealth to London. Induce local "balance of payments" deficit, ruining local economy.[2] Economic issues spread to neighboring localities. With economic issues comes poverty. Hire strong impoverished teen age males to serve in the army. Feed them well, train them well, give them a feeling of power derived through service. In return, they will be loyal. Control new area, return to step 2