Slick tires, like your conti's, have no problem in wet conditions. If the streets you ride in Boston in winter are just wet with occasional light slush you're fine with what you got. You'll want knobby tires if you're regularly riding in something soft like dirt, mud, packed snow or very heavy slush. Slick tires are significantly more squirrely in those conditions. In that case, typical cross tires will be better. 

A fixed gear bike will be "less forgiving" if something gets caught up in the drive train simply because you can't coast to a stop and dislodge the object. The object will either break and fling off, or it will "stop" the bike usually throwing the rider very hard and very fast into the ground (often face-first). If you're going to ride fixed as a commuter with street clothes you're taking on additional risk with no real benefit. So yeah, put a chain-guard on there as well as a front brake and some foot retention system. 

Looks like a basic alu frame from a lesser known mfg. Probably fine. Some things to consider with a new (or used) frame: 

I actually have a schwinn traveler converted to single-speed as my beater. Although the tubing is heavy, it appears hold up marvelously against corrosion. That makes a very good beater. I'd make the schwinn your beater! Really, the only thing you might want for winter is fatter tires and fenders. I put 45mm tires on mine. 

Those long "mountain bike" Kool-stops work fine on my modern skinny wheel road bike with side-pull calipers. If the modern Kool-stops fit (and don't see why not), I'm sure they will outperform those vintage looking ones - the contact area is much greater. I'd even bet the long contact patch results in less torque on the caliper arms, but I doubt it's an issue either way. Those Kool-stops are nice, the mounting hardware allows fine adjustment of the plane of the brake surface. You're supposed to adjust them with a little toe-in (toe-out?) so the inevitable torque when applied straightens them out (we're talking a very small amount of inevitable torque twist - but the Kool-stops are designed to account for that). That little bend on the tip of the red side helps with the setup for that. Take the bike in and ask the bike shop, but my guess is they'll work fine on 60s era calipers/skinny wheels. 

I just measured the inner width of my rim with a ruler and it seemed to be a hair over 14mm. Looking at the tire sizing chart on Sheldon Brown's site it doesn't have an entry for 14mm inner width rims. My wheels are Vuelta Corsa HDs (nashbar special), and that rim is probably used on other Vuelta wheels, so I'm thinking it's not an unusual size. Might they be considered 15mm? Anyone know the official spec for those rims? 

Much easier to wear cycling-specific clothing and just carry a change of clothes/shoes with you in a waterproof bag/pannier or leave some at work. Anything more than fenders and flaps is going to be a hassle to deal with. 

Multi-tool, 1 tube, patch-kit, tire levers, CO2. Anything else fits nicely in jersey pockets. Whether you use a CO2 or a pump depends on how likely it is for you to get a flat. If it happens rarely and you're good at finding cause of flats-- CO2 is better. 

bikejerseys.com has been my goto for bib shorts. The 6-panel Santini and Nalini are very practical, relatively inexpensive, and last a long time. Not crazy about the 90's web design, but at least you know they're not blowing cash on an expensive website! If you're in the Lehigh Valley area in Pennsylvania, the velodrome in Trexlertown has a giant twice-a-year flea market of everything cycling-related called "velofest". The next one is May 5th. Great for stocking up on consumables and worth it even if you have to drive a few hours. 

Your optimal tire pressure depends most importantly on the width of the tire and your weight. There's no formula. The recommended pressure on the tire is usually a lower bound for most folks, it is not unusual to exceed it by 10 psi (and sometimes a lot more). If you have trouble with pinch flats and your tire is already very hard to the point of being jarring, you need to get a wider tire. Here is one trick that I've already mentioned before: since your front wheel is under less load than the rear, it is OK to put less air pressure in it than the rear. This will dampen the road shock transmitted to your hands a slight but noticeable amount. 

At the beginning of this video: $URL$ it looks like this bike messenger has an extra strap for his bag that comes up under his left arm to stabilize his load. Looks pretty neat, like it can be easily unsnapped to get the normal messenger bag access, and possibly be DIY-able. 

The typical touring bike with drop bars and bar end shifters shoots the shift cable out the bar tape, right under the curve like so: 

I currently have traditional drop bars and cross (interrupter) brake levers. I like the interrupters and use them a lot. But I'm going to get a compact drop bar (FSA Omega Compact bar on order), and in trying to envision this new setup, it seems the interrupters might be less useful with compact bars because my hands, even on the cross bar, will be closer to the (regular) brakes. Plus the "cockpit" area, being more compact with compact bars, might be overly cluttered with interrupters in there. Plus with a compact bar I suspect I'll have my hands on the cross bar less of the time. All in all it seems interrupter brakes are less desirable on a compact drop bar than they are on a traditional drop bar. Does anyone use interrupter brake levers on a compact bar? 

The easiest thing to try is to throw another layer of tape on there. Of course most of this detracts from the classic looks of your bike. 

"Stretch" is a bit of misnomer for bike chains. The chain links do not deform or creep as a result of time under power. It is the bushings and pins that wear down over time and thus make the chain longer, more likely to break apart, shift badly and also wear down cogs faster. I am sure Sheldon Brown covers this. It may very well be that the belts don't stretch appreciably, however, they certainly must wear down on the contact surfaces. I can't imagine that this would be a big problem. All you have to do is loosen nuts on the rear-axle, pull the wheel back further and re-tighten. The real question as far as suitability of a belt-drive is concerned is how long does it last and how efficient is it compared to a chain? 

A mirror is not necessary if you're capable of swiveling your head to look around without changing the line-of-travel of the bike. This is a skill that can be learned with a modicum of experience. The problem with using a mirror is that it is one more piece of equipment to carry and fuss with. 

Whether or not it is "legal", the fact is cyclists DO run red-lights. There are solid pragmatic reasons for doing this in certain circumstances and there are situations for which this is NOT a good idea. The problem is that laws traffic laws have trouble handling nuance, so not all jurisdictions can hope to get away with specific laws/exceptions to accommodate cyclists. I think it is OK for the laws to not be changed even though it means that on rare occasions a cop who is feeling persnickety might decide to enforce the "letter of the law" on a cyclist who proceeds through a red-light at a clear intersection. 

I'm going to be re-taping my bars for the first time soon, and I was thinking about a putting an extra layer of tape for just slightly increased diameter and padding. I have big hands, but I don't want the padding kits that are available, as I think that might be too much. Is this under-taping at all common? I was thinking about using cloth medical-style tape. Would this be a good choice? (I don't race, just exercise/commute/day-trip, will be getting compact drop-bars) 

Raise handlebars and/or shorter stem Padded gloves Double layer of handlebar tape or gel pads under the tape Move hand location frequently between cross bar, hoods, corners and drops (for me at least, when my handlebars are higher I tend to spend more time in the drops) 

Interrupter brakes require the brake cable to angle away from the bar to meet the lever at the proper point as shown in the picture below. You can see the handlebar tape doesn't carry on closer to the center because if it did, and was wrapped tight, it would put a harsh bend in the cable. But it seems the right tiny bit of molded plastic to guide the cable off the bar right into the interrupters at the correct angle (shown in red on the left) would allow you to wrap the tape nice and tight right up to where the interrupter levers clamp on the bar. Is there such a cable guide wedge thing? If not, has anyone made their own? It would be nice to bring the handlebar tape nicely finished right up against the interrupter clamp. 

No type of bike in particular. It all depends on the tires: If you're riding in light slush or wet roads: regular tires with fenders. If you're riding in packed snow, heavy slush: wide knobby tires. Fender probably won't fit so you need one of those clip-on mudguards that attach to the seatpost to keep the rear wheel from constantly flinging cold slushies on you butt. If you're riding on ice: Don't do it. Although I have heard of studded tires. 

You are correct that the type of puncture you're getting is caused by the rim "pinching" the inner tube. The root cause here is one of the following: 

You absolutely can shift front and back simultaneously. However, there is only one scenario where it makes sense and it does require that your mechs to be in tip-top working order and some level of finesse on your part. Moreover, it might only apply to modern Campy derailleurs (don't know about sram, shimano). The one scenario where it makes sense is if you have rapidly come to the bottom of a steep hill where you KNOW you're going to HAVE TO be in your small chainring. In that situation, I will use both my thumbs to simultaneously thrust the chain to the small chainring and to a small cog (on campy you can sweep across more than one cog with a shift). Doing this will keep you from suffering a huge discontinuity in cadence and you'll be ready to shift one at a time to bigger cogs before your cadence is about to drop. Everyone I know who uses campy does this type of shift at the bottom of very steep hills. This is good to do because shifting the chainring is somewhat dicey under high torque and low cadence. Better to do it earlier rather than later, and if you are doing it earlier, you'll ALSO want to be in a smaller cog initially so you don't mess up your cadence. 

I like drop compact drop bars but I think I'd like them better if they were angled in like Salsa Woodchipper bars. I adjust my brake levers to angle in on regular drop bars and compact drops because like my hand to grip something at an inward angle, not a straight ahead parallel. I want to try those Salsa Woodchipper bars, but I'd prefer to first try something less extreme, like a cross between the Salsa Woodchipper and the compact drop bars I use now. Anyone know of such an animal? (I ride more or less upright, saddle about the same height as the top of the bars. Slow, steady, but sensual. And classy.) 

If you had 35mm tires (Schwalbe marathon supremes to be specific) would you get innertubes speced as 28-35mm or 35-42mm? Or whichever is cheaper? 

Jagwire makes some cable housings that look like braided metal (called "sterling silver", "titanium", "carbon silver", and "gold"). I have a vague recollection of a review that said these metallic housings are more difficult to cut than the solid colored ones. Can anyone confirm or deny this? (I have a decent bicycle cable/housing cutter that worked fine on the solid colored Jagwire housings.) 

Practice riding with both hands lightly touching the handlebar. In a sense you're learning to ride by controlling the bike with your seat/legs but you don't have to completely remove your hands from the bar, just try to transfer more and more control away from your hands (this is just an exercise, not for general riding). You should get to the point where you have very good control with your seat/legs (going straight) and your hands are just lightly touching the bars. At this point you can try releasing your left hand (with right hand firm on the bars but not clamped tight). Find a place to do these exercises away from others (cars, bikes and pedestrians) and only do it on a smooth surface until you master it. When you can right with just your right hand on the bars (I'm assuming you're in a drive on the right country) and can use your left hand to signal turns and braking, you'll be a much safer rider. 

If you have to replace the shifters or derailleurs, just try to find cheap replacements or used parts that are similar. You'll want to stick with 5-speed stuff, you aren't going to be upgrading to a 10 speed freewheel (they don't exist!). 

As an alternative to paint, you can have your bike professionally powder-coated. This will give really beautiful results. I have had this done, but had problems with a lugged frame. After a few years, I can see that the powder coat has started to admit rust in the edges of the lugs. It is probably better to reserve powder coat for fillet-brazed (tig-welded) bikes. I am not sure if there are special preparations needed to powder-coat lugged frames. 

There is a lot of variation across models of saddles even if you stay within one genre (eg only consider road or only consider MTB). However, you'll find if you look at popular racing saddles that MTB saddles tend to be shorter. This is because in singletrack you're very frequently moving onto and off-of the saddle. A longer saddle might interfere with the "body-english" that some MTB riders use. That said, if a saddle fits, it fits. That is the most important criteria. Everything else is a distant secondary consideration. 

I had once thought that "lobster-style" ski gloves would be the ultimate gloves for cycling at all cold temps, but I was bitterly proven wrong. Gloves like that work great the first half hour or so, but the moisture build-up eventually made my hands unbearably cold.