There's a good chance that they can't be identified because they don't exist. Suetonius paints a nice picture of Titus, who changed from a suspicious killer when he was acting as his father's enforcer to the best Emperor ever the second he took office. And maybe that's all so..he only lived a few years after that and was occupied with several disasters. So he harmed no-one, nobody informed, wept when he had helped nobody in a day, forgave every transgression and even sent a note to the mother of the assassin he forgave over and over, and even handed the two a sword to use! This is larding it on a bit thick. Why go so far in building up Titus? Well, there is his brother Domitian - who was supposedly plotting to overthrow St. Titus even during this wonderful time, and who became the bogeyman Emperor of the Senatorial class who were writing these histories after his death and after the installation of the successor Emperors who had had Domitian killed -- with the connivance of the same Senators who write these histories. It helps solidify the current regime to blacken the previous one, and better yet if they can point back to another 'good' emperor to justify the regime change that had just happened under Nerva and Trajan. 

Both sides did quite a lot of testing pre-war. That's why they had detailed tables that showed that X shells in Y hours would destroy anything. As it turned out, though, all this testing turned out to be irrelevant to the actual battlefield conditions of the Trenches. The problem is that in a war with your troops at risk, countries are far more willing to exert themselves than anyone is between wars for a test. The Germans build steel-reinforced concrete shelters, buried deep underground all over the front. It is certain that nobody in England built one to test shellfire before the war. It is easy to look back and see where mistakes were made. It is harder to look forward to the future. 

The main reason was to reduce the ability of a single man to raise an army and wield it against the Tetrarchs. An army commander had troops (and possibly a lot of them) but did not have the infrastructure to keep them fed and supplied if he revolted. Similarly, a disaffected governor had no troops to raise a revolt. So an internal revolt had to rely on the coordination of at least two disaffected men in the same area, and this gave a much smaller chance to happen and a much higher chance for discovery while the two planned than the previous method, where one man had wide civil and miliary powers at the same time. 

You'll hear stuff like this from time to time, but really it is more just reflecting the US way of war. The Germans fought on the cheap, and they wanted to win fast, so they mixed it up. The US had the philosophy that there was always plenty of artillery or air support or tanks on call, so when resistance was hit, why not expend some shells before going in? The effectiveness was not in doubt, since despite all his sneering Otto was still the one inside the pocket. And if he had tried to drive out, he likely would have found the dominant Allied air support blowing his tank away without an infantryman having to lift a finger. 

Forcing an army to besiege a fortified town is a hostile act - you are consuming the campaign season and the army outside risks disease ravaging its ranks. In ancient times a city that surrendered on first approach usually was spared a sack as a quid pro quo - although it might have to pay a cash or goods payment to the army. By the late 1600s and 1700s in Europe where the "rules of war" were formalized to a great extent as a reaction to the 30 Years War, there was a ritual set of steps 1) Army approaches, if the city doesn't surrender... 2) Army must put in investment trenches and use artillery force a breach in the wall. 3) If the Garrison surrenders with the "honors of war" it goes free and the city is taken. If the town has a citadel, the Garrison can retire to it, giving up the town and a new mini-seige of the citadel could result with part of the army. 4) If the Garrison decides to fight on, and the assault takes the town, a sack is allowed and the Garrison can be massacred. So basically a defender could avoid a sack by giving up earlier and saving the attacking army the time and losses continued resistance entailed. 

From watching the old series "Time Team" it is common to find Iron Age and even Saxon graveyards built in and around old neolithic mounds. I don't think that this indicates great continuity in culture as much as a recognition that this was a site with some kind of power to it. In a similar fashion, Saxons sometimes clustered graves in and around Roman ruins. 

Analogical reasoning is fine, if done well. It is normal for people to compare events with their own experiences or with other things that have happened in the past. Hopefully the analogy fits and doesn't lead A problem with contrafactuals too far is that historians tend to freeze all other contingencies and let the history diverge wildly. In reality, things tend to 'repair' themselves. Losers in a battle work harder to get even, while winners have to move deeper into enemy territory and disperse to hold the conquered territory. For example, in the US Civil War the capture of the CSA army at Ft. Donelson didn't end the war...instead the CSA scrambled and put out a new army that lost a close battle at Shiloh. But contrafactual histories of Gettysburg, where and CSA win would likely be a narrow one, assume that the war would end right there, rather than the US army falling back a dozen miles or so (where they had a defensive line mapped out) and fighting again. So in reality, a CS win at Gettysburg would likely end much like a CS loss did, with Lee eventually retiring to VA for the fall. 

Howard has priority - he was the commander on the field after Reynolds was dead and before Hancock. He, unlike the others, actually occupied the hill with troops, keeping first a division and later a brigade there while the fighting was taking place on the north. That said, like many of these "choose the field" controversies, it doesn't take much genius to see that that fishhook position was a good one from attacks coming from the north and west, where the Rebels were. These things were fought out in the 1880s more than they deserved. No need to bring them up now. 

Charles-Maurice de Talleyrand, prince de Bénévent - the fellow who moved from supporting the King to the Revolution to Napoleon to the Restored Kings qualifies a half a dozen times. John Churchill, later Lord Marlborough and his associates also betrayed the Catholic King James II to support William of Orange. This is called the Glorious Revolution by the winners, probably something less nice by James II. Almost any regime change could produce a bunch of examples. 

The Americans were on Luzon, and the Japanese had air and naval superiority, so reaching Mindanao was out of the question. The initial landings of the Japanese cut off the US troops, deployed near the capital of Manila, from what hills there are on that island. The main requirement of a guerrilla campaign is to either be able to escape the occupying army or hide among the locals. The large garrison of the Philippines could not escape nor blend in. The only thing scattering could accomplish would be to have the locals punished for sheltering them. Some special forces might have been able to work on the island after the fall, but the large peacetime garrison could not.