What you consider important and what I consider important aren't the same. If that's what you expect I won't fit in with the company culture here. I may do the work you ask of me but I'll never treat it with the same respect and diligence that I do the things that I consider fun and exciting. 

Sounds like you have a wonderful opportunity to learn a bit of another language as well as another culture, not to mention the real-world work experience that you gaining. But for what ever reason you've been unable or unwilling to take advantage of it. As Chad suggests I'd ask for a few days off to visit friends and family. I'd also take the time to evaluate why you feel the way you do. Is this a problem with work and the work environment or are you lonely, isolated, and homesick? Valid reasons to feel the way you do, but not a reason to resign. 

If you want to continue to grow as a developer, there comes a point where your individual contribution alone is not enough to continue advancing. Having ever more technical knowledge and solving ever more technically challenging problems are good, but too much of that alone will get you labeled as a cowboy coder. Making yourself irreplaceable by holding knowledge or obfuscating your work may give you job security, but it will limit your advancement possibilities. Eventually, you will be measured by how well you can technically lead a group of developers or set the technical direction that others follow. Being able increase team velocity by mentoring junior developers, sharing knowledge to help overcome impediments or generally improve practice are important components to this. In short, keeping things to yourself may help you in the short term, but it will limit you in the long term. 

Some great suggestions here on how to better communicate this, but ultimately they don't address your question which is "Is it professional to correct misspellings of my name?" Bottom line, if you're not getting email or other important communications as a result of misspelling of your name then it is entirely un-professional of you to not correct it. 

Generally speaking all that is required is a log of your activity, anything that you can refer back to at the end of the week to submit your hourly billing. Any documentation would be helpful if the client questioned your invoice or refused to pay for all of the hours you billed. The lack of that documentation would pretty much turn it in to a 'he said, she said' battle, while the documentation itself, for the most part would be considered reasonable proof if challenged in court. A few suggestions that you may find helpful: 

Depending on where you are applying, I would not worry about your last name too much. Many (most?) people from countries where Slavic names are not common do not understand what the 'ova' suffix means. In the US, for example, there are quite a few women of Polish descent with last names ending in 'ski' rather than 'ska' and most are probably unaware that the ending is 'incorrect'. Given that the requirement to make names gender neutral is restricted to hiding first names, I think it is safe to assume that whoever posted the ad is unfamiliar with Slavic last names and the fact that they can reveal the person's gender. 

You indicate that the this will be internal only, but you're concerned that your peers will see it as unprofessional. If you're concerned that it's not a fit to the company culture then, more than likely it's not. But keep in mind, your Avatar could be shared to the outside world with only a few clicks of the mouse by your Exchange/Office 365 administrator. So you should also consider how your customers, clients, and extended professional circle might consider it as well. 

Knowing how to help yourself find relevant information is critical to on the job success. Like it or not, Google is a powerful tool for quickly answering questions. It's a good idea to do a quick search before asking others. It's like calling tech support and being able to say you already tried rebooting and it didn't help. 

You should approach this salary negotiation in good faith as you would any other. You cannot expect the company to directly translate what they were paying to your temp company as your new salary. The money paid to your temp company covered your salary, your benefits, profit to that company and possibly overhead like project management or infrastructure. Your "new" company will now need to assume all those costs itself, possibly with better benefits, higher overhead and/or better infrastructure. 

Obviously this is very simplified, there are whole disciplines and methodologies defined for this process and there's no way to address the full scope in an answer here. The bottom line is that: 

Most HR departments frown on double submissions of a candidate even if from different agencies, many will outright blacklist an agency if they do double submit a candidate. So in one sense it is a valid question. However since most agencies would not submit you to a company without your approval and knowledge it's really a fishing expedition on their part to find potential customers. Bottom line is that you are in control of this information and can choose to share it or not. My suggestion would be to not share it upfront. You should always know beforehand what companies the agency is going to submit you to and you can simply tell them then that you have already applied/submitted a resume. 

The high road in this particular case would be to first convince your coworker that you have a valid argument against what he proposed, and then, together, approach your manager about revising the decision. 

If they ask these questions, they must ask both of all candidates. Once a candidate has been hired, but before they start work, more specifics are discussed as the employer is required to actually verify the candidate's authorization to work. In practice, it is somewhat commonplace to discuss some of the details during the interview process, especially if they are volunteered by the candidate. In your case, you can't give a 100% guarantee that you won't need sponsorship until you get your green card. So, I would recommend stating during the interview process that you are authorized to work in the US and that you do not anticipate needing sponsorship in the future. If you feel this leaves things too unclear, then you might give some detail about your adjustment of status being in progress. 

The bottom line is that you could be terminated immediately upon letting your manager know of your plans. In a 'Right to Work' state you'd have little or no recourse. But the responsible thing to do would be to have a chat with your line manager and let him know of your plans. This allows for planning and preparing on his part and depending upon your role and responsibilities this could be a major undertaking with a large scope. A reasonable manager won't hold personal/life/career goals against you and shouldn't take any action against you. But of course there's no guarantee of the way that they will react. All of that aside you'll have to make a decision based on your own feelings, the expected reaction, and the value you hold on your relationship with your current employer. As for the bonus, well it's for past performance and contribution. But like many things in management/HR the determination is often subjective. Meaning your manager/HR could easily decide that you don't qualify for the bonus at all or greatly reduce it once they learn of your plans. 

In our office, we have a water boiler that can keep water hot enough to make tea all day. People come and make a cup of tea at a time and refill it as needed. Perhaps you can get something like that for your office. 

Failure to ensure time critical things are being done is as much your problem as the person who needs to have it fixed. Escalating too quickloy has the potential to make you look bad for not having a full understanding of the situation rather than forcing the repair to happen faster. For example, imagine that the repair person actually has a more pressing task to attend to and your request has been received and explicitly deprioritized. Escalating actually get you this information, but it will not replace the lost time you could have spent in searching for alternate solutions. This scenario is somewhat unlikely, but it illustrates that that your next step should be a follow up either via e-mail to confirm that the request has been received or directly in person. If you still get no response, progress or reasonable explanation, then you should escalate. 

I honestly don't know if you'll find a standard that fits your workplace and culture. No two departments are identical even if they are both the same (i.e. IT, HR, ...) across different companies/locations. Use your tool to learn your baseline. From that you can make informed decisions on what you can do to improve the ratio in your situation. 

Your opening statement screams out to me that you have an issue with this individual based on his education and background. That it's very possible that this individuals reaction to your criticism may be based, in part, on your own bias. Even if not intended it is very easy for us to inject our own bias or dislike of someone into an otherwise perfectly normal and accepted conversation, observation, or off the cuff comment. You don't mention in your question how he reacts to comments or critique from others. Only your own bad manners. Take the time to have a hard look at how your co-worker responds to others as well as your own behavior and possible bias. Update and Response Speaking as a IT manager/director with over 20 years of experience managing and directing international and multicultural teams and even taking in to account cultural differences; I have to say that your response knocked me out of my chair. The first thing that came to mind is that you sound exactly like my younger brothers and sisters did when they were around five. "It's his fault!" or "He did it!". In your rush to defend yourself and point out that it's entirely the other persons fault you totally ignored my suggestions to step back and take a look at the problem again with an open mind. As a manager this tells me without a doubt that you've made up your mind that you have no responsibility for this problem at all; that it's entirely the other persons fault. You are, whether you realize it or not, confirming my earlier statement that you have a biased outlook on the problem. You are refusing to even consider that you may be at least partially at fault here. Perhaps the two of your are more alike than you realize. His arrogance may be a result of his highbrow school while your is the result of your refusal to allow for the possibility that you may be partially to blame. As a manager I'd pull you both in my office and tell you to grow up and work it out. Both of your attitudes and behavior are affecting the team and will have a negative impact. None of the suggestions or avenues of approach you state in your question resolve the underlying issue. They only avoid it and try to sweep it under the rug; might alleviate the symptoms but will never cure the disease.