you and I have a lot in common - playing both table tennis and regular tennis. My answer to this question (from years of observing the effects of playing both sports) is both yes and no. Some things are the same (and help across both sports) and some are different and don't help that much. The similarities: Balance - both require good balance and using your non-hitting hand to help you maintain your balance when having to reach for a shot. Hand-eye coordination - both require you to concentrate on, and keep your eye on, the ball. Recognizing spin - your ability to recognize what kind of spin your opponent puts on the ball helps in both sports. The differences: Stamina - high level tennis requires greater physical strength and stamina. You'll have to be in better shape and more fit to reach higher levels of the game. Stroke/Technique - This is most notable to me. In tennis, I need a much different kind of stroke (more loopy, different contact point, different follow through, etc.) in tennis than in table tennis. In table tennis I can get away with using more wrist to hit the ball and I need to apply much less effort into contacting the ball in table tennis. What I find if I am playing more tennis than table tennis is I hit a lot of shots past the end of the table in table tennis. Oppositely, I end up using too much wrist in my tennis strokes if I've been playing more table tennis. Game Pace - the back and forth action in table tennis is (on average) a lot faster than in tennis, so you have to be ready to hit your next shot much sooner in table tennis than in tennis and you sometimes adjust your strategy in table tennis to allow more time to recover for your next shot than you would in tennis (though sometimes the same strategy applies in tennis as well if you've been pulled far off the court). 

You have requested and been given an IPIN number by the ITF You are playing in an ITF, ATP or WTA event (Futures, Challengers or Tour level event) and you are accepting any prize money you might earn from your participation in the event. 

Like you said - coming out of retirement can be a vastly different proposition for well known, once highly-ranked players vs. unknown, lower-ranked players. As you mentioned - the well known players will likely get the assistance of wild cards from tournament directors to quickly ascend back up the rankings while the unknown player likely would not. This would affect how many rankings points each player was able to quickly regain and thus, their ranking. No matter the popularity or previous ranking - no player gets any portion of their rankings points back. They would start back at zero unless their retirement was very short-lived and all of their previously earned rankings points had not dropped off yet (from the previous season). I assume you understand how the rolling 12-month rankings points system in professional tennis works. If not, leave a comment and I can expand on it further. FYI - when a player announces retirement they are not automatically removed from the rankings unless they explicitly request to be removed immediately. I believe Henin was immediately removed because she requested to be. However, in Andy Roddick's case - he was still ranked inside the top 100 earlier this year (before the clay season I believe) - because some of his rankings points had not fallen off his rolling 12-month ranking yet. He is now listed as inactive on the ATP website since all his rankings points have fallen off. Edit: You can read more about the ATP ranking system here. Basically, each player's ranking position is based on the amount of rankings points they have accumulated over the past rolling 12 months. For example, Andy Murray won the U.S. Open last year in 2012. He received 2,000 ranking points for doing so. Those 2,000 ranking points stay as a part of his total rankings points until the week before the U.S. Open in 2013. Then they will "fall off" of his total (he loses them) and he will re-accumulate whatever points he earns by his result of playing the event in 2013. 

The problem with that logic is, the previously defeated opponent of Wawrinka's scheduled opponent has already lost in a single elimination tournament. So they have been eliminated from the tournament. Would it be fair to force Wawrinka to play this "lucky loser" opponent if Wawrinka somehow got injured or severely fatigued during that match? Definitely not. And what if the player that withdraws only made it to that round of the tournament because their previous opponent withdrew as well? Then who would you advance - the loser of the match two rounds prior? You could technically have first round losers being asked to wait around for 1 or 2 weeks to see if a chain of walkovers somehow advances them to the final. It's just not really feasible since many early-round losers catch the soonest flight out of there so they can try to play another tournament the following week. Not to mention the expenses of hanging around in hotels for the player, maybe their coach, their trainer, etc. Who would pick up those expenses - the already cash-poor tournaments? 

As you can see, it's a slim margin (40 points) - but Nadal would have a higher point total than Djokovic at the end of the tournament. 

I wanted to come back and add an answer to this question because it happened again this week (27 Apr 2015) in a Challenger event in Tallahassee involving Facundo Bagnis of Argentina. You can find the draw for the 2015 event on their Facebook Page, or the Wikipedia page for it once it's updated. The reason for this happening is that Bagnis is currently ranked 90 in the world (pretty high for a Challenger event being played the same week as 3 ATP tour events also). The problem is, Bagnis didn't sign up to play the event in time, so he was forced to play qualifying in order to make his way into the main draw. THEN - the tournament organizers didn't make up the draw (and thus, the seeds) until AFTER qualifying had completed - therefore allowing them to give Bagnis the #1 seed (appropriately) but he still has the "Q" by his name, since he made the main draw as a qualifier. According to some sources that follow pro tennis closely, this happens fairly regularly at the Futures level, but rarely in Challenger level tournaments. Glad to have finally got an answer to this question! 

I generally don't recommend a heat-shrink sleeve because it's a rather "permanent" solution to your problem. If you find that the heat-shrink sleeve doesn't solve your problem you're out the cost of the heat-shrink plus the time and energy it takes to get it on/off. Instead, just try adding a second overgrip - you can put the second overgrip either under the replacement grip (directly against the grip pallet of your racquet) or just wrap two overgrips around (on top of) the replacement grip. I would give that a try first before going to the heat-shrink sleeve. 

It depends on how serious of a player you are and how much you plan to be playing - but you could either buy the rubber by itself and resurface your existing paddle (which requires some amount of knowing what you're doing) or you could go down to your nearest sporting goods store and spend somewhere between $40-60 and get a pretty nice paddle with high enough quality rubber that should last you a good while. The better care you take of the rubber (cleaning it) the longer it should last you. 

Have you ever watched Collegiate tennis or World Team Tennis? This is actually a rule - no-let serves. No player is talented enough to try and clip the net and have the ball roll over for an ace (or service winner) - that would require inch-perfect precision. Also, most players aren't particularly fond of the no-let serve rule because 1) they're not used to it and 2) shots that clip the net and roll over for a winner are considered "cheap" and most players apologize for winning points that way. Not to mention, the net cord produces unpredictable results depending on where the ball hits, what kind of spin is on the ball, and what angle it comes into the net at. Here's an article that talks about the subject: $URL$ 

Djokovic's 500 points from last year expire, Nadal was defending 0 points, so nothing expires for him: 

EDIT: Ok, I have completely rewritten my answer now that I understand this completely myself. In my opinion, these rankings being so hard to figure out is one thing that tennis suffers from - the rankings should be easier to figure out and to know "why" someone is ranked where they are. Anyway...here we go. How tennis rankings work: So, to determine a tennis players ranking, their best 18 tournament results are counted (19 if the player made the previous year's masters cup). 12 of these 18 events are mandatory (4 slams, 8 Masters Series) - they are counted first. This leaves a further 6 tournaments to be counted and they are counted in this order: first, the one optional Masters Series tournament (Monte Carlo), then any ATP 500 level and Davis Cup matches. If there are any countable tournament results left after this, then Olympics (if applicable) and the best ATP 250 results make up the points, until 18 tournaments have been counted (19 for Masters Cup players). So in Nadal's case (keep in mind he didn't play after Wimbledon in 2012 so he missed a bunch of tournaments), it has to do with this rule, regarding which tournaments can count towards Nadal's ranking, since he is a "commitment player". See the 2nd question on the ATP's rankings FAQ page. 

To answer this, I would refer you to a message thread over at the men's tennis forums site where somebody did the research on these kinds of scorelines since 1980. See here. On the women's side of tennis, I'm sure this has happened many times where the winner won 6-0, 6-0. You tend to see those kinds of scorelines once or twice for each grand slam tournament where a player like Serena or Sharapova beats a low-ranked opponent 6-0, 6-0. I don't think I've ever heard of a match where the loser recorded a 6-0 set against the winner though (where the winner won their two sets by a score of 6-0 also) - that would be very rare. I will research it though and post an edit in here if I can find a record of it ever happening. Here is another good read about the types of scorelines you're asking about - which mentions that it's a more common score in the women's game. EDIT: Ok - I found only two matches so far that fit your criteria (both on the womens side). If you look at the match results for this player (Ka-Po Tong) from 2000 - scroll down to the Shenzhen tournament and the SemiFinal match. She lost the match 6-0 0-6 6-0. Then in Fed Cup Qualifying rounds in 2003 - Maria Fernanda Alvarez (BOL) d.Zara Desilva (BER) 0-6 6-0 6-0 . You can find that result here. 

According to the official MLB rules, I believe pitcher B would be credited with the win in the second game because of the fact that the starting pitcher only went 3 innings in that game. See rule 10.17(b): 

There are also some guidelines that certain tournaments follow with regards to positions reserved for Wildcard and Qualifier players but I'll leave that for another time since this answer is already pretty lengthy. 

Any points awarded to Federer for his Davis Cup play in November will go towards his ranking for the following year (2015). The World Tour Finals mark the end of the ATP regular season and the year-end number 1 is awarded (along with many other awards) following the end of the tournament in London. So Federer will need to secure the number one spot by the end of the World Tour Finals in order to be crowned year end No. 1. Basically, the season ends there in London, not on December 31st. 

You are correct - if Nadal didn't win a single match in 2014 his points total would fall back down to zero eventually. Depending on the reason why a player isn't able to play for a long time (illness, injury, etc.) sometimes qualifies them to receive a protected ranking - read more about that here. 

There is no rule in tennis stopping players from switching the racquet between hands to hit a forehand (or backhand) from both sides. It is extremely rare in tennis (especially among the pro ranks) to see someone who is ambidextrous and can hit a forehand with both hands. What is more common (but still not very common) is to see a player that hits with 2 hands from both sides. Two female professional players come to mind - Monica Seles and Marion Bartoli. Both hit two-handed forehands and two-handed backhands. It is probably worth mentioning that in tennis, players that hit a two-handed backhand have an almost ambidextrous skill with their backhand side. This is because most two-handed backhand technique is learned and developed by first practicing hitting a forehand with their backhand side, then later adding their dominant hand to the racquet handle for power and stability. I suspect many professional level players that hit a two-handed backhand could maintain a slow-to-medium pace non-competitive rally by hitting only forehand shots (from both sides). Sorry I can't answer for the other sports, but I would strongly suspect the same technique is allowed, mostly because of how rare it is for someone to be able to hit a forehand shot from both sides - it's not something that you'd see being used (for any kind of unfair advantage) by more than 1% of players participating in those sports. 

They usually participate in huddles with the refs for stuff like the coin toss to decide initial possession and stuff like that - and are generally regarded as one of the better players/leaders of the team. Other than that I suspect it's just a glorified title. 

It is possible to lengthen your racquet (at least the handle/grip) - however, you don't want to attempt it yourself unless you really know what you're doing. I would recommend looking into a service such as what is provided by RPNY where racquet customization professionals can do the modification to your racquet. I've tried playing with a 28.5" racquet before and it felt quite odd and I didn't play well with it because of the extra time it takes to swing it around (I found myself making contact late on many shots before I adjusted). 29" could end up being tough to play with until you really get used to the timing change. Keep in mind that before you start off wanting to lengthen your racquet, you should look at your service motion/technique and start there. Having a longer racquet isn't likely to do a whole lot for your serve in terms of speed or anything like that. 

As you might already know, there have been alternates designated for the World Tour Finals for many years now. It's not really a new idea. The main difference between the World Tour Finals and every other event is the round-robin format it is played with versus the single elimination format that every other tournament on the calendar plays under. With a single elimination format it's simple - you withdraw due to injury or retire mid-match, then you lose, and your scheduled opponent moves on to the "next round". Since you can't do that with the round robin format, you need alternates. Also - alternates serve a purpose for the other players in the draw - since those players advance to the semi-finals based on their combination of matches won, sets won, and games won during group stage play. So they need the opportunity to play all 3 scheduled matches to see how their results can (evenly) compare to the other players in their group. If you reference page 40 of the ATP Rulebook, it speaks about how alternates are only eligible to receive points and prize money for their play, but they cannot advance out of the group stage play unless they replace someone before that person plays their first match - in which case they are made a direct entry. Ferrer does not 'inherit' any of Raonic's wins or losses - only his own from the matches he plays in. Also, just try to imagine all that goes into an event like the World Tour Finals - the scheduling, the ticket sales for each session, the television broadcasting schedule, everyone else involved (tournament staff, ball kids, etc..etc. There's a reason the World Tour Finals have alternate players on stand-by so that even if a player (like Raonic in this case) withdraws from injury - someone else can step in and fill his place and everything (I mentioned above) can continue to run smoothly. Even with it being tennis -it's still a business underneath it all. They don't want to just tell all of the ticket holders "sorry but the guy said he can't play" if they can bring someone else in that's (usually) just as good.