Something else to keep in mind here: When you look at the possible chemical paths that support life things are quite limited. Looking at worlds with Earthlike temperatures there's only one viable pattern--carbon for the molecular backbone, oxygen as an oxidizer. Thus while the alien world might have toxins that need filtering out it's going to have the oxygen. The standard sci-fi chlorine and fluorine based life simply doesn't work--both of these atoms are far less abundant than oxygen due to being less stable on a nuclear level and also created by far less common reaction sequences. Chlorine and fluorine both react with oxygen--for a world to have free chlorine or fluorine in atmosphere all the oxygen must have reacted with it and likewise it must have taken oxygen's place in the rocks. Most rocks are mostly silicon and oxygen. Thus you need an incredible amount of them and you're simply not going to find it. There's nothing else left to be an oxidizer, your aliens breathe oxygen. 

The only way you are going to have such a planet is if it's an artificial construct. Lets suppose you gather enough water in one place somehow. Yes, you can have a body of H2O with enough self-gravity to act like a planet. You're not going to get a pure waterworld out of it, though: 1) The center is going to be solid. At the pressures involved the water will freeze. You can't overcome this with a hot core because the heat needed will cause the core to boil--major convection, the temperature difference drops. 2) Real planets are in environments with debris floating around. The dinosaur killer hits? You now have a small rocky core in your waterworld. 

Stopping GPS: You have a fairly large retrograde moon in a fairly low orbit. It plays havoc with satellite orbits. (Note, however, that in the long run your world is doomed. The moon's orbit will decay.) This doesn't stop limited-range GPS systems based on transmitters on mountain peaks but GPS is inherently basically a line of sight system (it will measure the distance to the satellite by the path the signal took. If that's not direct your answer will be wrong) and thus limited to areas with four visible peaks with transmitters. Far from civilization that won't exist. 

I disagree about the electric cars. As it stands now you pay more for the batteries to store the power than you pay for the power. (This is figured on life cycle costs.) With all the powerplant uses of fossil fuels gone the price will drop--tipping the balance even farther in favor of conventional cars. Now, with the environmental pressures we might see a changeover to natural gas that was produced from that cheap electricity, but I think we would see that instead of electric cars. 

Cort Ammon nailed it but he only addressed a piece of the issue. Lets assume the star can produce light at those levels and see what happens: 1) Only those who were unfortunate enough to be looking in the general direction of the star when it flared would have any eye damage and for most of them it would be somewhere off to the side rather than in the high precision area. My wife has a laser burn in her eye and doesn't even notice it. (The laser was in the hands of a retinal surgeon, this wasn't an accident.) You're not going to get anywhere near that percentage of the population. 2) If the light lasts few are actually going to look at it. You aren't going to get many more victims. Everyone exposed will be shielding their eyes against the intolerable brilliance (everywhere will be too bright), not looking at it. 3) If the light lasts very long you're going to have major thermal issues. People will cook, blindness will be the least of the problems. 

Take your gold bars on a cross-country trip. Bury each bar in a different location--shallow, only enough to keep them from being seen. Pick locations of no interest to anybody--here in the US at least you'll find plenty of suitable locations in western part of the country. (The Rockies, the desert--anyplace not practical to develop.) Record the GPS coordinates, put a marker on top of the burial spot and take a bunch of pictures, then remove the marker. Now go to something like the Silk Road (I haven't paid attention but I'm sure there's some replacement for it out there by now) and sell them. Buyer gets the coordinates and the photos. (Give them a very general area before they bid so they can buy a bar that's near them.) For validation purposes you might want to set up a long range solar powered camera pointed at the spot in case they try to claim nothing was there. If the authorities do start sniffing around they can't get any farther than your bitcoin address if you were careful in doing this. 

1) Planets don't emit enough radiation to meaningfully propel a solar sail. There's a reason it's called a solar sail--it needs that kind of power. 2) Anything as low-tech as a Viking longboat has no hope of providing enough life support for such a trip. Your voyage is going to be measured in months at a minimum. 3) It's not going to work. Solar sails are very big, very delicate (tissue paper is incredibly tough in comparison) obvious and very slow. The proverbial sitting duck isn't remotely an easy a target. 

Lets take a different approach: I don't agree with the notion that it must have evolved on a planet. I do agree a planet is needed for life to start out. Until it can evolve protective mechanisms it needs a reasonably benign environment. Ok, we start with a terrestrial planet, life has evolved to the small multi-cellular level. A rogue star comes along and jostles the system and things start going haywire. Our formerly peaceful planet comes under the influence of a gas giant that is now in a highly elliptical orbit so it's many years between encounters. They are in resonant orbits so they will tend to maintain their relative positions. At first the encounters are distant enough that the planet remains basically unharmed other than losing a bit of atmosphere. (It would be quake city but that only going to cause local kills.) The inhabitants of the planet have to evolve to cope with the thinning atmosphere and accompanying increased temperature swings. However, as time goes on the encounters get closer, the inhabitants have to get better and better at riding out the bad times. Finally it gets close enough that the orbital deviations are too great for resonance effects to overcome, the terrestrial planet is kicked outward a bit--and the next encounter passes within the gas giant's Roche limit--the planet is gone and the gas giant gets a spectacular ring system. Our rugged organism has evolved enough defenses that it can survive in this new environment. Now we have space-based life and it can evolve. Separating one's offspring is beneficial (both to give the offspring new hunting grounds and to keep them from hunting on your grounds), at some point a crude solid rocket evolved. Once it arose it was a sufficient advantage that bigger and better rockets arose, eventually reaching the point that a creature in a rich area in the outer part of the star system could occasionally grow one that is interstellar-capable. 

I'll go the genetic modification route but I'm not after deadly diseases. Rather, something very benign--one or more of the usual human gut bacteria. It continues to function as normal but produces an extra compound--one that mutates human DNA. If your distribution is detected it will be identified as a harmless organism and not given much scrutiny. Meanwhile humanity is plagued by cancer and birth defects. Next generation release another modified gut bacteria, the problem goes up. Eventually the human race can't maintain reproduction, you succeed. Another option would be a compound that causes asexuality. Humanity goes extinct due to a lack of reproduction. If you don't mind taking out most of the animals also add another compound--one that causes paranoia. Someday humanity will take itself out. 

Realistically, you only need a long range laser. With your design you get a perfect focus in every case. Try replacing it with one big laser with only a long range focus and look what happens: In almost every engagement you put three times the power on target. In the few where there's a bit of imperfect focus you're still pretty close and probably do more damage than if you were firing your perfect but weaker laser. 

There's a much bigger problem here: Does silicon-based life work in the first place? Unfortunately, the answer is almost certainly no. A fundamental requirement of life is some sort of exceedingly complex molecule that provides information storage. (In humans this molecule is DNA.) What does the silicon version of this look like? Carbon is very fond of making long chains of carbon atoms with various things attached to the other two connection spots. Silicon atoms are bigger, though, and things don't work so well. You don't get long chains of silicon atoms. When you look in nature you find something similar, though: Silicon-Oxygen-Silicon chains. So far, so good. But now lets look at the rest of the molecule--you need to attach something to all those side connectors. Almost all the connectors are filled with hydrogen. Oops, the binding energies don't work too well--splitting the molecule up into water and silicon yields energy. What do you call such a molecule? A high explosive. 

Problem: You will not get 50% efficiency. Nuke plants run at about 30% for safety reasons, the same rules would apply to your trains. Thus you need to increase your powerplant by 50%. Clarifying this: Your efficiency is limited to the Carnot limit, which is a function of temperature. Since nuclear power doesn't have an inherent limiting factor like combustion-driven power you need to keep the temperature farther away from the point your system breaks--for fission plants that ends up being 30%, I would figure the same factors would be at work here and thus the same limit. Problem: You also have to dissipate 5,000kw of waste heat. Major woe if anything goes wrong with your cooling system as there's no off switch possible. Expect any serious train accident to turn into a nuclear accident as your system bakes itself. 

If you will accept something of a handwave, I would say roughly 1850. The absolute hard limit is about 1800 as you're not building a reactor without uranium and thus you need to know what uranium is. New uranium is about 60% U235. This is high enough that you can have a criticality accident if you pile up too much of it, even if it's in it's natural form of pitchblende. Now, there have been survivors of criticality accidents--somebody on the other side of the lab might witness it without being killed in the process. At this point the scientific community understands that something very strange indeed happens when you pile up too much pitchblende. Since the researchers don't want to die the obvious answer is remote control. You don't need modern robotics for that--put your pile behind thick blast walls and use mirrors to look inside. Use ropes to manipulate containers of pitchblende. Now they'll learn that there's a realm in which they get hot without going boom. Now you have nuclear reactors. It's going to be some time before they figure out the cancer problem, though. The handwave: There's no way you'll have a race living on a planet that has new uranium on it. It takes time to go from a supernova to a new planet and it takes time for that planet to evolve life. I can't see the accidental discovery of a pile based on terrestrial uranium. 

A society made up of small communities. You get a given name and your community is your last name. There is a registrar of some kind for each community that prohibits the use of a first name that matches anyone currently alive in the community. This does not preclude cities, it's just cities are made up of a group of communities. I do not believe this structure would be stable in the long run with a modern society, though--people move around too much.