Problems mentioned in the article – Hitler looks too old, Lenin is supposedly wearing a disguise but in fact he never did so at this point, Lenin had given up chess and Hitler probably never played, there was no reason for them to sign the picture, there is no record of Hitler taking art lessons, etc. It’s also suspicious that there is no documentary trace of the artist in Vienna. Brigitte Hamann in “Hitler’s Vienna” has gone through the archival record for Hitler’s contacts at the time. In fact, he did visit the house of a cultured Jewish bourgeois family in 1908. His roommate at the time, August Kubizek, played the viola and was sometimes invited to the home of Dr. Rudolf Jahoda to fill out a string quartet at musical soirées. Once he brought Hitler along, and the 19-year-old was largely a silent observer. There is no Lowenstamm/stramm in Hamann’s index. 

Source: keliauk kitaip aruodai There are other legends concerning Trakai, for instance one about a secret tunnel between the castle and the Dawn Gate (Aušros vartai) in Vilnius. About the banned women, I think that by the nature of oral literature, details change in the telling. This one doesn't seem to have any basis in historical fact. Maybe someone has confused the Grand Duchy with its northern foe, the Teutonic Knights? 

@Relaxed is right to point out that Germany was unified under Prussian, not Austrian hegemony. Prussia’s 1866 military victory over Austria at Koeniggraetz definitively shut out the Austrians. Subsequently, the 1870 war between Prussia and France, with many of the remaining German states outside Austria joining in, led to William I of Prussian being crowned German emperor in 1871. Austria, besides being half of the Austro-Hungarian dual monarchy, was in itself a Vielvoelkerstaat or multinational state – besides German-speaking Austrians, there were Czechs, Poles, Italians, Slovenes, Ruthenians, etc. Emperor Franz Joseph I, who had been on the throne since 1848, tried to maintain the loyalty of all his subjects regardless of ethnic or linguistic affiliation, but ethnic tensions were rife. As Brigitte Hamann’s Hitler’s Vienna describes, the future dictator entered a politically charged atmosphere in high school in the provincial town of Linz from 1901 onward. His favorite teacher, Dr. Leopold Poetsch, was a German historian who also gave public speeches. Hamann quotes Hitler about him: 

WWII submarines were very vulnerable to air attack as they were only lightly armed and armoured and could not spend long periods of time submerged and even less time submerged at depths great enough to reliably escape detection and attack. They also took some time to submerge from the surface and so any U-boat caught on the surface by an aircraft or warship as in serious trouble. Indeed a large proportion of the casualties caused by U-boats were in the Mid-Atlantic gap an area out of range of submarine hunting aircraft. Throughout all of the war Britain has air parity of not outright superiority over the channel. This is exacerbated by the fact that it is a pretty small area of water. Submarines need bases and any bases on the channel coast would have been extremely vulnerable to attack by air, warships and commando raids. Even at its widest points the Channel is pretty narrow and with Britain enjoying clear naval superiority throughout the war it is pretty easy to cordon off. U-boats relied on stealth, ambush and surprise to be effective, even then they were only really effective against lightly armed vessels in such a small area they could easily be bottled up and wiped out. In addition the real value of U-boats was in disrupting freight between Britain and North America as well as the considerable material damage this caused it cost the allies naval and air resources to protect ships directly and to patrol the vast area of the North Atlantic. For obvious reasons there was no bulk freight between Britain and Europe (prior to the invasion) so the only possible utility of U-boast in the channel was to stop an invasion at which point it would be relatively easy for the Navy and Air Force to sweep them out in any case. They key point here is that while U-boats could be very effective in ambushing merchant vessels in the open sea where they could pick their moment to attack and where military escorts were stretched by the sheer volume of ships and lengths of routes they had to protect they would stand very little chance in the face of a concerted invasion across a narrow body of water. 

The review and Wikipedia note that Hitler himself attended her funeral in 1935. However, there is no mention of her actually meeting the Fuehrer. But Brigitte Hamann’s Hitler’s Vienna relates a conversation between the two people. Hitler explained to her why he had never married: 

There may not have been a movement in Britain, but there were certainly individual left-wing anti-colonial intellectuals from the British colonies who wrote works in this vein. C. L. R. James from Trinidad was one, recognized even today for Black Jacobins, a history of the Haitian revolution published in 1938. This event (contemporary to the French Revolution) seems to have inspired anti-colonials, whether they wrote in French or in English – Césaire also wrote a history of it. James’s first version of the story was a play, apparently, and he later wrote the first novel by a West Indian published in the UK, according to Wiki. It might be instructive to compare his biography to Césaire’s. After the war Césaire managed to become the mayor of the capital of Martinique, and he was instrumental in setting up the arrangement where the island remained a département of France on its own terms. James was more of a loner, his leftist politics never achieved anything concrete for Trinidad, and he ended up mainly writing about cricket! Concerning the Négritude movement, it’s worth remembering that its founders were not only anti-colonial activists, they were also poets and novelists who wanted to gain recognition as such not at home in the colony, but in the metropole (Paris). French writers, especially on the left, were more likely to form movements at that time (the 1930s and 40s) – would André Breton, leader of the Surrealists, have recognized Césaire and supported his poetic efforts without the calling card of Négritude? Perhaps not. In Britain in those days, on the other hand, literary movements were unusual – only Pound’s Imagism and Wyndham Lewis’s Vorticism come to mind, and these were both on the right politically. So for James or his friends, founding such a movement might have been rather pointless. I think it’s this, more than the different ways Britain and France managed their colonies although there may also be linkages in this regard, that answers your question.