An undercover intelligence asset for one could be involved with an organization targeted by the other. A CIA target slips into the US, with pursuit falling under the FBI's jurisdiction (or vice versa). CIA funding insurgents (think Bay of Pigs invasion) that are in turn secretly funding terrorist operations in the US. 

If the wizard is otherwise affected by normal physics when they walk through walls, you can use a pulley system to hoist them in a cage or room far above hazardous ground. If they phase to escape, the fall and hazard would at least would cripple them if not kill outright. When you need them, you can place a platform over the spikes/moat/what have you and lower them down. All achievable with medieval tech. The rope and pulleys could be fashioned in such a way that climbing it would be arduous (forty feet up without a handhold) and either: 

Your Hawking Radiation isn't going to be a problem. It's the theoretical radiation from the evaporation of the black hole due to virtual particle pairs spawned at the event horizon. The accretion disc is a more substantial problem, as that's where the lethal radiation would be coming from. BUT you're assuming there's no accretion disc. Which means that the radiation wouldn't be lethal. And as other answers have noted, the event horizon for a black hole of 3 solar masses is relatively tiny - less than 10 kilometers. Unless this hits us dead on (very unlikely) then we'll be safe from getting "sucked in." So what's the problem? You're introducing a large, heavy object very suddenly into the orbits of all bodies in the solar system. Orbital mechanics are a delicate balance (as anyone playing Kerbal Space Program could tell you), and the pull of such a large object over time would shift everything in the solar system. Since gravity falls off by the square of the distance, the pull of this 3 solar mass hypervelocity black hole would outweigh the pull of the sun at ~1.7 AU. For reference, at 1.5 million miles per hour, the black hole would cross that distance in ~106 hours. Considering that the Hill Sphere of our sun is 1-2 light years out, this black hole would affect us even before it officially enters the solar system. At best, it crosses our orbital disc perpendicular to the plane of rotation, causing minimal disruption. Depending on where it intersects and the positions of the other planets (the disc is ~3.75 lightyears across, which would take our BH 837 years to cross), there would be perturbations of orbits in some of the outer planets, the Oort cloud thrown into disarray, etc. We might see more comets and the like being sent into the inner solar system. At worst, we get slingshotted around a black hole and it kicks the planet entirely out of its current orbit, sending us tumbling through space on a long, cold voyage. Can we do anything about it? Probably not. Any solutions to "save the planet" barring an "interstellar" type generational ship (currently not possible) would probably knock us out of orbit anyhow. If we can predict when, where, and at what angle it will intersect our system, we can roughly gauge just how bad it will be for us. If it hits the outskirts of the system (very likely - it's the largest target) than we'll be fine. if it's going straight through the center (bullseye!) than the we'll probably be pulled off orbit to spiral into the sun over a few million years. A few million years? Yeah, we'll have 1000+ years of the blackhole affecting our orbit, and with the perturbations it will take quite some time for us to be sucked in, but LONG before that the earth will have been scoured clean of life due to massive environmental destruction. I'd give it a few millenia or so. Plenty of time for humans to work on tech to move us to a different solar system. 

Interesting... This can operate via a process of elimination... Upright triangle is right out - it's the easiest to climb. Assuming climbing fast zombies, upright L offers zero advantages over a simple wall. The inverted L and T walls are identical - no real advantage to have an overhang on the defending side like that. Both of those would do a good job preventing climbing (until a large enough group formed a pyramid) but you can't attack zombies at the base of the wall effectively. If enough get into that dead zone, tunneling under would be trivial. So they're out. C shaped would mitigate the threat of tunneling, I suppose. This might be a good option. I fail to see the point of the cavity for V and bowl shaped walls, other than forcing them to climb a little bit more and being more complex to build and maintain, as well as structurally more frail. They are otherwise identical to the inverted triangle. So they're out. Diamond shapes provide a good visual angle to attach most of the approaching horde, but would be easy to climb if enough got into the blind spot. The ellipse has a minimal blind spot, wide viewing angle, and is hard to climb. So funny enough, I'm going with the ellipse with the following caveat: That the wall be built in sections that can "rock" back and forth. Basically you can use this to "shake" climbing zombies off and crush the ones at the base into paste. You would think that a bowl would work for that, but when you tilt the bowl, you actually make it EASIER for the zombies to climb up the rim into the inner hollow. The ellipse would work way better and people on the top would still be able to defend when it rocks - just provide firing stations with seatbelts to keep them in place! Additional caveat/update: To clarify, there would be a backstop on the defender's side of the wall to prevent it from rocking backwards or being pushed over. A hydraulic system would push/rock the wall slightly outward from the top, crushing any buildup at the base and shaking off any zombies attempting to climb. Since we only need to rock, say, ten degrees for each section, no gaps in the perimeter will open up. you might even be able to use the zombie slurry as a bio-fuel starter to power generators for the defenders. 

Australia actually has the largest single Artesian Basin in the world right underneath the outback. The Great Artesian Basin was what allowed Europeans to rapidly expand across the country - water would push up from the ground anywhere you dug a hole. The major problem isn't whether there's water, it's making sure your water supply replenishes rapidly enough to be sustainable. For the GAB, it's basically a mining operation, with water flowing in and through the sandstone at a rate of 1-5 meters per year. This means that your "end product" is several thousand years old by the time it reaches you - definitely not sustainable. In fact, there are already concerns about the current rate of water removal in the basin, which is why the Great Artesian Basin Coordinating Committee (GABCC) attempts to coordinate across state lines to ensure sound practices. So how do we solve the water flow problem? Pipelining or shipping water requires overland travel through the outback, which is coupled with all sorts of infrastructure requirements. Why not coordinate a country-wide effort to basically bore under the water table? The basin is estimated to be 3000 meters deep at it's deepest. That sets our "entry altitude." If we bore a series of small holes inland toward the outback that deep under water, you're basically enhancing the existing natural process anyhow. Though in densely populated areas you might have people complaining "Not In My Back Yard" (NIMBY), that's not really an issue for the sparsely populated areas we're dealing with. Best of all, if our "pipeline" leaks, that's perfectly ok - we WANT that to happen! Obstructions aren't really an issue for us - the mere existence of a hole that sea water can intrude farther and faster into the water table is all we need. An array of these holes should aid in fixing the water-supply issues all along their route. Ocean pressure two miles down is pretty significant. Far greater than the atmospheric pressure of the artesian basin, in fact. From this article, costal aquifers regularly interface with the ocean, and the major concern is elevation differences between the two. 

It doesn't convey any specific advantage in "gaining knowledge" (though it may provide a more intuitive grasp of meaning) Nothing prevents the speaker from lying The capacity to "cause hallucinations" is fairly minor and wouldn't be broadly effective as a weapon. It might have a cultural element, in which a person operates as a "dream weaver," artfully depicting tales in the minds-eye of the listeners After a while of listening to the speaker, the hero begins to intuitively grasp the spoken word of the people. Whether they can mimic it with speech is a different story, though perhaps this spell could be easily taught to them to communicate back with the natives. This point ties well with the fact that this would be a rather common spell - something everyone would learn as a low level magic though most would not need to use later in adulthood unless, as stated above, it related to their specific role in the culture. 

Dark matter seems to fit the bill here. Recent observations suggest minor "dragging" occurs in the dark matter halos, implying some forms of self interaction. But this means your superhero would only be stopped by dense dark matter "walls!" There's a more fundamental constraint: Since they can't interact with normal matter, they can only "breathe" what limited air they convert with them into dark matter form. This appends a time limit to their transition that makes it akin to "dark matter diving." Heck, they might even bring along an oxygen tank and/or a CO2 conversion unit to extend their transition period. Though their "real" vulnerability would be hard to construct (except by a parallel baddie with similar powers), they wouldn't be able to phase back into normal matter in the middle of a solid object (without dying, anyhow), so solid ground too thick to pass through without transitioning back would still stop them. 

Pushing the door while wiping antennae across the top Pushing your tentacle through a small opening to fill a cavity in the door and manipulate some switches extra joints/dexterity in the hands that makes human manipulation impossible - twisting 3 of your wrists in a specific upside-down and backwards simultaneously 

You can create a stylus type device rigged to a fixed angle against the flat surface with wires/rods on the x and y axes. The target has to 'write' the appropriate passphrase. As they write, the wires are pulling mechanical pins or some such underneath corresponding to the motions being made with the stylus. Any person would need to know not only the unique passphrase, but also mimic the person's idiosyncratic style for writing that particular phrase. For the permitted person, it comes natural, but it's EXTREMELY hard to replicate something like that. It's not just imitating a signature or other handwriting - the physical motion of the body of the stylus, positioning of the hand, possibly timing, etc. must match, not just the tip. 

Based upon a mean earth radius of 3,959 miles, a black hole with an event horizon the size of earth would require a mass of 1080 suns. If we were REALLY lucky, we might have noticed the gravitic lensing of the stars in night sky, but the odds of that with such a small black hole are very low. This would be equivalent to a star 1080 times the mass of the sun mucking about with the gravity while interacting with our solar system. Let's assume it affects our orbit once the gravitic pull on us is stronger than that of the sun. The gravity equation (f=G*m1*m2/d^2) tells us that if we multiply m1 by 1080 then d must increase by root(1080)=33 AU to keep f constant. That's just outside the orbit of Neptune. So if it hits us from the side, we might witness the loss of Pluto as a planet for the second time in our lives... :) I'm going to assume that the black hole isn't moving at an extreme speed relative to our own solar system, and that it comes at us perpendicular to our orbital plane. While the sun wouldn't suddenly wink out - the event horizon is too small for that - its gasses would be rapidly siphoned off to its new stellar neighbor. The sun is the largest object in our solar system by far, so the force of gravity between it and the black hole is strongest. This is probably the first clear evidence we would have of anything being amiss - sudden warping and offgassing of the Sun. As these gasses are accelerated toward the event horizon, they would heat up and combust, just like they do on the sun itself. Now we would see major surge in high energy particles like xrays and gamma rays coming from within our neighborhood. Look up pulsars for more info. Assuming the radiation doesn't strip us of the ionosphere and fry the earth completely, we would be pulled out of orbit by the much heavier black hole. Even if we managed to miss falling into the black hole itself - very likely considering it's relatively small size - we'd probably grab enough momentum to say sayanora to our annual orbit. We'd either follow Haley's comet and start taking trips out to the kuiper belt, or we'd be slingshotted entirely out of the solar system. Either way, say goodbye to the sun! We'd more than likely die from starvation and darkness rather than earthquakes and event horizons.