In this game, Lefty Gomez gave up 11 walks and got the win (in a shutout, no less.) As viewable here, there have been three 9-inning games in which 16 walks were given up, but I can't find the box scores to those particular games. but all of those were losses. Looking at those pitchers directly, we can see that Bruno Haas didn't get the win as he has no career wins. Bill George pitched in 13 games that year and gave up 89 walks, 22 wild pitches and 14 hit batters. I have no idea how he got the 3 wins that he did. George Van Haltren had a pretty decent record that year, but again, I can't find box scores, so I don't know if he recorded the win or not. There are a couple of games where 13 walks were given up, but those were in extra innings, so I excluded those from my search. 

Yes, it is legal. There was actually a fake 2 point conversion earlier this season in November during the Vikings/Bears game. You can see the highlights about 50 seconds into this video - $URL$ 

I was a member of a collegiate fencing club. We had about 8 members in a school of ~650. There were two distinct classes of people that participated: Those that thought "Oh cool, swords" and those that were a step above that and actually interested in a more serious approach. The person that ran our club would specifically pair off people based on the type of interest that they had and lead the groups differently. We had one or two people from the casual side move to the more serious side and another couple of casual folks dropped out due to waning interest. The waning interest generally happened because people wanted to be swashbucklers and sword-fighters rather than traditional fencers. Depending on the pool of people you're pulling from (the size of your university) you may want to 'mix the models' and have the club, for instance, spend the semester learning a famous sword-fighting scene for performance at a festival. That can keep it fun for the casual people, introduce legit technique for the serious folks and potentially open up your talent pool in subsequent years. I would also probably have smaller sessions for the serious people only so they can hone their techniques and learn more in the traditional fencing model. 

Buy your own ball. It doesn't have to be super fancy or expensive. Something like this is a decent entry-level ball. Get the ball drilled at a local pro-shop. Get it drilled with a finger-tip grip (with grips) and make sure to get it drilled with a thumb hole, because if you want to advance your game, you have to put your damn thumb in the ball. :-) Go Bowling. You're going to be changing your grip and changing your style, so you are not going to be very good right out of the gate. Your goal at this stage is to get comfortable with your footwork, your swing and your release. 

Not so clear cut, given your description, but I'd argue for foul if the ball would've fallen off the table had it not hit the part of the pocket. 

You need to sprint rather than run for endurance if you're trying to build muscle mass. Work on getting up to maximum speed as quickly as possible and sustaining it for up to 400 meters. A common sprint drill is to sprint 100M, walk 100M, sprint 200M, walk 200M, sprint 300M, walk 300M, sprint 400M, walk 400M and then start again. Take this image of an Olympic sprinter: 

This is the sort of thing much better conveyed in person than online, I think, but I'll give it a whirl. Here are some steps for you to take to build a consistent, reliable stroke, eventually get a hook/curve back and pick up single pin spares. 

This should give you a nice hook. As you get comfortable with this, it's easily tweaked to enhance the hook to a point where you feel most confident. But, for now, it's baby-steps. In order to minimize the hook for single pin spares, you will want to spread your index and pinky fingers away from your middle fingers, allow your wrist to bend backwards, follow through 'straight up' (no handshake) and throw directly at your pin. 

Wikipedia says that this first happened in the 1920's, but apparently became most famous when employed against Ted Williams by Eddie Dyer. Minor supplemental info From here: 

The column labeled 'H' is total hits, including home runs. The "Glossary" link next to the chart near the top will explain what the heading of each column means. 

On average, it takes about 4 tenths of a second for a ball to cross the plate after it leaves the pitcher's hand. In that time, the batter needs to determine if the pitch is going to be hittable, where the pitch is going to cross the plate and then get their bat around in the time and place to hit it where they want to hit it. With such a smaller window available to make multiple decisions and react, it's only understandable that they'd make the wrong decision and over commit to swing at a terrible pitch. 

It seems like "infield shift" would be one of those things logged as an item of interest in a sports article, but I can't find anything definitive. 

Squeeze the ball, don't grab the ball. Your thumb should be straight when in the hole, rather than slightly bent. Your index and pinky fingers should be very close to your middle fingers. Keep your wrist straight throughout your swing. Approach the line at a slow, and even pace. Swing your arm like a pendulum. As your arm comes down from the apex, it will build up some speed. Your thumb will come out first on your release, you'll want to lift with your fingers and 'shake hands' with the air. 

1 - Bobby Cox 2 - Brad Clontz 3 - Steve Avery 4 - Ryan Klesko 5 - Jeff Blauser 6 - John Smoltz 7 - Javy Lopez 8 - Fred McGriff 9 - David Justice 10 - Mark Lemke 11 - Marquis Grissom 12 - Greg Maddux 

Nope. This is the first time since this format was introduced in 1995 that all series have gone the distance. 

La Russa's penchant for batting the pitcher 8th got a fair amount of press a few years ago. Link 1 Link 2 This link from Retrosheet does some significantly more detailed statistical analysis about general lineup composition. Here's a PDF from 1999 that does a comparison between Larussa and Gant. These basically conclude that there is essentially no statistical difference. And finally, here is the Sabermetric Guide to Managing. It includes an optimized lineup and clearly claims that batting the pitcher 8th is better. 

While I've never seen a hit like this declared an infield fly, any shortstop would've caught this ball without much effort under normal circumstances. EDIT: Here is a video of another infield fly that is similar. EDIT AGAIN: This analysis from Harold Reynolds, with other examples, states why it was the correct call. 

It only has to pass through the hoop. The net is simply a device to help control the ball after it goes through the net and maybe provide a visual indicator that it made it through. 

There actually three different skills here for you to learn -- The Jump, The Massé and the Jump Massé. Let's start with the jump first and then get to the massé and then combine the two. In order to jump the cue ball, elevate the back of your cue stick to 45 degrees and then shoot down, through the center, of the cue ball. Follow straight through the ball (don't jerk back on contact.) This will cause the cue ball to jump. If you hit the ball perfectly, the height and distance of the ball will vary based on the force with which you hit it. If you need a sharper, higher jump, you can elevate your cue beyond the 45 degrees, but still hit through the center of the cue ball. Once you get the hang of this, it's pretty easy to adapt to real game situations as needed. Though, I still always take a kick over a jump simply for predictability. A massé shot is basically just a way to make the cue ball curve. The way that you make a cue ball curve is to impart spin on the cue ball that is contrary to the direction it is moving such that the spin grabs prior to the cue ball striking something else. So, start simple here. Starting with your cue stick level, aim at the top right of the cue ball. Elevate the back end of your cue 30-45 degrees strike the cue ball in the spot in which you were aiming in a straight line. Not too hard. Your cue ball should move forward and slide left before grabbing and curving back to the right. The simpler massé shots come up occasionally in regular play and is pretty easy to adapt as needed. Finally, a jump massé is just a combination of two except the cue is traveling in the air with English rather than along the felt. Elevate your cue to the 80-90 degree range and strike the cue ball firmly in a straight line in the same spot you were aiming for your previous massé shot. The ball should elevate with spin and respond accordingly once it gets back to the table. This is a difficult shot that, in years and years of playing, I've never actually needed. There should be a few good tutorials of the first two shots on YouTube for sure. The last one is mostly used for trick shots, so you might not find a good tutorial. (edit: found an okay one here) 

The Lite-Show is not a more lightweight version of the Kayano 20, it's a glow-in-the-dark / more-reflective version of the Kayano 20. (Source - I'm sitting next to a warehouse with both versions of the shoe and I compared them.) 

If we say that things like "team morale" and "impact on win probability" are immeasurable, then there is virtually no measurable impact on a team for a suspended player. Not only does the team not have to pay the player, but the player also does not count against their available roster space. In the case of an extended injury, the team will place the player on the Injured Reserve List and then he won't count against their available roster space. However, the player will still receive payment and treatment for injury. 

I think that the question being asked here is more of the form: Given a Sports Team Name of the form - 'Location Name' + 'X' (e.g. St. Louis Blues, L.A. Lakers, Miami Marlins), is it appropriate to refer the component of the name represented by 'X' as a 'nickname.' I would be inclined to say no as a 'nickname' implies that it is a shorthand for a 'formal name.' (e.g. Jim instead of James.) The name of the NHL Hockey Team in St. Louis is not anything other than "The Blues," though nicknames for that exist. In fact, the only team I can think of more known by a nickname than their real name is the Knicks (Knickerbockers.) If you're looking for a word or phrase to identify that specific part of the name, the only two options I can come up with are simply "team name" or "brand."