Humans need gravity for safe long-term biomechanical function. Gravity (or something equivalent) is not optional for long term human habitation. And for humans it needs to be be as close to one gee as possible. We are "designed" for one gee. We can live and work in zero gee for extended periods (months), but don't confuse that with living our lives out in microgravity. Here's a brief article from Scientific American on the subject, although there are plenty more out there. As your hollow shell will have microgravity at best, this simply kills the idea dead for humans living there in the sense of a permanent home. It's still viable for short term (months) stays (followed by a lot of hard work to recover fully from the experience). A rotating sphere can provide some pseudo gravity of course, but it will vary with position and this means you're effectively making large areas effectively useless for habitation. The cylinder remains the ideal shape. 

Not for two large, similarly sized stars, maybe for one large star and one dwarf star (like a brown dwarf). The former case would not allow a stable orbit to form for long enough for the planet to develop a reasonably consistent climate (essentially driven by a nearly constant level of solar energy) over a period large enough to develop life. The case with the brown dwarf (a very dim type of star) can be though of as a system with a very large Jupiter that's still much smaller than the Sun, and with a much, much lower energy output. Such a brown dwarf could, in principle, be far enough from the planet to not greatly affect it. There is a quantity known as the effective temperature which let's us estimate the approximate temperature effect of a star on a planet. We can use this to relate the effect of the smaller star (the secondary) on the temperature of the planet (dominated by the primary, for stability). We get a formula like this : $$\frac {T_{sec}}{T_{prim}} = \left( \frac{L_{sec}D_{prim}^2}{L_{prim}D_{sec}^2} \right)^{\frac 1 4}$$ where the $L$ values are luminosity of the stars and the $D$ values are distance from the planet. We want this to be a small number, like a percent or two at most for a reasonably stable climate. So some very rough order of magnitude calculations : Now a possible value for $L_{sec} \approx L_{prm} \times 10^{-3}$, and if we set $\frac {T_{sec}}{T_{prim}} \approx 2 \times 10^{-2}$ (about a 4% variation in temperature due to the secondary), we get : $$D_{sec} \approx 79 D_{prim}$$ So the secondary has to be about 80 times further from the primary than the planet is. Both would be in roughly circular orbits at these ranges, and the brown dwarf could be of the order of about 50 Jupiter masses. These are, of course, ballpark figures. 

The UN (and everyone else) is just there (from country Bs dictators point of view) to run to help from if B itself is threatened by all this civil war stuff happening to people Herr Dictator couldn't care less about. Note that the UN and B's regional neighbors don't have to wait for anything or even consult B. If a regional group of countries decides to take over, B's not doing much to get in the way unless they actually threaten B itself. The UN would be unlikely to go in just on B's request and is an organization full of pragmatic egomaniacs and their representatives. A civil war in former A is fine as long as it doesn't have a major impact outside that. Peacekeeping is an option if and only if there's a political will to do it ignoring country B. Country B is unlikely to want a powerful military presence it can't control on it's borders. Dictators don't generally encourage that and it's more likely that a dictator would be perfectly fine with a bunch of weak warlords in a civil war who can be played off one another next door and a buffer zone "just in case". So I think B will opt for "Part of A : the Buffer Zone". And sod the UN and everyone else. 

Why ? Not a good idea for humans to do a lot, so probably not a good plan for a homo fuga either without drastic rewiring - oh, do I hear the word "magic" again ? :-) 

The first problem with your idea is that at the beginning of the Homo Sapiens group of species, 200,000 would have been a large part of the total population. Estimates suggest that 10,000 years ago the entire population was only 2 million. Homo Sapiens started before that. So removing 200,000 homo sapiens early on would have been close to devastating the population. The second problem is that homo sapiens at that time, lacking any technology or support and placed into an alien ecosystem which they were not adapted to would be extremely vulnerable. It's unlikely they could survive either medically (any indigenous pathogen might be lethal to them) or simply as a matter of finding food they could eat. Even if your aliens picked a planet "safe" for them (in itself a scenario that is unlikely to be practically possible) they would still be removed from their own environment - the one they were adapted to survive in, before they developed the technological and social skills required for such adaptation. I'd be very skeptical they could survive at all. It's impossible to say what their current social, biological and physical characteristics could be even if they survived. They'd probably be roughly the same shape and size and there's little time for evolutionary changes of a major kind to happen. However to survive they'd probably have to develop an immune system that was targeted at different systems from ours. It's simply that their environment would throw different things at them. As as side note I've speculated that the reason aliens don't contact or visit us is simply because for a less technologically advanced civilization all an alien culture can do for you is expose you to potentially deadly pathogens. So why your aliens would risk such a thing is, for me, a mystery. At best I'd expect the 200,000 seed population to be reduced to a much smaller population very rapidly by pathogens. The survivors, who would have developed some immunity, might grow but the smaller the seed population, the less likely their continued survival and the smaller their current population would be. As they're humans they'd be prone to the same problems we are : war, internal competition for scare resources, dispute and identification with sub-groups leading to conflict with other sub-groups. Assuming they could survive they'd probably have a smaller population than we do (say the tens of millions ballpark) and be at roughly the 4000 B.C. cultural/technological mark (based on the size of the starting population, time to develop and likely early loss due to pathogens). The specifics of such a culture are impossible to even guesstimate. 

The main reason I can think of is simply that different crew will have different specialties in relation to to different creatures, possibly native to their own worlds. So someone from Planet X is more likely to have expert knowledge of creatures from planet X than someone from planet Y. You hire people with the best expertise you have and in this case that means means people are most likely to be from different planets. Let's also remember a zoo, legal or illegal, needs veterinary experts, not just people to shovel manure. And you're more likely to find e.g. a human who likes horse, dogs or (yuch) cats than a human that likes (Star Trek moment :-)) Targs. And likewise the animals would be more accustomed to their native species than alien ones. So it makes a lot of sense to crew with aliens if you've an zoo with many alien species. 

Robots again. These are supposed to be human-like. Humans are social creatures. They mix, they form groups and we're even inclined to mix with other species (dogs, cats, horses and some less common associations). Why would your human-like creatures be any different ? 

Well they'll be planets, so that seems quite reasonable. It also means that on approaching an Earth sized body the two large masses will start accelerating towards one another and the collision will be enormous and destroy both (in the sense of creating enough heat to melt both and they would reform as one or more bodies). 

Historically we did everything from shop bits off to torture to death people guilty of what, in a modern context, would be considered petty crimes. And these outrageous deaths did nothing to discourage crime or prevent the criminals from procreating. So this is pure nonsense and we've several thousand years of history to prove it. 

Your mistake in all of this is thinking of time as "absolute". Time, like space, is relative. One of the many consequences of the theories of special and general relativity is that the concept of simultaneous events is no longer absolute. The concept you need to understand is simultaneity. These are difficult concepts to grasp, but essentially the only "now" is the now you can observe. Any other "now" is speculative and what one observer sees need not seem to correlate to what another does - at least in human terms. This is why relativity requires serious mathematics to fully grasp - the ideas simply don't work out in a human common-sense way. 

Let's start with size and armor. At 16m tall and roughly human shaped you'd expect their width to be something like 2m. Battleship armor was typically around 2m thick. So the would be completely unable to move. Human armor (for a knight) would typically weight of the order of 45 lbs ( so about 20 kg ) and between 1mm and 3mm thick (varying over the body), so let's use 2mm on average. The giant should be able to manage thicker armor, but only really in proportion to it's height, so maybe 8mm-24mm thick. For reference a an early WW2 Panzer III tank would have had a max of 30mm armor, and many tanks had less at the start of WW2. So your giant is in pretty good shape with e.g. 10mm plate armor. 

Fragmentation grenades are normally designed to produce a large number of very nasty deliberately designed fragments that rip people apart very well. Low atmospheric pressure will reduce the shock wave, but those fragments will still rip into people. I would consider the word "grenade" without qualification to mean a fragmentation grenade (a device designed to kill and maim infantry by fragment). There are other types of grenade which are based on the shock effect, and this will be lessened if the air density is low, but note that where you set off the weapon is important. Shockwaves bounce around and a relatively small shockwave in a confined space can be devastating, while outside it does almost no damage. Note that stun grenades are generally also designed to incapacitate with light (temporarily blind you) and that doesn't change. Low air density may also translate into a longer range for those fragments, which is not so good. Now if a shockwave is reduced in intensity that doesn't mean it doesn't still have enough power to e.g. stun or knock over someone. In terms of damage in a battle scenario, survival is good, but if you're temporarily incapacitated it can be just as lethal in the end. This might be relevant to your scenario. So if you're talking about fragmentation grenades I'd not expect much joy from a low atmospheric pressure, as the fragments are still going to do major damage. 

Space used on vessels of any kind is dictated by practical necessity not by emotional needs. Crew are going to be selected for their ability to function in a restricted and limited environment. People who can't do that won't be selected. 

We can currently monitor brain activity (but not thoughts) using a variety of scanning technologies and these are very important research tools. An example would be the use of functional MRI scans to study the operation of psychopaths' brains and how they might be functionally different from "normal" brains (whatever normal is anyway :-)). Now it's a stretch from that to actually monitoring thoughts, but it's certainly a possibility - i.e. I couldn't rule it out as impossible. We are currently nowhere near able to convert brain activity from such experiments to thoughts - I don't even know of a practical definition for what a thought is, let alone a way to "measure" one, as it were. But we can monitor our own thoughts : we do listen (or in the case of deaf people, typically see sign language) for our own inner thoughts. Presumably there must be some functionality in the brain that does this. It must be reasonably consistently implemented from person to person, i.e. use the same underlying mechanism. The problem is that it quite possibly involves the entire brain, so in a sense you have to model quite a large part of the brain to relate one person to a "standard". But it might be possible in the future. I think more practically we would not bother monitoring thoughts, but simply emotional and physical state. That, combined with simply monitoring location and movement patterns as well as IT activity, possibly eye tracking behavior (e.g. always looking at small children while your brain is in "sexually aroused" mode, or have a pattern of violence-related brain activity while e.g. talking to your girlfriend) might all be used to indicate potential problems and intervene before they become real ones. You might also want to reference Michael Crichton's "The Terminal Man" for how similar technology could be used to try and prevent thoughts becoming actions. Regarding the possibilities of using this in prisons, possibly with a therapeutic aspect. Prisons are (more or less) controlled environments. It's a lot easier to impose a regime of regular (or irregular) monitoring on someone in a prison than outside. It's certainly realistic to imagine inmates someday being scanned while stimulated by e.g. video, audio, perhaps smells, sensation, to see both how they react (and hence predict possible triggers, issues) and also, longer term, to help work out how effective therapies are working (and ideally use the monitoring to guide the therapy choices). Scanning systems at the moment are non-invasive. There's no advantage to implanting something if you don't need to. If you get enough from just sitting the inmate in an MRI for a hour to figure out how things are going, then it's fine. I think that's possible (not just plausible, but just not possible yet). One major issue : what if your monitoring says someone is not responding to treatment ? Do they still get released when their sentence is over ? Should they be kept in prison ? I suspect an effective use of such a system would entail a radical alteration of how we deal with criminals legally - probably an entirely redefined way of looking at the purpose of prison and the subject of constitutional rights. 

This first limitation suggests a distant sniper ( 2km kills are doable now ) stands a very good chance of not being killed and of killing the target. 

Money. Someone armed with an encyclopedia and even a basic high-school education could make a lot of money with basic inventions. They could do that quite quickly. Examples include steam engines (even rudimentary ones), metal refinement, agricultural devices, several people mentioned health and I'd emphasize clean water productions in that context. Germ theory alone could be enough and basic antibiotics would be a great boon. An army armed with surgeons aware of how to clean water, sanitize instruments and surfaces, sutures and bandages would already be one people would be more willing to fight for because they'd be far more likely to survive injuries and less likely to die of infections (e.g. the major killer as late as the American Civil War !) and less likely to lose a limb. Money, regardless of what period you're in, gets you power - that is, political power. So I'd say your soldier needs to become a filthy capitalist. Using his military background and knowledge is one thing, but focusing on weapons production is not practical, as most modern weapons require the development of at least a basic chemical and engineering industry to be produced in effective numbers. If, however, you insist on a weapon, then a rifled musket would be the natural choice for a soldier. But to be done on any practical scale that requires the development of these basic industries : power (steam), basic industrial chemistry, transport (again steam), precision engineering of toughened materials (mostly a combination of metal refinement and some engineering principles). Money and political power will do more than a single weapon, IMO. 

A complete irrelevance and something that, in humans, relates entirely to the local culture and is constantly changing. There's no reason to think that one group of skydancers will share the same cultural norms with another. They're human-like, they're going to have a wide variety of cultural behaviors. And if they mix with humans at all, there would inevitably be some mixing of cultures - humans do that and so will homo fuga and homo sapien.