Some sort of flame acting on some sort of metal, leather or wood for some amount of time... Make a decision about what you want the answer to be for your story and then justify it. If you want people to survive, a thin layer of steel (better) or leather over a wooden shield will protect them from quite a bit. The heavier the wood, the harder it is to get it to start burning, but the higher its probable thermal conductivity. There will be an upper limit on how heavy the shield can be for the user. A steel shield would probably be the worst because as it heats up, it burns the warrior until they drop the shield. A purely wooden shield would vary from light and terrible to heavy and ok (though perhaps too heavy to use) depending on the type of wood. Leather, tanned with vegetable extracts, is actually a pretty great flame retardant. The wise spell caster will aim around the shield and strafe to flank, so the wise warrior will probably not face down a spell caster alone, no matter their shield. 

Lots of great answers already. One thing that looks like it's been missed is that language influences the way we see the world. If a Hive mind existed, how would thoughts be shared between entities? Specifically, if I see a boar over there, in what format does that information arrive at my hunting buddy? Do they see a picture? Does their map of the world gain a new entity where I see the boar? Or do I send them language indicating what kind of animal and where? There is ample evidence that language affects the way we see the world. I'd change your statement from "It is also hard to describe thoughts in plain words sometimes" to 'It is hard to describe thoughts without words'. If creatures communicate, they will use language. If they forget or need to share that information, they will write it down. 

What is salt? If you answered Sodium Chloride, then simply have a world with very little Sodium and Chlorine. If you answered 'an ionic compound formed from an acid and a base', then you either have to get rid of all of the acids and bases or find a mechanism to sequester them, and that'd be difficult on a rocky (terran) world. Salt Lakes would be the most likely geological mechanism for sequestration, and the numbers couldn't really work out unless you have giant, below-sea-level inland basins with occasional catastrophic floods followed by long dry periods in which the sea water evaporates leaving a halite crust in the basin. Saltwater is about 5% salt by volume, whereas fresh water is less than .05%. I believe that the number of cycles to change the salinity from the original to final values given the volume of the ocean and the volume of total water is $$c = \frac{\log_{10} \left(\frac{s_0}{s_f}\right)}{\log_{10}\left(\frac{V_t}{V_o}\right)} = \frac{2}{\log_{10}\left(\frac{V_t}{V_o}\right)}$$ If the inland basins were one tenth the volume of the oceans, it'd take almost 50 cycles to make the oceans fresh. For this method to work, there could be no way for basin water to escape to the ocean which would be a very strange topology. There is a reason that all of the salt lakes on Earth aren't that big. Additionally, the entire basins would be very salty unless you had rain pulling the salt to the bottom of the basin. A life based mechanism might be more likely, but that would only apply to the most recent eighth of Earth's history. You'd need a group of halophiles moving salt from the ocean to sequestration somewhere. Perhaps if humans stop putting waste salt into the environment but keep pulling salt from the ocean, we'd eventually qualify. On Life We evolved from ocean creatures. Our blood's pH is regulated like the sea, our wounds heal faster in the ocean, and the same is true for most animals. While Earth creatures need salt to live, it's very likely that on your world, creatures would have different mechanisms to deal with fluid regulation and neural communication. 

Orbital Mechanics: In 2 body systems, bodies tend towards rotation rates that match the period of orbit because of the way that their respective potentials are shaped. We call this tidal locking. Because stars are much bigger than planets, the planet's rotation slows (usually). What that means for your world is twofold: such a system may not be in equilibrium, and the planet may shortly become locked: dayside and night side forever. If you don't want that, I recommend a very large planet and moon(s), or a somewhat close-by planet whose orbit has a curious integer relationship with 9-years world. The second thing to consider is that the planet (especially one without a moon and maybe smaller) was not always so long-dayed. Civilization could have emerged in an earlier time and continued through the planetary changes that led to 9 year days. Within the premise of your question: Civilization requires a surplus of calories. Humans first got this by cooking our food, and second by agriculture. Either could happen and be explained relatively easily. There is an abundance of game while chasing dawn/dusk (and with the advent of cooking/food preservation, more calories) and the denizens could leapfrog: plant at dawn, wait for crop, harvest, move on to dawn (or plant in the evening, wait for dusk and harvest in the twilight of the evening before moving back into the heat of the day). The next requirement is tools which either need to be made in camp, or in bases which the populace moves from and to at intervals as they chase the dawn or dusk. A mobile populace actually has an easier time with this because they will see a planet's worth of geology in their migration, and can set up shop near to mineral resources. No group thrives without specialization - the genesis of trading. Since there are people on the poles in perpetual twilight, it's possible that both civilizations cannot survive without each other - the polar people need something they can't get from the poles (a type of food, salt, tools, metals, etc...) and that the nomads can't get in their travels (food, salt, technology that's only really possible for people who can stay in one place, etc...). Civilizations needn't develop independently - mutual benefit is the basis of civilization, and you have set up 3 very clear societies which could benefit greatly from trade, and who might never thrive without it. 

Nobody has mentioned the gondola lift yet (the bonus of being alliterative with Guoliang Guan). Realistically, though, mass migrations don't happen because one person decides - they happen because of crisis. I have a hard time imagining crisis conditions outside the valley that weren't there when the settlers first emigrated. I have a much easier time imagining an economic migration - because the temperatures and pressures outside the domes are greater in the valley (or the access to more layers of sedimentary deposit, or whatever), production rates in the valley far outstrip those above, and there are jobs that pay much higher than those on the upper surface. Such a migration would happen more slowly, and it's likely that outer settlements would continue to struggle along (much as rural America keeps on even though their economic output is dwarfed by that of America's cities). A forced migration is also more believable, but Diego OfeAde would be more of a warlord in this case (Is that why you mentioned CIF3 - because of it's properties as a weapon rather than as rocket fuel?). Forced migration would quickly empty the upper surface of its inhabitants, and could ostensibly make Mars "more governable". It would, however, upset everybody who didn't really want to leave their homes and could cause a rebellion. A forced migration for the purposes of military defense could be more popular, but it sounds like there are no enemies...