Svabhāva is a bivalent term in Madhyamaka thought; on the one hand, it corresponds (roughly) to Spinoza's notion of substance; on the other hand, it corresponds (roughly) to a Platonic conception of Essence. Jan Westerhoff's book Nāgārjuna's Madhyamaka: A Philosophical Introduction does a nice job of covering the territory. If you are interested in reading Nāgārjuna in more depth, Priest's co-author on the paper you cite, Jay Garfield, has published a nice translation with commentary (aimed at a Western audience) of Nāgārjuna's Fundamental Wisdom of the Middle Way. 

Well, you don't need to be a neuroscientist to find that-- a simple survey will do. But generally speaking, most people express moral qualms about throwing the switch, yes. So, this is either a sociological question (if you are quantitatively interested in people's responses) or a philosophical question (if you are attempting to analyze the ethical implications of the acts involved.) So far, so good. 

I think we need to look at your premises more closely. I don't think that we can say, as a blanket statement, that the "default reaction" to an unfamiliar idea is usually ridicule; if this were the case, education would be a near-impossible process. Every single thing you have ever learned was originally an unfamiliar idea to you. So, we need to look more closely at the examples that you provide. The ideas suggested there are not merely unfamiliar, but are at odds with our already-held beliefs. Furthermore, when evaluating testimony, one also looks at the context of the source. Tom Cruise is not known as a philosopher of ethics, so his claims in this regard are not likely to be valued terribly highly. Even if he were a philosopher of ethics, a controversial and counter-intuitive claim of that type would have to be argued at length, and with supporting arguments, in order to be demonstrated successfully. Similarly, if Obama said that he was walking in the woods by Camp David and saw a Bigfoot that nobody else saw, he would likely be ridiculed, as you said. (As an aside: Jimmy Carter claimed to have seen a UFO before becoming President.) On the other hand, if he were to announce from the Oval Office that military units on a routine patrol in the Pacific Northwest sighted, surrounded, and captured a large mammal previously unknown to science, and that a team of scientists were now doing tests to study the creature, I don't think we would have any cause to doubt him. So, ultimately your question comes down to one of epistemology and doubt, and that if framed in this way, you'll be able to find resources that will help you solve your problem. 

This strikes me as profoundly wrong. First of all, we are capable of ignoring our senses, and do so every time we close our eyes. Any conscious computer (if we stipulate such a thing) with control over its sensory input devices would clearly understand that the external world continues to send input which is being ignored. Furthermore, the distinction between "imagining" and "seeing" would apply to a conscious computer in precisely the same manner. Just as I can picture "in my mind's eye" an orangutan and distinguish this imagined orangutan from a veridically perceived one, a computer would be able to clearly distinguish between data which it has constructed, and data which has come to it via the aforementioned sensory input devices. A conscious computer would have no more reason than us to believe in solipsism; nor would it have any less reason. We're both worlded in precisely the same way: aware that we are receiving input from sources outside of our control. The fact that the computer is able to manipulate the input after receiving it is simply not germane. 

First of all, let's set aside any legal implications for now, as those are questions best answered by lawyers (and will likely vary across jurisdictions, etc.) and focus purely on the ethical. With that in mind, let us suppose that person A creates and hosts an online Q&A community. Person B writes a question. Person C answers said question. Person D reads the question and answer, and develops and commercializes a product based on C's answer. The question being asked here is: Does D's product constitute an ethical violation against person B (the asker of the question)? In order to answer that question, let us consider: if it is an ethical violation, what ethical norm has been violated? It certainly isn't theft (simpliciter) or even "theft of services" (read "theft of intellectual property") as there is no generally accepted ethical principle that would grant one exclusive rights to exploit the answers that are derived from a question one posed-- unless there is a contract stating otherwise. In other words: the only ethical violation would be a violation of a commitment (implicit of explicit) one made while taking part in the community. In practical terms, this would be spelled out in the Terms of Service, but from an ethical perspective, the more germane part would be the prima facie assumption that one recognizes that anything one publishes (and writing on a publicly visible site surely constitutes publication) would put the ideas in said publication out into the world for all to see and use unless one has taken explicit prior acts to protect said rights. Put another way: if someone has some valuable information, and then publishes that information in a freely available form, I don't see how one could claim that the recipients of said information have any ethical imperative to refrain from making use of that information for their own enrichment. And in this case, the situation is even more clear cut, as the question relates not to the answerer of a question, but the asker. I don't see how anyone could expect there to be an ethical imperative constraining people from making use of valuable information that one did not directly create, but only indirectly inspired through the posing of a question. Now, as I said, all this changes if there are explicit contractual obligations specified: but these would need to be accepted by the recipients of the information prior to receiving the information-- which means that we are not speaking about general publication any more. 

I imagine this is the source you are looking for. However, while we are on the topic: Descartes, in his first Meditation, uses the example of a pauper who dreams he is a king as the canonical example of non-veridical perception. In classical Hindu philosophy, the image of a pauper dreaming he is a king and a king dreaming he is a pauper is used to question what is lost or gained upon waking (i.e., the illusory nature of the pleasure or pain experienced in the dreamstate, which can then be generalized to the illusory nature of reality). Finally, Zhuangzi famously wrote (in Chapter 2 of his eponymous work) 

Why not? What would (relevantly) distinguish a "conscious computer" from a "conscious person"? Why would a silicon-based consciousness escape Thrownness where a carbon-based consciousness cannot? It would seem to me that absent a strong argument to the contrary, any consciousness would be subject to the burdens of consciousness, by definition. 

You seem to be playing with a variant of Russell's paradox. If this sort of thing interests you, there are plenty of examples to be found-- second order logic is full of these types of problems, and attempts and formalizing them. Personally, I don't find these paradoxes to be very interesting, unless they lead us to something more profound. 

There are several misconceptions in the arguments stated in the question. 1) By giving her a ride, you are not encouraging her to hitchhike; she's already hitchhiking. In fact, by picking her up, you have the opportunity (if you so desire) to attempt to persuade her of the dangers of hitchhiking. In short, your action is not inciting a moral hazard. 2) By giving her a ride, you are not reducing the demand on local transport such as busses and taxis; the value proposition of those services come from a balance of price and convenience. Hitchhiking (and, for that matter, walking) is simply at the far end of that spectrum: no cost, very inconvenient. It is possible that there are valid arguments for the immorality of picking up hitchhikers, but these don't come close. 

In the absence of context, this is definitely a semantic debate. Is anyone who ever played a note on a musical instrument a musician? Is anyone who has ever written a word on paper a writer? Clearly not, for most intended purposes of those terms. When we speak of someone as "a philosopher", we are usually intending someone whose dominant activity has been an engagement with the philosophical tradition-- but this usage will vary on context. 

The list is long, and will depend a lot upon your eventual area of specialization. The best place to begin is with an undergraduate "Intro to Philosophy" course, as that will not only offer a good syllabus, but will help contextualize the works. It is quite easy for a novice to read a given work by, say, Plato, and completely miss the interesting issues at play. Reading philosophy is a learned skill, and doesn't necessarily come naturally. However, if you're absolutely committed to doing it on your own, I'd suggest you work on Plato, Aristotle, Descartes and Kant; it's hard to imagine reading any later philosopher without a good grasp on those four, at least. But that's just the barest of beginnings... 

This is not the case; sometimes new scientific theories directly contradict (and replace) previous theories. I suggest you take a look at Kuhn if the history of scientific theories is of interest. 

Aesop is mentioned in the Rhetoric (2:20), Meterology (2:3), and On the Parts of Animals (3:2). This is not a comprehensive list; there might be other references my casual search may have missed. 

Actually, there are a number of significant arguments against the principle of sufficient reason; you can find them in Sextus Empiricus, Hume, Wittgenstein and Nāgārjuna to name but a few. In terms of accessibility, I suppose I'd recommend starting with Hume's view, which you can read about here or here, followed by Wittgenstein on rule-following, which you can read about here. Of course, if you are more familiar with classical literature, you can check out Sextus Empiricus (Outlines of Pyrrhonism, Book III, if I recall correctly); similarly, if you are more familiar with Buddhist philosophy, you can begin with Book I of the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā. EDIT: I should clarify that none of these thinkers suggest that there are events that are uncaused; this is one of the positions that Nāgārjuna explicitly rejects in the first verse of the Mūlamadhyamakakārikā. Rather, each calls into question the notion of causality, and attacks either the notion of "sufficiency" or the notion of "reason" with regard to the matter. 

It is possible to draw parallels between this and Descartes's doubts; for example, Wittgenstein would argue that it makes no sense to doubt that one has a body, because the "I" that is doubting is already embodied. However, it would be a mistake to overstate the connection between Wittgenstein and Descartes here, as Wittgenstein's critique is much broader, and applies to the entire epistemological tradition from Plato up until the time of his writing. 

The philosophy of interpretation is called Hermeneutics, and the canonical text in the field is Gadamer's Truth and Method. Note that this applies also when reading in your native tongue; every act of reading is also an act of interpretation and translation. 

The literature on identity is enormous, so it would be easier to answer your question if you narrowed your wishes down a bit. If you are a beginner to the field, a good starting point is the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy article on Identity, which contains a reasonable bibliography, but is slanted towards the analytic tradition. If you are interested in the Continental side of things, two classic texts are Heidegger's Identity and Difference and Deleuze's Difference and Repetition-- although you should be forewarned, both are difficult going. Finally, if you are looking for some thought experiments to explore on your own, I'd suggest beginning with the Ship of Theseus. 

Again, this is a mistake from a philosophical perspective. Whether or not an item exists matters. Whether or not a particular individual can touch it, by and large, doesn't. 

Causality is a notoriously thorny topic, but the short version is: no one has yet provided an adequate refutation to Hume, nor is it evident that such a refutation is possible. To turn your questions back on themselves: what kind of scientific theory could provide evidence for or against Hume? What possible empirical procedure could be immune? I don't read Hume as saying that cause and effect are a necessary condition for experience; rather, that appeals to cause and effect are only based on observed regularities, and we have no rigorous way of demonstrating the existence of any cause whatsoever, properly speaking.