No leg schedule is complete without at least some kind of squat at least every second legs day. You could try front squat or maybe hack squat. If you didnt do so already, make leg day exclusively leg day. No other muscle groups and most definetely no cardio on leg day. At least untill you strengthen up significantly. 

Low carb is indeed a very good basis to start of from. Its however not directly suitable for doing high intensity workouts. Your body is perfectly capable of producing sugar from fat and protein and will happily store that in your liver and muscles to fuel short bursts of strength. Ones your stores are exausted however, your body won't be able to produce new sugar fast enough for you to finish your workout. With a bit of timing there is quite a lot you can do however. On workout days, try to concentrate as much as possible of your carb intake into your (pre)workout time slot. For example eat berries prior to your workout and take a liter of coconut water that you consume during your workout. On non-workout days, try to add some slow carbs to your day, as that will help to refill your muscles and liver sugar stores. Having some taters on your rest day is more than sufficient. Next to that, make sure to eat plenty of vegies to your diet. There are relatively little carbs in vegies, but there is much added vallue to adding large amounts of vegetables to a low carb diet. Half a kg of broccoli has the same amount of carbs as half a glass of orange juice for example. 

Its hard to say as based on the classical low-fat/high-carb diet guidelines that have been popular for many years, being low carb 'in contrast' should be easily achievable. Basicaly its safe to say that unless you are doing high intensity workouts, your body can work quite nicely on zero carbs. If you are working out and you feel before the end of your workout that you have expended all of your energy, than yes, you will need some pre-workout carbs in your diet. In other cases you don't need any carbs but you might need some foods that come with carbs. The jury is still out over if you actually need dietary fibers but one thing that is sure, you need anti-oxidants and most of these come packaged with at least some carbs. You should never just count grams of carbs, only percentages of calories or grams relative to the number of grams you take of other nutrients. A gram of fat holds 9 calories, a gram of carbs or protein 4. The total amount of calories should be dependent on your fat free body mass and on your level of physical activity. Basically the low range of what should be considered achievable low carb would have you at most 25% of your caloric intake from carbs. You should probably try to aim for 30% to 40% of your caloric intake from protein, so this means you should get at least 35% of your calories from fat. If you can bring your carb consumption further down than by all means do so, but use this as starting point and keep track of your FFBM, body strength and work out endurance. Make sure you keep getting sufficient antioxidants and monitor how your body is doing. As long as you get enough antioxidants and as long as your FFBM, strength and endurance don't suffer, keep reducing your carb intake and moving carbs to pre-workout consumption untill you find your personal sweet spot. 

If you want your body to use already stored fat, the first thing you need to do is make it available by reducing your levels. You do this by minimizing your intake of carbohydrates and increasing your intake of protein and fat. The next thing that you need to do is increase your BMR. You do that by gaining lean body weight, the more lean body weight you have, the more calories you will burn. Most important, don't under eat just yet, conversely you may want to overeat slightly so your body can add the extra muscles that will help you burn that fat later on. Once you have increased your BMR by gaining some substantial muscle mass, switch to slightly under eating (while maintaining the low carbohydrate intake) and go from a muscle building program to a strength training program. Its better even than cardio for burning calories and its a good way to check if you are not under eating to much. A quick drop of strength is usually a sign that you are not consuming your fat but are consuming your precious muscular proteins. 

"I have lost inches around the waist but I still need to loose some weight" If you've lost inches, you've lost fat mass, what is good. If you've lost fat mass and haven’t lost weight than you've gained muscle mass, what is also good. Why do you believe you need to loose 'weight'? is it something you convinced yourself of, or did your doctor tell you to? If you are to fat, than you are on the right track, you're exchanging fat for muscle and your waist measurements combined with your stable weight are evidence of that. If your doctor tells you to lose weight and he/she knows you started doing almost a full hour of exercise on average per day, he/she should know that your total body weight at this moment isn't a reliable indicator of how your fat percentage is doing. If he/she doesn't realise that and tells you to loose 'weight' rather than 'fat mass', than its time you look around for an other doctor who understands you can get leaner and healthier from doing exercise while not loosing or even actually gaining weight. A controlled diet without sugars is always good, even if you weren’t a diabetes. Being a vegetarian kinda complicates things there though. The best diet for loosing fat, especially as you have type 2 diabetes is a low-carb diet. How strict a vegetarian are you? If you do eat fish, you may want to consider going for a low-carb or even a keto diet. If you don't eat fish, keto might be impossible and low-carb difficult, but I'm not quite sure there. 

This is not the answer you will want to hear, but the answer is: it depends. It depends on multiple genetic factors, it depends on your diet, it depends on your current muscle mass, it depends on medicines you may be taking that may affect your hormone balance, etc. For many people (including me) trying to add strength or even trying to maintain power stats while cutting is simply impossible. For others its possible to get stronger fast without increasing fat mass, or to loose fat fast without loosing power stats, or yes to improve power stats while loosing fat mass. Some seem able to get stronger on a low-carb cutting diet while others seem able to be able to actually get leaner on a high-carb bulking diet. If you fall in one of these lucky groups, great, go for it. If you are like me however, you will have to interleave between longer cutting and bulking periods. And to make things more complex, as your body type and composition changes, the rules for your body may change with it. For me there seems to be some magic switch around 80 kg .. 84 kg FFBM (if my FFBM drops below 80kg, my body seems to completely stop burning fat no matter what program and diet I follow, above 84 kg FFBM, my body seems to go into some kind of fat burning mode if I drop my carbs. I understand its not the answer you want to have, but you need to figure out what works for you. Find out your best bulking diet and program, find out your best cutting diet and program, find out how much you can cut your carbs while bulking and how much you can increase your carbs while cutting and than see if there is a way for you to combine cutting and bulking. I you feel like its reasonable to assume you can combine the two, interleave power training days and cardio days.Don't do cardio on your power training days. If you are unable to combine the two or you get bad results doing so, try to get a division of your training year so that you will bulk an amount of months and than cut for the remaining months. For me the 9/3 division seems to work best, but again that depends on multiple factors also. 

Don't force feed or starve yourself, just try to listen to your body and make sure you get between 25% and 35% of your calories from protein. If you wish you can play around with the carbs/fat portion of your calories, but don't go either all 'low-fat' or all 'low-carb', the above examples are probably the most extreme you should go on the fat/carb balance. The first is probably best if you are worried that you may not be able to eat enough given that you will need significantly less grams of macro nutrients for the same caloric intake.