I feel that HDE gives a good start of an answer, but stops short of the important part. We have seen in HDE's answer the formation of a star at the center of the collapsing molecular cloud. When the star begins to fuse lighter elements, the protoplanetary disk has several forces acting on it: 

Consider, those were clocks on Earth suffering from measurable time dilation due only to their latitude and altitude differences and the effect of moving information across the distances between them! 

For the area of sky as defined by "areas visible above your head inside Earth's atmosphere" then the answer depends on the height of the objects that you would like to observe. I like to observe airplanes, so without loss of generality I'll use ~10,000 meters as my "sky". We can see airplanes up to about 40 KM away. 

The wonderful article linked by Wayfaring Stranger in the comments alludes to the reason for not sending photographs, but does not answer the question directly. As with most spacecraft outside Earth or Lunar orbit, the data rate is extraordinarily low. This page gives data rates for the current Rosetta mission, which are on the order of a dozen or two KiB/s. So a 10 MiB uncompressed image file would take 15 minutes to send. Though it would be an undoubtedly interesting photograph, it would come at the opportunity cost of magnetic readings, temperature readings, radiation readings, and other important scientific data which would help plan our next probe to survive the environment. 

Some days there are 10 or more Minor Planet Electronic Circulars announcing new asteroid discoveries or lost asteroid recoveries. The October 30 MPECs included a follow-up observation of 2016 UR36, the same object mentioned in the NPR story. With an arc of only a few days, its orbit remains highly uncertain. 

As this NASA visualization video shows, the terminator moves almost sinusoidally, always from lunar east to west, never from west to east. We see the sunrise half of the terminator in the waxing phases and the sunset half in the waning phases. At the new and full phases, our view of the terminator switches from one half to the other, making the position vs. time function a discontinuous, piecewise-sinusoidal sawtooth wave. 

Current estimates put Apophis's diameter around 325 m and its 2029-04-13 approach about 38000 km from the center of the Earth. I figure an angular size <= 2 arcsec, almost starlike even if you manage to track it in a telescope. Ephemerides show it at apparent magnitude 3.5 or so just before closest approach - visible but not outstanding to the unaided eye at night - and spending about 36 hours within 1 lunar distance of the Earth. 

Yes you can definitely do that. ISRO not only employs aeronautical engineers, but also people who have completed their BE in electrical and electronics and also computer science. Have a look at THE CAREERS WEBSITE OF ISRO to get more information. 

To study clustering of galaxies and clusters, one makes use of the two-point correlation function. However, we can see that all the estimators of $\xi(r)$ use a random catalogue. What is the random catalogue used for? 

Procedure within India There are plenty of Universities in India that offer you a Masters course in Astrophysics. Almost all the details required are summarised neatly in THIS PAGE, so I am not going to go through the list of things required. 

This is pretty much all you need for Europe. For certain universities, you might be having a Skype interview, wherein they might ask you about the stuff you know. 

To search for PhDs in Astrophysics depends on the country you are applying for. But as a start, you can have a look at $URL$ PhD calls, internship calls, post-doc positions, etc. related to astrophysics will be posted here during the start of every month. 

A moonless night is, as you suspect, a night in which the Moon does not appear visible in the sky. This happens once per month, when the Moon is near the Sun. Due to the proximity of the Moon and the Sun in the sky, at that time the Moon is the smallest sliver possible, and therefore not a full moon. This is because it is actually the Sun that illuminates the Moon, and when the Sun and the Moon are in the same direction in the sky we are seeing the non-illuminated side of the Moon. Note the direction of the sunlight in this image: 

The relationship is a squared relationship, therefore if you decide that you are interested in only 1000 meters as your "sky" (maybe you like to photograph birds) then you have about 3 KM^2 of sky available to you. 

The most likely candidate would be the Tardigrade. These little guys handle vacuum and radiation just fine. So long as water is provided, according to tests done in LEO the Tardigrade would survive on Mars. Even if they do dehydrate, they spring back to life once water is provided again. 

The International Meteor Organization calendar for 2016, page 12, gives the Perseid radiant declination as +58$^\circ$ and says "regrettably, it cannot be properly viewed from most of the southern hemisphere." At latitude -34$^\circ$ the radiant never rises above the horizon, so there may be fewer Perseid meteors than sporadic non-Perseids. This does not change year to year as the AG article seems to suggest. What does vary is interference from the Moon; this year it's full on the 18th, so the article is correct to recommend the morning or two before the predicted peak on August 12-13. Also check your local weather forecast. The predawn hours, e.g. 2 hours before sunrise, are generally best for meteors because the morning side is forward as the Earth orbits the Sun. 

Gaia data release 1 was announced in September 2016. It has parallaxes for 2 million stars previously observed by the Hipparcos mission, a small fraction of the 1.1 billion positions recorded so far. Future releases will of course have more data and smaller errors. Gaia has ~600 light curves for Cepheids but probably not parallaxes for most of those. Casertano et al. 2016 checked Gaia parallax data of some Cepheids against expected values from ground-based photometry. 

Time dilation is a relative phenomenon, not a local phenomenon. As adrianmcmenamin mentioned, Earth's motion around the sun is cause for no more time dilation than any other point in the universe. Consider that the sun is travelling around the galaxy at 200 km/s, and the Milky Way is approaching Andromeda at 130 km/s. We do not know at what speed we are approaching the great attractor, and I hope that at this point it becomes obvious that there is no difference in "us approaching the great attractor" to "the great attractor approaching us". Nothing is considered "stationary to the background" in an infinite, expanding universe as there is no "background" to measure against. Consider the gedankenexperiment of comparing a clock on Earth to a clock orbiting the galaxy. Now compare those clocks to clocks outside the galaxy. You might consider the clock that ticks the most time away to be the "most at rest clock". Now I ask you, how will you compare the clocks? You must move at a significant portion of the speed of light for a very long time to get information from one clock to the next. Thus, the messenger would suffer the effects of Special Relativity, rendering the comparison meaningless. To further the point, consider the development of International Atomic Time. I'll quote directly from wikipedia: 

All your original mark sheets attested by the college/university (Bachelors, Masters, etc) Two/three recommendation letters, and the number of letters depends on the university you are applying to. For most universities it will be online forms that your professor needs to fill after he/she receives the mail. A completely filled application form. This is going to cost you somewhere from around 50-80 dollars depending on the university. GRE scores (both general GRE and subject (Physics,Chemistry etc.) GRE) that you can send to the university directly online by paying money (25 Dollars for each university). Only a few universities accept you without a subject GRE. IELTS/TOEFL scores. TOEFL scores can be sent online, but if you are taking IELTS you have to go to British council and have them send it. Statement of purpose, as to why you want to do the course. 

All your original mark sheets attested by the college/university (Bachelors, Masters, etc) Two/three recommendation letters, and the number of letters depends on the university you are applying to. A completely filled application form. IELTS scores (depends on country) Statement of purpose, as to why you want to do the course. 

Obviously, the direction of the sunlight is the direction of "up" during the day. If you look at the horizon slightly after sunset or slightly before sunrise, you might actually catch a glimpse of the sliver of Moon before it set or rises slightly after or before the Sun. 

Interestingly, the second and third forces pretty much cancel out when the disk is still uniform in distribution. But once large clumps of matter accumulate those large masses (protoplanets) gravitationally pull at the other matter in inconsistent and sometimes violent ways, especially when multiple protoplanets align (once per orbit of the inner body). Thus, the area of the protoplanetary disk is being 'swept up' of all the mass: some is pulled into the sun by gravity and loss of momentum due to collisions, some is pushed out of the solar system by radiation, and whatever matter was not disturbed by one of those processes is then subject to being disturbed by the gravity of the protoplanets themselves. The protoplanets will, over time, either absorb that matter or gravitationally slingshot that matter out of the system or too it's very edges. In short, the protoplanetary disk within a few tens of AU of the star in the center is a chaotic mess of a place. Not much matter can form a stable orbit there.