Since there is no absolute starting point for time, nor any absolute standard unit for it, you would definitely need some reference point for when you're counting from and how long each unit of time is. Origin of a timekeeping system All species would have to have originated from somewhere. This is most likely to be a planet of course, but it can be a space construct in fantasy setting. If it is a planet, then that planet will have a day-night cycle, or in the absence of such a cycle, will have a yearly cycle. Having the amount of time in a year as a starting point and having to have subdivisions to count smaller intervals, they would already have a system of timekeeping. Without any reason to change it (since time intervals don't change), I assume any civilization that leaves its homeworld would just use the same date/time system. It's familiar to them, computers and mathematical systems would already work with it - it's one of those "if it ain't broke, don't fix it" cases. Reasons to change it However, it may be problematic in some cases. For example, you might need a way to compensate for clock drift or be able to determine not only where you are but when you are, if there is a chance your systems are drifting or you need to identify how much time has passed from an event. There would be 2 ways to accomplish this, one being dead reckoning based on what position you think you're in (you check the stars around you, compensate for your movement and see how they've moved, which, assuming your theories about orbital and stellar mechanics are correct, could give you a length of time) and the other would be to have multiple accurate clocks and compare them. Both would probably be used - but is that practical with a date/time system used on a planet? Probably, since we can just have a format for time and date used for calculations and then change it into a more easily used format for speech (this is what computers do). A long-time space-faring civilization might come up with alternatives, to get over the need to perform complex calculations or constantly compare with their own planet. Such as? A simple change would be to determine what the shortest day is for any planet in the solar system (for planets that are not tidally locked, because those lack a day-night cycle) and use that as the base time unit for days (It might be preferable to not call them days in this case of course). This can be taken further, changing the year length to the amount of time it takes for the closest or farthest terrestrial planet to circle the sun, or the one with the most circular orbit. The intervals for our minutes and seconds could also change - many time units have already been expressed as multiples of Planck time and the same could be done here, albeit with some larger interval instead of the theorized smallest amount of time in the universe. Of course, this approach would mean that as time goes on and more planets and solar systems are discovered, these times would likely be changed to some other average. Perhaps this species can predict some average times for years, days etc. and create a time/date system that is practical, being easy to use on most worlds. 

Since we're assuming exotic fields that don't exist yet, lets assume an exotic mechanism for them to work by: they turn electrical energy into tiny vortices and give them spin, making them matter particles (that's pseudoscience technobabble, but hey, it's a force field :P). The red and blue fields create spin in opposite directions, so they cancel each other out. To create matter, they need to reach a threshold, so if the field strength is too low somewhere, nothing happens. By adjusting the red field's strength and compensating with the blue field, we can adjust the thickness of the field's dome. Using this arrangement, we can cancel the field out inside and prevent the city from exploding. What form would a generator of this kind take? Here's an idea: 

Define importance layers: Start by making a list of the most essential elements you absolutely need to get a usable world. This is one layer. Then list elements and information that isn't absolutely necessary but still important enough that you should generally know about. This is the next layer. Don't expect to get this perfect in one go but by refactoring what belongs on each layer and having a set of layers that makes sense to you, it'll be easier to know when to stop. For a town that's a possible destination, just get the first layer constructed - for a city that's part of the main plot, more layers are going to be necessary. Define defaults: In order to avoid starting from scratch, create templates and defaults to start from. This might give you enough information that you can easily skip creating even the first detail layer until it's necessary (sort of like lazy evaluation). Your problem is clearly not a lack of ideas, but this can shorten the development time for stuff you're not actively working on and prevent the slippery slope of overthinking a setting until you're obsessed with it and it's 5 am and too late for bed, since you'll have most of the basics out of the way and won't have to break your concentration on the story. 

This is the response of a lower order system to the step function (which is a fancy way of saying a change of input between two values and remaining at the second one). In higher order systems, with more complex input, the oscillation can be sustained, instead of diminishing as you see in the diagram. This is especially common when a system has a positive feedback loop (which is a fancy way of saying that energy is added to the system proportionally to its output - you get 5 tigers, so then you add 3 - now you have 8, so then you add 5 more). Considering that on a rogue planet certain dampening factors or external influences may be missing, such biosphere oscillations may remain stable for long enough for this civilization to observe them and notice their periodicity and how long each cycle lasts. After all, even the celestial objects and day-night periods we used for timekeeping are not always of the same length and their average length changes with time (just like the Moon flies away from us a couple of centimeters per year, but that doesn't prevent us from using it for accurate enough time measurements). Everyday life Just like we do today, this civilization may develop some standard for time. This would be necessary for trade, which is why we developed many sciences in the first place. A simple time measurement would be to define, for example, the time it takes for a fuse of specific dimensions and material to completely consume itself as it burns. Such standardization would initially depend on such everyday needs but could also include periods such as the incubation time for eggs, the time to carry a child to birth, the time it usually takes people to sleep and wake up, the time it takes to walk to places etc. - these could serve as a base for longer time measurements. Accuracy Of course, eventually they would develop complex physical understanding of the world and require precise timekeeping. There is no reason technology wouldn't serve them as well as it has served us in this case. There would already be agreement on some standard measurement of time within cultures and probably globally wherever trade has spread. 

How does all this come together if you're not starved for space and supplies? Rooms: Not very hard - regular sliding doors would work just the same and probably would be preferrable. Regular doors don't depend on gravity besides, in some cases, to define whether they're going to open more or close if they're left loose. I'd imagine that if you're in space, or in a general zero-G environment, using the regular air pump systems you see in a lot of places to make sure a door closes would work fine. If you want a door that can stay open instead of float back and forth, you could use a stopper, much like how large gates have: there's an arc rail on the floor with holes and you open the door however much you want, then sink the stopper into the hole. Bedding: You're probably limited to the astronaut solution. The problem is keeping yourself from floating around while sleeping, so if you fall asleep on your desk you might float out of the room or something. A simple strap would prevent you from floating too far, so you just get into the habit of using your new, fancy Nike desk strap. This means sleeping bags attached to surfaces, no matter the orientation, are most preferable and convenient. They can be made large for comfort and have a velcro on them for your water bag, in case you need a drink at night. Eating: Again, just use your fancy Nike strap (might be a good idea to wear these and just hook them wherever you need instead of having one for each piece of furniture). Sit down, strap in, eat up. Liquids go in bags, solid stuff is packed together. I imagine sandwiches will be very popular. Spoons aren't obsolete, since peanut butter is still around and 2nd-3rd generation children growing up in space will probably be able to eat soup using a spoon - assuming the soup stays in a plate :P. Since you don't want to eat rehydrated pizza forever, you'd have a kitchen. Instead of cooking in a pot, you'd probably have a kitchen on the wall, with modules equivalent to pots and pans, stirring included! Glass allows you to see what's going on but everything stays sealed in until it's ready. Put your veggies in a slot that flows through an airlock into your square pot, inject water through the water supply, inject salt through the appropriate button that links to your salt module and give it a temperature. Once it's done, tell it to suck it into a bag or dry it out and send it to your oven module, where you've already prepared a pan. Let it cool down and then take out your pie - use a fork. I assume kitchen appliances would be much the same overall, but with a bit more automation to prevent spillage and make things easier to control. The market would be full of tiny modules for this and that. You can get a full cooking process, just like home, but on the wall. Recreation: Again, just a matter of partitioning space. Couches can be done away with (use your Nike strap) and everything can be velcroed in place if necessary. Stuff that doesn't have to be moved can be bolted or screwed in place. Storage: The real question is, how do you keep your stuff in place? Cupboards are easy - however again, the astronaut solution is probably best. Get everything velcroed - possibly storage will have velcro on all interior surfaces (when intended for regular people stuff) and items come with velcro attached or you have bags of various sizes to put your stuff in and the bag carries the velcro - little difference from drawers and drawer sizes and shapes. Velcro isn't magnetic, so no problems there - it works for everything. Toilets: As seen above, if you can handle the excess humidity and have enough water and enough power to pump it, you can just have a regular shower. Even water spillage wouldn't be as much of a problem. Still, you'd probably have hybrid cleaning tools to make things easier and faster. A bubble bath might still be out of the question but you get a zero-G shower, which can be just as fun - the point of a bubble bath is partially the relaxation, I assume a lack of gravity can have a similar effect. For waste, the existing solutions work well enough and I don't think much more than appearance would be different. You might have a luxury bathroom that resembles an Earth one, but it would work much the same. Air vacuums, bags for storage or shoot the waste into space and vents to prevent your hair and nail clippings from choking everyone and floating into electronics. 

I'd like to propose a different cause for the tunnel. You mention being forced to go through it, but is there really a reason for them to be forced to make it before they're forced to use it? A tunnel to the core, reaching the other side can be dug out for mining (impractical but it might be hitting two birds with one stone), exploitation of heat for energy generation, technological and scientific experimentation, cheap housing and storage (energy generation and heating are close by, transporting good is cheap). It could also allow the easy manufacturing of various minerals and metals, by exploiting the extreme conditions through specialized scaffolding. Instead of creating artificial diamonds through explosions, you create pockets within the highly pressurized mantle and bake them there - just like how mom used to make them at home :P. Magma taps could provide exotic materials or allow using the magma to alloy with common materials for specialized uses. The lower gravity, combined with controlled near-vacuum conditions (for the constructed route, as the rest of the others have proposed), provide tremendous opportunities for construction, experimentation and energy saving. You can build a huge construct, like a spacecraft or space station, out of heavy materials that are close by, then break it up modularly and transport it easily to the surface, or launch it through rails on the side of the tube (considering the depth, there would be enough time to slowly build up speed to avoid the massive acceleration otherwise required to catapult spacecraft into orbit). And now, suppose everything goes wrong and the underground tunnel is mankind's only hope for survival. There it is, already furnished and ready for use, with housing available due to tourism and other market causes. Now they're forced to go underground and the tunnel is very efficient, necessary even - but they didn't build it out of necessity, which would make less sense no matter the overland threats and dangers. The planet is very, very, very deep - too deep to ever drill down that far just for cheap travel. 

In the first case, we have strong dependence and adherence to existing political structure - any changes to that would be already observed in existing small colonies designed for a purpose. So it would take a very long time for changes to happen, IMHO, unless we saw significant stress in the relations between the homeworld and colonies (possibly after a few decades of building and work, after which some are recalled, causing stress). In the second case, we'd have much more independent-minded people, possibly more adventurous and individualistic, starting colonies. This would naturally cause a lot of stress in relations with the homeworld, unless it does provide regular aid and provisions and does not interfere with local matters - quite unlikely. The real question however is, do we know future political structures? Even on Earth, the changes to existing politics and the evolution of political thought has happened in spite of and independently of colonization, although the latter has forced changes. It is quite likely the political structures in such a society, colonizing new worlds, would be very different and most possibly an amalgamation of successful political ideas across the currently understood spectrum. I'd assume, considering how politics has grown throughout human history, that there would be a strong humanitarian and progressive shift, at least until the colonies are 100-200 years old. The outcome would also depend on the efficiency of warfare through interplanetary/interstellar space and space-to-ground weaponry and defenses. If it is difficult to launch such an offensive, the safety on the colonies would allow them to experiment a lot more, considering the likely personalities of colonists. It might also allow them to succeed more in these experiments, much like in real life. If on the other hand it is easy to conduct such warfare, fear might prolong political dependence and political conservativism, maintaining existing structures. 

This is futuristic enough, can be used for large generators as well as small ones you can fit on your robots and uses a relatively abundant form of fuel. You could even get fancy and have blue tubes for hydrogen and red for boron and create a super-futuristic heart for them :P The numbers Lets see how much energy we need: Using this calculator, I calculated that, at the maximum (hard work is why we have robots anyway), you'd need about per day, if the robot was doing hard work all day for 24hrs, assuming it weighs 200kg, is 1.8m tall and has the efficiency of human muscle of course (the calculator includes metabolism etc. but lets just overestimate things to be of the safe side). Given the daily energy need of which is equal to about , and comparing with what US households use on average per day[4] (again going for the highest margin here), which is about per day, that's almost 3 times as much. Nobody said this would be cheap! How much fuel for the needed output? Going by this 2011 article (and its claim of how much of the total boron production would be needed to cover worldwide energy needs in 2011) and the relevant Wikipedia articles, it seems we can get a per of boron, or for our daily use. That's tiny and it means we can deal with a very inefficient conversion rate. It's already hard to get numbers on the amount of fuel needed, but what's for sure is that this process requires energy to be put in, so if the robot runs completely out of fuel, it would need a safety feature to keep enough energy stored to restart the process, much like how we have batteries for motherboards (this could be a great plot device but the energy is probably not much and it's easy to just plug it in and give it enough to restart the fusion process). Fiction advantages This may not be mature technology yet, but it's being actively worked on and is realistic, so it makes a convincing feature for science fiction and there's lots of articles around for more information, which can help flesh it out. It gives a lot of space for energy, allowing your robots to exert themselves a lot and even consume a lot more than I've estimated here. One problem is how much it heats up, but you can probably use the extra heat to increase the body temperature of your robots to human-like or use some fancy peltier device[8] to either get rid of it or transfer it to wall-mounted heat-sinks or something like that. Using this, there's no need for solar panels, or wall sockets - they can probably store a kilogram of boron and as much deuterium (I think it's a 1:1 reaction) and run for days on end.