You can always go to a hardware store and get a stainless steel spiral screw hose clamp. Wrap the post with a couple of wraps of rubber from an old inner tube, then apply the clamp, tight against the existing collar. Tighten the heck out of it. Always a risk you could crush a hollow post, I suppose, but once you get that thing on the post isn't going to slip down. 

How many miles on this bike? If over 5000 miles (8000km) then your rear gear cluster may be worn out. Your symptoms are most strongly suggestive of that. Otherwise, the first thing to do is to clean the derailer real well. Lean the bike against a wall (derailer facing you) outside somewhere where a few oil stains won't be a problem. Shove some newspaper or cardboard up behind the derailer and drape it over the tire, to keep stuff from dripping on the tire. Then spray the derailer well with a spray solvent (WD40 in the US) and scrub it with an old toothbrush. Dry the derailer well with an old rag, and lubricate with chain oil. With the derailer clean, swivel it back and forth by hand and notice if it seems to be twisting in parallel with the chain and sprockets or is perhaps bent so that it goes at an angle. If it seems bent (which happens from dropping the bike on its side) then the "derailer hanger" probably needs to be straightened. Also, pay attention to the shifters and cables. A little spray lube in the shifters and down the shifter cable housings is generally all that's needed here, unless the cables are badly corroded or beginning to fray, in which case they need to be replaced. Be careful, though, about what sort of lube you put on the shifters as most now have plastic components that can be damaged by strong solvents. And, of course, it's probably time to adjust the derailer, but that a whole different post. 

Of course, rather than patching a tube on the road it's far better to just install your spare and then patch the tube later, in a more controlled environment. 

When you hold the front brake and push forward, the weight of the bike is shifted forward onto the front wheel. On solid pavement you should be able to cause the rear wheel to lift from the ground before the brake slips. If you hold the rear brake and push forward, the weight of the bike is lifted off the rear wheel, to a degree, and so the tire will slip on the ground. By pushing the bike backwards to test the rear brake you are using the same technique used to test the front brake -- all the weight of the bike is on the rear wheel. On most bikes the front and rear brakes have essentially the same amount of braking power, in terms of their ability to "grab" the wheel and stop it from turning. But the effect of "locking up" the two wheels is different. If, while actually riding the bike, you totally stop the front wheel from turning the result is a (very quick and dangerous) "head-over" crash (because all the bike and rider weight is transferred to the front wheel, and hence friction between tire and pavement is maximized). (This is one big reason why it's ill-advised to brake only with front brakes.) If you totally stop the rear wheel from turning, however, the rear wheel simply skids, since the weight is transferred off the wheel and thus there is less friction between wheel and ground. 

[Oops -- never mind. On re-reading I see you're trying to mount a seat, not the rack. I'm not quite envisioning how the seat interferes with the rack.] (More or less what I said before:) The straps do not carry much weight (though more with a child seat, I guess) and only need to be anchored well enough that they won't pull loose -- the bottom eyelets carry 95% of the weight. The straps can be bent as required (within reason) to fit. They can be anchored to the seat post clamp or to another clamp fitted around the seat post. If there is a central brake bolt on the bike, they can be anchored to that somehow (though a slightly different rack works better because a single strap can be mounted in the center). P-clamps on the seat stays would also work, I suppose. 

I fell twice in the first week that I had clipless, and then didn't fall again for about 5 years (and that time was something of a "planned fall" when I couldn't quite make it up a steep hill). The second time I fell was especially embarrassing, as I came to a stop at a traffic light and then proceeded to slowly fall over, in front of about 15 witnesses. One thing to learn is how to unclip early and pedal with the arch of your foot, when conditions indicate that you might need to stop suddenly (as when approaching a "stale green" traffic light). You usually only need to unclip one foot when doing this. (I'm partial to the SPD system -- fairly simple, several suppliers of pedals, "walkable" shoes. But then it's the only system I've ever used.) 

While I believe that Peter White has some good points, DT spokes are widely available in a variety of sizes at (semi)reasonable prices. And for most people they're perfectly serviceable. The difference would be in the lifetime of the wheel before spoke failure becomes a problem, forcing you to relace. For typical road use you might be talking the difference between 20K for DT vs 30K miles for Wheelsmith, making it more of a theoretical than practical problem for the majority of cyclists. Of course, for certain off-road and other stressful uses the difference may be more significant. 

The front wheel needs fixing, and, although it's something you can do yourself on a well-maintained bike, it's harder on an old bike and probably best left to a bike shop. The bar tape is easily repaired by wrapping with medical adhesive tape or (better) "hockey tape" used to wrap hockey sticks. (Hockey tape is a good all-around repair kit "tool".) You could re-wrap with "real" tape, but that's kind of a fussy job and hard to get right the first time. Have no idea what the cost for the wheel repair (and maybe a general tuneup) might be, as I do most of my own repairs. However, I recently bought a completely new (inexpensive) front wheel for about $45, so maybe just replacing the wheel is the way to go. And I also, a couple of years back, had my bike completely tuned up (including two new chainrings, new cables, new brake pads, new bar tape, wheel and headset bearings rebuilt) for about $300, so that would be an upper limit on what you might spend (though the guy probably did give me a modest discount on the labor).