This also implies that you do not have a license to practice medicine until after the two-year foundation programme which makes calling the salary you earn during this time a starting salary inaccurate. The source states directly after the starting salaries: 

You claim is contrary to the abstract of the paper. It's worth noting that the fish results changed in the follow up paper as well. 

Which suggests that some trainee doctors earn more than the basic salary. If we consider this foundation programme to be training rather than a starting salary for a fully qualified doctor then it should be compared to the £20k - £30k training wage for a train driver. It is still possible that some trainee doctors may earn less than some train driver trainees in the first year of training but most doctors will be earning more by the second year, even if they do no overtime or unusual hours. It's worth noting that for the London Underground drivers, some shifts will start before 6am and some will end after 12pm. This BBC article says "as early as 04:45 and end as late as 01:30". No mention is made in the chart of the higher salaries that doctors can earn. 

Disclaimer: Infrared is maybe the wrong term, I took it to mean anything that we do not currently perceive with a longer wavelength than what we see as red. I don't think in the following they refer to "seeing any light with long wavelengths". I encountered a fourth-hand claim of army experiments to give humans infrared vision a while ago. He quotes in full from a textbook (Sekuler, R., and Blake, R. (1994). Perception (3rd ed.). Springfield, Ill.: Thomas.) pp. 62-63: 

As far as I know Botox works by paralysing the facial muscles whose activity causes wrinkles so I think it's somewhat plausible. 

Yes (at least there are cross-sectional correlations back up your intuition) Bukowski et al. (2002) found a negative link. Their study was cited 39 times, pointing to more acceptance in the scientific community in comparison to the National Undergraduate Research Clearinghouse. You might want to go through the citing papers to find some information about the mechanism, the article is paywalled for me. From their abstract: 

Maybe you want to go through their references and those who cite them, if you care about this research area. 

The chart states a value for a salary at five years but this information is not included in the source. The value £45,000 does not appear in the source. The average of the specialty doctor range listed above is around £53k however it should be noted that we don't know the actual distribution within this range. On a different page from the same site regarding GPs, the salary range is listed as between £55,412 and £83,617. The hours on that page are listed as 50. 

It's difficult to determine exactly what this means. It could mean that one chicken wing is the equivalent of one cigarette, meaning that the Daily Telegraph's claim would suggest that a high protein diet means eating 20 chicken wings every day. 

A blog post by Zoë Harcombe details a long list of problems with the conclusions of this study. She doesn't raise any problems with the methodology of the study, just the conclusions that have been drawn from it. Specifically to answer your question, no protein does not increase the risk of cancer. The study only claims that it does within a certain age group and within the other age group, it is actually associated with a lower risk of cancer. Many conclusions can be drawn from the study but only the ones that make animal protein sound bad actually were, which is suspicious: 

The flavonoids are potent antioxidants and therefore protect our bodies against oxidative stress; especially the oxidation of lipids, which when not prevented can lead to atherosclerotic build up in the vasculature as well. In addition, thanks to these antioxidants, "according to epidemiological evidence, garlic may have cancer-preventative properties, especially against cancers of the gastrointestinal tract." [2] Regarding Blood Pressure: 

As per Medical Herbalism, "The major odor principle of garlic, allicin is produced from the amino acid alliin by the enzyme alliinase when exposed to air. In both laboratory and clinical studies, allicin has demonstrated antidiabetic, antihypertensive, antibiotic, and hypolipidemic activities. It also enhances fibrinolytic activity in the blood and inhibits platelet aggregation." [1] Garlic also contains B vitamins, minerals and flavonoids. This means that therapeutic doses of garlic will indeed have an antimicrobial effect against certain bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites. What's more, the volatile oil of the garlic gets excreted through the lungs. This makes it especially useful to use for upper respiratory tract infections. Regarding Cholesterol: For the cardiovascular system, garlic can be considered a healthy tonic that is preventative against chronic heart diseases. Not only does it lower blood pressure and blood sugar, but it promotes the production of HDL, the good cholesterol, and inhibits LDL, the dangerous lipoprotein. This prevents atherosclerotic build up in the arteries. It is a blood thinner because it lowers the activity of platelet activating factor (PAF) in addition to enhancing the break down of blood clots, which prevents sudden occlusion of arteries and veins. 

The sources appear to be these for train driver and hospital doctor. Neither of the source documents are specific to London, these are for hospital doctors and generic train drivers across the entire United Kingdom, not specifically London Tube drivers or London doctors. NHS employees in inner London get 20% extra pay up to a maximum of £6,342. Outer London NHS employees get 15% extra. The chart says the "starting salary" for a doctor is £22,636 but the source says this salary is for a "junior hospital trainee". Immediately after that figure it says: 

An older article lists various doctors and tube drivers salaries together. The chart says that tube drivers earn £50k - £60k per year but the source says: 

The Car Connection points out that the book authors have used a yearly travel distance that is around half the U.S national average: 

A comment on the post mentions that three other authors of the study also work for L-Nutra. The study doesn't have any comparison to smoking but the press release from the lead author of the study does. 

Her evidence to the contrary wasn't published in peer reviewed journals, so if somebody has something stronger, better pay attention to that instead. From the abstract of her dissertation: 

I imagine properly testing it would be a very big project (i.e. you'd have to have to rule out a lot of alternatives and ideally do it longitudinally with actual behaviour) I can easily imagine how such an idea would come about, because people who have such laugh lines may appear more friendly (misinterpretation of wrinkles as facial expression) which leads observers to reconstruct that they must have smiled a lot. 

So they significantly predicted them and some of the correlations were quite large (.84 for optimism). Some correlations weren't significant, so this is of course not in the realm of "there was practically no difference" (quoting you), but it's also a different study. This wasn't such a small sample to begin with (13 teachers, 8-20 students per class, so at least 104) and they varied it too (thinner slices, predicting principal's ratings of high school teachers). The paradigm is used quite often in different variations nowadays. You actually asked about a different study, so I didn't go in very deeply. Maybe you think my answer strays too far from the original question. Question two "Are first impressions a surprisingly good judge of character?": Yes, this step has been taken, but I wouldn't call it surprisingly good. Peer ratings, even by friends, aren't usually highly correlated with self-reported personality. There is a classic meta-analysis about thin slices by Ambady & Rosenthal (1992). They found no increase in accuracy of predictions of various objective outcomes after half a minute (to 5 minutes). It's contradicted Carney, Colvin, & Hall (2007) who found that accuracy increased with exposure time, which they varied from 5s to 5min (peak for extraversion after 5 min clip .55). Extraversion after 20 seconds was .41 correlated with self-report. I don't know if you consider this "surprisingly good". The results are different for less obvious traits (openness). Are first impressions unchangeable? Srivastava, Guglielmo, & Beer (2010) (great names, simply great names) found that stability of perceiver effects (peer ratings in students) increases over time. Across the Big Five: Week 1-2: .37; Week 2-3: .55, Week 3-4: .65. So, they are certainly not unchangeable. 

Amongst other errors such as severely underestimating the value for the carbon footprint of the car's manufacture. They also suggest that the authors have not included "indirect impact like roads, bridges, and fuel infrastructure." An article on Grist compounds up all these errors and adds a few more to calculate that the book authors are off by a factor of 18. 

The chart chooses just the lowest number. The chart considers the foundation programme to be starting work rather than training and the university degree to be training. The source consistently calls the foundation programme training. 

While I haven't addressed every claim and every paper your article contains, the small part I did examine shows that your article does not do a good job of correctly reporting the results of the studies. 

There's also a conflict of interest. The author of the study sells a product that can solve the problems raised by the study: 

Your article is too long to address every piece of evidence in this format where we are limited to 30,000 characters. But there are problems even between the article and the evidence. For example, in the section on Randomized Controlled Trials on Wheat, you say: 

I did not see anywhere on the Lady comp site, however, that cervical mucus is also documented. Lady Comp takes into account the cycle length and basal body temperature (BBT), which is quite similar to the natural family planning method of the book Taking Back your Fertility by Toni Weschler ($URL$ except the latter also observes and documents cervical fluid changes (also known as cervical mucus). To have such a high success rate in preventing pregnancy as Lady comp claims, cervical mucus must also be accounted for because different phases of the menstrual cycle correlate to different phases of cervical mucus, and this factor determines whether or not the sperm can travel up the female reproductive tract to actually reach the ovulated egg. In a study done on bovine to determine fertility properties of this mucus in mammals (2): 

[1, 2] Hoffmann, David. Medical Herbalism: The Science and Practice of Herbal Medicine. Rochester, VT: Healing Arts, 2003. Print. 

(1) Bedford J.L., Prior J.C., Hitchcock C.L., Barr S.I. Detecting evidence of luteal activity by least-squares quantitative basal temperature analysis against urinary progesterone metabolites and the effect of wake-time variability (2009) European Journal of Obstetrics Gynecology and Reproductive Biology, 146 (1) , pp. 76-80. (2)Rutllant J, López-Béjar M, López-Gatius F. Ultrastructural and Rheological Properties of Bovine Vaginal Fluid and its Relation to Sperm Motility and Fertilization: a Review. Reproduction In Domestic Animals [serial online]. April 2005;40(2):79-86. Available from: Academic Search Premier, Ipswich, MA. Accessed January 4, 2013. 

Maybe you'd like to read this, in a way it's a case study of what you're asking about. I think it counts a little more than an anecdote, because it's systematically done, but it's just one issue of course. Block (1995) describes how the publication of "The Bell Curve" by Herrnstein and Murray in 1994 shifted debate, so suddenly they were discussing "the degree of blacks' genetic inferiority" when it comes to IQ, when before it wouldn't have been okay to assert any genetic inferiority at all. 

I think this is a large effect (did I do the math right? are those CIs or SDs?), but it's a small sample. They didn't detect any bad "hard" outcomes (lower performance, more lapses, more sleepiness), but this might be a power problem. But then again, this one night didn't press levels down to anything anormal. Also, sleep efficiency is not the best measure of sleep quality (polysomnographs give better estimates of NREM sleep, stage changes, etc.). Essentially they did what you had in mind already, right? But it was just one night and they call for longer tests (I have access to the full text, but I probably am not allowed to send it to you?!). From their conclusion: