If you can't yet do a full push-up, I'd work on your planks (from your elbows and also from a full push-up position), trying to keep your entire trunk, abs, and butt squeezed for several sets of 30 seconds to a minute. I'd also do incline push-ups using a wall or chair, and try some Down Dog from yoga. 

Machines isolate muscles instead of working multiple muscle groups. The body responds much better when resistance is applied across the entire body, moving across multiple joints. The program you describe uses a lot of machine exercises and isolation exercises, which are great for bodybuilding but sub-optimal for getting bigger and stronger as fast as possible. Compound movements like squats, deadlifts, presses, pull-ups, and dips are the best way to tell your body to get bigger and stronger. Doing these full-range-of-motion exercises with heavy weight multiple times a week stimulates growth. Squat- and deadlift-oriented programs in particular are known to produce growth at a rate unmatched by programs that focus on shrugs and curls. 

Some men train poorly, and therefore remain weak. Some women train extremely hard, and thereby achieve great strength. Reality need not break for a 120-pound person with less testosterone but more consistent, better quality, more focused training to out-deadlift a 180-pound person with much more testosterone but less consistent, worse quality, more general training. Your entire argument rests on a straw-man definition of "average". An "average" man can most certainly deadlift 360 pounds if he works at it over several months or years. Even in steroid-free powerlifting circles, that's considered fairly unremarkable. I bet by "average" you mean "like me", in which case, these women are stronger than you because they worked harder at it. Testosterone is tightly correlated to strength gain, not to someone's current absolute strength. Your hormone profile (and diet) determines how you respond to a training stimulus. Your hormone profile does not simply determine your level of strength. These women you are incredulous about had to work harder over a longer period of time than if they had a more favorable hormone profile. 

That said, my totally uneducated opinion (I've never even held a discus) I think high weight for five reps or less would almost certainly be best. Lowering the weights in order to do power exercises like cleans would be OK. 

You're new to the elliptical. It's different enough from your other training that it caused an adaptation, which may (or may not) involve muscle growth. That doesn't mean it will continue to do so. 2. Delayed Onset Muscle Soreness 

If I were you, my first squat workout getting back onto the program would be between 95 and 145 pounds. Those are massive deloads. You might be able to do more, but StrongLifts isn't about really pushing your limits in the early stages. 

Three lifting workouts a week, with no other exercise. This means no running on the off-days. The idea is to focus on getting bigger as fast as possible, with the knowledge that one can cut weight later by eating less and running. In each workout you will squat, press and pull. The presses alternate between bench and overhead. The pull alternates between deadlifts and power cleans. If you don't know how to power clean, 3 sets of chin-ups to failure will do. The deadlifts are 1x5 (1 set of 5 reps, after warming up), power cleans are 5x3, and all the rest are 3x5. You add 5 pounds to every lift in every workout. So if you start with 3 sets of 5 squats at 135 pounds, your next workout would be 3 sets of 5 squats at 140 pounds. If you're looking to get bigger, you eat enormous quantities of food, particularly protein, particularly meat, eggs and milk. One popular technique is called GOMAD: you drink a Gallon Of Milk A Day in addition to 3 BIG meals. 

Tom Kurz' Flexibility Express, though not the most polished DVD, is a good source of mobility and flexibility exercises that go beyond basic stretching. He touches on dynamic strength exercises like back bridges, deep wide squats, overhead pressing from a squat, deadlifts, and divebomber push-ups as ways to work towards, for instance, the splits. 

It sounds like they're warming up with 15, 20, and 30, doing one work set with 40, then doing what's called a "back-off" set with 10. They do the warm-ups in order to safely get up to a heavy weight. They do the heavy weight because heavy weight is the most effective. They do the back-off set because they're tired from the heavy weight and they want to get another set in. Mark Rippetoe, who has what one might call a slight pro-strength/anti-bodybuilding bias, has this to say about back-off sets: 

I would call this supersetting. It looks like it would primarily work hypertrophy, but there is substantial strengthiness involved too, and a fair bit of conditioning and endurance. Adding weight will eventually become difficult. 

And on page 126, he addresses a question from someone in their 30s asking just about the same question you're asking. Here's Kurz's response: 

Part of the reason for squatting deep is to avoid muscle imbalance, but that's not my primary reason. Squatting to parallel or beyond uses the knee and hip joint through a fuller range of motion than half-squats or other partial movements. This is good for mobility and strength for a variety of tasks. Squatting deep also protects the knee joint by progressively strengthening its tissues by training. The point of squatting is not to put more weight on the bar, but rather to make your body more capable of difficult tasks. The full squat, or at least the parallel squat, do that better than the partial squat. 

You'll lose fat, gain muscle, maybe get heavier because muscle is more dense than fat, look better, become stronger and more able to do things, walk taller, achieve better posture, sleep more soundly, reduce stress, and feel more confident. With all the hullabaloo about bulking and cutting, people forget that just working out with reasonably constant food intake will improve their lives in a jillion different ways. 

If you're on a novice linear progression like StrongLifts or Starting Strength, then 5 to 10 minute rests between sets are a reality at the tail end of the progression. If you're getting to real weights, don't fret. If it's happening quite early in your progression--say, with less than bodyweight on your squat, or less than 100 pounds on your press--then you might have a problem. Otherwise, just buckle down and do the sets with a powerlifter's rest periods. I recommend imposing an Absolute Limit on your rest periods, and simply doing your next set at that time. If you fail, then follow the failure protocol for your program. This usually involves a deload in the next workout. This is incredibly useful for your long-term strength gains. Don't start taking 15 minute breaks in an attempt to regain strength, because it won't work. Don't worry about cardio or additional strength work to fix the problem. It's normal to need long breaks between heavy squats on a novice linear progression. 

I got EXF rings, and so am considering the Ring Training For Elite Fitness (by Tyler Hass) guidebook that comes with the rings. Any commentary on RTfEF (or TRX, or the other resources mentioned) would be welcomed as its own answer or as an edit to this answer. 

All of your proposed plans sound fine. The only reason to separate your lifting from cardio work would be if you gained access to heavier weights. If you were lifting close to bodyweight then splitting the running and lifting into separate workouts would help you focus on each one better. As is, combine or don't combine them according to your whim. 

The walking isn't too much. Five days a week of half an hour high-intensity circuit training might be too much, but if it's working for you, it's working. If you feel lethargic, aren't sleeping, or see other signs of overtraining, it might be a good idea to see if cutting back helps. Circuit training is great. It will get you stronger and dramatically increase your work capacity. For optimal strength gains, you'd want to add weights or a gymnastics progression so that you're increasing your load over time. Doing more air squats is just not the same as adding weights to your squat. 

If you can do five or ten in a row with the 25 pounder then it's not too heavy. It's OK if it's hard. Remember: if you can handle more than eight pounds, then do it. Light weights don't build muscle. Muscles are muscles The best way to build the muscle you want is to stop thinking of "lean, beautiful muscles" as something different from "muscles". Muscles grow when you work them hard and heavy. They grow stronger and bigger, but if you're a woman, then they don't grow that much bigger because you don't have the hormones to do so. Don't worry about being big and bulky because it doesn't happen by accident. Focus on 1) getting stronger with heavy weights and 2) making yourself sweat a lot with cardio or circuit training. Three to five sets of five to ten deep squats with a heavy weight is fine. Working on basic movements like push-ups and inverted body rows is good too. (If you want more specific advice then be more specific about what you're doing. Pinterest has a lot of bad exercises and a few good ones.) 

Squatting without weight is totally different than squatting with weight. Your center of balance is changed dramatically, as is your posture. (Air squats are sometimes considered more similar to front squats.) Squatting with dumbbells helps build strength, but is not the same form as a barbell squat, and so will not substantially help you learn. You'll be ingraining the wrong movement pattern: back angle, hip drive, and the upper thorax will all probably be allowed to (or forced to) take different positions from that of a true barbell back squat. That doesn't mean they're counterproductive or bad, just that air and dumbbell squats are better for mobility and accessory work than ingraining the correct form for a different exercise. 

Deload Deload. Significantly. 10% at a minimum, more likely 20% for such a significant break. I tried to start back where I had left off after a one-week break, and it messed up my progress significantly in the short and long term. Think of it this way: say you started with a 1RM of 135, and squatted, say, 95x5x5. By squatting increasingly heavy weights you improved your 1RM to 170, and are squatting 140x5x5. It's hard, but not at your limit. It probably isn't even your 5x5 limit. If someone held a gun to your head, you could probably make that last workout ten pounds heavier. You keep a little bit up your sleeve so that you can keep adding weight to the bar every workout for several months. After two weeks, in the best case your 1RM will drop to something like 150. Doing sets of 5 across at 135 or 140 might be possible, but it will be a dramatically different experience. Your form will suffer and you might hurt yourself. Worse, you'll then try to increase the weight five pounds in the next workout, whereas you've only improved your 1RM by two or three pounds. By working too close to your 1RM, you've shortened the amount of time you can keep linearly adding weight. It's much better to deload to, say, 115 or 120. Give your body the opportunity to restart the progression and you'll decrease your chance of getting hurt, and it will turn out better in the long run.