Although I'm sure it's not the same, in MTB I use a very brief lapse of smooth pedalling while downshifting in a difficult ascent, it helps reducing noise and wear in the gearset. I accelerate a little before the shift, then, as I actuate the shifter I pedal without load relying on inertia. When I feel the new gear is fully engaged I resume normal pedalling. This is also used when after a fast descent comes a very steep ascent, as you would normally be in a very long (hard) gear, soft pedalling is used to make sure you have the proper (selected) gear engaged when you need it. It is specially useful when the bottom of this kind of transition has technical terrain that would make it impossible to keep all the momentum, forcing you to reduce speed a lot but not to stop nor dismount. 

It seems to be what some call a BSO: Bike Shaped Object. (This is a derogative term). It indeed mimics a Mountain Bike, a Dual Suspension Mountain Bike, but as you state it is really heavy, it means it is made of steel, and not necessarily good grade steel. From what the picture shows, it also appears to be fitted with low level components, but the headset appears to be 1 1/4 inch and fitted with a good RST fork with threadless steerer tube and stem. The rear suspension looks really cheap. 

I have very little experience regarding road bike fit, but I have asembled several mountain bikes, some of them for other people. I'm obviously happy with my setups, but also are my "customers" (not that it is a big deal, but I do it just because... I do not work at a shop or anything like that). I have learned two very important concepts: 1) Bike fit does not only corresponds to your body sizes, but also personal preferences, riding style, technique, and personal goals about riding. 2) For almost any frame, as long as it is not too unusual or too far from the apropriate size, component exchange makes a radical difference in bike fit and can give you a wide range of adjustability and even change the way you ride the same bike. Stems for example come in a wide range of angles and extensions, and most of them can be used pointing upward or downward. Handlebars have diferent widths, angles and curves. Seatposts have different setbacks and saddles may have railings that allow for wider or narrower range of adjustment. With these two aspects, the same bike can be converted in a whole different vehicle, to the point that two identical frames can be perfectly adapted to different people and they will be non interchangeable (none of those people would be comfortable riding each other's bike). All that is a sum of arguments to reinforce that you should try as many diferent bikes as possible, surely you will find one that fits you for the purpose you need it, but, the ideal bike will fit you rather in the middle of it's adjustment possibilities, that way, if you buy that bike, you'll be able to further modify it by adjusting or exchanging smaller components only. That is: the bike should fit you with the saddle near the center of the railings and using a seatpost with normal setback. The stem should be average length and have a modest angle. Also, if the fork has threadless steerer tube, it should be long enough so you can choose to put spacers above or bellow the stem. If the bike has quill type stem, it also should fit in the middle of its range. Having that said, you can devote up to six months to find the sweet spot of your bike fit. Every time you ride, you may feel you need an adjustment, but you can overadjust, adjust too little or your adjustment may need to be compensated by adjusting something else... and the circle begins again... Patience gives big gains here, you'll get to know your bike so well that you will be completely comfortable riding it, and will be able to fine tune it in less time every time. 

I have used Shimano M424 pedals for several years in XC and Commuting, And at least for me, they result in a very good pedal to use even with non cycling shoes. I have even commuted in regular office shoes with them and they seemed comfortable enough for a 15-45 minute commute. So, for the aim of the original question, this would be indeed my recommendation. Most of the time I'd use good walking shoes or running shoes, as they would allow for quick switching among biking and walking or running, and proper cycling shoes for training. However, I propose you ask yourself whether you really need cleated shoes for commuting. I have recently "lost" my cleat pedals and I'm kind of "forced" to use regular platform pedals in a bike that I use for commuting and training. While commuting I don't feel at all the need to be clipped, and while training I only feel the lack of them when I want to accelerate really hard. (My feet rolls the pedal forward). 

You can run a single piece cable housing the same way that a brake hose would. The "problem" is that the hose holders that keep the hose held to the frame my not be reusable. In that case you have three options: 1) Disconnect the hose either from the caliper or from the lever and slide the housing out the holders and then slide back in the cable housing. 2) Break the cable holders and use zip ties to replace them. The provided photo shows that the frame has a small hole where to put the zip tie. 3) Buy replacement brake hose holders. Many bike frames require the same type of holders, they should be very affordable. Do a search for "C-clip cable guides" and you'll surely find a good option. The first option has the disadvantage that the hydraulic oil will be spilled. Cara should be taken not to let that oil touch any painted surfaces and should be disposed properly. 

The pawls are unable to engage because they are seized due to corrosion or the lube/grease has dried up. The pawls are broken or the springs that make them engage are broken. 

I practice XC, DH, Touring and Urban Commuting types of cycling, and have been using cleated shoes since 2002. By now I recognize several advantages of foot retention systems, even though I haven't used pedal straps. I will share some of the advantages I have found, as I assume they are the same as correctly used straps. For XC on rough terrain and DH, they simply offer a lot of control, prevent injury by avoiding foot slip-off. They also allow for power-surge pedalling when acceleration after a slowing obstacle. For Touring It helps me to keep the foot on the right spot when I'm tired. It also helps me a lot to have the possibility of pulling the pedals up. Of course I'm tired, but pulling uses a different set of muscles, so at least one minute of pulling-only can relieve some strain on the more demanded muscles. The idea is to alternate one minute of pulling only with 10-15 minutes of circular pedalling. There is less benefit for urban commuting, but for parts of the city where I need to stop repeatedly, having the cleats lets me place the pedal right at the beginning of the down stroke so I'm ready for the next sprint in just one no-need-to-think movement. At the time of writing this answer, I have recently moved to a different country and could't bring my bike. I bought one locally but it still lacks the necessary customization, and I miss my cleats a lot!. I use the bike for commuting and road-ish training. For commuting I miss the thing I mentioned in the previous paragraph. For training what happens is that I'm used to pedal in a full circle, pulling towards front in the upper part of the circle and pushing rearwards at the bottom. Without retention, when pushing forward my feet tend to roll the pedal and fall towards the front of it. (Pulling rearwards is not problematic). An alternative to straps or cleats A friend of mine was not fond of cleats, but he was also afraid of complete pedal strap setup, so he got a set of straps that came with plastic toe clip and shortened it by cutting and re-joining with bolts and nuts, and removed the part of the clip where the straps are bucled so the left only a rather small hook that retained the toes and kept his feet ball-over-axle. (He did't used the straps). He implemented this system on XC trails on a Trek VRX, and I could say it was very effective. The feet where easy to remove from the pedals, almost any kind of shoe could be used, It didn't add much wheigt. It surely helped to push forward on the upper part of the cycle. Update After a while getting re-accustomed to my platform pedals, my commuting has become more fluent. My feet has learnt a weird to describe motion that allows me to move the pedal upward to have it ready to start the next sprint. However, I still roll the pedal over when training and trying to do an outburst... 

I would try to buy new bearing balls and fit 10 brand new balls properly greased in each side. I can't think of any reason for a front wheel to have more balls in one side. I assume that your wheel uses rim brake, which being properly adjusted should put a fairly symmetrical load to the wheel assembly. Most modern hubs designed for Disc Brakes also use the same kind of bearing for each side. Even rear hubs, that clearly have a greater side to side load difference are commonly designed with identical bearings for both sides. So, if there is no obvious difference in the left/right sides of the hub, the most reasonable answer is to use the same amount of bearing balls for each side. Also, a personal tip: Some non-pro hubs use ball bearings consisting of a number of balls held together by some sort of cage. This cage keeps the balls separated. I use to buy a couple of extra bearings, take them apart and fit as many balls as possible, with also, as much grease as possible. I do this based on the argument that the load will be spread among more balls, thus diminishing the load for each individual ball, with the positive effect of extending the time between hub maintenances. My results are that I have never had a case of cracked bearing balls in any hub that had this procedure performed.