I used to have the same problem, and everywhere I looked people and science suggested one crucial exercise; short foot. Here is an article about it: $URL$ Another exercise usually prescribed is the toe curl, however, research has shown that the short foot exercise is more efficient at increasing the strength of the muscles supporting the arch. Here is a video showing both exercises: $URL$ The main things you need to do are to increase intrinsic foot strength (by performing the short foot exercise) and to relax the muscles that are chronically strained as a compensatory mechanism for the dropped arch (foam rolling, or rolling a tennis ball under the foot). The main problem with fallen arches is that the feet start pronating, and this causes the knees to go inwards when, for example, squatting. The risks here are a nonfavorable position of the joints in knees and hips, with an increased risk of injury. Unless you can maintain posture, so that your knees go parallel to your feet when squatting, I recommend you either lower the weight or skip squats until you starts seeing progress in foot strength. The same goes for deadlifts etc. and especially plyometrics such as drop jumps. 

Your system might have "learned" to tolerate acutely high levels of CO2 during training, but it is not normal during rest. As your cardiovascular fitness increases, you become more efficient at using O2 and excreting CO2, and as such your ventilation rate falls to maintain a normal blood PH. There are many reasons for an increased CO2, many of which should be examined. A ventilation perfusion mismatch can be caused by bronchitis, asthma, pulmonary edema, hepatopulmonary syndrome. In case you are a smoker, it can be due do emphysema or COPD. Infections such as TB. Almost any pathological process in the lungs can increase the CO2. I'm assuming your other values are fine since you did not mention them. That includes the blood PH. Your ventilation rate can decrease to compensate for a high PH caused by kidney problems; compensated metabolic alkalosis. This has many reasons, with the most frequent one being diabetic nephropathy in case you are diabetic. You can also have overtraining syndrome, which increases cortisol, which in term damages the kidneys, but that is hard to diagnose. I would suggest you go to your doctor to check your kidney function (urinalysis and bloodwork), and pulmonary status (spirometry etc.). In case they turn up negative, try lowering the intensity of your workouts for some time to decrease cortisol levels. It is obviously a chronic change, so there is no need to worry about dropping dead at practice, however, I would recommend that you stop practicing until you know the etiology so as not to stress your body. 

As with all research, the aim is to isolate variables, which can then be analyzed and compared to other parameters, without the effect of extraneous variables. This study investigated energy contribution from fat while maintaining exercise intensity at a fixed level. So actually, the type of exercise and intensity, are unimportant. What this research shows is that maximum speed at which fat can supply the body with energy in times of famine (hypophagia). Every process has its upper speed limit, and that speed limit was the aim of this study. The problem with this study, and with all of science, is that the results need not apply to other situations, with altered variables. If the participants would instead have engaged in intense exercise, or have been sedentary, then the speed limit of fat energy supply could be different. So a discussion of the type of exercise is not needed, but further studies have to be done with altered variables. What is interesting, however, is what you mentioned about body fat percentage. They did not discuss the effect that fat percentage has on the fat energy supply. They only kind of titrated the caloric deficit to test the average speed of fat utilization in a population. To follow up on this, they should do the same thing, but for people of different fat percentages. Two possibilities arise: 1) either the maximum speed of fat breakdown is regulated extrinsically: through enzymes. Then this would be less dependent on body fat percentage. Or 2) it is regulated intrinsically: determined by the volume of fat. Or more specifically, the surface area of fat that is in contact with blood vessels. If this is the case, then body fat percentage would have a direct correlation to the maximal speed limit of energy utilization of fat. Also, to answer your question about weight lifting and muscle sparing. You cannot measure the energy contribution by fat directly. You can only measure it indirectly. I'm assuming they quantitatively measured fat metabolites in the blood of the participants, and by that calculated the energy supply. What they say in the study is that if you eat slightly less, then you will have a caloric deficit that will be covered through you fat stores. If you eat much less, then your fat stores can't cover the energy demands, and your body starts breaking down muscle tissue. Im assuming they did not do weight lifting during the study, as that would have added an unneccesary variable (since it would have antagonized the muscle wasting in greater hypophagia); first you have to examine how the body functions in isolation, it is only later that you can alter variables and check how they affect results for for example athletes performing weight lifting, or sedentary people eating junk food. I hope I cleared your confusion at least slightly; I'm sorry if I didn't answer exactly what you were wondering about, but from what I understand, you wanted an explanation of the design and results of the study. If there is something else or if something wasn't adequately explained, then comment and I will try a different approach. 

Our definitions of health and wellbeing are mutually exclusive of life span. That is, having a long life span doesnt necessitate wellbeing in the form of fitness. Exercising is highly stressful for the body. For an as long life span as possible, your best bet is to restrict calories and to have continuous low intensity physical activity (basically, try to stay as active when you are 80 as when you were 20, without the exercise part). Arguments like these are very hard to follow up on, and it will take time before arguments like mine will be proven in humans, so this is purely speculative at the moment. They are however based on extensive knowledge and numerous scientific studies within the life sciences. I would like to add a note on exercise. I mentioned that exercise induces oxidative stress. It indeed does, in small amounts. This is bad for the body in the acute phase, but in the long run the body becomes better adapted to dealing with those oxygen species; it increases enzymes and antioxidants, and as such helps protect the body from such stress. This is why continuous low intensity exercise, such as housework or walking, is better than an-hour-a-day high-intensity fitness training (en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hormesis). 

The general consensus in the athlete population, and between trainers as well, is that the cause is unknown. However, in med-school I was told that it is, at least in the medical community, known. And in my pathology book, which was in Serbian though (but translated from an American one; I don't remember which one). The idea is that classical side stitch (that which affects the right side) occurs due to stretching of the liver capsule (fibrous covering), which is highly innervated by pain receptors. When exercising, a larger volume of blood has to be transported at every given instant. A large portion of that blood gets directed back to the heart via the liver (entering via the large portal vein, and exiting via smaller hepatic veins). When there is a larger volume of blood coming into the liver, which has to be drained into the heart, there are two factors which counteract that: the fixed and narrow lumen of the hepatic veins, and the output of the heart. We cant do much about the width of the hepatic veins. The heart is, in this respect, much more interesting. In order to remove the blood that is pooling within the liver, so as to relieve the tension on the capsule, the heart must have a higher output than input. If the output is not higher than the input, then there is an increase in pressure in the venous system. This can be seen in cardiac patients, which have a higher proportion of liver cirrhosis and varicose veins. And I can only assume, side stitches from minor activity (unless the receptors have become desensitized from prolonged stimulation). One simple thing you can do is to exhale when you step on your left foot. When stepping on your right foot, there is a higher tension in the ligaments (which are part of the capsule) than when you step on the left foot. Also, exhaling brings the diaphragm up and away from the liver, and this puts increased tension on the ligaments and capsule. Exhaling when stepping on your left foot thus decreases the tension on the capsule. Another, less comfortable thing, is to put your hand below the rib cage on your right side, and press upwards. This increases the pressure on the liver and thus forces more blood into the heart and out into circulation, relieving the tension on the capsule. The idea that stretching of the capsule causes the side stitch explains why it occurs when you start running quickly without having warmed up or increase the tempo during longer runs too steeply: it increases the circulation, without an accompanying increase in adrenaline to stimulate the heart. It also explains why it can help to bend forward, and why extending your back hurts more: extension stretches the capsule. Some people mention getting side stitches if they eat right before exercising. This can be due to distension of the stomach on the left side. However, if the pain is localized on the right side, then that can, indirectly, be because eating increases parasympathetic stimulation (it counteracts the effect of adrenaline), but also, directly, because of an increase in blood flow to the digestive organs (including the stomach) which all drain into the liver, thus, again, increasing the pressure on the capsule. 

Im assuming your knees also move inwards when you squat. This is the same basic mechanism. Why do feet splay outwards, and knees go inwards? The main hip flexor is the iliopsoas muscle, located deep within the hip. It flexes your thigh toward your chest. Or, as in running, moves your knees forward after toeing off. When this muscle is to weak other accessory hip flexors activate to allow you to perform this function. One of the main ones in this respect is the tensor fasciae late (TFL). This is the muscle inconveniently located on the sides of the hips, making it an inefficient hip flexor. TFL is actually a prime leg abductor (it moves the leg laterally). What happens when it contracts during running is that your knees move slightly inwards during the forward motion (perhaps also during the push-off, as is the case when squatting). This causes a lateral rotation of the tibia; the shins are rotated outwards. Since the feet are aligned with the tibia, the outward rotation of the tibia also makes your feet splay outwards. What does this mean for you? In order to correct the imbalance and faulty rotation that occurs at the hip, your best bet is to strengthen the iliopsoas. How can this be done? One basic exercise is this: sit on the edge of a chair with your hip and knees bent roughly 90°. Arch your lower back (this is important for all exercises involving this muscle since it attaches there, and thus provides a stable base for its contraction). Then raise one leg at a time as high as you can. This is the closest you will get to isolating the iliopsoas. Do contractions, or static exercises in that position. Eventually add weights to your ankles, or put them on your knees. I am a professional sprinter, and at the end of my medical studies, and I can tell you that this muscle is of great importance in running. It has vastly improved my acceleration (which is not that exciting information for you), but also my leg push-off recovery (which should be very exciting news). This has allowed me to increase my top speed even further by allowing my knees to lift higher, the stride to be longer and faster. It has also eliminated my problem from when I started practicing athletics, which is that my knees went inwards during squatting. Edit: I just read in one of your comments that your feet point outward even when standing still, so I will add a small comment to my answer. The iliopsoas would help correct this problem while running, but since it is not active when standing still, this suggests some other cause. It is true, what some have said here, that every person has his individual body type, but they can also change (such as getting better posture bu changing the relative strengths of flexors and extensors). There are two more exercises/muscle groups that could help you: medial rotators and semitendinosus/semimembranosus muscles. 1) Medial rotators are the muscles that rotate your thigh inwards in the hip socket. By strengthening these muscles you can increase the tension they create to maintain the legs, and thus the feet, at a slightly more inward angle. 2) Semitendinosus and semimembranosus are two of the main knee flexors, besides biceps femoris. These three muscles originate from the same place at the hip, but their distal attachments differ, and as such their actions also. Biceps femoris attaches to the lateral part of your tibia (shin). When it contracts, it bends the knee while causing lateral rotation of the tibia over the knee joint. Basically, the feet splay outward. However, the other two muscles attach on the inside part of the tibia, and as such causes it to rotate inwards while running. Your problem could stem from the fact that your biceps femoris is stronger than the semi-muscles, which makes your feet assume the natural position of pointing outwards. Exercising these three muscles/muscle groups is the only way to correct your problem physiologically and biomechanically. Either try them one at a time, or all at once; incorporate them into your regular strength routine and you might see some progress.