Yes, you can do it naturally, but it's rare. It also depends on whether you expand your definition to "illegal substances" like off-label ephedra use or clenbuterol. Most folks (natural or otherwise) who want to look shredded do so for competition times and go through cycles of "bulking" and "cutting". The lower your body fat gets the more insulin sensitive you become, and the quicker your body is to absorb fat. Maintaining an extremely low body fat (<5%) along with highly developed muscles, year round, is borderline impossible without illegal substances. ~10% body fat and a rather "jacked" figure? Totally do-able naturally with a lot of work and maintenance. To address some of the comments regarding insulin and body fat, I'll extend this answer out a little further. First, with peer reviewed research of a large study group: 

So just to level set on the difference in rep ranges, read up on this. The shoulder press is very different than the overhead press (aka barbell press and aka "the press"). The shoulder press, because you're sitting on your butt, locks out everything south of your upper back but does have an advantage in overall shoulder stability. One core area that it lacks in is weight increase, as you're usually limited to dumbbells and getting them up and down starts to get impossible if you're pushing a lot of weight around. An advantage is that you have to handle each load individually, which helps train shoulder stability and not letting the strong arm make up for the weak arm like what can happen with a barbell. The overhead press has the weight getting loaded all the way from your wrists to the bottom of your feat. Your legs, lower back, abs, and obviously arms/shoulders are all involved. As you normally start in a rack, it's much easier to handle bigger weight and if you fail a rep it's somewhat straightforward to bring it back down, either into the rack position or the physical rack itself. Directly answering your question, I think they're trying to keep you from max exertion (~5 rep range) on your shoulder presses because (a) it's harder to get the weight just right (b) it's harder to haul that much weight up and (c) it's easier to get a little cock-eyed in a shoulder dumbbell press and get hurt. I would follow your program first and foremost, but in generally I don't find the time for a seated shoulder press because between overhead pressing, bench pressing, and other upper body work there's just not a lot of room for them to get tucked in. They're not bad persay, but there is better. Again, I'd follow your program first and foremost. Good programs were put together by smart people who know what they were doing. 

I'm seeing conflicting information on using BCAAs before a workout. One resource says to take them before a workout with carbs to help get the BCAAs into the muscles due to the insulin boost. Another resource says to avoid carbs at least 2 hours before working out (doesnt say why). If the goal for BCAA supplimenting is for additional fat loss and lean muscle gain, which is the correct answer? Does it differ for low intensity vs high intensity workouts? 

No, they do not complete with each other for absorbtion and serve different functions. Glutamine will help shift your body from it's post workout catabolic state and will help with muscle repair and growth. Glutamine is a non-essential ammino acid which helps prevent the breakdown of muscle fiber. Creatine helps the muscle fiber store more H2O and ATP energy. Supplementing with creatine also helps muscle recover faster from working out. Protien: Glutamine is directly involved in the regulation of protein synthesis and breakdown. So how is it going to compete with protien? Also the protien you're taking contains ammino acids including glutamine so again, why would it compete? Glutamine is absorbed into the bloodstream, kidneys, liver and gut. Protien is processed in the stomache and then the intestine and finally absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract Creatine: Creatine is derived from 3 non essential amino acids: glycine, methionine and arginine. After ingestion, creatine binds with phosphates in your body to form creatine phosphates. This phosphate bound creatine molecule donates its own phosphate molecule with ADP to reform ATP. Creatine absorbtion can be increased by using carbohydrates. Most people use some type of juice. Also, are you going to be taking glutimine orally or through injections? 

If you're aiming for <50g of carbohydrates a day, you need to keep your protein and fat up because your calories need to come from somewhere. Protein in particular matters a lot because your body will breakdown proteins (as well as fat) to produce glucose. Also, take care to ensure you're getting enough nutrients. Those 50g of carbohydrates should be almost exclusively vegetables. 

There's a lot more to the human metabolism and cellular workshop than bodybuilding.com threads are going to get into. Here are some factors you may want to consider. You didn't discuss your program/training. Some programs are much more mass-building than others. Also, if this was your first exposure to strength training then you are dealing with the "noob gains" category. An untrained athlete could basically throw a telephone book around in a room while fasting and would probably put on some muscle. The things you can do in the first 6-12 months are a lot different than 6-12 years in when you're knocking on your genetic potential. This line of yours caught my eye: 

The only scientific evidence I found on their site consists of a non applicable study done on rats talking about a barely-evident increase in fat metabolism due to increased blood flow. The study was looking at the muscles of arterioles, and the quack-product technoshape marketers then extrapolated out to say that it works the same in your abdomen. Even if that was true by any significant margin, you're able to increase blood flow to your abdomen by nearly any exercise. The product is a gimmick. If you want to be strong and lean look to nutrition and strength training. 

It's that time of year again when I am slimming down (reduce body fat %) to show off my hard work. I'm looking for an effective way to increase my calorie burning during a routine. I picked up a 40lbs weight vest for christmas and I wanted to know if adding the vest will help increase the rate at which calories are burned during walking/running, cardio, etc. My question is, will adding the weight vest to my routine aid in reducing overall body fat % in a way that is worth while? Edited to rephrase my question 

Flat out I can do maybe 1 pull up. What can I do to improve my pull-up rep count other than "doing more pull-ups"? What muscle groups are used for pull-ups? 

I've been running through a new arm routine the last few weeks and seeing some decent results. The way the routine is setup is biceps, triceps then wrists/forearm. My question is if I should be doing a bicep exercise, then a tricep exercise and alternate or if I should just do all the bicep exercises and then all the tricep exercises which is what I've been doing. Or, does it even matter? 

Boiled down, there are three reasons for the protein recommendations: 1) Muscle Repair. You are destroying muscle tissue when you do resistance exercises, and your body needs building materials (protein) repair that damage: 

You might also want to consider doing squats, initially just a ton of air squats (like ~50) and working your way up (if you don't do them already) to barbell back squats, as the drive is (or at least certainly should be) through your heels: most coaches teach you to wiggle your toes a bit on the way up as a point of driving with the heels. 

For most people, as you drop down in your squat position your hamstrings will pull on your pelvis and cause your lower back to round. That depth: where you are "bouncing" off your hamstrings", is the typically recommended bottom depth. Your spine is neutral, you've fully engaged your hamstring, and your knees are healthy. Interestingly enough, the squat is actually a terrific hamstring and hip stretch for the above reasons. If you're squatting deep, you can probably put your fingers (and maybe your knuckles or palms) on the ground while keeping your legs straight. 

If you do those for a few weeks, I think you'll find that you'll be able to knock out a couple of pullups no problem, and then hanging around on monkey bars will be, pardon the pun, child's play. 

Sorry for the weird title, I could not find a better way to phrase it. Also not the best in english, but I will try my best. About me: 23 years old Male 178~ cm 82kg 20%+ bodyfat Just a quick history about me, since that will be very relevant to my question, I will make it quick as possible, I promise: -Overweight from childhood until age 16, where I was at 120kg -Lost 50kg from age 16 to 17, via horrible starvation (literally eating around 300-500 calories, almost no protein) -Could not maintain of course, but wanted to get leaner -Continued to try so with the extreme approach, having no idea of anything. Ended up binge eating and getting psychological issues because of it. -Cared about nothing and went full 'self destruction' mode -Went from 70kg to 140kg from age 17-19, mostly started with creating the habit to binge (by dieting that extreme) + psychological feeling completely defeated -Stayed at that weigh from age 19 to age 20 -Realized that this was no way to live, went with an extreme diet again from age 21 to age 22, all was going well until I hit around 90kg -There the extreme approach was just not working again and I developed binge eating once again, which ended in a horrible cycle of extreme restriction and then binge eating -Still managed to get down to 75kg, by continued extreme dieting. By that time I was using PSMF, so it was more 'smart', still had a lot of binges, but I got down that lean and was reasonably lean (something like 15-17%). I reached the 75kg around 6 months ago. -From there on I could not maintain once again of course and kept on yoyo-dieting, now I'm up to 82kg. 8 weeks ago I upped calories and went with a smaller deficit(500-1000 maybe), still could not really maintain that. Was frustrated and went with PSMF again after 4 weeks at a smaller deficit + overeating. Did that for 2 weeks, realized I just could not do this anymore, and it was getting me nowhere. That was 4 weeks ago. -4 Weeks ago I upped calories to around maintenance, the first 2 weeks I was actually under it I think. For the last 2 weeks, I have been eating several days over maintenance (think 2000-3000 calories over) and some days just around it. I just could not take the hunger anymore. This is going on until today, and I'm afraid I have done some serious damage to my hormones, appetite etc. by my history. I still have the urge to overeat on most days, even though I have been in a 14,000 calorie surplus in the last 2 weeks. 

I have been doing an exercise which I came up with (not saying I invented it) that I have not seen before and I was wondering if there was a name for it. Imagine the cherry picker move we used to do in school. Similar to that. This also reminds me of a diagonal sit-up. Stand with your feet apart past shoulder width. Place a dumbell 5-10lbs at one foot. With the oposite hand, reach down and grab it. Using your lower back and abs, come back to a standing position keeping your back straight. The arm with the dumbell should track your leg (as if it were on a rail). The lower and repeat. When I'm doing 3 sets of 10 (10 lbs) or 2 sets of 10 (25 lbs) I can feel I've worked out my love handle area (internal obliques?). 

source: $URL$ Though I do agree with "you can't guarantee that you're only burning fat and not muscle". 

Why is it that when I squat (400lbs) I can do all of my sets with no ill after effects. Even one legged squats (up to 200lbs) cause me no problems other than maybe DOMS. When I climb stairs I find myself out of breath. I got on the stair machine last night at the gym and I was able to do it for about 2 minutes (1 min x 2) but at the 2 minute mark I was about to puke and I was winded. Why? What's the difference between stairs and squats (or other leg exercises)? why do I feel like I'm going to puke and why am I out of breath on the stairs but not squatting. I started feeling bad probably 15-20 seconds into it. 

There's some truth to the "calves are genetic" argument, but your genetics impact muscle development across your body so it's not specific to your calves. Your biceps could be loaded with slow twitch fibers as well, as an example. Further, there's a surprising correlation to people making excuses about their calves and people who don't do cleans. Anecdotally I've found that necks tend to look and get bigger with three exercises: 

This might get closed as off topic, but since it's related to your fitness goals (hard earned gains, sticking to your diet, etc) I'll give a whack. For cooking chicken you can use an Instant Pot, toss a bag of frozen chicken breasts in, and have them all cooked in about ~10 minutes. Then just keep all the cooked ones in the fridge, they'll last a couple of days. You can also use canned chicken which is not that tasty but it's easy to add to salads and other items. Regarding alternatives: You can switch out to whey protein, or at least start adding it in, because it's extremely convenient and effective. You will miss out on some nutrients for sure, "real food" is better than supplements every day of the week. But if your diet is otherwise healthy and you're using whey to add on an additional ~50 grams of protein per day, that's pretty reasonable. Supplements should do just that: supplement. You want to have a well rounded diet and then generally protein is the expensive and hard-to-get-enough-of element. 

Now the question and the Issues: How can I recover my metabolism without getting fat again? So I can smartly set up an approach to get to a healthy bodyfat. My goal is clearly to get to a healthy bodyfat, but as of right now, my hunger still seems elevated, and I have to honestly say, this is really overwhelming and scary to me. I has GREATLY improved in the last 2 weeks, I have better well-being, not cold all the time, actually feel like I'm alive and I don't have the urge to have anything like those 10,000 calorie binges anymore, BUT at the same time, I was in a surplus of around 14,000 calories in the last 2 weeks. I'm far from 'recovered' I think, but gained noticeable fat. Was at 78kg 4 weeks ago, now at around 82kg, water was gained too, but fat also, no doubt. I'm afraid I will have to get more fat to recover properly, but this thought does seem not right to me, since I'm already at a unhealthy bodyfat and I frankly don't want to get fatter, since that can't be good (physiological and of coursy psychological too) So, I was thinking to recover my hormones to a healthy baseline and then continue to diet, this time smartly, with a very small deficit, refeeds, breaks etc. I count calories too, have been doing so for the last 3 years almost. Lifting for around 1 year now. How would you guys go into this? What do you think about my case? 

I've always heard hardcore lifters saying that resistance is not the same as weight. Bascially that 100lb of resistance is not equal to 100lbs of weight. Imagine a bowflex vs a cable machine. I'd imagine that the resistance type of equipment might not offer 100lbs through the entire rep, possibly ramping up on a curve especially with a machine like bowflex. Is there a difference and if so, what is each type good for? Keep in mind i'm not asking about bowflex or if I should get one, it's the only machine I can think of ATM. Updating my question to be clear: When all is equal (machines or not), what is the difference between resistance (be it from a spring or tension) and actual weight (moving a heavy object) 

While checking out some workout videos, I can across one from Jillian Micheals where she says, "you never want to do static stretches until after the workout is over and you're doing cool down". Why does she say this? What is the problem with doing static stretches pre-workout vs dynamic stretches? 

I've found that trainers or other experienced body builders are great to work out with because they can help with form and method. One of the biggest issues I have is muscle isolation, meaning that while trying to workout a certain muscle group, I actually work out another. Example: Tricep dips, I end up extending out too far and end up working my shoulders instead of my triceps. I realized this after watching training videos. But I never felt like it was working my shoulders so I never thought about it. My question is, how can a person who is training alone help to realize when they are not isolating the target muscle group and prevent doing so? Watching videos is a great way to get the form right but since no one is there watching me, what can I do to make sure my form is correct and that I'm isolating the target muscle group?