It's important to distinguish between reserves, foreign debt and foreign investments. Let's start with pure reserves (of which dollar bills are in essence a component of). Say South American country X no longer trusts their local Peso and decides to use dollars instead. They can sell real wealth to the US (like farm produce) and in return receive dollar bills. Country X then bounces these dollars back and forth internally to facilitate commerce. This was a good deal for the US! It exported worthless pieces of paper and in turn imported real wealth. When this happens, it very much reverses inflation domestically in America. The US then remains very hopeful that the day will never come when country X sells the dollars back to the US and demands real wealth back (like say trucks). That would be very inflationary. In a typical economy today, actual reserves won't exchanges hands for trade, but instead promises of reserves (aka bank deposits). But the concept is very similar. Bank deposits are pyramid'ed onto reserves, reserves that are exported mean less reserves locally for banks to create deposits (which is the main source of monetary inflation). Then there are foreign investors. China will not say hoard pure dollars, but rather dollar denominate assets like treasuries. But this too generates demand for dollars. If China sends say 1 billion dollars worth of toys and we send China 1 billion dollars in paper promises for dollars...then we (Americans) are better off. We have more real wealth, while China has less. However if China were to sell their debt back to the US (or let it mature), the US could face significant inflation as we would then have to send real wealth to China to redeem all the treasure bills we gave them earlier. 

There actually is and has been a very good correlation between the money supply and inflation. The problem is that most people (including Friedman) who looked at this issue just considered narrow money (MB or M1). Broad money is much more important. Here is a graph with M3 and inflation: $URL$ The original poster asked: "1) Can businesses be an important cause of inflation or is it a pure monetary effect?" We have to separate private businesses into two. Banks and non-banks. No, non-banks don't cause much inflation. Private banks on the otherhand cause the majority of our inflation (far outpacing other private companies and central banks). This is because banks are allowed to create money which in turn creates inflation. A more abstract way of looking at this is that banks engage in maturity mismatching by holding in their aggregate portfolios mismatched short term debt against long term assets. The short term debt can never be redeemed (becuause it held against long term assets), so the banks have created that which has no redemption value and only trade value (they've created liquidity/money). If the original poster is interested in learning how the phenomenon works, I suggest reading the works of Murray Rothbard (much of which are free online). 

A derivative question of yours that was implied and is appropriate to answer is if banking is good for the common welfare of a nation. It is not. You will see many complicated equations and examples that obfuscate this, but the concepts are simple. Banks issue more promises for money then they have. These promises are errantly accepted the same as real base money and this create inflation and volitionality. It is a system in perpetual need of assistance from central banks and would quickly collapse in a liquidity fire without their assistance. Another way of looking at banks is that they engage in maturity mismatching. They buy long term assets and borrow short term to finance this. This is very risky. If my short term debt is no longer rolled over (and I lost trust from investors/depositors), the game is up. So what are the alternatives? Allow the public to hold debt-free deposits directly at the central bank. In the USA only private banks can hold Fed deposits. But if we allowed the public to hold deposits (and checking accounts/debit cards) with the Fed, we wouldn't need fractional deposit banking, we wouldn't need to bail it out and we wouldn't have its inflation. Here is a proposal of how such an idea could work: $URL$ 

To an extent yes, tracking the money supply is somewhat helpful in determining inflation, but there are other important factors to consider. Productivity? Say there was a massive crop failure and the same amount of money. Food prices (and prices in general) would go up, right? What is money? Do we just count government money (monetary base)? There are aggregates for that, but if you've accepted a check for services before you know that you also accept bank money which does not have a 1 to 1 relationship with government money. So you have to include bank money to determine how much money is the economy. But what types of bank money? Demand deposits? M1? Interest bearing deposits M2? M3? This is subjective...but it helps to look at many aggregates. What about foreign trade? If you count the money supply do you include say dollars in the USA or dollars abroad as well? In some cases dollars are used a medium of exchange abroad and don't really come home, so they don't influence domestic prices like domestic dollars do. What about foreign exchange Currencies compete, and because they are fiat there is always the possibility that one currency (especially a smaller one in a weakened state) will suffer a confidence crisis and crash. This can influence prices, yet the amount of money in the economy can stay the same. So truely, you need to look at many factors to figure out inflation. All that being said though the supply of money is still something very important to keep an eye on. 

Reserve requirements are a constraint on deposit creation (inflation), but not for all banks. Most banks do worry about reserve requirements too much, because if they see a good investment opportunity, they will go for it and borrow the base money they need from other banks. If the base money is scarce, this will drive up inter-bank lending and the central bank will load more to the banking system to make sure that such a lending rate does not change. So in a sense, the tail wags the dog. So say in an economy of 1000 deposits constrained by 100 reserves (given the reserve requirement), then the banking system can get around such a constraint...by increasing reserves in the aggregate! It simply borrows from other banks more and very indirectly, but very powerfully, the central bank will facilitate this. So the banking system could go from 1000 deposits to 100 reserves...to 2000 deposits to 200 reserves. Same reserve ratio. Same target bank rate. This is why other matter are used to regulate bank lending (like capital requirements). A proper strategy to limit bank lending would consist of a combination of reserve ratio changes, capital requirement changes and an increase in the central banks target of interbank lending. 

Two individuals are stranded on an island. Bob and Jill. By themselves they can produce: Bob: 5 fish & 5 coconuts Jill: 5 fish & 5 coconuts If they specialize and trade, they can produce: Bob: 20 fish Jill: 20 coconuts What would the supply and demand graph look like for this situation? What would be the price? Would Bob end up with say 13 fish and 11 coconuts. Would Jill end up with 7 fish and 9 coconuts? What determines this ratio or price? If Sam then ends up on the island and can produce by himself 20 fish or 20 coconuts, does this matter? 

The dollar is the international reserve currency. So when we have a strong dollar, and things (like oil and stocks) are priced in dollars, they become less attractive to foreigners. Foreigners of course buy a lot of American stocks and oil. It's kind of a similar logic of why Europeans will vacation less in New York when the dollar is strong and Americans are more likely to vacation in Europe. Put another way, if a foreigner wants to buy oil, they usually have to buy dollars in a conceptual sense to in turn buy that oil. The more expensive the dollar is, the less likely they are to buy that oil (or stocks). This is why commodities and stocks seems to have a somewhat inverse relationship with the strength of the dollar. 

The core premise of your question is correct. Banks receive a tremendous advantage from Fed actions and any discerning economist should be concerned over the amount of corporate welfare doled out banks....especially as they will take that money and engage in maturity mismatching which is an incredibly volatile, dangerous and inflationary practice that transfers wealth from the public to the private banking sector. There are many such ways banks receive corporate welfare. This includes Fed dividends (for not loaning out 100% of our deposits!). It also includes interest on "excess reserves" (again our deposits). Troubled banks are given below market interest rates with discount window loans. But the bigger problem with the discount window is that it creates a certainty that the Fed will backstop bad behavior. Then there is the open market. The Fed overpays for REPO's from special banks (primary dealers). There is also a good reason to suggest the REPO market is being churned as well to encourage excess trading volume. But the big problem with the open market is it provides artificial liquidity guarantees to the banking system at large. If banks know that the Fed will ensure that the money market will hum along at a very low rate, then they are more apt to engage in maturity mismatching which creates inflation and volatility. The entire system is corrupt beyond belief and most economists are totally oblivious to this reality. 

Some clarifications... M0 is different than MB. M0 is just cash and I assume you meant MB. If a bank can only lend what it has, what definitions of money and lending do you include? A bank operates by mismatching short term debt (much of which is deposits) with long term assets. An untenable situation regardless of the type of assets (deposits vs non-deposits). If we stop say banks from mismatching say 0 second maturity deposits to long term assets, do we then stop 1 second debt? 1 day? 10 days? 100 days? The other clarification to ask if if the open market would still function? So say yes the open market would function, but banks must now back M1 demand deposits 100% with MB. What would banks do? They would no longer offer free checking. Instead they would relabel their service to avoid the new requirements. They could call them "power deposits". They might yield .000000001% and maybe withdrawels might be limited to say one day after deposits. Little would change under such a system. The core concept of maturity mismatching is still creating problems for the economy and the Fed is still bailing the system out through the open market. What would be a more practical solution? Offer the public an alternative to private bank deposits. Allow for public bank deposits (aka deposits directly at the Fed). The Fed allows private banks to hold debt-free deposits with them...why not the public? It would be a simple matter to let the Fed issue debit cards and checks for these accounts. What about broad money? Banks could be released from constant Fed bailouts because public deposits are no longer at risk...only investors are now. Individuals who wanted to foolishly lend to banks without the backing of the Fed could do so if they REALLY wanted to, but few would as the banking system would burn up in a liquidity fire without Fed support to prop up maturity mismatching by constantly providing artificial levels of short term debt to the banking system. What about outstanding debt? The Fed could in the meantime introduce more MB into the economy to compensate for the collapse of higher monetary aggregates (by buying assets). What are the long term implications? Imagine if the government let people counterfeit money...but ONLY if they bought couches. What would be the result? Couch prices would be higher than normal. Well banks pretty much are only allowed to buy fixed income securities so interest rates are artificially low now, but without FRB interest rates would go up. Not a bad thing though. It would reward honest, non-bubble creating investment/savings. There would be less inflation. And there would be less need of borrowing to pay back all the FRB loans. The national depository solution is IMO the only practical solution to fractional banking. It would also allow for more gradual transition from FRB to non-debt backed deposits. Here is an article on how it may work: $URL$ 

In regards to the question about the 77:1 ratio, I can't be certain, but some balance sheet information is publicized from the Fed online: The main balance sheet is down by section six of this form: $URL$ The Fed also provides historical reports of why the balance sheet changed: $URL$ And on the interactive links from: $URL$ , they identify some of the key terms. I'm not seeing the specific 77:1 ratio referenced. The Fed does have equity/capital but historically this has always been small, so for the most part Fed assets are backed by fed liabilities. Equity currently is only 29 billion compared to 4.8 trillion in assets which is typical. Perhaps the 77:1 ratio referred discounted certain types of liabilities or assets? 

Because private banks can get away with promising more money then they have...and we accept this...then banks actually create money. And because the higher aggregates like M2 are much larger than MB, it is plain to see that banks are more important variables to the money supply equation and the supply of government money (aka MB). 3rd: How does the Fed regulate the money supply? It is confusing because the Fed directly dictates the amount of base money in the economy, but also indirectly dictates how much bank money is in an economy. The primary means by which MB changes include discount loans to banks, buying and selling repos from big banks, and special bailouts. The primary means by which the Fed controls the supply of bank money is through the open market. The idea is if the banks have more base money, they will be able to pyramid more deposits on top of that, and vice versa. To facilitate this the Fed will buy repos from a primary dealer ("special banks") with fabricated money. The primary dealer than resells the new reserves to lesser banks which then allows them to create more bank money. Historically, controlling the supply of bank deposits through a reserve ratio was a technique used (and also capital requirements), but these techniques are not considered fashionable among entrenched interests. Has the Fed been doing a good job? This is a complicated question. QE did not create massive inflation because the banking sector was in collapse and a large amount of bank deposits had been destroyed (meaning we had less money). Whether private for-profit interests should have had privileged access to government resources is a very good question. Certainly the problem of 2008 was created by the banks themselves. Simply put, they made promises to depositors and creditors they couldn't keep. Banks operate by mismatching short term/low yield debt to long term/high yield debt. This is a very profitable but risky practice in which banks are not held proportionately responsible when things go wrong. Classifying inflation is also very tricky because of international trade. The dollar is a popular currency overseas, so foreigners help sponge up the damage from inflation. Trade also obfuscates inflation. If you double say the number of dollars, not all prices will increase proportionately. International commodities can be brought in multiple currencies, whereas local products (like healthcare and college education) can't and can only be purchased with dollars so they increase much more rapidly. For a fascinating look at the politics of CPI/inflation, checkout: $URL$ The most paramount question unasked is if the Fed is seeding the conditions by which another future crisis will happen, to which I fear the answer is yes.