When I was six or seven, I played outside, running and climbing trees and fences until I "needed" to go home because it was getting dark or my parentally-imposed time-limit for fun had arrived. As long as you're child isn't getting drenched in his clothing - he should be ok. If you're worried about him being exposed to an extreme amount of exercise, note that there are leagues/clubs all over the US for youths his age to do just about every event in Track & Field. www.USATF.org will likely have information on it. I doubt the PS3 trumps that level of exertion. 

By running do you mean jogging or sprinting? If you jog, you rarely need to use a full motion swing of the arms, and really you're not supposed to fully open your arms (extended elbow) at any time. Your elbow is most bent, opening a small number of degrees. This is part of why the effect is less detrimental, because you are not putting an abnormal force at the end of a lever that usually is not there. Theoretically speaking, wrist weight are better than hand weights because they are closer to the vertex of your elbow. 

The short answer is no. The long answer is maybe. The basic "model" of the body's energy supply is that it holds a certain amount of sugar (glucose) in the blood if the number gets too high, it binds the blood sugar with insulin and stores it in fat cells. If the number gets too low, the body uses glucagon to un-bind the sugar and return it to usability in the bloodstream. The body can also store glucose in the liver and muscles by turning it into glycogen, instead. So when you need sugar you don't have you dip into your stores, and when you have too much you store it for later. This is all a drastic oversimplification, bordering on lies-told-to-children, but it's a good enough model. And it shows that in a normal person it doesn't really matter if you exercise on an empty stomach or not: your body can make energy for you and replenish it later. It's not going to attack itself just because you don't have something in your stomach. If you're trying to build muscle, you'll want to have protein available to build with and the best way to have it available is to eat it before or just after you work out, but that's more adding muscle and less avoiding damage. Have no worries, your body is smart. It will happily maintain your blood sugar sparing you trying to exactly match eating to your expenditures --unless-- Your body isn't that smart. Some people have metabolic illnesses, including but not limited to diabetes, that can alter this process and result in them needing to follow special instructions from their doctor regarding diet and exercise. For these people, it is drastically important to follow this because their body is not doing the same things as everyone else's. If and only if you are in this group does it matter. tl;dr Unless told otherwise by a doctor, it doesn't matter so workout whenever makes sense for you. 

If you added some hand weights to the floor exercise he suggested that would change the difficulty quickly. Trap muscle are weird, in that may times you have to try to squeeze them intentionally. Some gyms have little pictures on the machinery to indicate which muscles group should be activated by using that machine. That's a start if you really want to be out of your home when doing these exercises. (Workout at home are so tough to do consistently). In the process of strengthening the traps you will also help your posture I think, because I can't think of 1 exercises that uses the traps where you do not need to properly sit and arch your back (versus hunch). As for the laptop thing, maybe a USB mouse to keep you from needing to hunch towards the trackpad. Silly me, started thinking about LATS, not TRAPS. I'll leave my previous post intact, but as a revision, go to this site for targeted exercises with pictures for tons of muscles and muscle groups. 

There is no shortcuts in gaining muscle, so does with gaining abs. Generally you can add about 5-10 lbs pure muscle a year. As we all know getting abs include two factors - low body fat (you have it man) and abs exercise. Find 2 or 3 abs routines and do then in circle for a while. There are two laws- your body adapt to your workout so you have to change it frequently, you have to be patient and regular on your routines. Get a pair of dumbbells about 20-30 lbs and start doing some workouts at home. I like doing some skipping rope too. 

If I were you I would start swimming. I know this is not an answer to your question but you are over 100 kg (220lbs) and doing weight training might stress your joints if they aren't adapted for the weight. Swimming is a great full body exercice. The same goes with cycling. It doesn't put stress on your joints too. Running is a great exercice. I am runner myself and I run do 5k park competition every Saturday. If you are over 100 kgs It really hurts your knees. My most important advice - find a group of friends or people, practicing some of the above sports, and joint them for motivation. It is more fun to train with someone then alone. 

I haven't read on oxygenation, but have heard the term. I actually bought a heart-rate/pulse monitor watch about a week ago. It does NOT include the chestband thing, just wrist only taking over your heart-rate. Using it during a basic workout I notice more calories registering as burned, vs if someone calculated calories burned from the exercises I did. This is to be expected as calculating calories burned from the exercises you do can only take into account the the "work" (force/distance) you do or energy (power/time) expended by by using power (work/time). The best way to test the efficiency of these heart-rate monitors is to just get someone to measure it. I'm not sure if machines like the blood-pressure measurer at Walmart also give you your pulse rate, but that would be one way to measure. You could also compare by using the heart-rate indicators on a PreCor (elliptical) machine at a gym. Those machines take your age and weight as a way to approximate measurements, and they have handles to hold to check the rate. Start walking, check the rate on the PreCor, then the Watch. Speed up and get a second reading. The accuracy or Calories burned as measured by heart-rate on the watches is based on the number of times you "check in" with your heart-rate. Meaning if you check-in before the start of your workout with a 78, then it assumes you to be at 78 until you enter another reading. Thus, in a hour, even if you ran a mile, it won't show you burning a lot of calories. I'm not sure of the chestband types have constant monitoring, but if they do (again) a comparison with a PreCor measurement of calories burned would let you know if you have the accuracy of a more expensive machine 

One way to learn to breathe deeper is to learn how to breathe differently on purpose: place one hand on the center of your chest and the other hand on your stomach, with your little finger touching your navel. When lot of people who have shallow breaths take a breath, it only moves their top hand (a "chest breath,") which is fast, doesn't use very many muscles, but doesn't use the whole lung capacity. My boxing teacher called it "a good one to know but a bad one to rely on." To take deeper, more relaxed and full breath, you want to keep your chest hand steady and take a breath that moves your lower hand, instead. This is called a "belly breath" and its a much fuller, stronger breath that moves a lot more oxygen since you're involving muscles from all over your trunk, especially on the exhale. This is how you want to do most of your breathing. Once you've got the hang of switching from hand to hand at will, you might want to play with breaths that move both hands at once, called "bellows breaths." This is great for stress relief, recovering from getting the wind knocked out of you, and catching your breath when "winded," but it's also quite easy to get light-headed from it, as well. As someone who spends a lot of time on computers, a large part of my learning to breathe better was working on fixing my posture, as well. I suffered from a staggering amount of hip tightness that was making it hard for me to move well enough to breathe when I was sitting down. More help on this available at $URL$ 

Big Muscle groups need more time for recovery; You should train antagonists in two different days(Antagonist and agonist muscles often occur in pairs, called antagonistic pairs. As one muscle contracts, the other relaxes= example - biceps and triceps ). You need to do more reps with less weight if you want to loose weight. 

When I start running and start to feel pain I decrease my speed and focus on my running form. If the pain doesn't stop after 1000-2000 meters I simply stop running. Probably you don't do the warming up the way you need to. Check for some foam roller exercise. You can do them with big glass bottle like wine one too. You should go and see physician now and he/she will advice you what to do, but generally you should listen to your body. There were times I have been allowed to run, but my body have told me it need more time after I tore something around my knee. So this is my advice - listen to your body and respond accordingly. If you aren't allowed to run, check for other exercises. You should keep doing something to stay fit. I really recommend swimming. 

You should look at your BMI and then note how many pounds are required to get you into the good range. From what you reported 5-7 110 gives a BMI of 17.2. The healthy BMI (body mass index) begins at 18.5 and goes up to 24.9 I would say a BMI of 20 is safe. For you that means being 5-7 and 128lbs. To be in the exact middle of the range (BMI 21.7) you need to be 5-7 and 138.5lbs As you can see from those number you should only be looking to gain a max of 28.5 pounds. Gaining weight is dangerous, and yo udon't want to create poor eating habits and take silly supplements (like Creatine) just to put on some pounds. Your main goal is likely a physique. SO do not focus on WEIGHT or you could put yourself in a bad place. Creatine is higly unnecessary unless you are already working out and lifting to an extremem level in which you would NEED creatine to allow you to lift more (for longer periods). Don't start scarfing down food and taking creatine and have it all get stored as fat. If you want to gain weight you will need to build some muscle endurance first, and learn proper techniques for various styles of weight lifting. Most people can NEVER lift heavy because they hit a wall where their technique does not allow them to withstand using more weight. They unfortunately do not realize that there technique sucks. So, start with lower weight and higher rep stuff, learn good technique (videos or a decent college-athlete friend can help you with this) then you should move to higher weights (lower reps e.g. 5), and try to increase the amount you lift every three weeks or so, but keep the reps the same. Weight gain is a side-effect of becoming strong and powerful. DO NOT try to gain weight. Learn how to become stronger. If you just want to LOOK ripped, again gaining weight is not the place to focus your attention. There are many articles about muscle building. In general, AFTER you've lifted and made tears to your muscles, you need to provide them with proper building materials to repair themselves. the window for "after" is as small as 45 minutes, and for building materials you should eat protein. 

If I were you I would use more fruits and vegetables instead, you can make fresh squeezed juices. I remember a pic a have posted a month ago on on my facebook wall about Ironmanner (Ironman Triatloner) who has done whole competition on 10 bananas. 

Actually you should be worried more about your form when you perform the exercises. If your form is not good enough you can lift more weight but all to no avail. You will just trick yourself you are better and making progress. As for the weight the rules is more weight, fewer reps (80% percent of the max weight you can lift 3 series of 6-8 reps) for a set. If you can do 10 reps increase the weight. Some people have been doing this for a lot more time then you and some people have different genes. It is natural they that they lift more weight then you now. You shouldn't be worried about that. If they are smaller in size, this doesn't mean they have less muscle tissue. 

I'm a huge fan of Matt Furey's stuff. His free articles are at $URL$ but the books are excellent as well. Combat Conditioning and Combat Abs are my favorites. It's mostly centered on the "Royal Court," the Hindu Squat, Hindu Pushup, and Neck Bridge, all of which are well known bodyweight exercises and can easily be looked up on the net. 

Before you do anything, you should ask your doctor if there's anything you should avoid doing or anything you should specifically do. I'm not sure if there's anyone here with the training to speak to this specific circumstance. As a general rule, it's usually not a bad idea to start with walking, stretching, and manipulating extremely light weights. The most reliable indicator that something is wrong is pain, so you want to feel loose and challenged, not hurt. When something starts feeling too easy replace it with something slightly more challenging, and go from there. Good luck on your further recovery!