In pre-Roman times, there was a Celtic tribe in Britain, called Deceangli. To a layperson, this name bears an interesting resemblance to Angles, the name of another (Germanic) tribe that lived in the continent. Coincidentally, the Angles later invaded Britain along with the Saxons, and the name Anglaland (England) was coined. Is it just a pure coincidence of names or do they both derive from a more ancient, Indo-European source? 

If Wikipedia can be considered a reliable source, the Cornish language revival movement has been succeeding, but with a lot of disagreement: 

Allophones are defined by means of complementary distribution. As I understand it, a complementary distribution is a "mutually exclusive" relationship between two phones, with regard to a certain phonetic environment. That is, one of the phones will only be found in that environment (and nowhere else) while the other phone will never be found in that environment (but will be found somewhere else). For example, In English, [pʰ] and [p] are allophones of the phoneme /p/, since [pʰ] can be found at the beginning of syllables ([pʰɪn]) and nowhere else. Likewise, [p] is never found at the beginning of syllables, but can be found in other positions ([spɪn]). Summarizing in a table: 

Because that is precisely what separates consonants from vowels: consonants are sounds produced with a partial closure of the vocal tract. Depending on what type of closure the speaker does (in combination with other factors), a different consonant will be pronounced. And, as you have already seen, consonants can be analyzed according to several features: place of articulation, manner of articulation, aspiration etc. Vowels, on the other hand, are pronounced with an open vocal tract. Therefore, by definition, it is not possible to apply those features to classify vowels. Other features, such as roundedness, must be used in this case. So, for example, it wouldn't make sense to speak of place of articulation for vowels. 

As I suspected, this is indeed a case of suppletion, a term defined by A Glossary of Historical Linguistics as 

Background: I have observed that in both English and Portuguese, the language used in literary texts changed significantly during that period. Chaucer's Middle English is very different from Shakespeare's Early Modern English, which, by contrast, can be reasonably well understood by today's English speakers. Similarly, Gil Vicente's Old Portuguese clearly contrasts with Luís de Camões's Modern Portuguese. 21st century Portuguese speakers can understand Camões's language with almost no difficulty. This is just anecdotal evidence, so feel free to challenge these assumptions, as well. Update: As Cerberus pointed out, it may not be a good idea to try to understand this phenomenon from a modern speaker's perspective. But I hope that historical linguists have an objective way of measuring and evaluating the process of change in a certain period, as well as making comparisons between different historical periods. The anecdotal evidence above was intended merely to show the motivation for the question, so please don't get much distracted by it. 

By making a quick comparison among several language phonologies (from various language families), I could observe that some phones occur very frequently, such as [m], [p], [b], [h], [a] and [i]. Others seem to be much rarer, among which, [ʕ], [ɰ], [ⱱ] and [ɪ̈]. Do linguists know the frequency of each phone across languages? And, perhaps more importantly, why are some phones more frequent than others? 

According to John McWhorter, there is a language called Muna (spoken in the Indonesian island of Sulawesi), in which the system of spatial deixis works like this: 

As I understand, there is no essential difference between spoken and signed languages. Both have the same kinds of phonetic, morphological, syntactical and semantic complexities, both are prone to ambiguities, both change over time etc. The main difference is one of medium. Spoken languages have, of course, some advantages over their signed counterparts, as the possibility to communicate without visual contact. But signed languages have, in turn, other advantages over the spoken, like higher "bandwidth", i.e., information is conveyed by multiple channels at the same time (hand shape, hand position, eye gaze and head nodding). In spite of that, spoken languages are much more common than signed languages. And most of the latter have developed at "artificial" environments, like schools for deaf children. Why don't we see, for example, isolated tribes (with hearing and speaking people) that haven't developed any kind of spoken language, but have a rich tradition of signed languages, instead? 

Native Portuguese speakers (myself included) often have a hard time dealing with the English present perfect tense-aspect. In English, the present perfect is used for expressing past actions with present consequences. This is different from the simple past, which expresses actions wholly contained in the past. In Portuguese, this distinction is not marked. Sentences using the present perfect in English are usually translated to Portuguese using the simple past. So, for example, the sentence I have received a letter gets translated into Portuguese as Eu recebi uma carta (literally, “I received a letter”). On the other hand, Portuguese has a different tense-aspect with the same structure of the English present perfect, but equivalent in meaning to the English present perfect continuous: 

The same argument can, of course, be applied to deaf-mute people, even to those who have never learned any language at all. He presents a few compelling examples of people with serious disabilities who are nevertheless capable of the same kinds of complex reasoning that speaking and signing people are. This is what cognitive psychologists and neuroscientists call "computational" or "representational" theory of mind, according to which, what takes place in the mind is a mere manipulation of symbols, much like a computer, hence the name. Thus, the so called mentalese would be a very complex system of symbols used to represent the world inside people's minds. The "computer processor", in this case, would the brain, storing and manipulating these symbols by means of physico-chemical processes. To sum up: there is no reason (according to this theory) to posit a natural language that people use for their thoughts. Languages would play, at best, an auxiliary role in the reasoning process. 

According to the WALS classification, regarding the feature 137A (N-M Pronouns), there are 23 languages in the Americas in which the N-M pattern is paradigmatic, that is, where the consonant [n] is used for first person pronouns and the consonant [m] is used for second person pronouns. For example, in Northeast Maidu, ni means 'I, me' and mi means 'you'. Outside the Americas, only Dumo, in Papua New Guinea and Supyire, in Mali, have this feature. 

Since the name Álvaro can also be found in Portuguese, one of these "other etymologies" is that Alvaro would have stemmed from Ælfred, related to Germanic alfi, "elf", radi, "counsel". The voicing (from [f] to [v]) could have been influenced by the Hispanic albar, derived from Latin albor (from albus, "white"). There is another, more far-fetched etymology: according to Meyer-Lübke, Romanische Namenstudien. I, 8, 81, II, 73, the name Álvaro stems from al-, "all", and *wars, "aware, circumspect"; another possibility for the second element is a derived form of the Gothic warjan. So, it would mean something like "he who is aware of everyone/everything" or "he who defends himself from everyone/everything". It seems that the etymological evidence is quite weak and there is no consensus on the matter. 

I have heard and read several times that one of the forces that drive language change is the so called "principle of least effort". According to this account, several changes are caused by an economy in pronunciation. Take this Wikipedia explanation, for example: 

What determines how noun compounds are formed in a language? Is there something like a parameter (as in the principles and parameters theory) that explains this? I'm focusing only on "open" compounds (not idiomatic ones) formed exclusively by nouns. As Molly mentioned, this might be related to the Adj/N word order in the language. This hypothesis is quite reasonable, since in the Germanic languages the head in these compounds comes at the end, whereas in Romance languages, they come at the beginning, matching the Adj/N word order. But even if this correlation does hold cross-linguistically, how does it relate to the need for prepositions? Maybe prepositions help avoiding ambiguities when the adjectives are postnominal? Could it be related to processing preferences? 

This question was based on the assumption that the transitivity of a complementizer was some inherent feature of it. One of the consequences of that feature would be that the closest nominal c-commanded by that complementizer would be given accusative case. So, if there was such kind of complementizers in English, it would be something like: 

As far as I can tell, the comparative method is the most accepted and widely used method in historical linguistics. Often used in conjunction with the internal reconstruction method, it has proved to be very successful ever since the 19th century. There are, of course, alternatives, such as the mass comparison method, defended by Merritt Ruehlen and others. But such methods are, to say the least, very controversial. So, is there any reasonable alternative in historical linguistics? By reasonable alternative, I mean a competing method capable of achieving the same results by different means. Or perhaps, capable of going further into the past to reconstruct larger language families? 

The Wikipedia entry for gerund starts with a list that shows how the term is applied to various languages. And we can see that what the term actually means depends a lot on the specific language we are referring to. For example, it can be a verbal noun in Turkish, an adverbial participle in Portuguese, an adjectival participle in French, part of the infinitive in Hebrew and so on. As far as I know, the term "gerund" (as many others, like "perfect", "imperfect" etc) was coined by traditional grammarians, focusing primarily on Greek and Latin. But, from a linguistics perspective, is "gerund" a term that can be unambiguously defined for any language? If so, what all these different applications of the term have in common? 

You can download the datasets used by the Google Ngram Viewer. These -datasets are compiled from the Google's collection of scanned books (so, magazines and newspapers are not included, AFAIK). If you are looking for frequencies of individual words only (and not, say, pairs, triples etc), you can download only the 1-gram datasets. In addition, the word frequencies are annotated by year: