If you cannot trust your boss, then same speech can be given to HR or security. By couching it in the way you have, people will understand the problem and hopefully protect you as a genuinely concerned member of a corporate team. You may want to ask to remain anonymous as not to embarrass anyone. To add some humor to this answer, the company that was located in several buildings up and down the street bought a huge building, refit it, and during the process, in the IT areas, the instruction was to place magnetic badge readers about butt level. This was questioned by our contractor as a mistake. It was no mistake. Why? If you place the badge in your other pocket, opposite from your wallet, then all you have to is wag your butt near the reader and forgetting your badge far less likely. It was a perfect solution for the IT team (at least)! 

If you divulge information on an ongoing lawsuit your current employer might decide to sue you (e.g. if this leads to loss of business - they might then try to blame bankruptcy at you. That your grievances with your employer are factual does not necessarily help in that case). So you don't bring it up. Either the interviewer does not know about the lawsuit, in which case there is no need to bring it up, or they do know about it, in which case they'll understand why you cannot talk about it (plus they'll probably would not want to hire somebody who is indiscreet and thus a legal risk, so it is in your best interest not to bring it up). 

I was a consultant for 30 years before retiring and was asked to sign NDAs many times over. To my surprise, too many went way over the line. However, that said, most are fair. As @SteveJessop has so brilliantly pointed out, the OP is asking about a NDA. That is a very appreciated point! From my experience, the NDA has never existed without also non-compete. I answered that question with both in mind without distinguishing the two because it was natural for me. Cheers!! Here are some examples. I was asked to sign a NDA with forever language for a business I was in and why I was helping. I refused. I am not shutting down my entire decade long business because you need my help in the same field for a few weeks. We wrote a new specific NDA that covered both parties adequately. A telecom requests a NDA that prohibits you from working with any other telecoms. This happened to me. You are a network engineer specializing in IP services such as VIOP and IPTV, Internet services etc. That would be ridiculous. By signing the NDA, you would not be able to work in your field. NDAs are there to protect the company and not punish you. Any agreement must protect both parties. Some things to consider: 

There's no regulation, especially if you're salaried. However it sounds like now is the perfect time to go speak to the Board of Directors or whoever is in charge of determining your compensation, and demand a raise. This might be a tougher sell than you might think, particularly if they have plans to immediately hire more workers (and depending on how replaceable you are). If you threaten to quit over the current situation, be prepared to follow through though. 

I don't think it's unethical to re-apply for the position, but depending on what the company's original perception of you as a candidate was it could potentially make you look bad. Basically you're counting on the fact that the recruiter screwed up the presentation of you as a candidate. What you absolutely CANNOT do is attempt to hide in anyway that you were already put forward for the position. It should be front and center in your cover letter. State what happened, and exactly why you think you might not have gotten fair consideration and that you're very interested in a job there. If, despite the recruiters worst efforts, the company still gave you full consideration and ultimately passed, you've probably sunk any chance of ever getting hired there, but that's probably a risk worth taking. If the company hires you they are probably also legally obligated to pay the finders fee to the recruiting firm, but that would be a question of ethics for the company and not you. 

I will begin by telling a short story. Once a member of a management team was let go early in the morning and no e-mail was sent except to a few that would be directly effected. Later in the afternoon, the fired employee walked into the company as easily as they ever had and was able to get into secured areas and do damage without a trace of responsibility. The police could do virtually nothing. The fact that someone routinely forgets their badge may come by honestly. At one place where the company was located in several buildings up and down the street, it was not that uncommon for one of us to forget their badge and need help. All well and good. However, routinely forgetting their badge may a simple form of narcissism even if it does not seem to be. It could be a lighter form of "the rules are... [fill in the blank]" just in the same way anyone up and down the chain of command may feel. I have seen very good people fall into this category without realizing it. It does not mean that they necessarily feel superior. It actually becomes a habit that is enabled over time by being recognized and not realizing the effect of not following the rules as closely as everyone else. Forgetting fairness for a moment since too many of us seek a fairer world that will never be, what is important is that it is bothersome regardless of how slight the offense may actually be. For this reason, the problem should be resolved. If you can talk frankly and openly with your own boss without judgement or reprisal, then I suggest that you say little, but say enough. No body likes a tattle-tale, so avoid it as much as possible while adding respect for all concerned. For example, 

There is a law in Germany, which somewhat unsurprisingly called the "Bundesurlaubsgesetz" (Federal Law on Vacation). Rather more suprisingly the law does not say you have to take vacation at all - you have to claim your vacation days within a given year, if you do not you forfeit your claims. There are very few exceptions, the one pertaining to your case is that vacation days can be moved to the next year if it is determined that your employer for some valid reason cannot do without you (i.e. contracts to fullfill that require full manpower). You can try to convince your boss that this is case, however at the end of the day it is his call, not yours. Employers usually loathe to permit this, because it affects the balance sheet (if that is the right word - they have to put money aside to account for the case that they might be unable to give you the missing vacation days, so that goes down on the side of the liabilities). However if you need to finish a project the benefits might outweigh the cost, so your boss might be okay with it (in fact moving vacation days isn't that rare in Germany). If you move vacations days to the next year you have to take them within the first three months of the year, else you forfeit your claims (as far as the law is concerned, the company might decide to handle this differently). Usual disclaimer, I am not a laywer, I just googled one on the internet (plus, some personal experience). 

For example, you are programmer working on a e-commerce site, it is not reasonable that they restrict you from working on another e-commerce site, however, it is reasonable to restrict business rules, proprietary methodologies, and any trade secrets. NDAs are often poorly and hastily written. However, it is good training for contract negotiations. Be reasonable and require that the NDA be reasonable too. As for signing the NDA? I would only sign it if it causes no harm to you, your work, or future potential. Otherwise, kick it back with suggestions. 

The rest of the answers are clear. Yes it is unethical. But please allow me to take it another step further. It is not good for you! Here is a real example. I had temporarily joined in on a project in the very earliest years of the World Wide Web as an expert for which I was at the time. I had started back writing router code for what was to become the Internet back in the day and had spent a lot of time working with various Internet services such as the web and e-mail as well as for other products and competing networks. I was, at that time, uniquely qualified and had worked on many products and protocols and could do just about anything that was possible including writing protocol stacks and products specifically designed for a given purpose. I found out within first one or two days that the government contracting company had modified my resume and presented me as an expert on a particular e-mail product for which I was indeed familiar. The promise was that I would be able to resolve a particular problem. The resume and promise was based upon a lie that I had no knowledge of. I got into the meeting and realized that the problem to be resolved was a well known bug that the e-mail software company was aware of and was resolving in the next major release due in a few months. My dilemma was that there was no work-around for the bug, and that I was not able to modify the code directly. I was a systems internal engineer and could certainly reverse engineer the compiled code, make the modification, and recompile a working product, however, that would be illegal and take significant time. The contracting company promised that the problem would be fixed by Friday a timeline that was not only arbitrary, but also impossible. They made this promise to gain unique access to the contract. No other company was understandably willing to take on such an effort and excluded that portion of the work from their contract negotiation with a caveat as to the reasons why. This not only put me in an impossible position, it also painted my in an ethical corner. After the meeting, I met with the contractor who hired me and stated that the promise was impossible to keep especially within the promised time-line. The company said do it anyway. I then went to the customer, Walter Reed Medical Hospital, whose care is critical to wounded veterans of war, and explained that what was promised was impossible. They appreciated my honesty and pushed back on the contracting company within minutes. During the fallout, I resigned and went home. I called a lawyer immediately. Why? Because this was a major hit to my outstanding reputation. Afterall, I had full and complete access to Bell Labs, Dec Labs, and was a consultant to Digital Equipment Corporation, the Bell Corporation (the split into regional Bells with a parent company), Wang, IBM, Unisys, and many others supplying the government with critical services for which I was often called. One bad word about an individual would stop my ability to gain access to contracts forever and this was just a case that could do it. In the end, my reputation did take a knock for being associated with the unethical misconduct anyway regardless of my innocence and lack of involvement. Why? Because this quickly became a fraud case for which I had to testify. I was able to regain my reputation once the fraud case was settled and I was able to present evidence of my innocence to the many who asked. And believe me, they all asked for about a year or so. This knocked me out of an entire industry for nearly two years. All well and good. I still had the trust of Digital and Bell who kept me very busy serving their customers and found a new niche anyway. That was the last of my government contracting and I never looked back. I was lucky. Others may not have been. I have seen fraudulent contractor resumes float around all over the place painting the poor individual into a corner of explaining what happened. Some companies understand, most do not. The trust has been broken before you even arrived and you had no idea. Instead of a hopeful job interview, you walk into a difficult situation that you did not create. And believe me, this can last years! My General Advice 

You have two approaches (three if you decide to accept without countering): 1) You can play hard to get. Provide some variation of the following: "Hey this job offer is great and all, but I really need to consider it. If you can move the numbers up on X (base, signing bonus, stock, whatever lever you want to pull) this decision would become a lot easier for me." I've found this is incredibly effective and is pretty simple. There's no need to even pretend you'll walk away if you'd still happily accept the job at the initial offer. If they can't move at all on compensation, then let them tell you that, and you can take it or leave it. 2) You can explain that the job they are offering is not the one you thought you were applying for, and that you would expect compensation for the actual job to be a little higher than what they're offering. I would not recommend getting too specific because you can give the wrong impression (i.e. that you think the hours are too long, or the work might be too hard). Personally I think this tactic is a little more difficult and harder to pull off successfully. It's also the only one liable to backfire. In my opinion, your best bet is to start with #1, and if they don't seem willing to budge, move on to #2 with the understanding that it's more of a desperation move. My advice is almost always to counter (unless you provide a number and they've already beat it), so go for it. Typically there's very little to lose by doing so, and it will pay off tremendously in the long run. Try and project confidence and be ready to demonstrate that you're worth what you're asking for. 

Let your HR departement manage that. Unless your former colleague has completely changed the field he will now be working for a competitor and might not even be allowed to help you (and when in doubt HR is better prepared to handel legalities that might have to be dealt with). Even if he wants to help you cannot expect him to work for free. You are probably not authorised to offer him payment, so again, let HR handle this. Or even better, don't do this at all. It is unlikely that after 6 months he remembers enough details to be of much help, and nobody I know of likes to be stalked by their former workplace. 

I was a little surprised to receive a confusing e-mail from someone relatively high up in our organization who I hadn't had any contact with before. The e-mail was part of a long chain of forwards and replies detailing various surveying information for the plat of land my company owns, along with plans for current and future improvements on that land. The e-mails were all clearly marked as confidential. It didn't make any sense to me at first, until looking down the email thread I realized that the e-mail was actually intended for someone with my exact name at an outside company. Normally, I'd just ignore said e-mail and probably respond to the sender letting them know they sent it to the wrong address. However, while perusing the documents that were sent to me (in the course of figuring out what they were) I noticed a member of my company make a statement that the city's information for the purpose of tax assessment was incorrect (I think they had not updated the improved land acreage or something similar), and detailing ways to continue to make sure that the city doesn't find out in the hopes of saving the company $80k a year (the estimated tax difference). This doesn't seem like illegal behavior, but it does seem a little unethical, and I'm not sure what I should do. Presumably I would just pretend I never saw anything and privately e-mail the original sender. Unfortunately the conversation has quickly continued on, and I'm now "on the list" so to speak, and receiving further updates about this situation, from both internal and external people, including a few who I think are legal counsel. I also feel a little odd essentially drawing attention to myself, when I know this is information I'm not supposed to have. How should I handle this? NOTE: I realize there are a few other mistaken e-mail questions on the site, but I believe this to be different given the nature of the information I was sent. 

While lack of formal education in the field might not be a deal breaker (e.g. I studied education and I implement Web Analytics Systems for a living) lack of relevant experience probably is. "I believe" is not going to convince anybody. You must be able to make a case that your previous work has prepared you for the challenges of the higher position. I frankly have no idea what being a "fiber optic planner" entails in its job description, but typically higher paying jobs involve skills beyond the technology (being able to talk to and negotiate with clients, managerial skills etc.), so you need to be sure you are in some way prepared for that. Else you'd have to take the long way and somehow aquire the necessary skill set (night school, online studies etc.) and then try again to apply.