Maybe one difference between induction and abduction is that induction often relies on regularities or lawlike correlations. It is an inductive inference that if I smoke 60 cigarettes a day for twenty years, I will get lung cancer. It doesn't deductively follow that I will but there's an uncomfortably high probability. Or : what is the likelihood that if I earn more than $100,000 a year I will be audited by the tax authorities ? Regularly about 5% of people on this income scale are audited, so the probability is quite low. (Figures invented.) In the case of Peirce's abductive inference about the governor, nothing like these regularities or lawlike correlations are in play. Yet he made an intelligent guess. On this occasion in the light of Peirce's knowledge of social customs, it was the inference to the best explanation that the person was the governor. There is an academic squabble over whether abductive inference and inference to the best explanation are the same thing. I assume they are. Those who disagree can make their case. References : The Four Horseman example and the phrase, 'intelligent guess', are taken from Douglas Walton, 'Abductive Reasoning', Tuscaloosa : University of Alabama Press, 2004, 5-6. Walton also discusses the abduction/ inference to the best explanation : 6. 

Spinoza is not in any straightforward way a follower of Descartes. Descartes, for instance, believes that there are two substances, mind and body. For Spinoza, by contrast, there is only one substance; thought (mind) and extension (body) are attributes of it. That's quite a contrasting picture ! It is certainly nothing like Cartesian dualism. Freedom for Spinoza is not exemption from causality. We are free when we understand - have 'adequate ideas' about - the causes of our actions. To be free is not to be able to do simply what we choose but to understand the nature of the desires and emotions which cause our actions. It is understanding the internal necessity for our actions - recognising why, given the nature of reality, we act as we do. We no longer see our own nature as an external constraint; and realise that there is no freedom except to act in accordance with what we really are. When we have self-knowledge we are free since we understand our actions as the inherent and inevitable outcomes of our essential natures. Few people have self-knowledge though it is in principle available to all. It is a product of reason. One caution : like Hume later, Spinoza opposes freedom not to causation but to constraint. I am free if I act causally according to an essential nature which I understand. If you prevent me from acting according to that nature, say by coercing me, then Spinoza recognises that in this respect I do not act freely. All this is set out in Ethics, I, Definition 7; I, Corollary 17 & Lemma 58; IV, Demonstration 67. Spinoza's 'Ethics; is a hard book to get to grips with : Stuart Hampshire's 'Spinoza' is an old book but still a lucid and broadly reliable guide. 

You could omit 'the' from 'the systematic study' and the sense would be the same. That aside, 'the' does not imply uniqueness here. Suppose I said : 'Architecture (as a discipline) is the intellectual and practical activity encompassing the systematic study of designing and building edifices for human use'. This would not imply that there is just one way of systematically studying and designing edifices for human use. Or again if I said : 'Economics is the intellectual and practical activity encompassing the systematic study of the production and distribution of wealth', no-one would suppose that there is just one way of systematically studying the production and distribution of wealth. There are econometric methods, Marxist methods, statistical methods, marginalist methods ... The definition is perfectly consistent with the existence of this variety of methods. 

If morality involves concern for the interests of others, including the protection and promotion of their interests, it might appear obvious that conferring higher cognitive functions on every animal (ourselves, too) would mean promoting their interests. But it is not at all clear that this really would be the case. I mention just two points : (1) Where inherent conflicts occur between rival species (predators and predated) higher cognitive function might well make the conflicts sophisticatedly more vicious. (2) Unless our moral behaviour is improved in pari passu (in step) with higher cognitive function, we may just end up with more intelligent and subtle ways of inflicting greater harm on one another's interests. You can't isolate one aspect of animals, their cognitive function, improve it, and without changing other aspects expect the result to be beneficial. 

We need first of all to get clear what is to be understood by empathy. At least two analyses are available : ▻ EMPATHY (1) 

Take a coin from your pocket. Suppose it is a 10-cent euro. In terms of type/ token analysis the euro is a type of monetary unit, different from the US dollar or the English pound. You can't spend the euro but you can spend, save or throw away the coin you are holding, which is a euro token, a physical object (unlike the euro itself, which is just a category of money). Tables can be switched. What is a type from one perspective can be a token from another. Back to the euro : if we take money (a medium of exchange, a measure of value, &.) as a type, then the euro, the currency, is a token, an instance of money. If the language is familiar, type/ token analysis can be seen as a version of the universal/ particular distinction. That's if one allows that distinction, which is another matter. 

If everything were objectively random then everything would denotable in a language, L1; but the meta-language L2 statement about all denotations in L1, 'Everything is objectively random', would true. If we keep to L1, e.g. current English, then if only some things, XYZ, were objectively random we could make the true statement that XYZ are objectively random. And for the remaining class of things that are not objectively random, there is no problem (in principle) in making true statements about them : 'Chlorine has atomic weight 35.453', 'The moon orbits the earth', &c. 

Solipsism is the theory that only I exist - not that only my mind is sure to exist. The question assumes the falsity of solipsism in order to refute it. The solipsist does not grant that there are 7.5 billion other people - or even that there is one other person. S/he can hold that the scenario, possibilities and impossibilities envisaged are merely your own conceptions - or rather his or hers since only he or she exists. Or, strictly, mine since only I exist and this exchange is taking place purely in my own mind or head. 

The reply needs to be nuanced. Probably more nuanced than I can manage but I will try to walk carefully through a minefield. In a word, philosophy is constrained by a philosopher's language. ▻ A COMMON WORLD : CO-REFERENTIALITY Not totally. There are respects in which all language-speakers share a common world to which at least some of their assertions refer. The associations (beliefs about the referents : the 'sense' as I shall call it later) may be different but all languages have words which refer to the sun, the moon, to shadows, to distance, to space, to time, to succession and simultaneity, to past, present and future. In the lingo the words are co-referential. ▻ SENSE VERSUS REFERENCE But other examples unsettle the simple picture. 'The Shoah' and 'the Holocaust' are co-referential - they refer to the same event - but the sense or meaning of these terms is different between Hebrew and English speakers. They can't be said, without more ado, to mean the same. A non-Hebrew-speaking English philosopher cannot think about the Shoah in exactly the ways a Hebrew-speaker can. A barrier of different sense comes down sharply between them. ▻ LINGUISTIC INCOMMENSURABILITY Each culture is likely to have concepts that are specific to it and in some cases cannot be understood in another language. This isn't the Shoah point repeated. There is a common reference if a different sense between 'Shoah' and 'Holocaust'. But if you take the English term 'moral rights', there is no precise equivalent to this expression in Ancient Greek : there is no common reference. The same, I suspect, is the case with 'duties'. The Ancient Greek moral conceptual scheme did not operate with these notions, not exactly these notions. There are moral reflections an Ancient Greek could not have had because there was no language (either in direct terms or by circumlocution) in which to think about them. The same is true in reverse with Ancient Greek terms such as eudaimonia, diakaiosune, moira. We can approximate these terms in English but only by thinking in Classical Greek can we fully comprehend them : which means that the limits of English set limits to what we can think. Only by stepping into the conceptual scheme of another language can we escape the conceptual constraints of English. 

It may be added that simulation theory, closely related to the kind of analysis Formosa offers, is an approach that should be examined though there is not the space to go into it here. See R.M. Gordon, R. M. (2000), 'Simulation and the explanation of action', H. H. Kogler, & K. R. Stueber (Eds.), Empathy and agency: The problem of understanding in the human sciences (pp. 62-82). Boulder, CO: Westview Press. ▻ EVIL AND EMPATHY IN THE AGENT We can now look at how the evil-doer might him- or herself stand in relation to empathy. One explanation of evil-doers' actions is that that they 'do not have an adequate pathway to other people's minds'. If we, here the evil-doers : 

There are two possibilities for religious pluralism 1 All religions are variations on some universal truth. 2 Some religions are variations on some universal truth. Neither of these commits one to specifying what the universal truth is. 1 implies 2 but 2 does not imply one - I guess we can all see that. 1 and 2 can both be true or 2 could be true and 1 false. But all this is mental chess - vacuous unless the claims are given substance by specifying (to some level of detail) what the universal truth is. So : 3 All religions are variations on some universal truth, namely X. 4 Some religions are variations on some universal truth, namely X. It is unlikely, given the candidates, that all religions are variations on X. It's possible but (a) the prima facie evidence is against it, as your examples show, and (b) on what grounds is 3 based ? It's a bare, unevidenced claim as it stands. Is it supposed to be known a priori ? But let it stand : The religious pluralist of type-3 must in consistency exclude no religions since they are all variations on X. If only some religions are variations on some universal truth, namely X, then all other religions, which are not variations on X, can be excluded. But then, what does 'excluded' mean ? Not recognised as being religions ? Or not tolerated as religions ? They could still be tolerated as something else, as philosophies of life or Weltanschauungen. There is a conceptual possibility, I think, that all religions might be accepted as variations on some universal truth, X, but not acceptable in the form their variation takes. If 'X' is, for the sake of argument, 'There is a loving God', a religion that interpreted this as meaning that there is a loving God who loves only some of God's creation, hates others (identifiable in a certain way) and requires those whom God loves to destroy the hated, then one might well draw the line at tolerating this form of variation of the the universal truth. All of which suggests that the universal truth which some or all religions are taken to be variations of, needs to be specified to a greater degree of detail than 'There is a loving God'. My guess would be that as the detail accumulates the supposed consensus of all religions as variations on some universal truth would thin out to implausibility. But this is only a guess; I don't claim to know it. 

Nominalism about universals and much else has a long history in Western philosophy. William of Ockham, c. 1280—c. 1349 (of 'Occam's Razor fame), was clear : 

Isn't it logically possible that something might always have existed in the past yet cease to exist at a time in the future, or even now. In this case it does not have a beginning but does have an end. Otherwise said : it has an end but not a beginning. I use 'logically possible' to refer to any object, event or state of affairs describable without self-contradiction. Thus anything is logically possible if its description does not involve a self-contradiction. The logically possible may be empirically or physically impossible. A square circle is logically impossible as is an object which at time t is larger than itself at time t. A state of affairs with an end but not a beginning is logically possible because its description does not involve a self-contradiction. Other senses of 'logical possible' may be valid as may the denial of all modal notions - possibility, impossibility, necessity. I argue only that, granted the concept of logical possibility as I have characterised it, it is logically possible for something that has an end not to have a beginning. 

One might call the position set out in the quote 'insinuation by absurd association'. No one in their right mind believes in goblins, hobbits or truly everlasting gobstoppers. By putting 'God' in the same list the seed is sown that belief in God is just as absurd as belief in these other things. Whether the grounds for belief in the existence of God are reasonable - rationally justified - or not, they are epistemologically significant, worthy or serious argument - which the fact that Baggini has devoted a book to the topic confirms. This is not the case with the other items on Baggini's rhetorically contrived and bias-inducing list. Baggini has done a lot of good work in making philosophy accessible but this passage is a dip in his achievement. 'Naturalism' in the quote refers to the 'belief that there is only the natural world and not any supernatural one' (Baggini, 4). This is Baggini's own view : 

▻ NOT HAPPY ! 'One must imagine Sisyphus happy'. This is not necessarily so just because Camus says it. An author can misdescribe a situation in their own work. 'Happy' ('heureux') just does not seem the right word if only because of its association with pleasure. Sisyphus is in no state of pleasure. Even if we lop off the association with pleasure it is hard to see how someone 'who knows the full extent of his wretched conditions' can be described, other than paradoxically, as 'happy'. He is not glad to be in his situation after all. ▻ NOT CONTENT ! To talk of Sisyphus' 'victory', his surmounting of his fate by scorn, scarcely makes the word 'content' any more applicable than 'happy'. ▻ EXISTENTIAL HERO This seems to be Sisyphus' right description. In a wretched situation, he is undefeated by his punishment. Admittedly he can never accomplish his task; the gods have made sure of that : the rock will tumble down again inevitably. But Sisyphus never gives way to despair. He 'triumphs' over the rock in the sense that he will return to his task without repining each time the rock falls back down. He may be compelled to do something pointless but the rock will never 'win'. Sisyphus cannot be broken by the absurdity of his world. ▻ SISYPHUS VERSUS PROMETHEUS Just an endnote. Camus later saw Prometheus, not Sisyphus, as the emblematic mythical existential hero. Here is a totally nobler and more hopeful figure : he suffers because he tried to help mankind with the gift of fire, contrary to the gods' wishes, and there is however remotely the chance of release. What Camus calls Sisyphus' 'magnificent presumption' covers, we may note, clever trickery and seduction aided by deception. Of course, it's all a myth. REFERENCE A. Grafton and others, 'The Classical Tradition', Harvard : Belknap Press, 2010, 888. 

I sense that deep concerns lie behind this question, concerns only briefly intimated by the question itself. I cannot do full justice to those concerns; I can only answer the question as it stands and as seems best to me. ▻ ALTRUISM AS THE DEFAULT POSITION 1 Ethical egoism is by no means a bygone and departed position in ethics if we take it to be the view that human action should - morally should - be based exclusively on overall self-interest or that everyone ought - morally ought - to concern themselves solely with their own welfare. If altruism, the requirement of altruism or regard for others, is the default position this can only be so if we exclude ethical egoism. 2 I doubt if any major ethical theory sets altruism as 'the' aim or object or sole proper concern of ethics. I'm not aware of any such major theory that denies all place to self-interest, prudence, or inculates a complete disregard for one's own wants or interests. Indeed, how could one effectively practise altruism if within limits one didn't look out for oneself ? One would be wiped away. Altruism, if I'm pressed to say, is only a matter of caring about others just as they do about themselves. It involves other-benefiting motivation. (How far this actually happens in another question.) ▻ A PLACE FOR ALTRUISM IN MORAL THINKING 3 Different views can be, and are, taken of the nature of morality; but some requirement of altruism seems inbuilt into ordinary thinking, and thence ethical theorising, about morality. Morality is essentially inter-personal; and its norms involve concern for others to the extent of, at least on occasion if not regularly, wanting to benefit others and checking the pursuit of self-interest. For the most part this just is the kind of social institution it is. 4 In this account of morality I cast a wary eye on Kant but Kant's ethical theory certainly imposes checks on self-interest through the constraints set by the categorical imperative in its various formulations. It also does not rule out wanting to benefit others and acting accordingly unless one takes Kant to exclude all emotional engagement from moral agency. (I express a view but will defer to Kantian scholars.) ▻ ALTRUISM AND GOD 'Altruism appears to be absurd without postulating the existence of god'. 5 I can't see any necessary connexion between altruism and belief in the existence of God. Why can't altruism be open, at least to some extent, to evolutionary explanation ? Altruism is a form of co-operation; and co-operation is a robust survival strategy for groups. This could make a capacity or disposition to co-operate a part of our genetic inheritance. No God even hovers on the margins here. 6 I also can't see how, if we were believers and discovered that God did not exist, or were atheists and discovered that God did exist, it should logically affect our moral attitude to altruism one way or the other. (Cf. Steven L. Ross, 'Another Look at God and Morality', Ethics, Vol. 94, No. 1 (Oct., 1983), p.87.) If it logically should affect our moral attitude, I would like to see a supporting argument.