The OP tried this alternative but it still didn't work for him in his case. It does work for me on Linux using version "3.0.8 protocol version 30" of . 

The order is based on the RaidDevice numbers. These are the numbers in the square brackets of the lines like this: 

So the default path would look to be for VMs that are using the pool. That would be the same directory that temporary files related to activity would reside as well. 

Why did this happen? I've had these happen from time to time when one of the members gets out of sync. However if they continue to occur then it's likely a good indication that one of the members is starting to fail, and so you should heed the warning and fully diagnose all the members to make sure they're in good health and also identify which HDD (member) is failing and plan to replace it sooner rather than later. Some distributions may perform a check periodically so you might be getting your array in this state due to these scheduled checks. I believe Debian/Ubuntu may perform a check like this weekly, look for a entry in your system's crontab files or /etc/cron.d directories. Lastly you can manually trigger a check such as this by echoing the command "check" to the RAID's file under . Example As root: 

I believe this is what MDMarra was also referring to. Wildcard certificates make use of SANs ( Subject Alternative Names). There's an explanation of SANs here on the digicert site as well: 

So you'll need to either change the permissions here or take care to add "remoteuser" to the group "somegroup". 

There are 3 possible ways to solve this issue: 1. Add read only permission in the root of the site collection. 2. Deactivate the feature “ViewFormPagesLockDown”: 

We have a where I work. The Watchguard boxes are appliances (Linux boxes) that provide a firewall, QoS, and all that. Ours works pretty well, the UI is a little sluggish, but it does the job well enough. For your setup you're going to have to setup 2 networks. One with the first tenants, and the 2nd with your customers. You can read more about the products here: 

I just did this on a CentOS 5.6 box and I think part of your problem might be with your auto.test file. In it's current form you'll be creating a /test mount point and then a single moung of test under it, i.e. /test/test. Also you might want to add the --ghost switch to your auto.master line like so: 

If you take a look at the rules that are included with you'll notice that they use these variables to make things neater and more parameterized. For example in the included they've used them to make general action rules that they can then use when defining the various jails. Example Here are some basic variables at the top. 

The key line in that output is the . That defines where Apache's directory is to start, in my case, when looking for config. files and modules. NOTE: This is not the same thing as . This is specific to how the daemon was compiled, the is for specifying where the daemon should start looking for actual web content (.html files and such). For my file I have the following Load lines: 

It would appear that makes use of a polling architecture. This one looks to make use of a timeout (time based) when polling one of the interfaces (for example: -i eth0 or -i eth1). This would seem to indicate that there is some potential for blocking for one interface while the other is being polled. Another snippet, this time within the function, it's polling one of the specified interfaces: 

Well it's sorted now. I can't remember when setting it up if http and https protocols (8530 and 8531) were both in there, however I've removed 8531 as it wasn't attempting to use that port anyway and the IIS website now starts, the WSUS control panel starts and all machines are back receiving updates. Hope this helps someone. 

To begin, it's important this excerpt is read and understood before anything is suggested: The VPN configuration has been untouched, as I'm the only admin user, and also the firewall itself has been powered up for over a year. This did work up until last week for several remote users including myself. Much as I hate and disbelieve this statement "it's done it itself" is the best explanation I have We have a Watchguard firewall that controls our VPN, so any incoming VPN connections are authenticated by the Watchguard. We can still "log on" to the VPN just fine without error. However, once on the network, we cannot access or ping any resources including Windows servers and Macs. We have several remote users who all reported a problem accessing network resources at a similar time. This was in the middle of a business day whilst all operations were up and running and in use locally by over 20 people. Since this time and leading up to it, no resources were altered or restarted, including the Watchguard, as I said it's uptime is over a year. We can connect onto the VPN fine, but cannot ping either IP's or hostnames of any network resources. If anyone can provide any pointers on where to start looking that would be great. It's unlikely to require much change in configuration as it's been a working VPN with access to all network resources for several employees for a couple of years now, this is the first problem which appears to have arrived out of nowhere. Cheers 

Server was rebooted last night to take care of SQL/IIS and the update service but to no avail. Any pointers greatly appreciated. Much as I hate to say it, the server has been running since 2013 and WSUS and all domain PC's have been updating wonderfully until it seems one fateful day when, from what we can tell, no conscious changes were made at all. 

for a while now, despite working faultlessly for over 3 years, both WSUS and Windows Update have stopped working on our single domain contoller running Windows Server 2008 (not R2). The error we get when trying to run Windows Update is "80072efd" which of course we've Google'd and tends to point to a firewall issue. We're inclined to believe this isn't the problem, as there are a couple of standalone PC's on the network here that aren't part of the domain and as such don't use the DC as a source for updates which connect through to Windows Update just fine. As all connections are routed the same way this would suggest the firewall is not at fault, and also the age old saying of "nothing has been changed on the firewall" - which it hasn't to prompt this sudden stoppage on the DC and subsequent domain machines. Also, whilst investigating, I've noticed the WSUS snap-in doesn't load anymore, just prompts for "Reset Server Node" which doesn't work. Further to this I've taken a look in IIS and can see the WSUS Administration "site" it stopped. I cannot restart it as it says another site is using that port, which from what I can tell within IIS is not the case. We only have 2 sites in IIS and one uses 80 and the other, WSUS Administration, uses 8530/1. I've also tried removing and upping the limits on WsusPool in the Recyling tab as a technet post suggested this could be the cause, but even after restarting IIS - nothing. I presume this is all related to Windows Update not working either but can't be sure. I have attached below the error from the WSUS snap-in: 

NOTE: I realize I'm getting 401's above. There's definitely Tomcat's up and if I change the pathing around so that it points to a static page within Tomcat so that I get 200's it still behaves the same way, so that doesn't seem to be an issue at the moment. Initially seems fine With the above command running, all my traffic is directed to the first Tomcat server. If I stop Tomcat, then all the traffic fails over to the second Tomcat server. My Problem When I bring the first Tomcat server back up, I'm expecting all the traffic to remain on the second server now. However as soon as I bring it back up, the traffic is directed back to the first Tomcat server. How can I achieve getting Nginx, to leave the traffic on the second server, and not redirect it back? 

If you need to provide a path that includes spaces to robocopy's /log switch you can do it like this: 

I've never had success in getting either or to download files which are being served from an Apache server where is enabled. I'm thinking this is your problem as well. The directories show up like this when you browse them: 

You can use a tool such as kismet, $URL$ to scan for wireless networks. I believe it can show you all wireless devices in your vicinity without having to have the devices being actively connected to same network.    This post should give you a rough idea of how to accomplish the scanning of the network using Kismet. $URL$ Also as a side note you can use this tool, fing, $URL$ to find out all the addresses of the devices on your network. 

See this tutorial for more details. EDIT #1 Another suggestion would be to try escaping double quotes rather than use single quotes: 

Sure you could just mount the SSD card under manually or through your systems file. First figure out what your SSD card's device handle is (might be something like /dev/sdc1). Then using the mount command: 

This will only allow them to run one command I believe. If you need to allow them more you can use . It's a script that has a file where you can specify commands that a person is allowed to run. 

We have a xtm21-w and according to the docs in drop-in mode all the interfaces are on the same network. From the watchguard online docs 

3. Run the following script on your site collection, this will add permission level to the “Limited Access” Permission level that you have in that site collection. 

I have a file under linux and have been trying to find a way to change the volume id without having to recreate the file. Most of the authoring tools such as provide a switch for setting the volume for example. However I can't figure out how to change it on a pre-existing file. For clarification, the bit I'm trying to change is this string. Here's an example dump from the isoinfo command. 

It sounds like a switch failing to me. You can use the app to scan your network or a single device and it will show you some additional information about the manufacturer of the NICs you're scanning. 

Look in Apache's config files. The main file is located here: There should also be a bunch of files under here: . One of them in the 2nd location may even be called or some such. Look through these files and you'll see a section that is telling Apache to look in the . Probably something like this: