This is more of a rant than an answer, but I'm starting to think it's impossible to debate anything meaningful without making a logical fallacy or resorting to axiomatic thinking. Reasoning: 

and many others regard it as a virtue. Many countries also tax the rich to support the poor through social programs To summarize, the concept that the rich have a religious, moral and legal duty to help the poor exists in many forms with many names. 

The point he's making is the opposite of what the quotation suggests: Aristotle believes that all things are knowable, but, in a specific individual's journey towards complete knowledge, there will be times that new knowledge shows there are more things to learn. The last instance of 'know' occurs in a somewhat weak sentence "But evidently in a sense knowledge is universal, and in a sense it is not." 

This is the dreaded fallacy fallacy. Pointing out a logical fallacy in your oppponent's argument doesn't automatically strengthen your own argument. A silly example: 

I agree with @PeterJ's comment to a point, but believe NO "meaningful" theories stand up to analysis. Given the justification for any "meaningful" theory, I believe one or both of the following must be true: 

More specifically, a "meaningful" theory is one that addresses real-life issues, not pure abstraction. "Reasonable" people reject statements such as "it's OK to kill innocent babies for no reason". A fun application of my belief is arguing with people on social media: you can show that all arguments either contain logical fallacies or, when logically extended, are equivalent to statements that the arguer abhors. 

So, when people ask "why can't everyone discuss controversial issue X logically", the answer is: because it's literally impossible to determine or even agree on fundamental axiomatic truth. We know we exist ("I think; therefore I am"), but everything outside that is speculation. So, not only are arguments with logical fallacies more convincing (to most people), they're also the only arguments you can actually make. 

Of course, since the puzzles involve basic prepositional logic, there are other ways to solve them as well. In particular, computer languages such as Prolog have been designed to solve problems like these without looking at all possible combinations of variables (the brute force method) 

So, if someone is a "hard Agnostic", they are equally unsure of the existence of all gods. That doesn't mean they believe there's a 50% chance any/all Gods exist because of the principle of insufficient reason fallacy. Rather, an hard Agnostic believes you can not even assign probabilities to the possibility of the existence of God, since that would indicate you have some knowledge of whether God(s) exist. In your case, Harris is accusing someone of being a soft Agnostic by saying the person has assigned such probabilities (not necessarily numerically), and has assigned Poseidon a higher probability of existence than the Abrahaminic God. 

Ultimately, the concept of morality and the concept of nature are very different. Arguably, all human morality works against our inherently greedy and violent nature. It's natural to want to kill someone who angers you and is weaker than you, but morality requires we not kill people for trivial things. 

If you view Aristotle's "Metaphysics" at $URL$ and search for the word "know" (including words with "know" n them), you will see that he strongly suggests it several times, though not as a direct quote, at least not in this translation. Perhaps the most relevant paragraph: 

If we have an object x in front of us, we can ask many questions about it such as "is x red?", "does x have a mass of more than 5kg?", "is x warmer than 300K?". Of course, you could argue these questions aren't well-defined. For example, how much of x must be red? All of it? More than half of it? Any portion of it? And what do we mean by red? When does red become orange or pink or violet? And, since color depends on reflected light, what lighting conditions are we using? Sunlight? "Black" (ultraviolet) light? Orange fluorescent light from mercury lamps? Total darkness? (in which case we'd be looking at emitted, not reflected, light). However, we generally accept that we could find a reasonable definition of "red", and decide whether a given object is red or not. However, we can't ask the question "does x exist"? Why not? Because the fact you can refer to x means that x must exist in some sense. For example, if we ask "do flying horses exist", we've already created the concept of flying horses. In contrast, if we ask "do sl6eyun7el exist?", we have no idea what sl6eyun7el means, so it doesn't exist even in our minds. In our first paragraph example above, we would need to have flying horses standing in front of us to ask "do flying horses exist", in which case it's fairly obvious they do. There is a mathematically precise way to address this issue. Although mathematicians often say "there exists x such that P(x)" or "for all x, P(x)", where P(x) is some property, they are actually being a little sloppy. Formally, any existential ("there exists") or universal quantification ("for all") must have a "universe of discussion", or more formally, a set. The correct forms of the earlier statements are "there exists x in set S such that P(x)" or "for all x in set S, P(x)". How does this help? It now means we can regard the existence of x as a property of the set S, instead of as a property of x itself. In other words, we can ask "does S have the property that one or more of its elements is a flying horse?". This makes the answer simple: if S is the world of fiction, it is true that one or more of its elements is a flying horse; if S is the world of reality it is not true (as far as we know) that one or more of its elements is a flying horse. And, just to be nitpicky, I realize you could put a horse on an airplane or that flying horses may exist in reality but we haven't seen them yet, but you get the idea. 

You've run into the "more unique" issue. If an item is unique, it means only one of its kind exists. In other words, unique is a binary condition. However, the phrase "more unique" does have a meaning: if there are two examples of X in the universe, and three examples of Y, then X is "more unique" than Y. Of course, you could say X is "closer to being unique" than Y, but "more unique" is a reasonable way of saying this. Belief could also be considered a binary condition, but we often qualify it: 

"We were talking about the new restaurant when she threw in some non sequitur about her dog." I'm more familiar with the second definition, but the first definition seems to support the statement "all logical fallacies are non-sequiturs". However, the "specifically" part seems to indicate only specific fallacies are considered non-sequitirs. Interestingly, when non-sequitur was Word of the Day, the specificity criterion is missing. The Oxford Reference defines it as " argument in which the conclusion does not follow from the premises", not limiting it to specific fallacies, and two online dictionaries agree: 

The man receives the job in cases 1 and 4, for a total probability of pq+(1-p)(1-q). Since we assume both and p and q were greater than 50%, pq+(1-p)(1-q) must also be greater than 50% Therefore, even at a statistical level, your premise is valid: if a randomly selected man and a randomly selected woman enter a randomly selected salary negotiation, the man is more likely to receive a higher offer than the woman. Now, let's walk into a trap. You see two people who will be interviewing for a job. One is a woman, one is a man. Probabilisticly, who is likely to receive the higher salary offer (assume that the offers won't be identical-- failure to get the job is an offer of $0). The obvious answer is "the man", but this is incorrect because I left out the key phrase "randomly selected". Looking at the pair, you may notice they have different heights, weights, ages, are dressed differently, and so on. More importantly, there are plenty of differences you can't notice: how many years of education they have, what their work experience is, even what they had for breakfast, whether they were born before or after noon, etc. If there are 500 people in town, there are 2^499 different ways to separate the pair into two groups, and, statistically speaking, each grouping is equally valid. "But I only have data on gender", you may say. True, but this means you introduced a bias when you chose to look at gender instead of the 2^499-1 other ways of separating people. You decided gender was something important to look at, even though there are necessarily more important factors (or "combinations of factors", which are still technically factors), even if they don't have simple names in our language. This is why some people believe governments shouldn't release data on a criminal's race, for example (some countries already don't do this). By listing some characteristics of criminals, but not all of them, there is an implication these characteristics are more important than other characteristics. If you could somehow list all characteristics, you would find some characteristics have an ever high correlation with criminals. As a silly example, you might find that men who are currently over 5 foot 7 inches tall who were born in Kentucky but moved to Indiana between the ages of 7-9 and then subsequently moved to California for at least 2 years sometime in their lives, are registered Republican, and chose Ginger over MaryAnn in a survey, have a crime rate 100 times higher than average. It's unlikely we would regard people with those characteristics (who haven't already committed crimes) as dangerous. We would attribute it to random chance, but statistically, that characteristic would be just as valid as race or other factors some people actually to attribute to criminal risk.