Routing and Remote Access I tried the DHCP relay agent configuration that was suggested as well, but that did not work I would highly appreciate anykind of help because I am pretty much done here with my nerves. Thank you very much in advance. 

However, this is not recommended by Microsoft, I tried it and it did not solve my problem. The configuration on the WDS (My System is German therefore the actual naming might be different): PXE response tab: 

Thats not the default one, however it is in the allowed range. The UDP port range is the default since it is not advised to change them. I tried to change the "networkprofile" from 100mbits/1gbits and custom. I am running a 1gbit network with CAT6 cables and 1gbit netgear switch 5 ports. Everything is configured to use 1gbit. The WDS is authorised for the DHCP server. My ISA 2006 configuration: For the internal networking i have configured the following policy array: Allow protocols on internal network including the w2k3 host: 

I have a client with an ASUS Gryphon Z97 motherboard. It is unable to boot via WDS and if I install the OS manually then the standard Windows 7 install has no drivers for it's Ethernet Controller. I've looked up the and it is . I've also downloaded the LANdriver package found on ASUS's support website. This is all fine but in WDS when adding drivers it asks you to select the inf file corresponding to the driver you wish to install. These have such helpful names as , , . My question is, how am I supposed to know which of these I should be deploying to my client without necessarily 'cluttering' up the client. Or should I just select them all and it won't really cause any performance impact? 

Our employees use their laptops both as personal laptops and as work laptops. When they're at work they sign in to the domain and when they're at home they sign in to their laptop directly. The problem with Windows 8 is that it's basically forcing them to remember to type when they're at home and then when they're at work. Ideally, I'd like the user switcher to just show these two accounts side-by-side and allow the user to click on the one they want, enter their password and be off to the races. Is this possible? I've been playing around with tutorials like this and editing the registry / running logon scripts and yet these accounts refuse to show up side-by-side. 

You could use PHP: First that comes up to my mind is the use of "$_SERVER['HTTP_REFERER']" however, this can be disabled by the user on the client side if that is shown or not as far as I am concerned, please correct me if I am wrong. So you could do something like Pseudo code: 

Alright. The problem is solved. Here is what I did: I switched off my ESX. I started it again: DHCP started I tried the PXE install, got the 4011 error. Double-checked if my WDS is running: WDS failed to start. Why? Because port 67 wass already used. I opened WDS and then set the "Do not use port 67" option and thats it. Everything worked. So at the end it was just a simple restart to recognise, that I need to start the DHCP first so it gets assigned the port 67 for sure and that WDS does not care about that. 

I'm trying to build a company-wide signature in Exchange using the Transport Rules and Disclaimers. I'd like to include our Skype names as part of this signature. In ADAC, the closest field I could find to Skype was "IP Phone" however I'm unable to find a way to retrieve it using a variable such as , , et al. Is there a way to retrieve this field? Also, the list I found of attributes can be found near the bottom of the page here under : $URL$ I don't necessarily want to jam our Skype name under "Fax Number" or something if I don't have to. Thanks! 

I just removed a disk to test our RAID 1 setup was working, and now I want to reintroduce that Disk, and have it continue living as a RAID1. However, when I go into Disk Management the former RAID1 disk is marked "Missing" and the disk that WAS that disk is showing up separately. How can I tell Windows that these disks contain the same data and that it should resume using them in tandem? Thank you. 

$URL$ "Set max_connections to the number of concurrent connections you need. The default value is only 100 connections, which is very small." So, yes you can set "max_connections" 

I am currently building a storage unit for our office. It is rather low budget at the moment, but it needs to be extendable. basically we have a huge database that will grow over the next few months quite heavily. Therefore, ideally we would just like to throw hard discs at our new server. We have not purchased the server yet, but going through some details. However, I would like to get an answer to a question first. How easy is it to expand existing RAID systems? We will start with two HDD 4TBs WD black. But after about 1 month we will need to add another 2 4TB disks. The server we are going to get has 12 bays. Mirroring is important, However RAID 1 only works with 2 disks. Raid 10, would already allow us to mirror a RAID 0. And from what I have seen even the raid 10 can be installed with two disks. However, what happens after that ? Is there any recommendation to achieve a flexible RAID system ? On the OS layer I would just like to build a LVM, that recognises once there is space added to the "disk" so that it can be expanded. But in fact, it lies on several disks which are managed by the RAID controller.