Maine held referendums on statehood in 1792, 1797, and 1807; however, in these instances, Mainers decided not to split from the rest of Massachusetts. The real breaking point was the War of 1812, which saw British forces occupy a large portion of eastern coastal Maine. From the Portland Press-Herald: 

However, to be admitted to the Union, Congress and the president had to pass a bill allowing Maine's statehood as well. This is where the Missouri compromise came into play; Missouri's statehood had been hotly debated throughout 1819, with abolitionists strongly opposing admission of a new slave state. When Maine's statehood bill came before Congress in 1820, the Senate decided to link the two measures. Since the balance of power between free and slave states would be largely unaffected by one free state and one slave state joining the Union, the opposition to Missouri's statehood lessened and the bill eventually passed. 

So there were definitely Inuit people in the area, and it was certainly conceivable to their contemporaries that the explorers would have joined Inuit society out of self-preservation. The Inuit oral tradition is also quite strong (Inuit stories were quite helpful in locating the two ships), so presumably if a white man had joined an Inuit tribe, such a story would have been preserved; but I haven't been able to find any mention of such a story in my (limited) web research. This may be an impossible question to answer definitively, but are there any plausible reasons why the Franklin crew chose to remain apart from the natives, even though it led to their eventual demise? 

Axis forces predominantly stopped short of Moscow due to freezing temperatures. Russian reinforcements were used to counterattack and push them back (which, after amazing gains, collapsed in spectacular defeat). The Japanese Empire was not a significant threat the the Soviet Union (despite Stalin's fears). Vladivostok could have been taken, and this would have been of some significance, but not game changing. What was significant was that the Russian industry had been pulled back behind the Urals, making the prospect of enemy forces reaching it in 41/42 impossible. Without the Siberian forces the Moscow siege would likely have continued in the following year. Whether the Germans could entirely envelop the city (much less capture) is another thing however. Even with the capital captured, it does not necessarily mean that the USSR would have fallen (though it makes it that more likely) 

When considering the Victorian era there is a typical reference to the zeitgeist that thought that human society and technology were inevitably progressing for the better, a sort of manifest destiny that was seemingly confirmed by the ongoing industrial revolution. This was promoted by the peace and relative stability experienced in Europe at that time, and strength of the British Empire, which had at this time reached its zenith. What name is given to this strain of thought (either within the United Kingdom or Europe generally)? 

Short Answer The second one. Long Answer Many historians believe that at the very beginning King Henry VIII was driven more by personal reasons than theological reasons. Quite a lot of good sources are cited in this wikipedia article and this one. It all started with Henry's troubles with Queen Catherine --his first wife. Henry was obsessed with a male heir to his throne and Catherine had only provided him with one child (who survived infancy) --Mary (later to become Queen Mary I of England). Henry wanted to annul his marriage to Catherine so that he could marry Anne Boleyn but Catherine (daughter of Queen Isabella I of Castile and aunt to the Holy Roman Emperor Charles V) had the support of Pope Clement VII, who would have obviously feared Charles's armed forces. Indeed, when the matter was first raised the Pope had been imprisoned by Charles. The Pope delayed the issue and insisted that it be settled in Rome and not England. Henry made several attempts to persuade the Pope to side with him and grant him the annulment but the Pope never did so. And thus Henry started challenging the Pope's authority over religious matters. I quote Wikipedia now: 

Clarification: The author's writing style is such that he encloses modern equivalents of ancient Chinese terms in single quotes and omits the mention of the ancient Chinese term (presumably to maintain an easy reading and avoid unnecessary deviations from the main analysis). Thus --'counties', 'courts', and 'feet'. 

Robert's account of Urban's speech follows. Robert claims that he was personally present at the Council; there is no particular reason to believe or disbelieve this statement. He wrote his chronicle in 1107, twelve years after the events took place, so it is entirely plausible that he was present and was recounting his own memories; it's also possible that he was relying on second-hand accounts. The account of Fulcher of Chartres, who is more generally accepted to have been present, does not mention the precise location of the speech. Guibert de Nogent, who wrote a history of the First Crusade but was not present at the Council of Clermont, provides no further details either. There are three other sources concerning this speech, but I have been unable to locate English translations of their complete texts online. According to Wikipedia, two of them (Urban's letter and the anonymous Gesta Francorum) do not discuss the circumstances or content of the speech in any great detail. It's possible that the account of Baldric of Dol contains some detail about the circumstances of the speech, but like Guibert he was not present at the Council. 

The Franklin expedition has been in the news again recently, as the wreck of the HMS Terror was recently located by the Arctic Research Foundation. This follows the discovery of the wreck of the HMS Erebus by the same foundation in 2014. One thing I have never quite understood about the expedition: why didn't the explorers "go native" and live among the Inuit to survive? The Wikipedia article on the expedition notes that 

So in theory, this structure makes it very hard to make military coups a success without loss of civilian life. Whether or not that itself resulted in no coups in India is a highly debatable question but I would definitely say it is a contributory factor. 

Today, we know Hatshepsut as a ruler famous for her many wars, restoration of ancient trade routes, and building projects. Sources: 

It should be noted, for Beijing, though that the last two measurements do cost the exchequer and although these costs are external to the games they should be counted as proper costs because they were incurred because of the games. However, if you start doing that then you must also count the external benefits of incurring those costs in other areas --and that is why a thorough analysis with externalities is what can be more accurate guide to the real cost of such games. Disclaimer on the magnitude of these costs One thing should be mentioned in this context. The cost of these events may look huge to us --£12 billion for the London Olympics is no doubt a huge amount for us or most corporations indeed. But considering that these countries have annual GDPs of trillions of dollars, £12 billion is like a drop in that ocean (ok, a bucket in the ocean). Long term benefits or counting with externalities The usual political argument given by those in favour of hosting such big events (Soccer, Rugby, or Cricket world cups, Commonwealth games, Asiad, or Olympics etc.) are that they can make a city global, project its economic might, or spur investment in infrastructure. For proponents who attempt to bring these events to a developing country/non-global city the argument is to project the city as a global centre open for business or tourism. For cities that are already a global centre of business and tourism one of the many projected intentions is to spur investment in infrastructure (notable example, New Delhi for Commonwealth games and more recently London for 2012 Olympics). These events can create jobs in the construction and tourism sector too. 

To add to some already good answers. It didn't matter hugely. The most important aspect of having a war on two fronts was having to guard the Atlantic coast. For the most part this meant tying down the requisite number of armed forces to ensure that invasions or raids could not be conducted (or at least without huge risk). Winston Churchill had made it clear that defeating the UK (a pretty daunting task as it stood) would not mean an end to conflict in the west. His famous speech in 1940 made it clear that the UK government would continue to fight on the island, even after losing land superiority, and even if entirely ejected from the British Isles, would continue resistance within the Empire. Partisan action could also be assumed in occupied territories. As such, a large number of German soldiers would be tied down for a long time in the west, even if the war on that front was "officially" concluded. The other aspect to note was that it was considered to be a bad idea for Germany to fight a war on two fronts. Stalin did not believe that Hitler would ever invade the USSR while Britain remained a threat. To perhaps lend credence to this idea, the largest air raid against Britain was conducted in the run-up to Barbarossa (10th-11th May). Despite intelligence to the contrary, the USSR (and Stalin in particular) was caught napping when Germany launched an invasion on 22nd June. This had the effect of complete devastation of the Soviet forces in the west. However, as war with Germany had been considered ultimately quite a likely scenario, much of the soviet industry had already been repositioned behind the Urals, meaning that it would be virtually untouched throughout the war. While fighting a war on two fronts eveutally allowed the Allied to land in France during Overlord, by that stage the war was already decided. 

Francisco de Miranda comes close. Born in 1750 in Caracas, Venezuela, he became an officer in the Spanish Army in 1773. In 1779, Spain signed the Treaty of Aranjuez and entered the American Revolutionary War as an ally of France; their ultimate goals were to regain Gibraltar, Florida, and Minorca from the British. As part of the campaign in Florida, Miranda participated in the Siege of Pensacola; his diary is one of the primary sources we now have concerning the siege. The one caveat here is that the Siege of Pensacola did not involve any American units, nor was it fought on land that became part of the United States immediately after the Revolutionary War; so a less charitable interpretation might view this as an opportunistic land-grab by the Spanish & French, designed to stick a thumb in the eye of the British, and not part of the "true" war effort. But then, one could say much the same about the French involvement in the Revolutionary War, and nobody denies that they greatly assisted the cause. Miranda's role in the Latin-American wars of liberation is less in debate. After the end of the Revolutionary War, Miranda was charged with being a spy for the British and went into exile, first in the United States (where he hobnobbed with the American Founding Fathers), then in the UK. In 1806 he returned to the USA and organized a filibustering expedition to try to liberate Venezuela from the Spanish; unfortunately, this first expedition failed and Miranda returned to the UK. When Napoleon invaded Spain, the Spanish colonies gained de facto independence, and some established juntas to govern themselves. The Supreme Junta of Caracas sent a delegation to the UK, met with Miranda, and convinced him to return to Venezuela. Upon his return, he began agitating for independence, and the junta finally declared the First Republic of Venezuela in 1811. However, several provinces of Venezuela remained loyal to the rump Spanish royalist government in Cádiz, and civil war broke out. As the First Republic collapsed, Miranda was given sole command of its armies; but it was too late, and the armies of the First Republic were defeated. Some of the republican officers (including one Simon Bolívar) arrested Miranda and handed him over to the Spanish Royal Army. He died in prison in Cádiz five years later. While Miranda was not involved in the later successful wars of Latin-American Independence, he gained the nickname El Precursor ("The Precursor") for being one of the first to agitate for independence. If nothing else, Bolívar learned a lot from Miranda's failures (see the Cartagena Manifesto.) 

Writing about the Qin's ascent to power, John Keay in his popular history book China: A History mentions: 

P.S.:- To those who may wonder why "six" is important to this question --the colour black, the season winter, and the number six are associated with the Chinese element "Water". The Qin's associated element was "Water" as they had displaced the Eastern Zhou (周朝) whose element was fire. 

The man in the top right corner is Philip II of Macedon. According to legend, Zeus took to the serpent form and seduced and had coitus with his wife Olimpias and fathered Alexander the Great (or Alessandro Magno in Italian). This is why Zeus is shown in the half serpent form. The legend also says that Philip caught a glimpse of this and hence one day would lose the eye through which he saw this. That is why Romano shows him being blinded by Zeus's eagle. Philip lost his eye in the siege of Methone in 355-354 B.C. a year after Alexander was born. Plutarch's The Life of Alexander details the legend. I quote the relevant sections: II. 

A History of Ancient Egypt (2011) Chapter 7, The Birth of Empire: The Early 18th Dynasty (ca. 1550-1390). Read specially, 7.2 and 7.5. Wikipedia (mentioned in links inline) 

TL;DR: Maine's desire for self-governance arose independently of the Missouri Compromise, and was only tied to the statehood of Missouri due to the politics playing out in Congress at the time. Maine residents had long felt distant and alienated from the government in Boston, and the farmers who settled in the interior of Maine after about 1800 were particularly inclined to such feelings. From Mass Moments: 

Peter Adamson's podcast The History of Philosophy Without Any Gaps recently did a summary of medieval thought on economics. I present a brief summary of this podcast episode; I'm not an expert on the subject, so any errors or oversimplifications below are almost assuredly mine and not Prof. Adamson's. He covers two main topics of interest to your question: merchants, and usury. Profit-making via trade As a background, Aristotle (in Politics) was disdainful of the notion of profit for profit's sake; he implicitly believed that all goods had an intrinsic value, and that exchanges that did not result in an exchange of equal intrinsic values were ethically suspect. Money was just a convenient method by which this intrinsic value could be measured, and the building of wealth was unnatural. However, by the medieval era, there was a growing recognition that "market price" was different from an object's intrinsic value. Thomas Aquinas (1225–74) and Henry of Ghent (1217–93) both accepted that a lack of supply of a good could lead a merchant to demand a higher price for that good, and that there was nothing ethically suspect about this. (Though Aquinas says it would be particularly noble if the merchant kept charging the customary price.) Many medieval European thinkers converged on the idea that money measured how "useful" an object was, either to the buyer & seller or to the community at large, rather than measuring its intrinsic worth. A recognition of the concept of "added value" was also present in some medieval thinkers. Duns Scotus (1266?–1308) defended the right of a merchant to buy an object at one place and sell it for more money at a distant place, since the merchant has taken a risk and invested labor in transporting these objects. All in all, medieval thinkers were generally of the opinion that there was nothing inherently unjust about money-making via trade, contrary to what Aristotle might have thought. Usury Usury was a trickier business. Renting objects, the providing of services, and usury also challenged the idea that value could attach only to material goods. In all of these exchanges, one party ends up with some extra money without losing anything of value themselves. For this reason, Aristotle & church doctrine viewed usury as wicked. Medieval thinkers came up with some reasons why this was so. Aquinas echoed Aristotle in the view that it is inherently unjust to demand more back from someone than one has given them. Another view was that the usurer was selling time to the borrower (in some sense), but time does not belong to anyone. Still, having a few money-lenders in your town did seem to be awfully useful, and a few medieval thinkers came up with ideas about money-lending that are closer to the view we have today. Durandus of Saint-Pourçin (1275?–1332) recognized the utility of money-lending but viewed it as an unseemly business, and suggested that the state should do it instead. Gerardus Odonis (1285–1349) recognized that the usurer is giving up more than just money; they are also taking a risk that it won't be repaid, and losing the use of the money for the period of the loan. However, he justified the ban on usury on the grounds that the borrower was in some sense being compelled to pay costs beyond the money that was being lent, and this compulsion was unfair. So in general, while medieval thinkers were beginning to recognize that that usury could make an economy function more smoothly, it was still viewed with distaste at best. 

Seoul: Seoul in 1988 earned mainly through sale of TV broadcasting rights (₩224,694 million) and marketing (₩70,833 million). Commemorative coins, lotteries, and admission tickets also added to the revenue significantly. These figures are broken down in considerable detail in the Vol. 1 of the official report published by Seoul Olympic Organization Committee. Please see section 7 (in particular 7.1.2, 7.1.3, and the balance sheet on page 211) of that report for more details. Beijing: Beijing 2008 games remain much of a mystery. A detailed financial report is not included in the final report (three volumes) published by the Beijing Organizing Committee for the Games (BOCOG). However, that report does mention a dedicated investment fund that raised $40 million in interest and RMB-USD exchange rate pegging that averted losses to organisers from exchange rate fluctuations (thereby encouraging more investment). The report also details tax breaks and debt extension schemes introduced to encourage more investment in the games. For full details please see Chapter 5 (Finances) of Vol. 3. 

Montreal (1976): The stadium itself was the biggest investment. Still unfinished by the time Olympics began the stadium's cost were not matched by the revenue it was supposed to generate. Till date, the stadium does not have a long term tenant. For sources please see wikipedia (it cites sources). The biggest contributor to the loss was that in those days Olympics had to be publicly sponsored. Private sponsorship and investment followed in 1980s --as a result of the Montreal lesson. Athens (2004): The document I have cited for Athens details the investments, cost projections, and revenue projections. Many of the hotels built for the event remain grossly under-occupied. Los Angeles (1984): This remains one of the most financially successful Olympics of modern times. Two chief ways in which LA was able to avoid what happened to Montreal were private funding through corporate sponsoring and higher TV broadcast revenues. The latter was probably why corporate sponsors became interested. This wikipedia article sums it up quite beautifully: