I'm going to suppose that these crystals exist and behave the way you describe and I'm going to address what I think is your primary question. How can electricity be harnessed from such crystal? You describe breaking a crystal in half and having one half be positively charged(few electrons) and the other being negatively charged(many electrons). This is very similar to static electricity. To use this as a significant power source, the amount of energy involved must be much greater than when you pet a cat on a dry day. I think it would be most useful to think of the broken crystal as a charged capacitor. Capacitors are difficult(but not impossible) things to use as power sources. Capacitors tend to want to dissipate all their energy at once. I imagine that if you touch the two halves together then there would be a spark, the charges would equalize, and all your power would be gone. Also, if you broke the crystals with your hands, the current would flow through you body and the crystal halves would again be inert. (This might be bad for a person, it depends on the size of the charge) The charge in the crystals would bu just as happy to dissipate into the ground. The two halves would also be strongly attracted to each other in much the same way magnets are. A capacitor with enough power to illuminate a light bulb for a couple of hours would be a dangerous thing. If it did manage to discharge all of its power at once, it could electrocute someone or start a fire. 

The strength of a gravity field is given by (G * m) / r^2. To decrease the strength of the gravity field, you can decrease m, the mass of the planet, increase r, the distance from the center of the planet, or decrease G, the gravitational constant. Decrease mass of planet Your planet is some how loosing mass without loosing size. Where is it going? Who is taking it? How are the people on the surface surviving the process? These are questions you'd have to answer. Increase the distance from the center Your planet is getting bigger without changing mass. I can't imagine how this happens. Someone is inflating a planet sized balloon inside the planet? The gravitational constant is diminishing We named it constant because it's not known to change. That being said, we don't know why it should be at the value it apparently is, so we have no idea what might cause it to change. If the change isn't local to the planet, then everything in the solar system gets farther away as their orbits are no longer stable. Eventually things start flying away into interstellar space to freeze in darkness forever. If the strength of the gravitational field isn't decreasing, then maybe there is a force that counteracts it. I suggest: centrifugal force (I know it's not a real force, but it seem lit it is to anyone on the surface of the planet) Centrifugal force If you planet is spinning ever faster and faster, then people near the equator would experience lower and lower gravity. People near the poles will not experience the same thing nearly as strongly. If the Earth reaches a speed where the equator is moving at orbital velocity (about 1 rotation every 90 minutes) then people living there would experience 0 gravity. If the earth speeds up any more than that, then it will break apart and everyone on earth will die. 

Just a big, strong jaw. It's only a matter of being stronger than the armor. Teeth matter a little. Sharp teeth let you get more pressure from the same force. The teeth need to be strong enough to not break. If the goal is to pierce the armor, then you want long, strong, sharp teeth. Like a saber tooth tiger. If the armor is easier to crush than pierce, then you want stout teeth with many sharp points of contact. Like a crocodile. Or a moose. But the strength of the jaw matters more than the teeth. At a certain point it's just about biting harder. To exert a large force, you need to be able to actually get your mouth around the target. That means your mouth needs to open wide enough to get on both sides of your target. And big muscles to close the jaw. Strength in biology is quite often about bigger muscles and thicker bones rather than better design. 

You keep asking, why doesn't it freeze? I understand that you mean ice forming in tissue. Being really cold isn't a problem unless you've got metabolic processes that rely on certain temperature ranges. So, muscles and nerve cells have to be warm if you're going to use them, and you'll have to warm your skin up if it's ever going to heal. Penguin feet, seal skin, elk legs, they can all get colder than the core body temperature, but they never actually get as cold as their surroundings. It's much easier to maintain a temperature difference of 10-20 degrees than 100 degrees. Barely enough hot blood goes out to the extremities to keep the flesh above freezing. IRL humans die if their core temperature dips by even a few degrees for too long, but your hands and feet can get very cold before you experience lasting damage. I know some people whose hands are always at about room temperature. Penguin feet sometimes do freeze when they stand on the ice. Their skin recovers from frost bite very well. Also, it's impossible to freeze while swimming. The water is above the freezing temperature or it would be ice. If you had some enzymes or ions in your blood that kept the freezing point of your flesh slightly bellow that of water, then you'll be fine. 

The orbit of the earth around the sun is determined almost entirely by the mass of the sun. If the mass of the earth changed drastically, that orbit wouldn't change. The orbit of the moon around the earth is determined mostly by the mass of the earth. If the mass of the earth decreased, then the moon would get farther away, potentially being freed from earth's orbit entirely. That is assuming the process of removing mass from the earth doesn't exert additional forces on the pieces of earth that are left. It's hard to imagine significant chunks of the earth being removed without altering the velocity or rotation rates of the planet. There is also the matter of hydrostatic equilibrium. The gravity of earth keeps it as a sphere. If you were to remove a chunk of the planet so large that it disrupted the overall spherical shape, then the rock would flow to fill in the hole. Such a huge earthquake would generate lots of heat and might immediately render the entire planet uninhabitable, with the possibility of rendering the whole earth molten. Also, the movement of matter inward would make it spin faster. 

It's a matter of measurement, and depends on what equipment you have for making measurements. If you're stuck with telescopes and sextants, you might have to watch for a very long time. We had to wait until a transit of Venus to get an accurate measure of our distance to the sun in 1769. With more advanced technology, you can get you answers much faster. We measured range to terrestrial planets in our solar system with radar. It's conceivable that a large radar could map out the system and establish orbital parameters in a few days, maybe weeks. With spectrum analysis, you could measure the red/blue shift of the parent star to get your motion toward or away from it. Also, remember error! All measurements have error. Sometimes you can figure out the error bars on your measurements. The longer you watch and the more measurements you take the more confidence you can have in your conclusions. You might be taking more measurements every day and refining your models. I don't think being on a moon makes it more difficult. It adds an extra step or two, but it doesn't change the technology or math required. 

Your 1g vs 0g situation does not give any time dilation at all. You feel gravity because of acceleration, not bent space, so no time dilation from gravity. You might be able to measure time dilation from speed. If your ring has about 225 meter radius and spins at 2 rotations per minute, then you get 1g and your edge will be going almost 50 meters per second relative to the center. That's more than 100 miles per hour. 1.5x10^-7 times the speed of light. That will give you a time dilation of ... sorry my calculator doesn't have enough decimal places to display a number that small. It's less than 1 part in a 10 billion. Which means you wont even get a single cycle per second increase on a 4GHz machine. You'd have to get humans on the edge going much faster for there to be a difference. Check out this time dilation calculator and this ring station calculator to play with some other ring sizes and speeds.