The site www.cheops-pyramide.ch is about how Egyptians were able to achieve an incredible precision when measuring with simple techniques. I'm going to summarize it. 1. Right angles in the corner The base of the Cheops pyramid forms a perfect square - the deviation from the 90° angle is a maximum of one minute, which is very precise when you consider the Cheops pyramid's side length of 440 Egyptian Cubit or 230.33 meter. By stretching a cord between two pegs stuck in the ground, a long straight line was marked out. Then to each peg an equal length of string was tied, more than half as long as the line drawn. By keeping the strings stretched tight and moving the ends around, the Egyptians could draw parts of two perfect circles. These arcs cross each other at two points. By drawing a straight line between these two points the original line is bisected at a right angle and the line is cut into two equal parts. 

7. Waterproof joining of stone blocks The outside surface stones are cut within 0.01 (1/100th) inch of perfectly straight and at nearly perfect right angles for all six sides. And they were placed together with an intentional gap between them. That 0.02-inch gap was designed to allow space for glue to seal and hold the stones together. A white cement that connected the casing stones and made them watertight is still intact and stronger than the blocks that it joins 

The Rise of the IBM PC was very quick. The Apple II had done well and blazed a path but many as a hobby computer more than a business machine, and it was tagged as cute rather than practical. IBM had huge brand clout in Business an businesses looked at the IBM offering favourably just because it came from IBM. The Apple II had an open architecture but had limitations as a computer. It was not a great architecture to support computer languages over assembler. Generally you added a CPM Z-80 card if you wanted that. It was too hard to develop applications in assembler. The IBM-PC 8086 based PC was close to the old 8080 and CPM Z-80 cpus and was easy to rapidly port software from theses architectures. The IBMPC thus was a technically better platform for software development that the Apple II. Ot was easier to write software for. Timing was good the IBM PC entered the market just as business was looking for a computer, and many software companies were starting to write software applications. The IBM PC intent was to quash apple, IBM were offended that by the notoriety of apple, the success actually was a surprise to IBM. Really Really awful mistakes by their Competitors, the Apple III was a badly botched project. Incredibly badly delivered machine that saw Apple get the IBM PC the opening. The Earlier incredibly short sighted dumb more by DEC to castrate their micro-11 computers, the most advanced machines with the best existing suite of software (afraid that it would eat into their successful mini computer pdp-11 sales, they hamstrung the professional series of computers , perversely tis was what the Russian home computers of the early 1980s were based on, technically the Russian PC's were actually superior architectural, sure they stole the design, but they stole the best) The Macintosh was an overly ambitious design and when it was delivered it was clunky slow computer to use, It just did not have enough memory to support a speedy windowing interface, sure the Mac had great design and the new interface (actually developed by Xerox PARC) would be a winner, but without enough memory it was too slow. It also was a big jump for software developers, Apple consistently produced bad systems software (Operating Systems) while much of the apple libraries were great the operating system architecture was poor. (Eventually apple solved this in OSX by just putting their own layer on top of unix, the world's best OS, remains so even though designed in the 70s, Windows remains a toy by comparison) Developing a computer system and delivering it to the market is complex, and a lot of companies have failed even with basically good products. IBM delivered at the right time, their architecture was very close to existing 8080/Z-80, Hal was right about those code warehouses) which made them an easy and relatively familiar development environment, the IBM PC was a slighter more advanced design that had the ability for more memory and support languages that made application development easier. Previous machines like the apple II just were a little tight for that. After the IBM PC most companies delivered very ambitious designs (Mac, Atari ST, Amiga etc) which just were slow, clunky or buggy early and they were coming into the new IBM dominated markets with radically different software architectures that took a lot of work to conquer. But the tim the Macintosh was competing with Microsoft (MS-Dos, Windows) Microsoft already had a very dominate position, and apple had chosen to go down the closed system path after it's experience with Apple II clones, Apple was much more closed with the Macintosh, this meant the Macintosh was going sell at a premium and not benefit from competing third party hardware suppliers. Once most software companies had already moved into supporting the 8086/Intel/Microsoft world, it was amor effort to write software for the Mac, which didn't have enough Market share, the Mac was always fighting from a minority share. Microsoft was able to use it's monopoly position to effective tax the manufacturers of hardware. With a large demand for ms-dos/windows, Microsoft insisted to get OEM versions of their OS software you had to install them of ALL the hardware produced, so even if the customer just bought the box and installed a non Microsoft OS the cost was already paid to Microsoft, if the producers did not play by Microsoft's rules they were just cut out of the Microsoft OEM. Microsoft had an established dominate position that it used. Apple having the smaller maker went for point of difference and become as smaller cult machine that people were willing to pay a premium for. 

Land surveying and the Orion constellation After answering some of your questions, here's a point for further answers: How did the ancient Egyptians measure their land and use the whole Nile Delta to depict the Orion constellation onto it? We are talking about a distance of 8 kilometers (Pyramid of Djedefre to Gizeh) or 4 kilometers (two unfinished pyramids at Zawiyet el-Aryan to Gizeh) All pyramids are tied together. The three main pyramids are standing for the Orion belt. And two of the four outer stars exists as smaller (not so famous) pyramids. Only 2 stars are not represented. But they found plans for one more pyramid which should be build at the right position. 

For the Cheops pyramid, the documented Seked was 22 fingers or 5 palms and 1 finger. This results in an inclination angle of 51.84° and only a very tiny difference to the official measurement which is 51.84444°. 3. Leveling the pyramid base The Cheops pyramid's base area, a square of 230m x 230m (= 52900 m²) has a height difference of only 2.1 cm. This is a remarkable achievement. The ancient Egyptians knew the square level, which is a right-angled isosceles triangle made from wood. This tool is made in the shape of the letter "A" and looks like a triangle ruler. A plumb-line is suspended from the top of the connected corners. If the plumb bob coincides with a mark in the middle of the crossbeam, the surface area on which the two legs stand is level. By placing this triangle on stone, these could be easily leveled. 

Reaching the Middle eastern Oilfields which are on the Persian Gulf is a lot harder than it looks, and getting the Oil back even harder. The railways don't go all the way and the Turkish railways were pretty low volume. Shipping just forget that the Axis dint have the tankers and RN would just sink them (too many bases not enough escorts). To rail the Oil back to Germany, the problems are no rails and the years it would take to build them, and the lack of rolling stock and the years it would take it build them. Going for the middle eastern oil would require years of investment before any return would be realised. Berlin Moscow 1836km, Berlin Stalingrad 2783km, Berlin to Baku 3066km, Berlin Basrah 3709km. Turkey has a large badly equipped army. Given large Allied support the campaign could drag on for quite some time, the Turks are pretty stubborn and can't see them rolling over just because the Germans captured Istanbul and Ankara, the country is pretty hard work logistically and the Germans would struggle to get their power to ground (they have a large army but only a small force cane supplied and maintained in turkey) The Logistics are much more difficult than first appears. 

6. Using a rope roll to transport pyramid stones to the top There is some historical evidence that ancient Egyptians know a rope roll (that's not a pulley or pulley block). With the help of the rope roll it is possible to haul a 2.5 tons stone block including sledge up the 52° incline of the flank of the pyramid. This technique can be compared to slinging a rope attached to something heavy up over a branch of a tree and then pulling the heavy object up by grabbing the rope and walking a short distance away from the tree. If you walk down a steep incline you need even less force than on level ground. 

Field tests have shown that this method could be used to measure a distance of 45 meter up to a centimeter. Longer distances like our 230 meter do not go, because then the human eye sees too little detail. So far we have three discoveries of such wood triangles, approximately from the grave of Sennedjem at Deir el-Medineh. 4. Aligning the three main pyramids Unfortunately, the linked source does not go into detail on how the ancient Egyptians did it. But as shown in the picture, all three pyramids are aligned at their square diagonal. 

THE Question is mostly wrong, the Allies DID use stamped machine gun designs. Both the US and Britain did produce an effective stamped weapon. The British certainly produced a lot of Sten guns their main sub machine guns. Millions produced during the war. The US had hoped to replace the Thompson submachine gun with the M3 "grease gun" but various production problems, design changes meant it didn't quite happen but still 1/2 million guns in ww1 (Thompson 1.5 million) so still a quite significant gun. $URL$ $URL$ 

Oslo was Israel recognising that Palestinians have some rights that the PLO were entitled to negotiate for them, agreeing for the Palestinian Authority to be set up and giving it some autonomy and control over parts of the west bank. The Palestinians recognised Israel and the 1967 borders while agreeing to negotiate a permanent border. Basically both sides signing up to the Two State Solution. Some Israelis did not accept handing over any of the west bank, some Palestinians against recognising Israel. There was a lot of criticism on the Palestinian side that the framework let all the power in the Israeli hands. there were meant to be serious negotiation on permanent issues and further hand overs of areas of the west bank. there is a strong perception that it enabled the creation of butu-stans isolated Palestinian enclaves while Israel continues to expand it's settlements in the west bank. (100,000 before Oslo 350,000 now not counting Jerusalem another 300,000) Both sides had a lot of internal propaganda for years building up a following for no compromise at all. Oslo came out of the blue part of the reason the talks worked is that they were hidden and the wider leadership let alone the publics were unaware of the talks or their substance. the solo agreements were a surprise. there were strong groups on both sides which were opposed. 

The second method is more astonishing. Although ancient Egyptians did not know the theory behind the Pythagorean Theorem (a² + b² = c²), they did use it unknowingly. They used a so-called primitive Pythagorean triple 3-4-5 (3² + 4² = 5²). Take a long rope, divide it with knots into 12 parts from the exact same length. When you now lay out your rope as a triangle and use 3 parts, 4 parts and 5 parts as side lengths, you get a perfect right angle between your 3 parts and 4 parts side 

If needed, they extended the range or size of their triangle by using multiple rods of the same length. Remember, they were handling with 230 meters as one side length 2. Control of the inclination angle with the seked The Egyptians didn't knew the division of the angle in 360°. From the Rhind Papyrus we know that the Egyptians calculated with a so-called "seked". The return (horizontal displacement) of a wall is measured. Or in other words: How many palms (7.48cm) and fingers (1.87cm) is the upper edge of the wall set back to the lower edge, namely at a height of an Egyptian Cubit (52.4 cm). 

The Time lag between the initial naval operations in feb/march and the landings in april telegraphed a probable landing and gave the turks time to reinforce the area. Why didn't the allies use over routes to Russia, I would say the poor state of Russian railways and their overloaded state was a factor (I doubt there was an effective Persian railway in ww1, for that route to be used in ww2 a major upgrade of the works was rehired) 

The Israel had a number of paramilitary groups which had been training, stockpiling arms long before the 1948 war, many Jews joined the British forces during ww2 to gain military experience. The Zionists had created a shadow army and had stockpiled weapons for a long time before 1948. The Local Arab forces were very disorganised divided and had little weaponry by comparison, and their supporters in other Arab states were reluctant to effectively arm them no lest because they were keen to suppress any possible Palestinian state and annex land the could form that state. The Arab intervention forces were poorly organised and equipped in General and very divided politically. The Arab Legion was pretty well equipped and organised (though not that well supplied with ammunition that had not stockpiled well and the blockade of resupply was much more effective on Arab forces than Zionist forces, who were better able to circumvent the arms embargo during the war and cease fires) Jordan sought to reach an understanding with the Zionist leadership and was primarily focused on annexing much or the proposed Palestinian state rather than attacking the new state of Israel the only real disagreement being Jerusalem. Syrians were involved in a limited land Grab, the Lebanese made a demonstration not an attack, and Iraqi forces were troublemakers shipped off rather than supported army force. The Syrians used extremely dated pre ww2 French tanks of dubious value. The Israeli forces were not fighting well developed and equipped armies. The Arab states were also fairly new, badly equipped with obsolete weapons operating in many cases a long distances from the logistical bases.