An example, at least in terms of the mechanics involved, is the moon. Tidal locking explains this. If you looked at Earth as a star instead of a planet, the moon would always have one side heated, and the other side cooled, as it has one side facing and the other side facing away at all times during its orbit. A night and a day side, with a temperature gradient from one to the other. For an Earth-like planet orbiting a Sol-like sun, the nature of the day/night hemispheres of the planet would depend on how far away it was from the sun. The closer it is to the sun, the larger the heated day side would be, and through atmospheric convection forces, the hotter the night side would be too. At a Goldilocks distance away from the sun (not too hot, not too cold, just right), you'd end up with a band around the planet as a tangent to the orbit, separating the two hemispheres. The temperature within this band could be suitable for life. The hemisphere closer to the sun would be too hot, cooling as it approaches the band. The hemisphere away from the sun would be too cold. So you'd have a permanent day side which is within the temperature gradient suitable for life, and part of a night side which is also suitable for life. Hugh Howey in one of his Molly Fyde books (The Bern Saga series) has a scenario much like this. Half of the world is scorched, the other half frozen. With habitation in a narrow band. Actually, from memory the world in the story had two suns. But the principle would work with only one sun. 

Garm the Berserker wanders into the lonely homestead of Greenroot Farm. The mayor of the nearby Stonybrook Village directed Garm here, implying that Old Borgi would have some work for him. "Really, no wood to chop?" Garm rests his axe on the ground, the blade nearly half as tall as the old farmer. "Not today, but if you can bring me 20 redfruit, I'll pay you with 10 coppers." Garm slung his greataxe over his shoulder, "I accept this task. I will return victorious!" An wizened smile crossed the old farmer's face as the adventurer departed. "There's always someone willing to do the dirty work," he chuckled to himself. 

Strong AIs as regular candidates If the AIs are essentially sentient, why not have them run against human candidates. Let the people decide who they think is better. While this removes a lot of the efficiency of an all AI government, it also allows for a failsafe in case the AIs are not performing as they should. One AI with voting algorithms The "AI based on votes" phrase reminded me of a completely different concept, neural networking. With this setup, voters would vote directly on general political issues rather than for a particular candidate, rather like a semi-annual referendum. There would be one AI that would be "trained" by these votes, so that it's decision-making was directly tied to the people's will. This is not perfect by any means, and would override the existing political system, but it would be less susceptible to the machinations of political parties. 

For a science fiction novel I'm currently writing... The spacecraft in question is based in the asteroid belt and is not designed to approach a planet. The ship has an offensive/defensive capability and would need to be able to manoeuvre effectively in combat. The timeframe is within the next two hundred years. Additionally, it would need to be able to refuel easily within the asteroid belt. With this in mind, I aim to equip the ship with magnetoplasmadynamic ion drives. My understanding is that they can operate using a hydrogen or ammonia fuel, which should be easily replenishable in the asteroid belt, and would be powered by a nuclear power source. But an MPD ion drive does not produce much acceleration. My question: What kind of drive might I use to provide rapid acceleration (in combination with an MPD drive) for combat situations, or to evade an enemy? Ideally using hydrogen as a fuel (or something else obtainable in the asteroid belt without needing much refinement) and powered by electricity. I know that chemical engines would be able to produce the acceleration, but use lots of fuel. If I need to use them, I will. But an alternative would be very welcome. I don't have much of a background in science, but would like to accurately portray the drive system of the ship (in broad brush strokes at least). By all means, comments on MPD drives are welcome too. 

The war is over, and our allies have won. The Demons could turn on us, but they have no reason to. In fact, since they would lose the supply of technology we provide them, they would stand to lose power by destroying us. They have an interest in keeping us alive. Humanity survives, and could even prosper, as our survival is due to maximizing technological development. If we encounter further military threats in the future, we have the Demons to call upon for our defense. 

A new age has dawned for our glorious nation of Lettucia. Our great scientist Baron von Leefi has developed the Smart Active Laser Automated Defense (SALAD). These small systems are a result of our tireless research into miniturization and computation. Each turret has the ability to detect and destroy incoming projectiles before they cause harm. SALAD has revolutionized our already modern military, allowing our vehicles to detect and neutralize projectile threats before they can cause harm. The SALAD system has been tested and achieved a near-perfect success rate against conventional weaponry. A personal sized model is currently being tested, and would allow our infantry the same level of defense. A larger, stationary system is used for missle defense, and is able to neutralize any missle threats against our nation. Each system is powered by a micro-reactor fueled by unobtanium, a resource which Lettucia has almost exclusive access to. This limitation ensures that in the event of a system's capture by enemy forces, they will be unable to deploy the same technology throughout their own military. 

Another issue would be the Hydrogen Sulphide gas (H2S) that is common around volcanic events. For one thing, H2S is an explosive gas. No lights in the castle after dark. No cooking fires, although you've got plenty of lava to cook your food for you. Another thing is that H2S smells bad. It's often referred to as 'rotten egg gas'. You can start to smell it at less than 1 part per million (ppm). That's only a minor problem though. It is also a toxic gas. The 'Short Term Exposure Limit' for H2S is 15 ppm. The smell would cease to bother you after about 100 ppm, as it basically kills your olfactory nerves, permanently ruining your sense of smell. At about 300 ppm, you are pretty much on your way to death, if not dead already. H2S is heavier than air, so it would settle in the lowest parts of the castle. Dungeons and areas enclosed by the wall, rooms on lower floors etc. Nasty stuff. I don't think I'd want to live in that castle. 

An overview of the "Big Five" nations including ourselves and our adversaries in the coming conflict: Lettucia - Our own glorious nation. Vastly superior in almost every way to the other nations, particularly in scientific research. Our military is the largest and most advanced. Most of our vehicles and some of our elite infantry are already equipped with the new SALAD system, while some are still using dated equipment. Our military strength lies in vehicles, mostly gunships. The high mobility and armor afforded by these vehicles has seen us many victories in the past. Other nations do not accept our political ideology, but our Grand Caesar will show them the True Way in time. Our citizens are highly nationlistic and support the effort of spreading our ideology. Appeland - Island empire. Hast a vast navy and airforce, but few ground soldiers. Has been a historical center of trade due to its location and wealth of natural resources. Usually neutral in world conflicts, both political and military. Prefers instead to solidify itself as a world power economically. Burgeria - A world power now on the decline. Vast industrial base, but using aging technology. Their military is also somewhat dated, still using technology from the last world conflict 50 years prior. Their military also relies on a vast amount of infantry, which a few supporting vehicles. They are vehemently opposed to our own glorious ideology. Chizhi - Smallest of the Big Five. Relatively advanced military technology (not matching our own glorious accomplishments of course), but have a smaller military than the powers above. Particularly adept at using their limited amount of resources for industrial and military means. Very independent bordering on isolationist, trading only with the neighboring Appeland. Donnuto - Collective of smaller nations and a staunch ally of Burgeria. Largest population, though limited technology similar to Burgeria. Next to no military, instead depending on its ally. We signed an mutual agreement at the end of the last conflict to limit both of our military development. They have appeared to honor this agreement, the fools. 

The book would have to be written in a language that the recipient could understand. Not just the words, but the concepts. It would need a primer, an explanation of the concepts starting with "This is a copper wire, and this is how you connect it to another copper wire." You wouldn't necessarily have to explain how or why it all works (maybe later in the book), just a dumb diagram with plenty of visual instructions. Concepts such as magnetism would have to be worked around for the motor/generator, but that is easy enough. The lightbulb would be more difficult than the motor (electric motor and electric generator are essentially the same thing). I would guess that an alchemist or a priest would be the best person to hand the book to in medieval times in Europe. The alchemist would be used to working with different minerals and metals, and priests were often the most educated. A blacksmith would be able to help. The moslem world was flourishing during those times, and they had a highly advanced grasp of mathematics and science at that time. During the renaissance, your one-stop-shop would have been Leonardo Da Vinci, the original 'renaissance man'. Jack of all trades, and master of them as well. I think that if the book were written the right way, it would be possible for someone in those times to put it all together. If WW2 prisoners of war could build functioning radios out of bits of junk found around the camps, and people 2,000 years ago could make a battery (although the usefulness of the Baghdad battery is disputed), then it would be possible to build some simple electrical devices. As to who would make the best usage for humanity, I couldn't say. After the Roman Empire, Europe was in chaos. Splintered kingdoms who were pretty much all in it for themselves. But I think Leonardo would be your best bet. UPDATE: Thomas Edison's carbon coated bamboo filament lightbulb might work. He already did the hard work inventing it. Not sure how available bamboo was in medieval Europe (assuming you're thinking about Europe). But you could do the research in your current timeline before sending it back to the past. There must be an alternative available to your intended audience. The vacuum inside the bulb could be more or less achieved. A metal box sealed with wax, and emptied of air by a bank of bellows with non return valves. Might be tough to get a complete vacuum, but you'd get a fair way. Maybe oxen turning a geared wheel linked to a cam shaft to keep the bellows going? Have the bulbs and filaments all set up inside the box. Set leather gloves into the side of the box to work on the bulbs inside. Leather would probably leak air into the box, but keep those oxen moving. Promise them a bonus if they make budget. Using the gloves (they'd need to be tight but supple gloves to counter the ballooning that would happen from the negative pressure inside the box, maybe banded with wire), assemble the bulbs. All you'd need to do is attach the glass bulbs onto the bases with the filaments already attached. One problem would be to attach the bulbs and bases together. With the electricity you are already producing, it might be possible to have a soldering iron inside the box. Otherwise some kind of glue, maybe made from boiled sinew, potato starch, whatever. Edison got around 1200 hours of life out of his bamboo filament bulbs. 

Two things save us from our own creativity: our ability to learn from our mistakes, and our ability to recover from them. If you take away our ability to recover from accidents, we become much more cautious. Imagine a creature finds a fruit they have never encountered before. If the creature is like our own ancestors, they eat the fruit, get sick from it, but gradually recover over a short time. If eating that fruit was probably lethal, however, the creature would be much less inclined to try it. Similarly, exploring unfamiliar territory could lead to insect bites (or some equivalent), poisonous plants, or other environmental hazards. If these dangers were life threatening or debilitating and necessities were already close by, then a lack of curiosity would be evolutionarily favored. With these environmental characteristics, only those creatures that are extremely cautious survive long enough to reproduce. Now that the neophobia (cainophobia?) is out of the way, we're looking for intelligence. This can be easily explained with the hostile environment. The more intelligent the individual, the more likely they are to identify and avoid danger. Likewise, social functions develop in order to collectively combat these dangers. As with our own ancestors, those who could cultivate or domesticate their food would develop more complex social functions. 

Given that a laser beam is made up of coherent light waves running in parallel in the same direction, and that space is not a complete vacuum (dust, radiation, electromagnetic forces etc.), what kind of effective range could a laser weapon have in space? And what form would a laser take, once technology has progressed to the point where a laser is reliably weaponisable? Power requirements and wavelength? Additionally, what form of defense could a spacecraft use against lasers? A mirrored hull? A thick ice shield? I'm assuming an initial contact distance of several hundred kilometers (call it 150 miles if you like), closing as the two combatants approach each other. Is this a realistic expectation? The environment in question is in the asteroid belt and the ship is powered by a nuclear power source. 

Can't answer for FAA, only the Australian system through CASA. But the US and Australia are both ICAO members, and so pretty similar. Air Law would be a requirement. Not knowing the law will not work as an excuse when the dragon gets Airforce One diverted due to an airspace incursion. Meteorology would only really apply because if the dragon decided to fly into a hurricane, the FAA would be liable to litigation due to not exercising proper duty of care. By making the dragon pass a meteorology exam, they would have satisfied that duty of care, and the rest is up to the dragon. Human Performance and Limitations: What can I say? they'd have to reword that. Aerodynamics: The dragon would probably get away without it, although might need to explain wake turbulence and proper separation behind departing aircraft (if airport takeoffs and landings applied). Aircraft Systems: Probably a medical examination by a designated aviation medical examiner would be good enough. Navigation: A must have. Your dragon needs to know where it is going, especially without using navaids or GPS. Limited to VFR, so must stay under 10,000 feet (I'm assuming that the dragon does not carry supplemental oxygen on board to fly above 10,000 feet. Oxygen + fire breath = bad news). All in all, it's not so much about the dragon's ability to fly, it's more about the dragon's ability to fly in crowded airspace where it could get messy if/when the dragon flew into the path of a 747/C172/F-22/skydiver/sailplane. Ground operation of fire breath: Along the lines of Australian Civil Aviation Orders CAO 20.9 (See part 6). 

Are we able to secure world domination with our present advantage? The Counsul is divided on this matter. Same say we should attack now while we have the advantage, but others claim this will bring ruin to us all. Will our new technology be enough to conquer, or should we focus on other efforts for now? Our ultimate goal is conquer the other nations and forcibly enact our ideology upon their people. The other nations are not yet aware of the extent of our technological advantage, so for now we hold the element of surprise. We may not get another opportunity such as this, but we do not wish to act without your assurance of our success. 

One of the races in my world is a fox-people. They are basically small humanoids with a few vulpine features, including ears and a tail. They live primarily in a sub-arctic climate, where their additional fur is a benefit. Technology is very roughly 16th century European. I had imagined there were individuals of other races (let's just say humans for simplicity) who would also be living in the same region. Initially I had pictured these individuals as the equivalent of mountain men, living off the land and dressing in furs they had trapped. This, however, presented the question of how their dress was perceived. On one hand I can see how this would utterly horrify a people who also had fur. However, then I thought about how (most) humans are not bothered by leather goods, despite also having skin. So the question is, would the fox-people be offended by fur clothing?