You ask a number of questions. I'll try an answer them. Yes, galaxy clusters (except the one we are part of) are many millions of light years away and so the neutrinos from them (which travel at a speed only a tiny fraction below that of light) have taken millions of years to get here. However, the light from those clusters has also taken millions of years to get here, so if we look in a certain direction and see a galaxy, and we detect a high energy neutrino coming from the same direction, then the galaxy was there when the neutrino was emitted (or passed through it). It may have moved since, but that would affect neither the light nor the neutrino. Neutrinos are affected by gravity, and so the neutrino images of distant objects can be distorted in the same way as the optical images when there is a massive object (like another galaxy cluster) between it and us. However, if that were happening, we would see the distortion of the optical image. It is also possible (though extraordinarily unlikely) that a single neutrino might have been deflected by passing close to a very massive object such as a black hole which is too small to make much of a difference to the optical image of the cluster. The chance of a neutrino from somewhere else being deflected by something we haven't detected, just enough to appear to come from a galaxy we can see, though, is absolutely amazingly minute. A bit like a bullet ricocheting off a falling meteorite in such a way that it seems to have come from that man over there holding a gun, even though it actually came from somewhere else. Finally, on the question of detection. It is true that neutrinos interact weakly with matter, but these very high energy neutrinos interact less weakly than others. This paper and in particular its figure 1 suggest that neutrinos of the energy reported ($2\times 10^{15}$ eV according to the article you refer to) would interact about 10 million times more strongly than the ones from the Sun or from nuclear reactors. Even so, most neutrinos will go straight through ice cube without interacting with it at all, despite the fact that it consists of a whole cubic kilometer of ice. Of the few that do interact, the interaction will usually "kick loose" a charged particle (often a muon) from the ice, which will be moving at close to the speed of light (in vacuum) itself, and in the same direction that the neutrino was moving. In particular, it will be moving faster than the speed of light in ice. When a charged particle moves faster than the speed of light in whatever material it's passing through it produces a "shock wave" of light, called Cerenkov radiation. Detectors in ice cube pick up that radiation and track the movement of its source, thereby getting a good idea of the direction from which the original neutrino came. 

Different sources give significantly different values for the conditions under which hydrogen shifts from molecular to metallic. See the discussion in the comments associated with this question. Pressures from about 20 to 300 GPa and temperatures very broadly around 10 000 K seem to be the most common. Experiments can only just reach these pressures, at lower temperatures, for tiny volumes of material, and the question of whether anyone has made metallic hydrogen at all remains controversial. Certainly no one can make it repeatably. (wikipedia has a reasonable summary of the history) or make enough of it and keep it for long enough to check to what extent, if any, helium is soluble in it. That said, analysing from theory whether it will be soluble shouldn't be that hard, since both hydrogen and helium are relatively simple atoms. An early paper concludes that the hydrogen would be at or close to the limit of how much helium could be dissolved. I'm sure there is more accurate recent work, but I couldn't find it quickly. 

The literal answer to your question is "yes". We can see clear astronomical evidence of black holes of a variety of sizes in this and other galaxies. It is possible of course that all that evidence is actually the result of some unknown physical process(es) and not black holes, but it would be a remarkable coincidence that it looks so much like we would expect black holes to look. So I'll take your question as asking for a way to understand what black holes are. The best answer to that question is basically just equations -- solutions to the governing equations of general relativity that have event horizons, but I'm going to assume that is not what you want here. So we are left looking for a better intuitive explanation or understanding, bearing in mind that this is at best inexact, and at worst misleading. If you have a lot of matter in a small region of space, and you look at it from the outside you see that the light coming from the surface of the region is red-shifted and (which is basically the same thing) that clocks on the surface seem to run more slowly. As you pack the matter in more tightly this effect becomes more pronounced. But because the clocks are running more slowly, whatever process is packing the matter in also runs more slowly. Eventually, as seen from the outside the clocks on the surface approach a complete standstill, and you will receive a final few extremely red-shifted photons from the surface and then nothing. What you have is now a black hole. From your point of view it is "frozen" and all you can see of it from the outside is the gravitational field surrounding it (and maybe an electric field as well). No information can ever leave it (I'm ignoring Hawking radiation and quantum mechanics in this answer, which is reasonable for big black holes). Relativity being relativity, things can look quite different from another point of view. If you are falling freely into the black hole (and it is big enough that tides don't rip you apart) everything seems fine, as in this simulation Light from the rest of the universe is blue-shifted and increasingly distorted by gravity, but locally everything is OK. However, no matter what you do, within a finite time (a few days for the largest black holes we know about) you will reach a singularity -- a place where the equations of general relativity break down, and some other physics must presumably apply. We don't know what happens there, but we do know that no information about it can come back out of the black hole, so we can't send in any kind of probe to tell us about it. 

The suns gravitational pull extends unlimitedly far and, if the universe were otherwise empty, a body could orbit it (very slowly) at unlimited distance. However, the universe is NOT otherwise empty. The nearest other stars are about 4 light years from the Sun at the moment, so a body more than two lightyears away will typically feel equally strong attraction from other stars as from the Sun, and so will not really orbit the sun. That's a bit of an over-simplification, because (a) the sun is not surrounded by other stars 4 l.y. away in all directions (here is a chart of nearby stars) so a body might orbit in such a way that it didn't pass between the sun and any of its closest neighbours; (b) not all stars have the same mass, many are smaller than the Sun but some (eg Sirius) much bigger, so their gravitational influences vary and (c) the stars are all moving, so that from time to time one comes quite a bit closer, disrupting orbits. 

Most things in space move very predictably. For reasonably dense objects, like stars, planets or asteroids, gravity far outweighs all of the other forces acting on them, and it's not too hard to take account of gravity and predict their movements (if you have a powerful enough computer. For things like clouds of very thin gas it's a bit harder. So from the positions and movements of all the distant objects that we can see (at the time when the light we see them by left them), we can pretty accurately predict their movements a considerable way into the future, for instance up to possible collisions a few centuries out (for an asteroid) or a few billion years out (for Andromeda). Of course there is a possibility of something unexpected happening -- between the light we see now being emitted and a possible future collision, a supermassive black hole travelling at close to the speed of light could pass through the Andromeda galaxy and scatter it, for instance, but we don't see things like that happening anywhere else in the universe, so it seems pretty unlikely to happen here. 

You might like to look at some of the simulations from the SXS collaboration. Essentially the black holes and the gravitational waves are aspects of the same thing -- the curvature of space. In particular, the way black holes seem to merge in these simulations is that the two black holes come very close and space around them becomes more and more curved (and in more complex ways). Some of that curvature spreads out in the form of gravitational waves, becoming less intense as it gets further away, but some of it, very close to the two black holes reaches the "critical" level of curvature at which an event horizon appears (extending the event horizons of the two black holes) which then "rings down" becoming spherical and form the merged black hole. 

Hypervelocity stars are moving at up to 1000 $km/s$ relative to the general movement of stars in their part of the galaxy (which is typically 100 $km/s$ relative to one another or the galactic centre). The Oort cloud of a star is a collection of rocky and icy bodies orbiting it up to 1 light year or so away. Those bodies are too dense and massive to be deflected much by passing through the interstellar gas at these kinds of speeds and they are so widely spread that they could pass through the Oort cloud of another star without much risk of collisions, There are two things that might affect them, though: 

A 1 solar mass, Earth sized black dwarf would have a surface gravity of about 360 000 g which probably rules out manned exploration by anything we would normally think of as human. For similar reasons, mining would be quite challenging. Another obstacle is that the Universe is not old enough to have produced any black dwarves yet. The oldest white dwarves still have a surface temperature of thousands of Kelvins. Indeed, if humanity is still around when they have formed, visiting and mining them will probably be easy.