You can't disprove geocentricism. It is a perfectly valid way to look at the universe. After all, all frames of reference are equally valid. What you can disprove is that geocentricism is the one and only way to look at the universe. Once again, all frames of reference are equally valid. This means that a Highlander point of view ("in the end, there is only one") is nonsense, which in turn means that claims that geocentricism is the one and only valid point of view is nonsense. That all frames of reference are equally valid does not mean that frame X is just as good as frame Y when it comes to explaining motion. Frame Y might well need a slew of fictitious forces while frame X needs none. The absence of fictitious forces in frame X makes the equations of motion take their simplest form when viewed from the perspective of frame X. Other frames of reference such as Frame Y (e.g., geocentricism) will result in fictitious forces. These fictitious forces vanish with a smarter choice of reference frames. 

TL;DR response: The simple answer to this question is twice per month, when the Moon is half full. A not so simple answer is roughly every 8.85 years, when the Moon is half full and the Moon is close to apogee. A full answer: Who knows? There are thousands of different frequencies involved, and their contributions change over time. 

Assuming you aren't north of the Arctic Circle or south of the Antarctic Circle, you can determine your latitude my making observations throughout the course of a day, and over the course of a year. You'll need 

Conceptually, the average is over an average year. Practically, that's not what's done anymore. Sidereal time is much more readily measured than is solar time. Radio astronomy can measure the position of remote quasars much, much more precisely than they can measure the position of the Sun. The Sun is a big fiery blob with a not quite-well defined surface. Quasars are pinpoints. Very long baseline interferometry makes the observations of those quasars extremely precise. The equation of the equinoxes converts between apparent and mean sidereal time. A very simple relation converts between mean sidereal and mean solar time. This makes variations in UT1 observable on a rapid basis. Sub-arc second astronomy depends on these rapid updates. IERS Bulletin A is updated daily, with the data for the most recent week or so subject to subsequent small updates. Update Universal Time is not based on apparent solar time. Time is now effectively divorced from the the apparent revolution of the Earth with respect to the Sun. It took several thousands of years to make this divorce final. (And the divorce is still not quite final. There's the matter of leap seconds. There's a proposal to eliminate leap seconds that has been shelved/postponed multiple times since 2003. A vote is scheduled for 2015.) The ancient Egyptians divided daytime into 12 equal parts and nighttime into 12 equal parts. Daytime and nighttime hours were of different lengths, and these lengths varied over the course of a year. Hipparchus (190 – 120 BCE) suggested dividing one day into 24 equal parts, the basis for our modern hour. Ptolemy, using information already garnered by ancient Babylonians, asked "what day"? The length of a solar day (local noon to local noon) varies over the course of a year thanks to what we now call the equation of time. This was of mostly academic interest until Christopher Huygens' development of the pendulum clock in 1656. Pendulum clocks tick at a rate proportional to the mean solar day rather than the apparent solar day. Those early pendulum clocks weren't particularly accurate. They had to be reset on a regular basis. The equation of time was central in determining the time to which those clocks needed to be set. By the mid 1800s it was becoming apparent that even a mean solar day was not that good a basis for defining time. The clock kept by the solar system didn't agree with a clock kept by the Earth's mean rotation. A clock based on the solar system was more accurate and more consistent than was a clock based on the Earth's rotation. By 1900, the divorce between Earth rotation and time was well on its way to being finalized. The basis for time was switched from the Earth's rotation to the clock kept by the solar system, with the second based on the length of a year rather than the length of a day. About 150 years of observations of the length of the mean solar day went into that circa 1900 definition of the second. In 1967, time was further divorced from the clock kept by the solar system. By that time, atomic clocks had become extremely accurate devices, better than observations of the solar system. The International Atomic Time second was defined to be consistent with that circa 1900 definition of a second, which in turn was defined to be consistent with that ~150 years of observations of the length of an apparent solar day, centered on about 1821. That 1821-based definition of a second as 1/86,400 of a day is no longer correct. A day is now about 86400.002 seconds long, and it will grow longer with passing millennia. This leads to the need to insert leap seconds to keep UTC in synchronization with the Earth's mean rotation. There is considerable debate with regard to whether even that should be done. There is a serious proposal to abandon leap seconds. This is now scheduled for a vote in the upcoming year (2015). 

This is a case where the Southern US phrase might could is appropriate. Intelligent life1 might could arise only on terrestrial planets with just the right axial tilt. Then again, intelligent life might could arise on all kinds of other planets as well. Extrapolating from a sample size of one is always a risky endeavor. The hyperphysics page referenced in the question implicitly poses the rare Earth hypothesis proposed by Peter Ward and Donald Brownlee as if it is fact. It is not fact. It's a hypothesis that attempts to answer the Fermi paradox. There's a lot to be said both for and against the rare Earth hypothesis. Stating it as if it is fact is bad form, particular for $URL$ which overall is a very good site. The hyperphysics page goes even further than do Ward and Brownlee, forgetting that Ward and Brownlee addressed the issue of intelligent life. Could life arise on a Venus-like or Mars-like planet that orbits at just the right distance from it's star? That's a good question, the correct answer to which is "we don't know (yet)." Could intelligent life arise on such a planet? Once again, the correct answer is "we don't know (yet)." Extrapolating from a sample size of one (the solar system, which contains one planet that harbors intelligent life), life in general and intelligent life in particular might should be quite common. Extrapolating from a sample size of one (the solar system, which contains a very large number of objects that don't harbor life), life in general and intelligent life in particular might should be quite rare. Which is the case is a good question, the answer to which as of now can only be rightfully stated as "we don't know (yet)." 

With regard to gas giants, there is no mass limit. Conceptually, what's the difference between a star plus a Jupiter-class gas giant versus a star plus a brown dwarf companion versus a star plus a red dwarf versus a binary pair of stars of more or less the same mass? This is a spectrum with no clear boundary, no clear limits. With regard to density, there's a funny thing about Jupiter: It's about as big, radius-wise, as gas giants and brown dwarfs can get. Add mass to a Jupiter-sized gas giant and you get a more massive gas giant that is close to the same size as Jupiter. Add even more mass and you get a brown dwarf that is close to the same size as Jupiter. Add even more mass and you get a small red dwarf that is close to the same size as Jupiter. The mass-radius relationship is very, very flat from Jupiter-mass gas giant to smallest red dwarf. 

This question begs the question, does everything need a practical use? The answer is a resounding no. What's the practical use of the Louvre, or of your local neighborhood public park where you enjoy weekend barbecues? There are some things that are very worthwhile that have little or no economical gain. Your local neighborhood public park in fact has negative economic gain. Admission is free, but maintenance is not. Think of how much money your city would make if they sold it to a condominium developer, and how much money it would save by not having to pay to have the park maintained. Despite having no obvious economic gain, some things are nonetheless worth quite a bit. Many of the sciences fall in this category. For example, what is the practical use of archeology? (There are some, but that's not the point.) Astronomy, like archeology, the Louvre, and your local public park, doesn't need a practical economical purpose. The purpose of the science is good enough. That said, there are practical applications of astronomy. The key application has been and still is navigation. Knowing the location of a ship at sea or the orientation of a vehicle in space requires astronomy. A less direct but still very important application of astronomy is in how it informs physics. Kepler was an astronomer, not a physicist. (Those two disciplines were very, very distinct in Kepler's day). Yet Kepler's work informed Newton on how to describe gravitation. More recently, astronomy has informed physics that its standard model was not quite correct. The observed neutrino flux from the Sun (see $URL$ was a third of what physics at the time said it should be. This resulted in a change to the standard model. Neutrinos have a small but non-zero mass, and they oscillate from one form to another. Astronomy continues to inform physics to this day. Physicists (and astronomers) remain clueless with regard to what constitutes dark matter and dark energy. But whatever they are, they certainly do exist. 

There is no contradiction between special relativity and quantum mechanics. Quantum field theory fully merges special relativity and quantum mechanics to describe relativistic electrons and protons (quantum electrodynamics) and quarks (quantum chromodynamics). The problems lie with merging general relativity and quantum mechanics. 

Those are data from "roving observers", essentially any ground-based observation that isn't from an observatory blessed with a three character observatory code. The observatory code is columns 78 to 80 of the entries. Note that the observatory code for those roving observer entries is always 247". The longitude, latitude, and elevation of the known observatories are known. This isn't the case with those "roving observers", which is why they take two lines. The first line of a "roving observer" entry contains a "V" in column 15 and "247" as the observatory code. The second line of a "roving observer" entry contains a "v" in column 15. The bulk of the second line contains the longitude, latitude, and altitude of the observer.