Same as trees, such buildings may just be covered by the living tissue. That we call "wood" in the tree is actually a dead tissue. A thin layer under the cork is responsible for growing both cork and wood material inside. The amount of living material can be small in comparison to the dead already material, and the dead material needs feeding no more then wooden parts of the human build house. The only task the dead tissue must be capable of is to transport water up from the ground. Leaves evaporate lots of water, and leaves are required for feeding the living part (roots are also required for sure). Such building can develop from the seed, grow larger as needed, heal damages - probably all features you need from the living building for your story. 

There is no need to assume that water creatures cannot use processes or technologies that require air environment. Some manufacturing processes do require vacuum, or have required in the past (vacuum tubes, for instance). Humans live in the air but were capable of making vacuum when needed. And, for sure, they create water environment when needed (most of the chemistry). Aquatic creatures could make air environment, or even vacuum environment in they laboratories as required. For instance, diving bell may be possible to make from some shell or water plant, allowing to experiment with air technologies to discover lots of amazing things. In the Earth, spiders create air environment under water without any intelligence. 

A good, wise book can help you emotionally a lot - somebody wrote it and somebody printed. A good music or good painting, the same. These things are not alive by themselves. Emotions that they cause come from the humans who made them. A robot that talks great causing lots of positive emotions and can help, advise by telling the right thing in the right time would be a masterpiece of humans and engineers who have built it. This is ok. Same as the old sword from the famous past of the family, made by the famous master - also may provide emotional assistance without even being able to talk. Such "old trusted family robots" can be found in science fiction. The same knowledge, if ever acquired, will allow to develop a destructive robot as well (like capable of breaking personal relationship between two humans, or drive the depression till suicide). Still nothing new here, machines can cause pain or kill if designed to do, and lots of such have been built over history. 

Vacuum randomly and spontaneously generates elementary particles that can combine to form atoms, though the presence of matter suppresses this. Vacuum repels matter. Matter does not attract other matter, instead suppressing the vacuum repulsion (though not perfectly) if there is sufficient matter present. 

Background In my magical version of Earth's history, at around the time that humans became anatomically modern 200,000 years ago, a variant of the human female gender arose with batlike wings around 6m wide when extended and feet that are more like birds' talons, who could fly thanks to the presence of magic. These females came to be referred to as Lilim, in reference to the best-known member of their gender, Lilith. Lilim and women each bred true, producing offspring that are either male or females of their own type. In a relatively short time (10-25 thousand years), despite lilim's birth rate half that of women (more on that later), the winged lilim form superseded the wingless woman form as the body form of all female humans, due in the most part to the lilim-form's greater survivability and ability to protect offspring in the hostile wild environment of the time. To summarise, Lilim can fly quite well as long as there is background magic for them to draw upon. Individual lilim can also carry aloft loads roughly equivalent to at least their own mass, and each extra lilim co-operating can double that, up to a point that can nevertheless be almost preposterously high - on the order of millions of tons with the right team. Lilim are more like men in their psychology, including desire for social dominance and selection of sexual partners, tending more to select on the basis of appearance than for their ability to provide for offspring long-term as tends to be the case with women. They tend to prefer dominant sexual positions to those that leave them supine with their wings trapped against the ground (which would become a significant point of contention with men on earth) Lilim differentiate from women at six to eight years of age (though sometimes the change may not begin until the early twenties, well post-puberty) as they grow wings and their feet change into talons over the following three to four years. Before this, it would take complex magic or chromosomal screening to tell if a girl-child of a lilim will become a woman or a lilim. Lilim differ from women in that instead of having 2 X-chromosomes, they have 1 X and one L (which is larger than the X). XX offspring did not implant into the uterus due to fetal-maternal incompatibilities, and LY is also a lethal combination due to the lack of certain genes found only on the X-chromosome. A very rare individual can be born LXY - they are anatomically male with wings, but are sterile. Anyway, when humans began to practise agriculture around 25,000 years ago, a disagreement arose between men and lilim. Men were the primary labourers while lilim continued to flitter around frivolously, and dormant genetic imperatives attracting men to women arose. A male magician named Adam performed a spell that effectively modified the X-chromosome in one of his followers so that lilim could successfully carry XX woman offspring to term, as long as one of the X-chromosomes was the modified version, and as a result, the first of the new women, Eve, was born, eventually becoming Adam's 'wife'. The altered (genetically modern) X-chromosome spread both genetically and magically, and within a few thousand years, became the only extant version of that chromosome. This means that modern lilim have a birth rate 3/4 that of women, perhaps a little more, and of the offspring who are born, approximately equal numbers will be male, women or lilim. With women continuing to breed true, producing only males and women, the mathematics of the situation was that - social selection aside - lilim were doomed to become extinct or a minority curiosity. The most famous lilim, Lilith, discovered an airborne phenomenon that allowed flying beings to travel between worlds via air-filled tunnels (with lengths measured in the tens of thousands of kilometres rather than light-years) between stars which have orbiting oxygen-bearing worlds, known as the Gyre. Faced with the demise of her gender, Lilith conceived of an exodus of lilim to other worlds within the gyre where the dominant men of the time could not follow, and she and a large number of followers and a similarly large number of slave or captured men departed into the Gyre with literal mountains of supplies for a number of new worlds where they could forge new lives on the lilim's terms. On earth, as magic declined after a major magical war, the remaining lilim lost their wings and talons and after a brief stint in legend and history as Amazons, became indistinguishable from women. Edit Multiple Lilim can lift around 70kg for around an hour, each doubling in mass or duration requiring an additional lilim, each of whom spends the minimal amount of their total magical power. The limiting factor is the magical power of the weakest member and the number of lilim that can touch at elast some part of the object (which may be a parcel of smaller objects). A single lilim may linearly increase the mass or duration of a personal load by increasing the cost. This limits a typical lilim to 70kg for 15 hours or 70kg x15 =1050kg for 1 hour, at which point they would be magically exhausted, and would need to recover over the next 24 hours to be at full power again. Should a lilim drop an object, the magical cost must be spent again to pick up another heavy object. Lilim also have power over the winds for as long as they concentrate, at twice the cost of Lifting their base mass. They can create, still and direct winds up to 100 kph with one lilim, 180 kph with two, 240 kph with 3, 280kph with four, 300 kph with five and 320kph with six or more lilim. If two groups of lilim oppose one-another, each acting/opposing pair cancels each-other out, and only the unopposed lilim count for purposes of the wind their group can control. The Question: Given that Lilim are entirely comfortable with heights and can, when co-operating, raise truly stupendous amounts of material into the air - and with a little magic, can pin a structure in the air relative to another nearby object (such as a point on the ground several kilometres below, or a nearby airborne structure) effectively permanently, allowing airborne towns, how might these lilim live? How would they treat men and women who would naturally be ill-at-ease living in an airborne lilim town? What would be the fate of their female offspring who proved to be women, not lilim? I'm aware that there could be a lot of answers to this, but I'm looking for answers that leave Lilim as a significant part of human society in their new worlds, either as equals or dominant to the other genders. Is it inevitable that lilim would need to live as mistresses over the men and sterilised outcast women (those that weren't killed for not being lilim) toiling below their lofty airborne cities in order to remain a viable part of their part of the human race, could some semblance of equality exist, or would there be worlds where the lilim have allowed themselves to dwindle and perhaps even vanish rather than become cruel mistresses over the rest of humanity? 

Yes, it is. A Hayflick limit. There is an actually existing "division counter" inside the body cells that can result the needed scenario. The cells of the animal (human) body can only divide limited number of times. This is because they are not capable of copying the whole genetic material: prolog and epilog of the "life book" in the DNA are not passed to the daughter cells. To work around this, start and end of the "book" just contains non-coding junk that does not carry the required information. However after the cell divides many times, this propagating damage reaches vital regions where real information resides, and the cell cannot longer divide, or the daughter cells die soon after division. Having such a "clock" would not prevent cells from being arbitrary active and smart, dividing and regenerating the body, even from very significant damage, as long as the "counter" is still above zero. The lost border sequences are only "regrown" at the start of the new organism and shortly afterwards. 

The species must be different enough to take the ecological niches so non overlapping that they would not compete significantly with each other. For instance, they must be adapted to the climate conditions so different, that area occupied by another species would not look more attractive than Antarctica for us. Species with similar niches do not co exist. One is always slightly stronger and pushes another out. This is true for all species, so should be true for thinking species as well. The only exception is if the environment has some stable variations, say humans would be stronger in summer and neanderthals in winter (probably was not the case). Geographical separation may work for some time, but as civilization evolves it soon takes over the whole planet even with rather primitive means of transportation. 

Unfortunately, if there is any combination of relatively harmless chemicals that become toxic when mixed in-vivo, then they are either undocumented or classified. The challenge in a multi-part toxin is in finding precursor compounds that are either non- or minimally- toxic in themselves, and yet are capable of reacting in-vivo to produce a highly toxic compound, without first being altered by the body's metabolism to the point where the desired reaction to produce the highly toxic substance cannot take place. This is challenging enough, but to add the complication that the precursor compounds must be something that a human would unknowingly ingest reduces the possibilities even further, since many of the potential precursor chemicals could have an unpleasant or at least obvious taste and/or smell. There are rumours that a viable binary poison is being developed, but these are unsubstantiated. However, a potential avenue for producing a binary toxin would be to create a toxic compound composed of two proteins that are individually harmless, yet can combine in-vivo to produce a toxic compound. Botulinum toxin is such a two-part toxin. If the two proteins that combine to produce this toxin were produced separately, and then administered separately, the potential exists for them to combine in-vivo and then produce their toxic effects. However, the two proteins involved would have to be administered separately in quantities much greater than that required for the compounded toxin in order to have the same toxic effect. Additionally, the proteins involved would be denatured by cooking, thus requiring that they be protected from high temperatures prior to administering them to the victim. Finally, it is unknown if these two proteins would survive for as great an amount of time in-vivo when separate (since they would both be exposing surfaces of the folded protein not normally exposed due to their bonding to one-another in normal usage) as when administered in combination, whether an immune reaction may become possible when administered separately, or if the two proteins will actually combine in-vivo to produce their toxic form. Thus, while it may be simple to say, "Administer the two botulinum toxin proteins separately", there are many potential complications that may render this approach ineffective. However, the potential exists that modified versions of these proteins or other bacterial binary toxin proteins might prove harmless when administered alone, but combine in-vivo to produce toxic effects. 

A tester, for developing a new product for humans that must be tested on human as an emotional or biological being. Is this sequence of sounds a good music? Does this election candidate speech sound impressive? Are these controls of the new device convenient? A machine could produce some test music, test text and test controls, but without human trying and evaluating, the result may be bearable but will be inferior. So at least human tester is required. A human creator has benefit over machine because an artist can create and try many things in imagination only, saving lots of time that would be required to create a real specimen and present it for others to evaluate. There is already an answer that the art may be such a job, but does not actually explain why and the current answer does not cover exclusively art. 

Museum of science and industry could provide suitable machines. Some old diesel engines were capable of running on crude oil. Such engines could probably still be found in some "Museum of science and industry" in a running condition. If the museum actually runs the engine, it should be some maintenance tools in its workshop. 

In many groups you can see a "sharing culture", when each member of the group has right to take and use many things (tools, etc) if they are lying around and just not currently in use by somebody else. Apart from ancient communities, scientific laboratories often operate this way (equipment, laboratory dishes, etc may be free to access to any member of the laboratory). This is not strictly "stealing" because the taken item does not become a property and must be returned when no longer needed. But externally this looks very similar: an item can be taken away from you as soon as it is not in use or actively guarded. This way of sharing is efficient but have problems with enforcing requirement to return the items in a timely manner and proper condition. If this becomes a problem, or if resources are limited, some more formal rules (reservation, single person in response, etc) may emerge, deviating from the "stealing culture". 

The one answer that doesn't involve outright magical hand-wavery is common ancestry. Whatever caused the species to split into separate races or even species occurred long enough ago, and the resultant groups were isolated from one-another for long enough that they changed in different ways. When they eventually came back into contact with one-another, sufficient genetic similarity exists in order for crossbreeding to be possible, though it is frequently the case that such crossbreeds - if the divergence is sufficient - are not fertile themselves. With greater divergence, reproduction is not usually possible at all. In a magical environment, however, magic can be used to explain the speed and nature of the divergence, without having to say that magic explains that (for example) "This species that evolved from lizards can successfully cross-breed with this other species that evolved from trees". The Oath of Swords series of books by David Weber is a fantastic example of this; the various humanoid species/races each have a logical explanation of how they diverged from basic human stock, even in a magical environment. 

Epidemiological studies have shown that to successfully combat the typically-described zombie outbreak, it is necessary to eliminate zombies and the infected humans rapidly, otherwise the end result will be a world where zombies have replaced humanity. In medieval times, human life was somewhat less valued, and in the initial stages of an outbreak, people would be more likely to avoid someone obviously sick than to try and help - and get bitten, thus reducing the bite rate. The zombie removal rate could be considered to be a little higher too, especially as the outbreak continued, as it could be made a religious duty to kill the zombified and infected. Additionally, the full plate armour that knights wore would make them far more resistant to being bitten and infected, thus reducing the bite rate against said individuals, who would also be better at zombie removal. All in all, without actually simulating the outbreak as the authors of the paper I cited did, I can guess that there is a fairly even chance that either the zombies or humans will win, probably depending on the speed with which the authorities act to control the outbreak. In either case, there is quite likely to be a lot of corpses, and if the humans win, the clean-up isn't likely to be pretty. The epidemiological study shows that cities are dangerous places to be, that it's far safer to remain out in the countryside. That is the case in modern times, and will be just as valid in medieval times.