The very first thing you want to do is to (try to) get the bike working well in it's current configuration. As you describe it, it is not a bad bike – identify what by mean by "but not well" and adjust (or have adjusted) the components that are responsible. Then once the bike is running as well as it can, start thinking about what can be done to make it run better. Then be clear about what your goals are. A "modern groupset" won't necessarily be a huge improvement over what you have now – maybe an extra cog or two, but before spending the money it would be good to know that you actually need that. If you get the bike running well then you can start saying things like, "I'd really like smaller steps between gears," or "I feel like I need a wider overall range." Based on that information you can make some informed decisions (or ask some focused questions) about what you need to change or upgrade. As a starting point I'd look at the components that are most likely to wear out – your chain and the cassette. They may need to be replaced anyway and when worn they have a negative impact on shifting and the "drivetrain experience." If you need help sorting out the problems you're having, describe them as be you can – you could edit this question or add a new one. Depending on the sort of problems you're having, you may want to break them into several questions (for example, brake and shifting problems would make sense to split up). Clearly stated single problems are easier to answer so you're more likely to get useful responses. 

I did a search with Google for "male grip force" and got quite few hits that look reasonable, one, the International Encyclopedia of Ergonomics and Human Factors, Second Edition, has an article on Hand Grip and Pinch Strength – perhaps that will help you get started. Adding the term "bicycle" to the search finds an interesting looking article called [][2], but you have to register for an account to read it and they seem to only be open to providing accounts to researchers. If you are working on a bike related project it might be useful to use actual handlebars and brakes to collect your own data. I suspect that typical riding grips on brakes are not typical of what is published, but it would not be hard to rig a brake cable to a spring scale to measure force. 

No, it doesn't seem like much, but that stem won't fit your bars without a shim. Very wise of you to ask. Nitto (and probably others) make shims for just this situation. They cost about $10 US. The old standard for road bikes was 25.4 mm (for the most part), but there seems to be a move towards 26.0 mm. 

The size of the wheel: 700 C on your bike. The rear dropout spacing: you can measure this by taking out the rear wheel and measuring the distance between the dropouts (the part of the frame where the wheel attaches) in millimeters. Odds are good it will be 135 mm, although 130 mm is also likely. They need to know this to choose the right hub width. 

A larger chainring in the front (which will make all of your gears higher), or One or more smaller cogs in the rear (which will make the individual gears higher). The easy way to make this change is to buy a new cassette (the set of rear gears). You could go to a cassette with 11 teeth on the small cog which would take you up to 35 km/h at 70 RPM. 

The braking loads are unlikely to be enough to exceed the tensile strength of a 6 mm bolt – forgive my butchering of units here, but it would take something like 2,250 pounds of force to make a 6 mm bolt fail (75,000 psi tensile strength for type 18-8 or 316 stainless and about 0.03 square inches in the bolt works out to around 2,250 pounds of force). That's load at failure, but it seems like the limiting load on the brakes will be about the weight of the bike and rider. That means that even a big rider on a heavy touring bike isn't capable of much more than about 400 pounds of load. I found my data here. So structurally, I think you're sound. You can have a pretty bike. 

Two books that I've found really helpful are Just Ride and Eat Bacon, Don't Jog, both by Grant Peterson. 

Pletscher and Greenfield both make decent kickstands. The most common kickstand is a single leg model that attaches just behind the bottom bracket. Pletscher also makes a double leg kickstand that mounts in the same place and Greenfield makes a kickstand they call the Stabilizer that attaches near the rear dropout on the non-drive side. The double leg kickstand is nice if you need the bike to be stable while you load cargo or if you use a single-wheel trailer like the B.o.B Yak or Ibex. On the other hand it is a, small, bit more trouble to use since you have to lift the bike a bit to all the legs to fold down. Most kickstands seem to come in a size that is too long. The leg(s) need to be cut to a length that is appropriate for your bike. It's easy as long as you have a hacksaw – on the Pletscher you just measure from the ground to the center of the bottom bracket and then find that dimension on the where it is marked on the kickstand and cut it off. Depending on where you park the bike you might want to get a foot for the kickstand either to protect a floor or to provide some resistance to sinking into soft surfaces. 

Shimano 9-speed road and mountain derailers use the same actuation ratio. You should be OK here. You don't mention which Surly touring frame you have so I can't be specific, but if its a Long Haul Trucker or Disc Trucker, your odds are good that the brakes will be compatible as well. With cantilevers you'll be OK as road and mountain versions use the same pull. V brakes will be a problem, they are not common on road bikes and the pull is different. I don't think know of a set of brifters for V-brakes. Similarly with discs, make sure that you are have, or are willing to switch, to road discs. 

I have a Trek 620 (Reynolds 531 lugged steel frame) from the mid-80s the rear dropouts are spaced at 126 mm. I'd like to be able to run an 8- or 9-speed cassette and I was wondering about the issues involved with running a modern road hub with 130 mm spacing without adjusting the frame spacing. It seems to me that the rear triangle would have the ability to flex 4 mm without needing to be cold set – at the expense of a small misalignment of the dropouts. Are there problems with doing this? Other than the slight hassle when installing the rear wheel? Would it impact the value of the frame – the bike is a rider, probably not a candidate for a restoration (frame could use repainting and I'm not sure the components are original, the wheels definitely are not)? 

One thing to keep in mind is that "real bikes," and maybe some BSOs too, can have a butted steering tube – one where the wall thickness at the bottom of the tube is greater than it is further up the tube. This means that if the stem is inserted to far into the steering tube the area for the stem binder to grip will be limited and it will be very difficult to get the stem to grep solidly in the steering tube. 

I've got a bent QR rear axle and am looking for a replacement. Seems that these come in 9.5 and 10 mm sizes with a couple of different threadings. When I measure the OD of the threads I get around 9.8 mm – can I assume that that means I've got a 10 mm axle? Is the right way to measure to pull the axle and measure an unthreaded section? Or does the size even matter if I'm replacing the cones and nuts with it? 

You might find the Geometry of Bike Handling on Calfee Design's site helpful. There are some good articles by Grant Petersen on bike making at the Rivendell site that cover some aspects of geometry and bike design. He also has a good section on geometry in his book Just Ride. Once upon a time there was a nice series of articles on the Rivendell site where Grant walked through the process of designing a bike, but I can't find them anymore. 

Pick a spot on the chain to start, I'd suggest where it comes off of the top of the chainring going back towards the derailer. Follow the chain back until you come to a "knot." I suspect what you will see is the chain looping back on itself. If you follow the chain from the loop you will come to another loop – I think it will be going the opposite direction. Work one end of the loop to make it larger, you should start to run into the other loop and if you "work through it" one of the "knots" will come out. If there are more, repeat the above process. You should end up with a single loop of chain. 

As others have pointed out, the shoes (or pads if you have disk brakes) may have worn to the point where they need to be replaced or the brakes need some adjustment. The brake cable may have stretched or slipped. Many caliper brake systems have a quick release to create some slack in the cable for changing the wheel. If the release is in the open position that you will have very little braking power from the affected brake (or none in the case of cantilever or center pull brakes). Common locations for the quick release are at the anchor bolt on side pulls, at one end of the straddle cable for cantilever or center pull brakes, or at the brake levers themselves. Something may be contaminating the rim or disk preventing the pads from developing as much friction as they used to. It is also possible that a part was damaged in a crash or during handling of the bike. Check that the brakes move freely and return easily when you apply the lever. 

It's been a while since I've ridden places where I needed a map. So long that the last time I did it I used an Eclipse handlebar bag with a paper map folded in the pocket… Sadly the Eclipse bag is no more, and I'm thinking that my iPhone might do a pretty neat job of replacing a paper map. For those of you who do this, I'd appreciate any insights you can offer into that to look for in a bag and/or a phone mount. One major concern for me is the ease of navigating in urban areas where situational awareness trumps studying the map. 

I was repairing a flat on my rear tire today and noticed that the tire has started developing a flat area on the tread (see the photo below, it is the one on the right). The tire is a Continental Ultra Sport. Comparing the rear with the front there is an obvious band about 10-12 mm wide around the circumference of the tire where it contacts the road. The front tire still has a more tubular shape (little or no flat band). My goal is to understand what this is telling me about the bike (significantly more load on rear tire?) and how I ride it and also to understand better when the tire needs replacement. For the latter question I'm primarily concerned with the reliability of the bike – a lot of my riding is for transportation and I'd like to minimize flats. 

You don't mention what is mismatched about the wheel set, but if it fits the bike it is hard to imagine what kind of problems you might have. The worst that I can think of is at you'd alter the geometry a bit – for example if you have a 27" rear wheel and a 700c front you'd be making the frame angles (relative to the ground) a bit steeper. I've been riding a bike with that configuration (27" rear, 700c front, and similar sized tires) for about six months will no ill effects that I've noticed. 

Nitto makes a tall quill stem called the Technomic that will give you about 160 mm of extension above the minimum insert line. I've seen them in the Rivendell, Harris Cyclery, and Velo Orange catalogs. The Rivendell one is fancy and polished and costs more. There are also extenders that allow you to use a standard quill stem. They aren't pretty but they get the job done and are about 1/3 the cost. The Technomic stems are fairly common on e-bay. 

I think the big benefit of a removable core is that it makes it possible to add "self-patching slime" to the tube. With a core in place the slime would likely foul the valve and make it inoperable. Otherwise, I think the removability is more an artifact of the manufacturing process – and as you've noted, not necessarily a feature.