I would like to increase my flexibility. Not necessarily every single part of my body but I would like to hit most if not all areas. I would like a set of several exercises that I can do one day or over several days for basically the rest of my life, to constantly improve my flexibility. What is the simplest, most necessary/important/commonly used(as in the muscle's flexibility is needed commonly in real life situations, not the stretch itself is commonly used) set of stretches that I could do to increase full body flexibility? 

Firstly you need to be able to do pull ups and chest dips. To train for muscle ups you will need to do lots of both of those two exercises. Pull ups and chest dips account for most of the muscle up move however the most difficult part of a muscle up is the transition. False grip training is highly recommended to improve the transition part of a muscle up. So incorporate false grip hangs and false grip pull ups. Aside from that, all you can do is the full muscle up move but with assistance, the same as when you probably first started doing pull ups; rest your legs on a stool or something to take some of the weight. Do the move quickly with a bit of a jump at the start. Go to the top of the move and then slowly go down to a hang. 

I'm late to the game since this is a really old post, but I'd consider the possibility that its your brain and not your body/workout keeping you up. To be clear, it could definitely be either but you sound pretty fit, and I've found that my brain/anxiety/emotional state is the biggest determinant of my sleep. It's probably also pretty easy to isolate and eliminate this variable. 

I'm a cross country runner at heart so I love running 80 miles a week (or more) AND I'm trying to bulk up a bit since I'm very lean (obviously). I've read that you can't really have both unless you are a real genetic anomaly. I eat a LOT of calories and lift, but I can't gain muscle mass. Is there a limit to how much I can run and build up more muscle mass? The reason I can't just stop running is because I love it so stopping would suck and you lose it pretty quickly too. 

I currently train them by just from a standing position going up onto the tips of my toes. Some variations I did were holding weights at the same time or doing one leg at a time which improves balance too. However it's come to my attention that there are two main groups in the calves and that tip toe exercise I've been doing only works one of them. I've read that for the other one your leg needs to be bent like in a sitting position. All the sites I saw showed exercises on this machine where you would sit and lift up a weight on your knees. What can I do at home to workout the other part of my calves. I've tried placing dumbbells on my knees but not only is this uncomfortable but I don't feel tired from this. I don't think I'm getting much benefit from it. What exercises can I do to train this other muscle group? 

Lose all the excess weight (fat) you can --> I love intermittent fasting Work our your core/biceps/back/chest Do pull-ups with good form as was already suggested Yoga --> always improves my form for anything, ability to lift, and stretches me out so I don't get sore 

Could also be that you're not well balanced from a strength perspective. The result of that might be bad form like the other folks are calling out, but if I were trying to beat my friend in a pullup contest: 

Don't be so strong you aren't flexible. You want to have muscle endurance and flexibility over raw power. Flexibility also makes you stronger since you are more comfortable/strong in extended positions. Core strength is more important than leg strength. Core strength gives you balance, but also makes your legs stronger. i.e. The more stable you are on your skis the easier it is for your legs to do the work. You want to be able to keep your center of gravity over your skis at all times. Specific exercises: 

But what would you do if your final goal was two of them? Say you wanted to get a lot of strength as well as endurance for example. How would you proceed? Would you follow the graphs recommendations for one day or week on one goal and then the next week is for the other goal? Would you average out the variables? Would you spend several months on one and then the other? What would you do? 

Hypertrophy means that your muscles are bigger, but does this mean that they don't perform better or worse than smaller muscles? Is it really possible for hypertrophy of the muscles to have no functional effects? Would you gain at least some strength? Are there any negative functional effects? I've heard that bigger muscles makes you less flexible, is this true? So what are the functional effects both positive and negative of hypertrophy? 

a. Squats, lounges, etc. -> these are the standard leg exercises you'd find online and they will carry you until you are amazing. I'd also suggest leg raises that isolate your quads and groin exercises. The better you get, the more important having a strong groin is. b. One legged squats. So without weights (or with them if you are really strong) practice squatting on one leg. These are pretty advanced and all I do to get "ready" for ski season nowadays since they work everything -- legs, core, and stability. The caveat here is that you want to avoid muscular imbalance and one legged stuff can do this pretty quickly if your aren't careful. c. Every ab exercise and weighted ab exercise you can think of. Then do them twice. You want to be as strong as possible through your core, but -- again -- not to the point of being inflexible. Specifically you want lower ab and lower back exercises -- $URL$ Good luck and have fun