At those speeds on flat terrain there are other factors that will impact average speed far more than bicycle type. In particular, stopping at intersections in an urban area will cause your average speed to plummet. 12mph average is actually reasonable for a dense city area and is not much slower than what cars average. If you're talking about riding in areas without stopping, getting faster than 12mph average is easy with a little more experience. 

I am going to skip the gear ratio discussion because others have covered it, and it really isn't the most important consideration. If you're spinning out frequently, you'll want a higher top gear, but you can only go so high with those cranks-- probably 42, max, on the big chainring. That might be enough to keep your from spinning out while still retaining the capabilities of the bike. If you decide to swap out the cranks/chainrings and get something more like a road-bike or cross bike, you will mess with the intended design of the "mountain" bike. There is nothing wrong with doing that but the gears are low on a mountain bike for very good reasons like negotiating stumps, ruts, rocks, mud/gravel and even very short 100% grades. 

It may take some mileage to truly "break-in" a Brooks saddle, at which point it will be "perfect" for many folks. However, when it is new it should not be horrifically uncomfortable or even significantly more uncomfortable than a decent quality saddle from other vendors. You know when the Brooks is broken-in when you can see the indentations of your sit bones on the saddle. It took my Brooks Pro about 200 miles to get the indentations and has been a perfect fit ever since. The B17 is a fairly wide saddle that is best for upright bikes. IMHO, if you're in the drops or even somewhat aero, a more narrow saddle like the Brooks Pro is much better. Finally, it could be that the saddle just isn't a match for your butt. Brooks makes great stuff, but they're not for everybody-- no saddle is. 

The best degreaser is simply a rag. Disassemble the parts, rub them briskly with a rag, re-grease/re-oil and re-assemble. YMMV depending on how far you let things go before servicing. 

Can't help you with sizing. Competitve cyclist has an elaborate sizing procedure that you can use to determine if a frame is approximately correct. It depends on your exact measurements, not just height. 

Not sure if "turkish get-up's" are the same thing, but there's a particularly effective/comprehensive yet minimalistic exercise called "the man-maker" that was used by the cast of the film "300". All you need is dumbells. Do what you want for leg strength, but I would argue that core strength is equally if not more vital for cycling (if we're talking about off-the-bike exercise). On the bike, some righteous category 3-4 hill repeats will promote leg strength as well (if you're lucky enough to have some in your area). 

There is no one pair of gloves that will solve this problem for all temperature ranges for all types/durations of riding. It is very important to block the wind and provide insulation, but if you do that "too well" your hands will sweat and the moisture will subsequently increase heat transfer to the outside and your hands will get cold in short order. Here's what I do... 

Getting used to rollers is similar in difficulty to driving a manual transmission car. The first day will be really tricky (especially the first hilarious 20 minutes). Soon, you get familiar with it enough that you can use the rollers without needing to occasionally grab something for stabilization as long as you have total concentration. Over time you develop motor skills that kick-in and that frees up your concentration so you can do things like sip water or watch TV or juggle. The main point is that the amount of actual concentration that you need will decrease as your motor skills develop. Eventually, you won't need to "think" about it when on the rollers at all. The amount of time this takes seems to vary a lot and depends on how much practice you're willing to put in. The purpose of rollers is different from trainers. On rollers you're developing form. This translates to increased efficiency on the road. The trainer is more about developing strength and power. 

If you're riding in the wet, you'll need full coverage fenders, no question about it. I have 35mm wide "Honjo's" on my rando bike. Those crud roadracers look like they could be the ticket too. The hard part for you is finagling enough clearance to install them (likely without screw holes in the right places). Since you're riding single speed, there's no reason why you can't also have have at least a half-chain case. Finding one after market is kind of tricky as is attaching it to your bike. Here's one that I fancy a lot. In Europe full coverage chaincases are quite common, but don't know if this is possible with your fixie. In any case, a full chaincase will be the ultimate protection for your drivetrain and it looks cool too. 

Foot retention, in some form, has been around since the dawn of cycling. There are multiple reasons for it: 

In general, no. Campy, Shimano, and Suntour (and other) friction shift systems are compatible because where the chain lands is up to you. There are some caveats that you'll have to resolve with trial and error. In particular some rear derailleurs have "longer reach" than others. You may not be able to shift to the largest cog on some freewheels if the derailleur is short (intended for racing). But that is not specific to friction systems. You'll get the best results from friction mode systems if you stick with down-tube levers. Of course, these are compatible across vendors and some indexed levers even have a selectable "friction mode". Finally, it is posssible to mix campy and shimano indexed shifter/cogs if you use an adaptor. I use a j-tek and it works fine. 

There's nothing bad about maintaining a steady pace but at some point you'll want to increase that pace. For a while you will be able to improve significantly by just informally "trying harder" and getting more skilled with the bike. After a while, however, you will plateau and it will seem like it is impossible to get much faster and you'll wonder how people on mapmyride (for example) can do the same route at unbelievable average speeds. Of course it is possible to get much faster! And the most effective way to do it is with some type of regular interval training. This same concept applies to all endurance sports. The idea is that you have to push your exertion to at or above your lactate threshold to stimulate improvement. It is the aerobic analogy to lifting weights. I am not going to attempt to lay out a program, but roughly it is going to be a series of efforts that last a couple of minutes with a few minutes of rest inbetween. During those intervals you really have to max out to get the benefit of the workout. A "real" interval workout is HARD and draining. It is not something that you'll want to do everyday. Alternatively, just riding with fast group will do the same (albeit in a longer time) as guys tend to naturally compete and "put the hammer down" at every opportunity. 

It almost doesn't matter if it is "legal" or not. The real issue here is avoiding a right-hook accident. The sad truth is that no amount of law will make motorists look where they're not expecting to see a cyclist. And if there is a law that favors the cyclist, whether or not that law is actually enforced is utterly iffy. In other words even if it is "legal" passing a right-turning vehicle on the right is an extremely bad idea. The traditional right-hook accident is best avoided by the cyclist's decisions and actions. Fortunately, latest bike lane markings have been addressing this issue by re-directing the bike lane into the center of the right lane (or between the turning lane and straight-through lane, or even converting into a sharrow at the intersection). This is the correct path to take and the markings make it clear to both motorists and cyclists what is expected. In the case where there are no clear markings or where they are just wrong, cyclists need to act in a vehicular way and hog the lane. Understandably this might be hard to do for many novice cyclists who often feel timid about mixing-it-up with cars, but that simple decision will protect them far better than any flimsy "right-hook" law. 

Drafting/pace-lining is great but you really have to ask FIRST. After that it is a question of trust and knowing your own skill as well as the other rider(s). I think we can all agree, however, that starting to draft somebody without notifying them is a definite breach of etiquette and safety.