You raise a number of good observations about some common usages, but be careful about suggesting that any of them is a usual or typical usage. They strike me as common, but not more than that. Logically, used as a connective between two sentences, "but" is simply a conjunction. It does not imply anything about the relationship of the meanings of the sentences — not even anything about negation, as you eventually conclude in part (a) — other than that they are both true. Psychologically, or one might say pragmatically, "but" always implies contrast or exception. 

I have seen the version of Plantinga's argument that includes your premises 1–3 above, doesn't adopt premise 4, and concludes that since beliefs held by organisms produced by organic evolution aren't necessarily true, naturalism isn't necessarily true. (Note that I don't think any epistemologist would say that beliefs are “generated by natural selection,” as you put it.) A response to that argument, offered by Michael Ruse among others (e.g. in Ruse's Darwinism and Its Discontents) is that of course it's true that evolved beings are imperfect at truth-acquisition. We are epistemically limited, as philosophers say, and roughly-speaking all philosophers and biologists accept that. However, to the extent that that observation justifies doubt about any one belief like naturalism, it to that same extent can justify doubt about other human beliefs, including alternatives to naturalism. If the observation casts doubt on naturalism, it by the same token casts doubt on supernaturalism and the existence of God. In other words, premises 1–3 are clearly true, and the conclusion that we can't be certain about our beliefs follows from them, but that is unsurprising. And that argument does not help support any less-obviously-true claims Plantinga would like it to help support. Indeed, it undermines them to the same extent. But you've asked about a version which includes the stronger Premise 4, that “There are more false beliefs that lead to survival-promoting behavior than there are true beliefs that do the same.” It's hard to imagine how Premise 4 could be true, and your example certainly does not support it. The person who goes south and finds water because of the false belief that there are monsters in other directions could just have easily have gone east because of the false belief that there are monsters in the south. Indeed, other things being equal on this simple model, that way of using beliefs to guide action would fail to lead someone to water 75% of the time! Biologically, organisms confused about their environments don't last very long. So far, that is just to argue, quickly, that Premise 4 is dubious. But we might also want an argument for the view that natural selection generally has, when it has produced belief-forming apparatuses, favored their reliability. That is just to say that organisms with more reliable belief-forming apparatuses have survived at a higher rate than similar organisms with less reliable belief-forming apparatuses. Philosopher Christopher Stephens offers such an argument in the paper “When is it selectively advantageous to have true beliefs?”. He concludes: 

No. If you mean Are there ideas no mind can think?, then that would seem to be by definition false, unless you mean ideas that are too complex, in which case there's no reason that some kind of mind — perhaps a distant descendent of ours or a synthetic mind — couldn't in principle think them. If you mean Are there ideas minds must think?, I've never heard of one. Immanuel Kant suggested some possible features of all thoughts, but his arguments were limited by eighteenth century psychology, and I don't think there's any reason to accept them. If you mean Are there true laws in the science of psychology?, in the same way there are probably laws in the science of physics, Jerry Fodor (1991) suggested "You can fool some people sometime, but you can't fool all the people all the time." But I think more philosophers accept arguments like John Beatty's (1995) that there can't be absolutely true universal necessary generalizations (to cite a common definition of "law") about evolved and evolving organisms. Because organisms are evolving, any such generalizations are merely contingently true, and perhaps temporarily true, and so not laws in the above sense. 

There are no fallacies per se related to being a listener rather than a speaker. That is not to say that listeners do not make errors. They do! They can mishear, misunderstand, willfully mishear or misinterpret, selectively ignore, mistakenly attribute intentions, and in other ways fail to listen well. However, fallacies as understood in philosophy are errors of reasoning. That is, they are errors arising in moving, in thought or speech, from one claim to another. Listeners, as such, do not do that. So, they are not subject to fallacies. Of course nobody is purely a listener, probably even briefly. We're always thinking our own thoughts and perhaps preparing to present them. And indeed, understanding someone else's reasoning requires a kind of cognitive activity. But in such listening per se we are not drawing our own inferences, so much as following others' inferences. So, when someone inhabits the role of the listener, partially and temporarily, they cannot commit fallacies as part of that role. 

Each of these predicates is individually necessary for being bread. That means that a thing can't be bread if it lacks any one of them. These predicates are also jointly sufficient for being bread. That means that anything that meets all of them is bread. However, there are also many other conditions not on this list which are sufficient for being bread. Being Wonderbread is a sufficient condition for being bread. Being sourdough bread is a sufficient condition for being bread. Being a bagel is sufficient condition for being bread. And so on. 

Nihilism is not a single philosophy. “Nihilism” is used to describe any position in philosophy that supports there being nothing of a certain kind. It is used to refer to the views, among others, that: 

Formal philosophy is an approach to philosophical questions which attempts to answer them by developing formal systems. Formal systems are those in which ideas (terms, claims, etc) are formalized, meaning symbolized. In such systems, conclusions drawn are typically reached as a function of the form of premises alone, which is to say their logical structure. An example is formal epistemology, which develops formal models (mathematical and otherwise symbolized models) of knowledge-justification. 

Yes, the study of time falls within metaphysics, since philosophers use that word to describe the study of the nature of reality. However, because physicists have significantly developed their views about the nature of time over the course of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, most philosophical discussion of time is now deeply engaged with current physical theories. Therefore, much of the philosophical discussion of time is currently being done by philosophers who identify themselves as philosophers of science working on physics. One might therefore say that the nature of time is a question in physics, metaphysics, and philosophy of science. You might find it useful to look through the entry on Time in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 

"All L is F" does not entail that L=F. Otherwise "all women are human" would entail that "woman=person" but that is not so. 

Terms like "philosopher" can be used in a descriptive sense, or an evaluative sense, and once you make clear which sense you mean, the remaining questions are rather more particular, and not well-contained enough for a forum like this one. 

If you're asking whether this is a valid argument, with the third line understood as the conclusion, 

C. Therefore, since many of us believe all of the above sentences, but they are inconsistent, many of us have false beliefs about minds and bodies. Many individual philosophers over several centuries have denied premises 1, 2, and 4. But all of these denials are based on controversial reasons, and none is universally accepted. So most philosophers accept the conclusion that there is a deep problem with some pretty basic beliefs most of us hold. 

Though the box and diamond are the more common representations of the strong and weak modal operators in modal logic, “L” and “M” are also used. I suspect that those letters were chosen because they each refer to English or German words, but I can't find any reference that mentions which ones. 

Great question. This will be an incomplete and potentially unsatisfying answer, and I will be interested to see other answers, but here are five answers to start with: 

Neither sentence entails that a house exists. However, user “quis est ille” reminds us that, as with nearly all ordinary language sentences, we can imagine contexts in which this sentence could be taken to imply the existence of houses. If the sentence is asserted in a neighborhood of houses, then its meaning might be just about whether there is food in them, and rendered in formal logic as: 

As you know, the two terms mean something different, as spatio-temporal relations aren't in themselves causal relations. Being spatio-temporally isolated simply means not standing in spatio-temporal relations like “before,” “10 minutes after,” “beside,” “10 meters below.” Being causally-isolated just means not having any causal relations, such that nothing that happens in A affects B, and nothing that happens in B affects A. So the question is, can things — and let's not talk about possible worlds for a moment since possible worlds are defined in terms of these relations — be spatio-temporally isolated without being causally isolated and vice-versa? In the first case, some people imagine God as living in a spatio-temporally isolated realm, but as knowing things that happen in our space-time (i.e. having beliefs caused by events in another space-time). That offers an example of causal but not spatio-temporal relations. The events are spatio-temporally isolated, but not causally isolated. Remember I'm not trying to offer a physically-possible example, only illustrating the difference between the concepts. Meanwhile, in the second case, imagine two things popping in and out of existence for only a second in the same space-time, and so standing in spatio-temporal relations. But imagine that they do not have common origins, and that they are further than a light-second from one another, so that no information traveling at the speed of light from one to the other could reach the other. I would say the two things are causally isolated, but not spatio-temporally isolated. Remember that nothing turns on these being terribly plausible scenarios. (It may well be, for instance, that causation in our actual universe always involves spatio-temporal connection.) Indeed, the possible worlds that the concepts are used to define may themselves be a little strange! What matters is just that the concepts — these two kinds of relations — are distinct. 

Human creations and our destructive effects on the non-human world are natural in the second sense and are not natural (or unnatural) in the third sense. The first sense is not especially relevant. The potential confusion here arises from equivocation, which means using the same word in two different ways. We see that there is something in common among these different usages, in that the second two are related to what I think is the oldest meaning—the first, about intrinsic or essential properties. The connection is that we sometimes think of intrinsic properties as properties not changed by us. For example, an oak tree isn't blue unless someone paints it. So, these meanings are related. However, I think when people use "nature" clearly, they make it plain that they are using it in one of these ways. The trouble is that some people are sloppy about usage. This word "nature" is very easy to be sloppy with because it sounds appealing, and so it gets used to advertise manufactured cleaning supplies, and advertisers want you to notice connotations, not clear meanings. This is a nice example of how trying to understand the various ways people use words helps us distinguish genuine philosophical puzzles from things that needn't puzzle us once we're clear. 

Emotivists like Stevenson and Gibbard and Quasi-Realists like Blackburn are somewhat more sophisticated than this, but those are the basic positions. 

There is a historical-sociological sense in which Philosophy, narrowly construed, is a phenomenon of Greek culture and the cultures it influenced. It's a Greek word describing a distinctly Greek cultural activity which influenced and was adopted by many later cultures. But not, I believe, Chinese culture. Just as the word "religion" doesn't apply terribly well to Chinese religion, "Philosophy" at least in this narrow, historical sense, might not be the best way to describe the Chinese intellectual traditions. In other words, one could say that Chinese philosophy has not historically been taught in anglophone philosophy courses because it is not—in this narrow sense—actually philosophy. That said, many American philosophy departments do teach Chinese philosophy courses. Others do not, but Chinese philosophy is not ignored by American philosophy departments, and I believe it's taught in some Australian ones. I don't have a good perspective on European and Latin American and other departments. But I recognize that your question was about it being taught in courses not in department curricula. I think a big reason for this is inertia—not ignorance per se, in so far as professors are necessarily ignorant of most knowledge, but simply our tendency to keep on teaching a single, already enormous and expanding tradition. That results from professors not having learned, or not having learned much, about Chinese philosophy, and so not adding it to courses. The narrowness persists through generations of philosophers because we already have so much to keep us busy. But that raises a question about how well Chinese philosophy even could fit into the existing philosophy courses. Does it conceptualize things in such a different way that it is actually quite hard to place Chinese ideas in debate or discussion with Anglophone philosophy, even if one spends time becoming knowledgeable about the tradition? If so, it would be challenging to add Chinese ideas to an anglophone philosophy course without spending much of the course preparing students on foundational Chinese ideas. The philosophies might be very difficult to put in conversation on some topics. At least some of what I've read suggests that this might be so, but here I plead ignorance! Finally, I believe there are questions central to anglophone philosophy which Chinese philosophy neither asks nor answers. (I would be delighted to be shown wrong about this.) And so, anglophone philosophy courses on these topics cannot incorporate Chinese philosophy even if more anglophone professors were expert at Chinese philosophy and eager to teach it. For instance, I'm interested in what the best definition of causation is that gives us some guidance about how to reliably distinguish it from correlations. It's a core question in anglophone philosophy. Philosophers teach whole courses on it. I'm not aware of Chinese philosophy asking or answering it. 

Note that that way of putting it doesn't say that x is free in (∀x)F(x). It says that x is free in F(x) — in the sentence that the universal quantifier in question applies to. In other words, that substitution of r for that x works because that x is not bound in F by any other quantifier. 

Philip Kitcher's (1993) The Advancement of Science (Worldcat link) is the account of science I think of as closest to a contemporary version of Logical Empiricism/Positivism. Kitcher might deny that, and certainly his rhetoric in the book suggests he feels he's moved far away from that position. But when it comes down to it, some of us agree that he ends up pretty close to their views. He adds a sociological dimension to science (though that was not actually entirely lacking in the Vienna circle, either), but what he adds it to, and even the way he adds it, is pretty traditional LP. One other place to look is in the HOPOS or "History of Philosophy of Science" movement. They now have a journal by that title. Among the philosophers working recently under that heading are a number of folks who are pretty sympathetic to classical LE/LP and they sometimes argue for the contemporary relevance of Vienna Circle positions and arguments. If you're interested in their early legacy in North America post-war you might also look at the Minnesota Studies volume "Logical Empiricism in North America" (contents/Worldcat).