I wonder if your uncertainty is over what ontology is. One's ontology is one's theory of what sorts of objects have reality. For instance, most everyone agrees that physical objects are real--perhaps, in some ways, Buddhist, Plato, and Cartesian skeptics might be excepted from this group. Therefore such people have an ontological commitment to the reality of physical objects. Mathematical realists have an ontological commitment to the reality of numbers, so that they exist in the way that (most people assume) physical objects do. I doubt that one can effectively characterize the sorts of theses that would entail ontological commitments. Obviously, theses about the ways in which we may make inferences based on evidence can carry with it theological ontologies or their lack. On the other hand, it is debated whether correspondence theory of truth applied to mathematical objects implies an ontological commitment to numbers. 

Death penalty is a punishment, (in theory) reserved for the most heinous of crimes. While this is often done medically it does not have to be. Firing squads, hanging(thenyc.com has a NSFW Video i am not going to link from syria of mass hanging in last month), and electric chair are still common throughout the world. That said there is no moral difference when considering commandment "Thou shalt not kill". Taking a life is still taking a life. You can justify the execution but that should not be confused with making it morally better. The commandment is not thou shalt not kill unless you deem the crime heinous. So to support one but oppose the other would seem hipocritical. Hammurabi first proposed a set of laws that tried to set punishments that were equal to the crimes committed. Currently most advanced societies have moved to a policy that have lessened the punishment for some crimes, particularly violent crimes. The policies often involve the possiblity of release from prison, and often the potential for the death penalty in certian countries. One could argue that when committing the crime the perpetrator knew the potential penalty and thus committed a form of suicide. Albiet one that will be completed by agents of the government. 

It is probably an inapt description to say that the events should be either precisely or imprecisely the same, but rather it would be better to say that future events or states must satisfy this or that property. Thus in a coin flip we wouldn't characterize these events by their similarity to any single event, but simply ask whether each event is a coin flip (and more precisely, whether it is a coin flip that results in heads). This too can see some ambiguity, but nothing that is special to probability theory--any ambiguity that I see arising from these considerations are ambiguities in judging whether a property is satisfied. 

First of all, I would like to indicate that I think this nearness or parallelism is only apparent in analytic philosophy which is not the whole of philosophy. But secondly, I would claim that analytic philosophy made better in proportion to which it is clear and rigorous (which are sometimes competing virtues), just as in mathematics. Still, as in each discipline, these are not the only virtues. 

The brain develops in a fairly understood manner. At an early age children begin to reason that if they do not see it, then it does not exist. By 7 they can begin understand the concepts that object can be hidden behind each other, and by 10 should understand that the world outside of what they see and hear still goes on. But until their mind is able to comprehend that, they simply are not able to understand. I am sure that there is research into when a childs brain develops to understand the inputs of their taste buds. I would guess it is around 6 months as that is when I have observed babies begin to make faces at certian foods. But untl their brain can process the input from their taste buds, they are not going to get pleasure or pain from the taste of the milk. And Freud did not understand the actual physiological part of the development of the brain. While he had many contributions to psychology, today he would be considered worse than a quack. Today we have a much better understanding of the development of the human brain. And our memory creation at an early age is not suppressed, its just that what is memorable to a 1 or 2 year old is pretty mundane in just a few years. But young children (~6months+) do recognize people they come in contact with regularly. This shows some memory retention already. 

So I'm trying to prove that, in a language with two diamonds <1>,<2>, the formula p -> [2]<1> p is valid just in case for any x,y and R2(x,y) then R1(y,x). I have the "if" direction easily, that is to say, I've show that if the relations have this property then the formula is valid. But I'm stuck on the "only if". What I have so far is: Suppose p -> [2]<1>p is valid and w,w' are in W such that R2(w,w'). Let p = Av~A so that w ||- p and therefore w ||- [2]<1>p so that w' ||- <1>p. So of course w' "accesses some world in which p is true" but how could you pin down that the world in question is w? I wonder, are worlds distinguished by the sentences that are true in them? So could I form the sentence that is the conjunction of all true atomic sentences, or something like it, in or order to be able to infer at this point in the proof that the world which w' accesses wherein p is true, is the world w? 

Because nothing is a state of void being. This is an unnatural and unstable state. If you release something into a void it attempts to quickly disperse filling the void as much as possible. Similarly upon creation objects try to disperse. In a strange coincodence or maybe design things also attract each other. So while nature wants voids filled, matter wants to be together. As a result you end up with collections of particles scattered through out the universe. Space is not truely empty. There are an effectively infintite number of atoms and particles out there. They are mostly dispersed so as to have an effective pressure approaching 0 through out the majority of the universe. But there are particles there. When they get close enough together and have enough attraction they couple. Eventually that couple collects more or becomes part of a larger collection. So there is something because that is a more stable state. There are theories that there is antimatter collections in the universe that would cancel out most matter but the dispersal of matter/antimatter sometimes happens before the 2 can cancel each other out. -- Edit addressing some Ben Hockings concerns I propose that you can not sum space time. Thus there can be no totality of spacetime. That it may be infinite and immeasurable. That we indeed exist because that is a more natural state. That the universe as you have defined it expands to fill a limitless nothing because that is a more natural state than containing nothing. Limitless is not the same as being infinitely large. It is nothing thus it has no size, and is not defined by our space time. No displacement is neccessary as there is nothing to displace. The universe expands to fill something that has no volume, or capacity thus can not be filled. In some ways we agree that the void does not exist as part of our space time. But I deny that our spacetime contains the totality of all that is. The scientist in me would love to limit everything to the limits that transcribe. That would imply that the potential is there to understand everything even if the reality of that approaches the impossible. But logically that makes no sense. I can accept that we exist as statistical anomaly. But if we exist as a statisical anomoly of a cycle of creation/annialation what is the chance that that anomaly only exists once? 

I assume you mean physical states. It is worth noting that not all views about Physics accept that any collection of facts about present or previous facts will determine every fact about future states. It's also not entirely clear what counts as forming states between the present and past. If states are discrete objects then it should be pretty clear, but if they're continuous (a not entirely settled matter) then what this means exactly may be unclear. For instance, if states are continuous then an object may have an instantaneous position and velocity and acceleration. Velocity and acceleration are usually conceived of as a change in some magnitude over time, but we permit ourselves to talk about their instantaneous values given a differentiable function that models position. If we take this model to model the position in a very literal sense, then does instantaneous velocity encode some information about previous states? If we count instantaneous velocity and acceleration as properties of a single time state, then classical mechanics requires only knowledge of the present. If they do not, then you need at least some sort of information about the past. I don't understand quantum mechanics or string theory enough to blather about what those disciplines would say. 

On the slavery issue: We are all slaves to some extent. We are slaves to our bodies needs for food and water, as well as its functions that are less desirable including excretory and aging. The fact that these are not truly volentary that does not mean that they must cause suffering. In fact a good meal and fine drink are among one of the ways we choose to reward ourselves for achievements. Toilet humor is among the most common, and often the action is pleasurable if only for the relief it provides. In addition while I am not condoning the slavery of the past many slaves had luxurious existances. Indeed there is also a subset of humanity that chooses slavery as a lifestyle and the gratification that they derive from it. On Suffering: Suffering likewise is a state of mind. If you do not have something to contrast then suffering is just normal life. What is suffering is also different among people. Masochists enjoy pain and abuse. Many people choose to deprive them selves of breathable air for pleasure. In order for a machine to suffer then it must also know joy or at least a condition that is the lack of suffering. It must be able to make a decision what is pleasureable and what is not. In order to suffer it must be able to choose to suffer. On what would be unethical: Humanity is likely to determine what the machine finds unpleasureable. We will likely have a subset among us who would exploit that. Some that would derive some perverse pleasure in causing the machine pain and suffering. This would be as unethical as torturing an animal or another human. And causing the termination of such a being for no reason would equally be unethical. Such an action would be equivilent to murder. It would also be unethical to deny an AI with the ability to distingish pain and sorry from joy and pleasure from experiencing both. This is not to say that it is your duty to inflict either. For Example, hiding a painful truth that the AI should know, even with the best of intentions, denies the AI the experience. 

I assume you mean the metaphysical status of propositions. The propositional calculus doesn't give much insight into determining what a proposition is--after all, it takes propositions for granted and attempts to develop a formal analysis of them. Similarly, mathematics won't tell you what a set is, but simply stipulate set axioms that are intended to model what we already understand a set to be. However, the question has been approached pretty famously by Frege, Russell, and many others--you may be interested to see the debates on the topic. While there isn't unanimity on the answer to the question, I would claim that the "intended proposition" of a simple sentence is the set of all equivalent thoughts which the speaker attempts to communicate; the "public proposition" actually expressed by a simple sentence is the set of equivalent thoughts that a linguistic community tends to agree are expressed by the sentence. To give just two important other notions of what propositions are: For Frege, they are abstract objects that refers to their truth-conditions. For modal realist David Lewis, propositions are sets of possible worlds.