Gobry also says that Luther believed the requirement that priests and monks stay celibate to be an unjustified limitation on their freedom: 

It seems that during the breakup of Yugoslavia there were civil wars during speakers of the (then officially) same language - Serbs, Croats and Bosniaks, but not, e.g., between Serbs and Slovenians. Is there any specific reason for this? 

Do any historians consider the Cold War, or Cold War II, to be going on? I'm asking because some features of the Cold War still exist, such as an antagonism between Russia and the Western world, and the war in Ossetia, which reminds of the Cold-War proxy wars. 

Towards the collapse of the USSR, nationalism rose in Moldova. Nationalists proclaimed the linguistic and ethnic identity between Moldovans and Romanians. It seems that they strove toward unification of their country and Romania. Besides, Moldova (except for Transnistria) had already been part of Romania before Soviet annexation. So why didn't the two countries unite? 

According to the Wikipedia, Egypt traded with Canaan at the time of the first dynasty and probably even before that, that's about 3000 BCE. 

This is a really good question, although it may end up being a bit broad. What do you mean by "witch hunting years"? While one may be able to deduce consistent trends across witch hunts, one can't be specific, as you could argue that the reasons behind different periods and places that saw an uptick in witch trials had different reasons. Some historians argue that it is general pyschological misogyny based on a mistrust of women, some that it is the patriarchal power structure keeping women from getting out of line, and there are plenty of other explanations out there. A good overview of how historians have seen it can be seen in this article. This paper brings in a more class-based dimension to the argument. Both have lots of references and citations for other sources. If you have access to academic databases, here's a scholarly article. Here's a lighter list-style article from Huffington Post. 

For comparison, Broadway shows were almost completely unmixed until the 1980s, and actors had to speak to an audience of hundreds or thousands without amplification. 

First, Belgium wasn't created by uniting the Walloons with the Flemish, but by secession from the Netherlands. This event is known as the Belgian Revolution. According to the linked Wikipedia article, one of the reasons for the revolution was that many future Belgians, even Flemish, "regarded King William I's rule as despotic". Moreover, Belgians are Catholic, while the Dutch are protestant. The Belgian Revolution happened in 1830, when nationalism wasn't very popular yet, so linguistic similarity didn't play as big a role as a common religion. This explains why both the Walloons and the Flemish wanted to secede from the Netherlands. Why not join France? I don't have a good answer, but again, since there was little nationalism (or nationalism wasn't linguistic), there was little reason to do so. 

On one hand, it seems so because the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact defined the border between the two spheres of influence to be the border of the Russian Empire before WWI. On the other hand, the USSR ended up annexing more than was agreed in the pact, e.g., Lvov (a.k.a. Lviv, Lemberg), which had been Austrian before WWI. Do we know if it was Stalin's intent to restore the Russian Empire's borders, or maybe just a trick to foil Germany? 

Every one of these would place a high premium on using good sources and evidence. Although I am not deeply familiar with them, Thompson, Churchill, and Russell belong to an era that had different priorities. To offer a full explanation might be a completely different question (and entail another couple of pages of writing!). Regardless, their works would likely be respected, but more for their place in history and contributions to the field than for their actual content. If, for example, you wanted to write a paper about Modern Europe, you wouldn't rely on them exclusively. 

Building off of Denis's answer, there was a lot of imagery of detached phalloi (plural for phallus, or penis) in ancient Greece. Here is a vase image of a woman watering a phallus garden. Some processions (like the Pompe before the Festival of Dionysus) even included pushing carts with giant penises on them that people would decorate with flowers. As noted above, the culture was very fine with images of male nudity, so this wasn't particularly unusual. Also, I don't know the date of that monument, but in classical Athens, women weren't out in public much. 

Hinduism(Sanathana Dharma) is mainly a culture than a religion which is followed in India. The culture of one region is based on that region's weather conditions and nature. . Cremation of bodies is a real example of this fact. Soil in India is wet type and have more water in it. If dead bodies are buried under soil, the bio degradation take place and body fluids come out. Since the soil is wet enough, it is very much sure that those fluids will mix up with the water in soil and hence the drinking sources like wells and rivers will get polluted. This will lead to diseases. Also cremation helps in not wasting the land. After cremating the bodies, there is practice in which some grains or rice seeds are put in the place of cremation(It is still followed in Southern part of India, not sure about other parts). This practice is a straightforward way in pointing out the importance of agriculture in Hinduism. This is practiced to make sure that the agricultural land is not wasted. The same land is again used for agricultural purposes. So in this culture there are no cemeteries, the same land again used for the farming. All these are written in the Smrithies(example for Smriti is Manusmrithi and I don't know in which specific smrithi this practice is mentioned.), which contains the code of conducts to be followed by people following a culture. Each Smrithi is followed in a region for a particular period according to it's nature and weather conditions.. Smrithies are allowed to edit accordingly whenever needed.(This is a vast subject to discuss and out of scope of this question) If some 1000 years old books are saying that, you should follow some rule which were followed 1000 years ago, nobody is going to obey that rule. So the rituals and habits to be followed can be changed according to Hindu culture. Also it will be helpful for you to refer to 16 samskaras to be followed in one person's life. From wikipedia: The samskāra (sanskaar) are a series of sacraments, sacrifices and rituals that serve as rites of passage and mark the various stages of the human life and to signify entry to a particular Ashrama (i.e. stage of life). The answer of the question is the 16th one, Antyeshti. see the link. So according to Hindu culture, particular region or country can adopt their way of burying according to the nature and weather conditions. This is making a good sense. Suppose if in European countries, dead bodies are about to burn, people will have difficulty in following that, so they choose burying body in soil which is easy to follow. Also in Middle East countries most of the parts are deserts. So burning of body is not necessary in these areas according to the soil type and nature conditions. This is just an introduction, the real answer needs a good research on Smrities mentioned earlier. (And as I am from south India, Kerala, here most of the Hindus prefer to cremate the body than bury in the soil.)