So, the advice I could give you is this: - With either a large frame or a small frame, there would in principle be a stem length that would give you a satisfactory position; - A longer wheelbase at cost of a longer top tube COULD mean a short stem to get a good reach. That short stem, and its correspondent short lever on the steering, could make the bike unstable and thus make you tired during long rides. - As opposed to what common sense would say, a smaller frame with a larger stem could give you the same reach, but with a longer stem-leverage, thus making the bike more stable, requiring less upper-body input during long rides. - Handlebar height has an effect on all this, since the lower the handlebar, the more weight you will apply over it, and more pronounced the effect of this stem-leverage. Hope this helps, and hope this wasn't too confusing :o) 

They should be elastic enough so that you can move your legs freely in all directions when you are trying them at the shop. Padding is very important, but some models can make it very uncomfortable out of the bike. Nowadays, there are some anatomical paddings which, instead of being made of a single patch of padding, are made of lots of geometrically shaped patches of padding of different materials. These work great. If you try a short at the shop and it feels uncomfortable, most probably it will remain uncomfortable. The stitches and sewings must not have sharp/stingy textures that might annoy you a lot while pedalling. Good quality usually is associated to larger price, and the opposite. And, you MUST try as many models you can at the shop. The most comfortable at the cabin most probably would be the best for your ride. I wouldn't buy one online or preorder, unless I had one identical already in use - and they may change the product without notice! 

Short answer: yes, you can. I've been doing it for years and my chains are lasting very long compared to ancient times when I used other stuff. Only potential caveat is that it is not the cleanest oil you'll ever use, but neither are the similar, much more expensive "wet" oils in the market (namely FinishLine Green). One liter of gearbox will cost a few bucks and last for the rest of your life. Long answer: 

I think that compact (lower gears) supposedly would imply the person isn't strong enough to spin higher gears, or actually needs that low gears to be able to climb properly. In any case, I think most people doesn't even know there is a difference on crank chainring sizes, not to mention they could very well prefer one over another. I for one ride internal gear hub, and I have one 46t and one 39t chainring. When I feel fit and wanting to speed up, I install the 46t. When I am more lazy, or more feel more tired for a longer period, I install back the 39t. This scorn stuff, or "weakness" stuff, is all inside people's head, I would say. 

With your chosen stem already tight in place, and your saddle the height you usually ride, install only the naked bar(bare metal), and don't tighten it too much. Install the brake levers in a "starting position" (but not the bar tape) and attach them to the brakes so they actually brake. On an empty parking lot or the like, ride the bike while trying a lot of handlebar positions, rotating the dropbars forwards and backwards until you can grab a good and comfortable grip either in the drops, or in the upper parts. Don't overemphasize the brake lever position for now. Instead, focus on the bar position itself. Let the clamping bolts a bit loose, so you can get the "sweet spot" with precision and without too much effort. When done, tighten the stem bolts. Repeat previous step for the levers, clamping them lower or higher. Find the ideal balance between comfortable "in the hoods" position, both for hand rest and brake reach, and a good brake reach in the drops. You can use the "classic position" (whatever it might be) as a reference, but not as a measure of quality. Your comfort, functionality and safety should always be the measuring rule. When done, tighten the brake levers clamping bolts. After tightening everything in position, go out for a short ride "in the field", perhaps in light traffic, or in the road (a rolling terrain with crossings would be perfect), and perform some final adjustments; Get back home and wrap the tape. 

I don't enjoy very much the feeling of sprung saddles (I have a Brooks Flyer), and I think that's because they pivot around the nose, thus bending the lower back and pelvis while going down, in a flexing motion. Seatposts, on the other side, have a translation movement, without pelvis rotation. Having ridden some suspended-seatpost-equipped bikes, I can say one thing: they are awesome! And since you have a condition, thus are probably not wanting to become world champion anymore, the minimal, questionable performance decrease is overwhelmed by the very significant gains in comfort and health risk reduction. Hope this helps! 

I hope it is not too mystical for you to check, but surely it is worth trying to grasp the essence of bicycle drivetrain mechanics, so you will be a much more powerful and self-reliant cyclist. If you find something, write a comment or edit your question, and don't forget to accept your preferred answer! 

I have a recurrent problem when riding in high humidity climate, either with hot or cool weather: after some hours riding, my nipples (in the chest, not in the wheel :o) get very sore from friction against the shirt's fabric. It seems that it has to do with salty sweat, the waving-flag movement of the shirt fabric against the skin, and perhaps with cold causing nipple erection, further increasing the friction. A more experient friend of mine has reported the same recurring problem, having even seen people bleeding from this. So I ask if anyone else has suffered from this problem, and how I could expect to solve it. I am considering to take along some band-aids, but I think there could be some preventive measure before the band-aids be needed, in the first place. Thanks for any insight! 

I've found going up slight-to-moderate but LONG slopes (more than one mile) makes me feel a lot easier when going up moderate-to-steep hills of any length. The fact is that one of the principles of exercise training is that if you want to get better in some specific activity, you should perform that activity, in a level enough to promote enhancement of capacity over time. Hope this helps! 

For kids that can hold a steady seating posture, but are still imature or unpredictable, I think the classic "behind the stem" position, although uncomfortable for the rider, is the preferred one because the kid surely feels protected, conversation is direct, and the kid have "nowhere to fall" without the adult holding her. That is a position with a fairly low speed limit, too, and I think a front-suspension/fat-tire combination can ease things a lot. Then, from about 4yo until 7yo, the last step before the kid can ride his own bike or a tandem would be a rear seat. This is a situation where is desireable to allow a bit more of clearance between the kid's face and the adult's back, due to braking and also visibility. Communication is a bit harder, but the overall sensation is quite safe and stable, PROVIDED the bike has the "natural talent" to carry weight on the rear (which rule out almost any sport/race oriented bike). A longer seat stay, rigid rack brazeons, and a generous trekking rack are most desireable. Long tail bikes are the ideal solution, but shouldn't be actually necessary. Until here, I haven't come close to answering your question, but from the most common alternatives, the one I wouldn't adopt at all (although I have some biker friends who have done so) is the baby trailer, Burley style, because if anything happens to the kid (even if she calls for help), she is too far from you, and in a position that you cannot reach untill a complete stop, coming out of the bike, etc. Not to mention the WORST problem: the kid being a bumper, gometrically WAY BELOW the average height of CAR bumpers... (I would not like to see the statistics of car/baby-trailer collisions, but the very scene of it creeps me). 

This is obviously (from the images) a suspension fork, and a very low-end one. Suspension forks are heavier than their rigid counterparts, but the trade-off is that they absorb shocks. These rust spots MUST MEAN the fork has long ago COMPLETELY LOST its ability to work properly as a suspension. As a result, you are carrying useless extra-weight, are not getting a suspension effect, are risking some worse failure along the way, and are risking some crash/injury. The surface presenting the rust is the surface where sliding occurs (the "telescopes"). This surface must be perfectly smooth and shiny, and the rust shown necessarily means it is not, and never will be, as new again. Grinding will remove dust, but will not make the surface smooth nor prevent more rust to build-up afterwards. My suggestion: sell the fork for metal recycling, and buy either a new suspension fork, or a rigid fork. Hope this helps. 

I think that the torque needed to seat the stem snugly enough is way smaller than that which would damage the steering tube. And by the piece image and design, I would say the tension that is correct to seat the headset bearings is good to keep the plug inside too. By the way, after you tighten the stem bolts, you could even take the plug out of the bike and ride it anyway (I had to do that some times, but just for a short period, of course...). 

Other factor: you mentioned your cycle is short, less than 15min (so is mine). I found this to be a problem, because you always ride "cold". Perhaps you could warm-up and stretch, at home (learn how to stretch thigh and calf properly, first), or even take a LONGER way to work, so you can ride lightly for more time, thus pumping some nutrients inside your joints' tissues instead of just hammering'em cold. At last, seeing a doctor (preferrably specialized in sports medicine) and doing some physical therapy is always something to consider. But don't think that is more important than self-observation, self-knowledge and self-control. Hope it helps. 

I haven't looked at it from this angle, but this sounds compelling. I have to admit that I plan to inflict some "oldschool-performance" upon my fellow riders, since the tend to look down at "old big steel stuff" from their aeroplastics bikes. For a better effect, the classic non-slope lugged kit can be complete with corresponding short stem and short post... 

If it is a pad, you can adjust the pads yourself. This procedure depends on the brake type (hydraulic vs mechanic) and model; If it is the caliper, you can reposition the caliper by releasing the bolts attaching the caliper to the rest of the bike (directly or via an adapter), and reposition the system. Sometimes, braking hard is the best way to force the caliper to stay in the position it should, but this often require some fine-tuning. Take the bike to the shop where you purchased. Since the bike is new, they it is very fair that you have it serviced. 

EDIT: 130mm axles are a possibility, since my bicicle has this spacing, and I actually opened the frame a bit to use the former American Classic. 

Disregarding the rear cogs, if the front chainrings skip, first and foremost REGRET A LOT, then do one of the following approaches, in that order: 

EDIT: I took a late look at some pictures of the wheel you mentioned (Shimano WH-R550). It looks quite different from the regular mtb shimano hubs, so please consider the following answer as applying to regular mountain-bike shimano hubs. 

I think ABUS is one of the most respectable, perhaps THE most respectable bike-lock manufacturer around. They have even some numbered levels of protection, the higher the level the higher the protection, even agains powertools (because of special steel alloys, and such). They have some combination padlocks, which seem very interesting. Take a look at these 4-digit (ten thousand possible combinations): 

Why not? Tires are for bikes what shoes are to people. You don't go to every kind of activity always with the same pair of shoes, so with bikes it shouldn't be different. I think everyone should have enough tire sets to cover all the spectrum of terrains one regularly rides on. 

(already mentioned) The closing speed between a car coming from behind is much slower. He has more time to see you before overtaking, and if you need to cross, you can signal your turn, so he can slow down for you to pass; By the same reasons, you can flow with traffic, take the lane, merge in and out, overtake, etc. only when riding with the flow; Pedestrians always look up the street for oncoming cars. If you ride the opposite way, there will be lots of pedestrians literally jumping in front of you; At night, there is a convention of bright white light front, not-so-bright red lights rear. If you ride against the flow, you obfuscate drivers and they obfuscate you with the lights' flares; (already mentioned) Bicycles are vehicles, so the direction of a street is, by definition, the same for motorized vehicles and bicycles. The air displacement effect on the balance of bike riders, and also on indirect "drafting", has a much greater negative effect if the biker rides against the main flow. 

I had an elastomer suspension a lot of time ago, and did my own maintenance on the elastomer compartment. I would not take a fork like this and put springs inside. Bike suspension elastomers dampen the motion of the suspension in two ways: 

I have replaced 2.0 (50mm) Schwalbe Marathons for 1.35 ones, and that made an ABSURD difference in my roling resistence. I was feeling burnt out by commuting, and since then I started to feel "exercised", getting to destination much faster and/or with less effort. Then I got a bike with 700x23 tires, and THAT is good, concerning speed and low effort. The only thing I think is very important: these skinny tires work fine, even with not-ideal road condition, if the bike has a more performance-oriented position (a firmer grasp on the handlebar - which is lower - , less weight on the saddle). If you take a more upright citybike (the first bike I described), the extra speed gained from thinner (not skinny) tires can make the bike too uncomfortable if road condition is not good. I have also heard those theories about "balloon is the new fast", but that seems very non-scientific, since the "studies" never describe the parameters that varied versus those that remained constant, not to say other methodologic steps. As for me, narrower is obviously always faster (which doesn't mean always better). Hope this helps! (by the way, I think 32mm is a good number to try) 

Perhaps you might swap your current quick-release skewers by one of the many "anti-theft" alternatives (listed in my perceived order of security): 

I am a physician (not practicing anymore), a biker, and an office worker. And I ride fixie. And I sometimes have knee discomfort. So, my few cents: 

I have an identical problem, having been rinding the bike without seat clamp for more than two years now. I suppose you have already read something about it, if not I recommend Sheldon Brown on the subject. But I must warn you that the ammonia theory didn't work for me, and I tried ammonia on some aluminum sample parts without any visible effect (corrosion, oxide removal, whatever). The problems are: