Ban colors Everyone would have to dress, paint their homes, paint their cars, etc. in gray scale. It would be more amazing in a visual medium, but still pretty cool. Ban sugar You can live without pure sugar. Echoes of modern killjoys. Ban tobacco We're coming close to that anyhow. But, suddenly dump it on lots of people and see how they'd act. Ban music and dancing There are already religious communities in the U.S. that have done this, some of which were especially vigorous in the 1920s. Ban pets Saudi Arabia has long banned dogs, although recently legalized them. And, lots of people could related having snuck in pets in places where they are banned now like apartments and dorms and barracks. Ban long hair The opposite of the Islamic don't shave thing. Everyone would be required to be clean shaven and basically bald. Like the Army, but for everyone across genders and status. 

Imagine a society of people every bit as intelligent as people today, on a planet in all material respects identical to Earth. But, on this planet, no one has every invented a written language, or even a proto-language like the Vinca script or Harappan seals. What is the maximum scale, and level of complexity, technology and general sophistication that a society like this could achieve? How would the answer differ, if like the earliest literate cultures of Sumeria, Minoan palace society, ancient Egypt, and the earliest literate days of Chinese society, there was a written language, but it was only taught to future scribes starting at about high school age, and only 1%-5% of the population ever learned to read and write, and 90%+ of those who did learn to read and write were only as facile in reading and writing as a typical high school or college student who has studied a foreign language only in a classroom setting is in the foreign language that they have studied? 

Where's The Wonder? You need to capture the wonder and wow before you start twisting the screws to hold it back, and you need to keep it simple. Don't try too hard too quantify it. Without wonder, it is auto mechanics and accounting, not magic. There's something to the concept, but I get the vibe that you're squelching it before you figure out how to have fun with it. Apply too much cold logic and you murder what you dissect. Power And Friction Maybe everybody has magic and what distinguishes powerful mages from weak ones is friction. 

This is unfathomably difficult to do. Even with ultra-extreme technologies that are still scientifically possible, assembling this much energy is for practical engineering purposes impossible, no matter what means you planned on using to apply it. More Viable Extreme Engineering Alternatives Build A Death Star-Like Space Station From Scratch It would be more viable from an engineering perspective to create a huge death star scale man made planet from scratch than the shift the rotation of the planet that much. 

Horizontal gene transfer via retroviruses that change an organism's germ line DNA exist, even in humans, and account for a minority but not insignificant portion of the genomes of many, if not most, species on Earth. Would it be viable to have an organism in which horizontal gene transfer was a normal and expected part of the life cycle of a multi-stage organism? For example, at stage one, the organism would have just a bare minimum genome. Some stage one organism that survived to adulthood might then receive a retrovirus causing it to become a stage two organism (perhaps facilitated by state two organisms themselves with a sexually transmitted or blood transfused retrovirus). Some stage two organisms, in turn, might receive another retrovirus causing it to be a stage three organism (perhaps facilitated in a similar way by stage three organisms). To be clear, I know that this is not what is going on in multi-stage organism that are familiar to us like frogs and butterflies. I'm simply asking if there is any reason that this couldn't be biologically viable. My motive for considering this is that it might reduce mutation rates in DNA associated with later stages since fewer organism would have the later stage, in an environment that was highly prone to mutation such as one with mutation encouraging chemicals and/or radiation present at high levels), but ultimately that is just background. (Also, it is just a cool idea.) 

Boundaries are historical contingencies. A key point is that you want not an alternative history, in which we look at possible historical forks in the road that we could have taken, and instead want a future North America that could evolve from the starting point that it has today. How and why that happens would dictate the result. Historical Examples Fortunately, we have a number of recent examples of countries breaking up to imagine how that might happen. Breaks Along Existing Boundaries In general, there is an imperfect tendency in a breakup to follow the boundary lines of sub-national regions. 

Chase the niche, not the average. Imagine some situation which has highly specialized demands upon it that are outside of the everyday, and you'll get something much more interesting. Here are some ideas do get your creativity flowing. Most writing systems are based upon the documentation of a spoken language between people. But, what kind of writing system would you develop to record American sign language, or dance routines, or to systematically name plants, or describe astronomy observations? What if the purpose is to write down bird songs or insect chirps? What if the primary purpose of your writing system was to accurately describe human faces in a standardized way that was good enough to walk into a bar and pick out the right person from the description? These specialized writing systems could become universal in the way that the main system for writing down music has become today. Eventually, those languages might even develop more general uses and become full fledged general purpose writing systems. The earliest writing systems from Serbia to Egypt to Pakistan weren't developed by poets or historians or priests or academics. They were developed by accountants, ration system bureaucrats and traveling merchants, mostly to keep track of connections between goods and people. Eventually, the accounting symbols were generalized for wider use. What about a writing system designed for writing with your toes, or blinking your eyes at a computer, or having a computer user interface that tracked your eye movement, or with a stylus in your teeth, or that you would lick onto a surface, or claws, or that would utilize a prehensile tail? What kind of writing system would be well suited to a sentient species that lived under water like dolphins or whales or mermaids? What kind of writing system would people raised in China but never formally trained to read or write in any language develop? What about a writing system that uses three-dimensional instead of two-dimensional characters? What about a writing system that maximizes information density by utilizing color, texture, thickness, orientation, and relative position context as well as character shape to convey meaning? Why settle for one writing system for one language? Japanese has four! (logographic kanji, which are adopted Chinese characters; the Latin script (rōmaji), syllabic hiragana, used primarily for native or naturalised Japanese words and grammatical elements, and syllabic katakana). English has cursive (with upper and lower case), print (with upper and lower case), shorthand for certain specialist writers, and a small number of logograms (e.g. @ $ & #). Urdu and Hindi are basically the same language, but in different scripts. Some writing systems cross linguistic boundaries. Both Japanese and English share systems for writing music and mathematical and physical symbols, including recent writing system inventions like Feynman diagrams to summarize interactions in particle physics. Could a more efficient way to describe genetic code in writing be developed? What sort of writing system might an international system of notation for prostitutes develop? What about a notation system to describe personalities or to summarize interpersonal interactions in small to medium sized groups of people? What sort of writing system would surveyors in a place where nothing came in straight lines and nothing was on flat land develop to write legal descriptions in? 

I'm not so bearish on this idea as some of the other commentators. In Loop Quantum Gravity (the smaller of one of a couple main efforts to develop a theory of quantum gravity), one of the core concepts is that fundamentally space-time is made of points connected to other points and that notions like "locality" and the number of space dimensions are only "emergent" properties of space-time at a macroscopic level that arise from points that have links to each other in common being perceived as being close to each other. So, at a macroscopic level, space-time seems to have three spatial dimensions, to have well defined locality, to be smooth and to be continuous, but really, space-time is a network of discrete discontinuous points with ill defined dimensionality, in which it is entirely possible for a point to have a direct connection to another point light years away, even though most of its connections, on average, will be very near by. In LQG, the true formulation of the speed of light is not in terms of distance per time in a continuous space, but in space-time points traveled per time whose average apparent distance from each other is well defined, but which actually have variable apparent distances from each other according to a well defined probability distribution that is reflected in the fact that accurate quantum mechanical calculations for the travel of a photon, for example, require not just consideration of all possible paths from point A to point B, but also a range of speeds above and below the speed of light (which is just a most probable average speed) that in an LQG version of quantum gravity may reflect scenarios in which the same number of space-time points are traversed in a given time frame, but the distances between them only produce the speed of light, on average, rather than exactly replicating it. So, in a universe with non-local space-time connections, there is no intrinsic difference between going from one side of an atom to another through an apparently local connection of space-time points, and going from Earth to a distant galaxy. Both could involve the same number of space-time hops. These non-local connections and the very notion of gravity itself, in some versions of LQG, are deeply related to the quantum mechanical phenomena of "entanglement" which allows particles whose wave functions collapse at greatly separated locations in time and space but once shared adjacent points in space-time to continue to act in a corrolated fashion. Now, the fictional side of this when you get to a macroscopic sized gate based upon current technology is that in LQG and with respect to the quantum mechanical phenomena that seem to be a good fit for this kind of space-time, non-locality is a phenomena that generally happens on a one point in space-time just big enough for a single photon or quark or electron to occupy at a time basis, not on a macroscopic basis where everything averages out and creates the spatially three dimensional world in which concepts like locality and a smooth space-time and perfectly invariant speed of light seem to describe reality. Essentially, without to much handwavium, the advanced technology that creates the gates would have to figure out how to get all of the space-time points and fundamental particles that make up the gate into a single unified quantum state with a parallel entangled set just like it, and then once the entanglement is established, to ove the gates far apart from each other. And, you would have to devise some way for this intensely coordinated collection of gillions of fundamental particles in two main clumps at the side of each gate, to do so in such a manner that someone passing through it is neither assimilated into the gate's coordinated wave functions itself, nor disrupts the epic feat of quantum mechnical coordination. Realistically, even in the most far out versions of LQG (assuming that this proves to be correct rather than the alternatives), at best, it would merely be possible to exchange very low bandwidth information across non-local space-time connections that scientists discovery that send photons to known non-local destinations through non-locally connected space-time points, rather than any macroscopic gate. But, probably the closest to theoretically possible science way to imagine such a technology would be to think about the interior of the gate (the frame of the gate would contain the "active ingredient interior" of it, so you could move it around) as some sort of near perfect Bose-Einstein condensate entangled with another near perfect Bose-Einstein condensate (each of which can only exist sustainably in very extreme conditions) in another gate. Perhaps, somehow people and thinks can cross unscathed because passing through happens in such a tiny time frame, perhaps on the order of 10^2 units of Planck time (which are 5.39 × 10^-44 s each), that macroscopic objects don't have time to be assimilated and destroyed by the gate before the macroscopic object is through and recovering from the infinitessimally small journey in terms of space-time point hops traversed. It is a quick journey because you literally aren't travelling very far, you just have an inaccurate perception of the true nature of locallity which you developed over the course of your evolution of other primates because pondering such things for too long is not a good recipe for long term species survival when the universe that you have a sensory capacity to perceive is much difference from this under natural conditions. Sure, it may seem infeasible, but we can at least conjure up the most plausible potential physical theory of the gates given what we have imagined is within the realm of possibility while doing it as little injustice as possible.