So it seems like your question is mainly around why you are unable to whiteboard code in an interview. This is simply; you haven't been coding enough. Yes, you are a fast learner. But there is more to coding than just syntax. I felt the exact same way as you described in your question when I was an undergraduate. I did very well in all of my coding assignments. Got A's in every coding project because I loved it. But get me in front of a whiteboard and I'll freeze up like a freshmen who didn't study enough for a midterm. I, as well, read up on multiple interview preparations test and learned a lot about it. But I still couldn't handle the pressure of coding on the spot. After doing software development as a career for awhile, I realized why I couldn't perform in front of a white board. It was simply because I wasn't coding enough. I didn't code 40 hours per week when I was in school. But at my job? Yes, for all of 40 hours a week, all I do is coding. When my peers and managers come to me with a challenge, I quickly and confidently spit out some code or tell them why it would take too much time to develop. That's because I have become proficient at it and understand code at a deeper level than just syntax. That's because I have been coding enough to not be pressured with time. So I believe you just simply have to do more of it. 

The policy. Ignore this problem. Someone, somewhere, screwed up. A new policy has been put in place. Yes, they are idiots. Yes, it could have been costly for you. It wasn't. It's annoying, but if you suffered no harm, it's not a battle worth fighting. Even if you "won" you wouldn't gain anything. Pay. I assume you pay tax via PAYE? This is definitely the company's responsibility. A bonus shouldn't have been taxed any differently to your normal pay - you would still pay Income Tax, NI, & Student Loan repayments on it. So I don't see how you would have lost out financially. What may be different is the amount paid into your pension (if you have one) and the salary they have on record for you if you want a raise next year. 

If you work in a heavily regulated environment, this may be against the law. For example, in some countries finance workers have to record all their calls and all their texts are monitored to ensure they aren't committing fraud. If they use their personal phones, they could be breaking the law. I don't know where you live, but I don't think restaurant managers are that heavily regulated! If you often need to text / call your employees, I would suggest speaking to your manager, and finding out what the policy is. They may give you a company phone - for use only in relation with company business. Or they may reimburse you for calls and texts you send from your personal account. 

I was in a similar situation before as well. This IT company invested a lot in me. Gave me access to a whole bunch of places, paid for my travels, all that jazz. Not trying to be cocky or anything, but I had a good feeling they wanted me there full time after the internship I was doing for them. Well, after only 5 months I wanted to pursue something I would enjoy a lot more; software development. It was a hard decision for me because I built great relationship with the employees and management at the IT company. In the end I wrote them an honest letter, expressing my new passion and new direction that I want to go with my career. I mentioned how I enjoyed working for the IT company and enjoyed the people that made up that company. I ended my email with a lot of thanks; thanks for the opportunity, thanks for placing trust in me, etc etc. My manager emailed me back with congratulations, thanking me for my contribution, and wishing me luck. There were no bitterness. As a matter of fact, I DIDN'T expect any bitterness because I knew of their professionalism. If I were expecting bitterness then I wouldn't have had a hell of a time making the decision to switch careers. So in the end, just be honest. They should be professional and understanding of your choices. If they aren't, well then aren't you glad you didn't stick around longer? 

Would you date this person? No! Why date / hire someone who has such a low opinion of their own ability. You do not need to emphasise your weaknesses. If the employer has any qualms, they will ask you directly. Your goal is to communicate all the ways in which you are right for the job. If, however, you don't think that you can do the job - don't apply. 

This isn't strictly a workplace issue - but the crux of the answer is clear. Don't do it again. Ask forgiveness. Be prepared to respectfully demonstrate your innocence. 

Let's assume that there is something which can only be learned by reading this documentation. And, let's also assume that the online PDF is recent and contains the right information. Your choices are. 

Your annual review should not bring up any surprises. Ideally, you should be having regular (monthly / quarterly) meetings with your boss to discuss your work, whether you're hitting your targets, and whether you have any issues. As part of this, you should find out what your company's goals are and how you are expected to help them achieve those goals. Your job title is "Computer Programmer" - but programming a Tetris playing AI is probably not why a Widget Manufacturer hired you. Let's take an example. Company Goal Save money by reducing customer complaints. Your Goal Reduce customer facing bugs in the codebase. Your Achievements Reported bugs A,B,C. Fixed bugs X,Y,Z. This saved the company an estimated £££. Next Years Goals Find a way to reduce the number of support calls caused by $foo. Rewrite the codebase in Python. 

I assume social media and social networking is being used interchangeably? Either way, when you present something to an employer you want to present something professional. If your Facebook page has a lot of inappropriate comments, conversations, pictures, etc, do not present that. But you are right, many employers might Google your name. This is why you should create a professional and detailed LinkedIn profile. It is for professionals to present themselves. As a matter of fact, set your Facebook to private so that only your friends can see your wall. In my experience, when you Google a person's name, most of the time a LinkedIn profile is one of the top search results. Try it. So if you want to reduce the chance of employers looking at your Facebook/Google+ profile, then have a LinkedIn profile to intercept it. Here is my experience with LinkedIn in the professional field. I sent an email to an employer asking for an open position. I did not want to include my resume yet because I didn't want to be pushy about it. I wanted to first know if the position is open and if the employer would like to see my resume. But I did have an email signature that included my LinkedIn profile. Long story short I got hired without ever sending my employer my resume because my LinkedIn profile was enough to get me the interview. 

Your manager is busy. All managers are. You are not the only person they are responsible for. One of your jobs is to make life as easy for your boss as possible. Happy boss = happy you :-) So, you need to understand how your boss works and what will motivate him and keep him happy. You could just send him an email. But I bet he gets hundreds and will find it very easy to ignore. Consider the following... 

In the interview? You need to explain why you think the person complained, how you would have handled the complaint at the time, and what you would do to make it right and stop the problem happening again. After the interview? There's no point in arguing with the interviewer. They set the rules - not you. It may be worth speaking to your manager and asking if there's any way you can help address the complaint now (if it's not too old), or you could go back to the original complainant (if you know who they are) and try to resolve the issue. Finally, consider if you want to work for a company which behaves in such a manner. An interview is as much a chance for you to test the company as for them to test you.