The other question has some very good detailed answers, worth reading, but briefly and more specific to your question: 

Binary systems like Alpha Centauri A & B probably have a shared heliosphere and/or some form of heliopause between them where their two solar winds meet. It would be interesting to study that in more detail. I'm not sure how much is known about the heliopause between two binary stars, especially given that they orbit each other. I'm not sure what form it would take - perhaps that would make a good question. Binary stars need to be much closer than 11.2 AU to have corona to corona interaction. Stars that close are probably quite rare but they do happen. Here's one example of a binary star system so close they're actually thought to be touching. 

Source, so, a black hole might generate a perfectly spherical event horizon, but it generates it on a not perfectly flat 3 dimensional surface, and I think the gravitation from other objects makes it not quite a perfect sphere. For example, a star or planet that orbits a black hole would drag around a ripple on the event horizon as it orbits the black hole. Precisely what shape that ripple would be . . . I'm not sure. That said, if you had a black hole as the only object in a universe, then I think the event horizon might be a perfect sphere, or as perfect as possible, given quantum fluctuation, hawking radiation and the impossibility of precise observation and all that good stuff. Non black holes tend to have lumpy/inconsistent gravity - see here. Even Neutron stars have some inconsistency, but Black holes probably avoid that because the matter is condensed to a point, so there's equal gravitational pull from all directions from the singularity. Now a Kerr black hole, that's a whole different question. I'm not smart enough to try to answer that one. That might not be a sphere at all. 

Not an answer, but just on radiants: Radiant means angle of approach. It's applied to meteor showers because the Earth intersects the dust trail that causes the meteor shower at a specific place in orbit and dust trail has a specific angle of intersection relative to Earth and Earth's orbit. 

Perhaps the extra few degrees of fullness really does make a noticeable difference. I'd assumed it wouldn't make a big difference but this article suggests it does. 

A little reading and effort is recommended and the Wikipedia page is straight forward enough, if you're not completely math-phobic. But if you want an answer, Rob Jeffries 9,500 km is right, however, that's center point to center point. Surface to surface, that would only be less than 2,000 km, which would be crazy close. That close the Moon would take up about (guessing) close to 50% of the sky, maybe 70 degrees or so, when directly overhead. But that 2000 km number doesn't take into account tidal stretching or rotation, as the Moon would almost certainly be tidally locked and rotating in sync with it's orbit like it does now and the Earth would be similarly tidally locked and have a tidal and gravitational bulge in the direction of the Moon. Taking into account rotation, that pushes it out to the cube root of 3, not 2 or about 14% further, but that's center to center. The surface to surface distance would be increased to about 3,000 KM. Still insanely close. Any orbital eccentricity would increase instability though, so for a safe distance, Earth to Moon where the Moon wouldn't break apart at all, but it would still stretch measurably, I wouldn't want it any closer than about 5,000 or 6,000 km from the Earth's surface. That's a ballpark guess with tidal forces, tidal locking, solar perturbations and orbital eccentricity all in mind and even there, some loose moon dust and rocks might regularly blow off and shower onto the Earth. 6,000 KM (surface to surface) is less than twice the Moon's diameter, so it would still be enormous in the sky, but I think that's about the distance where the Moon would hold together in orbit. The math says even closer, but that doesn't take into effect various issues like eccentricity, rigidity, etc. It gets rather hard to calculate with rock solid accuracy taking into account all the details. But, point is, the Moon would need to be stupid/gonzo/cray close before it begins to break apart. Some 50-60 times closer (surface to surface) than it is now. Now as far as escape, the math of the Hill Sphere or Sphere of Influence is pretty straight forward, but the long-term stable zone is about 1/2 to 1/3rd of the Hill Sphere calculation, some 500,000 to 750,000 km. Somewhere in there or perhaps just beyond that range the Moon probably becomes unstable and escapes the Earth's orbit becoming a very large and potentially very dangerous near earth object. That doesn't mean that the Moon would just fly away past 750,000 km. It would remain in orbit for multiple orbits, hundreds, maybe thousands even past that distance, but past the stable region it would probably destabilize over time and escape eventually. The Moon is perhaps as much as 70% of the way towards where it could eventually escape the Earth, but that final 30% is a LOT. The moon isn't going anywhere anytime soon. It's still comfortably inside the long-term stable region and should remain orbiting the Earth for billions of years. Hope that helps. 

Your question touches on a few points. First, yes, he was flippant, but the risk was super-low. The simplest way to explain this is that nothing happens in CERN that doesn't happen all over the universe and in the upper atmosphere of the Earth or on the surface of all the moons, planets and stars every day. For example, the Oh My God particle was traveling with several million times the energy of the particle collisions inside CERN. At those speeds, accelerating the particle further doesn't add much velocity, what they're basically doing is adding energy or mass to the particle and only slightly increasing it's velocity as it's speed gradually moves closer to the speed of light. What makes CERN useful, isn't that the high speed collisions don't happen anywhere else (they happen all the time all over the Universe). What makes it useful is the million dollar equipment that zooms in on those collisions, recording what happens with the best cameras in the world. We can't predict when and where a very fast moving cosmic particle will hit the Earth, but they know when and where the CERN particles are going to collide, because that's planned to happen in a specific place and time. So, if those kinds of collisions happen all the time and no planet or star has ever been observed being eaten by a particle collision created black hole, then such events are, at the very least, extremely rare. Add to that, Hawking radiation dictates that black holes that small should evaporate before they can eat anything. So, when Brian Cox laughs at that question, he has good reason to laugh, because it was never a real risk and it's more of a joke question than a genuine risk. 

Laplace recognized orbital resonance long before then, and he died in 1827. I looked, couldn't find a precise year of publication. $URL$ Now, 3/2 resonances were perhaps suggested/discovered quite a bit later, I'm not sure. Some mathematics on the subject in the following link, a little bit over my skill-set, but it makes the point of stable resonance. $URL$ Also, the link points out that the the first resonance discovered, Io, Europa, Ganymede the 1-2-4 resonance, have ratios of 2.0076 and 2.0143, or, 0.4% and 0.7% off resonance. I'm tempted to say that small variations like that fall within a stable zone, but I'd basically just be guessing. I can't say for sure. Pluto was discovered in 1930 and Charon, it's rather large moon, not discovered till 1977. Perhaps in the 1930s, Pluto was no longer cutting edge physics and all the big brains were looking at Quantum physics, Hubble's discovery and other galaxies, implications from Einstein's discoveries, such as black holes and Nuclear bombs . . . but again, I'm only speculating. It does seem that a discovery of the 3/2 resonance should have come before 1965 and I think it's a good question. Not to take this too off subject, but I love the story of how Neptune was discovered. Short summary here: $URL$ Longer one here: $URL$ My favorite potential orbital resonance is the Jupiter/Mercury one, which could, eventually, pull Mercury away from the sun. $URL$ The Jupiter/Mercury resonance is described as "coincidence" in the article, where as, Pluto's 3/2 with Neptune and Jupiter's 3 inner moons are (I think), probobly not coincidental resonance but some form of stable orbits. Hope you don't mind my amateur/hobbyist answer. 

Lots to cover here, I'll give it a shot briefly. Life may have arisen on earth near the ocean floor but not on the ocean floor. it was the hot vents of gas that Extremophiles lived in. I don't think they require the ocean surface, just the volcanic jets with methane and other gasses that they could use. (I think they use Methane, not 100% sure). I think they require liquid water, but not ground. Since the deep below the surface of planets tends to be hot, exotic ice would usually be quite hot, I would think, just solid under very high pressure, I suspect that only Extremophiles could live near exotic ice in those high temperatures. High pressure is less of an obstacle but high temperature might limit the options for life to the very primitive/tiny (I think). The good news is, nearer the surface, you might get lower temperatures and that might open the door to more advanced life. I think what's on the surface is generally more interesting than what's on the floor. Ganymede and Europa both have frozen surfaces with occasional breaches from tidal forces. A larger planet might have exotic ice deep down but more earth like oceans towards the surface. I think that would be a lot more interesting to us. I don't know how many varieties of water worlds there are. Neptune is a water world of sorts though it's usually categorized as an ice giant and it probably doesn't have what we would consider oceans but it has a lot of water. On, Plate Tectonics, it might not be essential to life on water worlds. Volcanism can exist without plate tectonics and Volcanism is probably essential to life on water worlds. Don't get me wrong. Nothing beats plate tectonics for circulation and recycling of materials and preventing unwanted buildup of waste, so plate tectonics is really cool and better than just volcanism, but I think active Volcanism would be sufficient for life in oceans. It's really hard to say anything definite about this subject though, as it's based on theory. It's probably possible to have volcanic eruptions even though dozens or maybe even hundreds of miles of exotic ice because the heat has to go somewhere, eventually, assing it's likely to build up over time, so either by circulation of eruption, the heat has push through at some point. This even happens on so called "dead" planets like Mars or even the Moon. Mars still has the occasional volcanic eruption, just not very often. But water worlds certainly can have plate tectonics. There's nothing in the water that would prevent it from happening. Plate Tectonics is, as I understand it, primarily a factor of the size of the planet. Gas planets - different story, but planets with a hard surface, Earth sized, a tiny bit smaller to a fair bit but not much bigger are good candidates for plate tectonics (I think). There's some debate on how large, I think, still going on. But I remember reading that ocean/water worlds might even be more likely to have plate tectonics. Plate tectonics is definitely something we'd look for if we ever get a close enough look at other planets in different solar-systems (exoplanets). Just my thoughts on this. Not meant to be complete or definitive. 

It would depend how close the gas giants were too each other, but in theory it would be possible. Similar to the binary star system (image below), provided you ignore the AUs and scale this down from stars to planets, the same principal applies to orbits around two gas giants orbiting each other. 

If estimates put it at a bit less than 1% as common as U-238, I'm going to ignore as well, as 1% won't make a big difference. Finally, Samarium-146 is worth considering with a half-life of about 100 million years (or 68 million depending on which source you use). It decays into Neodymium-142 releasing a single alpha particle. Samarium 147 and 148 also undergo alpha-decay but very slowly, half-life of 100 billion and 7 quadrillion respectively. So these are the 4 primary helium "outgasing" isotopes relevant after planet formation. U-238 (8 helium), U-235 (7), Th-232 (6) and SM-146 (1). And as for how much, you have to ask how long the planet has been around. SM-146 decays fairly quickly, half life 100 million years. U-235 - 700 million years U-238 - 4.5 billion years T-232 - 14 billion years. If we take a planet about the age of Earth SM-146 - essentially all of it U-235 - 99% U-238 - 50% T-232 - 20% Now the trick is, how much of these elements is a terrestrial planet likely to have at formation. If we go by radioactive decay and radiogenic heat estimates, TH-232 and U-238 combine to generate 20 trillion watts (first article). That' 6 x 10^20 joules per year or about 3.75 x 10^33 mEV per year, by radioactive decay of those 2 elements. The Thorium decay chain emits about 42.6 MeV per decay for 7 alpha particles. (about 7 MeV per helium) and the U-238 decay chain, about 51.7 MeV for 8 alpha particles. (ballpark 6.5 MeV). That includes Neutrinos though and that energy needs to be factored out. I couldn't find precise numbers but about 10 MeV (or 20%) is lost into Neutrinos (technically anti-neutrinos) by this website. So, very ballpark, lets say 5 MeV heat creates one alpha particle. current rates of decay of Thorium & U-238 should produce about 7.5 x 10^32 alpha particles, which corresponds to about 1.2-1.3 billion moles of Helium or about 5 million KG, between 5 and 6 tons of helium produced in the Earth's crust and mantle every year - based on radioactive measurements which are probably pretty accurate. Thorium is currently about (ballpark) 4 times as abundant as U-238 but because it decays 3 times more slowly the helium production and heat generation in the Earth's core is similar (this chart suggests thorium's heat output is higher, but they are close). The helium production from Thorium has been pretty consistent, as 80% of the Thorium at the formation of the planet is still here. The production from U-238 was about twice as high when the Earth formed. The production from U-235 is currently negligible compared to the other two, but was much higher when the Earth was young. working back from U-235 being about 0.7% of the total Uranium and it having gone through between 6 and 7 half-lifes since the formation of the Earth, (and accounting for U-238 being twice as abundant when the Earth formed), that means between 32 and 64 (lets say 50) x 0.7, so there was some 30-40% as much U-235 as U-238 when the Earth formed. Bad math again: Thorium, 2.5-3 tons per year now, 25% more than that when Earth formed. lets say 3 tons per year, average U-238, 2.5 tons per year now, twice that when the earth formed. lets ballpark average that out to 3.5-4 tons per year on average. I'm not going to average out U-235 because it starts out too high and decays too quickly but if there was about 30-40% as much U-235 as U-238 when the Earth formed I can just multiply U-238's numbers by 35% and by 7/8, working out to about 1 ton per year average. I'm doing per year/on average just for quick bad math, so 3 + 3-4 + 1 = about 7.5 tons per year x 4.5 billion years - quick estimate for how much Helium was produced by those 3 elements - very bad estimate, 33 billion tons. Most of this Helium is produced and would be trapped in the Earth's interior until plate tectonics allows it to escape. The rate of escape is above my pay-grade. Samarium-146 is the hardest one to estimate. It's essentially all decayed into Neodymium-142 but both Samarium (it has several stable isotopes) and Neodymium are abundant, and this chain produces a single helium. It likely doesn't make a huge difference in the total. Table of elemental abundance in Earth's crust. Atmospherically speaking, 33 billion tons is nothing. Even if we adjust to to 40 or 60 or 300 billion tons, that's still essentially too little to be an atmosphere. Helium is currently about 5.2 ppm in the atmosphere and giving the Earth's atmosphere a mass of about 5,600 trillion tons, 5.2% by molecule, adjusted for the mass ratio of helium (4) to Nitrogen/Oxygen (29), there's about 4 billion tons of Helium in the Earth's atmosphere today. If we were to say that 400 billion tons of helium was produced on Earth by radioactive decay (about 10 times my estimate), that's still a trace amount, just 100 times the current amount or 520 PPM, which is less than the Argon (currently 9,300 PPM). Argon-40 which comes from the radioactive decay of Potassium-40 (about 10% of the time), is more common because Potassium-40 is much more common than the Uranium, Thorium and Samarium-146 that decay alpha-particles. That's a very long answer that basically says there's not enough Alpha-particle emitting elements that last long enough to survive planetary formation, that produce anything more than a trace amount of helium. Earth also retains some terrestrial helium, about 7% of Earth's helium is terrestrial, 93% formed by radioactive decay. Most of Earth's terrestrial helium is in it's mantle, very little in it's crust. Some interesting and loosely related reading. Yellowstone is able to release more helium than the radioactive material produce because it's crust is unique, very old and it's trapped helium for over 2 billion years, only recently started to release it.