Let's have a look at the companies who do offer vague requirements. The theory behind their behaviour is that a good engineer who does not know your technology will do a better job than a bad one who knows your technology. It's an old school of thought, that may be true, or not(I'm not debating that point here), and that is more popular when the job market is tight. Which means they are looking for someone clever who will quickly enter their world. What they expect from you is to learn quickly all the ropes, to prove a profitable hire quickly. And you don't prepare for the job interview the same way that you prepare for an accurate ad interview. Your aim is to prove you'll adapt quickly to their world, not that you already know everything about the tool they are using. That is, if you still want the job, of course. 

.6. Applicant: Thanks for the offer, but I'd rather learn more about the position so I can prepare for the interview and perform due diligence on your organisation. Could you please forward a position profile as well as a summary on your business, or alternatively call me on 123456. 

It's not completely clear whether you are being offered this role, or whether you are being 'given' (i.e. pushed into) this role. That might change the way the options play out but either way in the simplest sense only have two options - you take the role on, or you don't. Not taking the role is quite straightforward. You tell your boss you don't want to be a manager (a good way to get out of this type of responsibility is to explain that it is very stressful for you during your personal life, e.g. you can't sleep), or you miss your old job etc. You may be able to keep your old job, or if they are forcing you into the new job you may have to leave the company. If you have 8 years of experience you'll be able to find another job - and you probably don't want to work under a boss who forces you into a new role, anyway. Taking the job is more interesting. Your boss wants you to do something that's outside of your role description and out of the ordinary? You can negotiate terms. The simplest is 'more money', but as you mention the distractions while performing your old role aren't ideal - so ask for your own office (with a door), or to work from home. There are always options! 

Your manager is right. If scrum done "as it should be" does not fit your employees office culture, then you shall not do scrum "as it should be", but adapt the way it is done. Scrum is supposed to be an agile method, which means you adapt the process to the context, not the reverse. People are part of the context. They seem not to fit culturally with that meeting, as it is set up. Therefore, that meeting has to be changed. 

Broken recruiting process is a standard, unfortunately. Most companies are very bad for communicating properly on this topic. And every company is different in that respect, and even within a given company, there might be great differences. Said otherwise, your experience outside the company is not a predictor of what will happen inside. Which is a positive thing, in your unfortunate case. There are two things to do at the same time, even if they do not fit well together : 

Even if this is a real job, if they are unwilling to give you basic details at this stage then would you really want to work for them? 

The first step is to confirm that you have a fair rate in mind. Do your research. It is difficult these days as job listings rarely include salary information, so you may have to commence the application process for listed positions just to find out the salary. Find a few and get an idea of the range - don't just ask for the maximum; instead get the maximum and minimum expected. After that you can simply approach your boss and ask him 

Trouble happens(to stay polite). When I was a consultant, I was blacklisted at a customer where I did overperform. 4 years later, a commercial of my firm did ask a few questions and had those answers : 

If you're the boss, and if he's doing damage to other's work, then it is your duty to make something. Now, the "something" heavily depends on your management style, but remember that the important thing is the overall performance of the team. If he's not improving, try to find him a remote place, or homeworking. And if it still does not work..... well, the important thing is that your team is productive. 

You want to make a deal with him that if you perform reasonable and achievable targets you'll get that salary. If he can't make that deal - even on a less optimistic salary - then it's very likely that you aren't going to get a raise. There are only two ways to set your salary - when you start a new position (including a formal promotion), or by getting a raise. I've worked in a number of companies that, for whatever reason, never gave raises. This is why a lot of people advise that you negotiate hard when you start a new position. If you aren't valued as much as you think you should be then you might want to find a new position. 

Whether or not your boyfriends boss/coworkers/reports would see this as an acceptable reason for taking time off is irrelevant. PTO (i.e. paid sick, vacation, and/or personal time) is a part of the salary/benefits package and your boyfriend is likely entitled to use his time in whatever way he wishes (depending on local laws, of course), regardless of whether that is taking care of his cat, going to the doctor for his own health, or going to Burning Man. Some companies have policies about using sick time specifically - like needing a doctors note. If that's the case, then it wouldn't be appropriate to use sick time specifically, but instead your boyfriend would need to use vacation or personal time. I'm assuming this is paid sick time and also that there aren't any weird rules about needing a doctors note or anything, because you state it's a full time salaried job and don't mention any applicable rules/policies. Typically people don't ask permission to use their PTO for a specific purpose, they instead clear the date. Usually the exchange goes like this: Hey boss, I'm going to be out of the office on Monday. I don't have any meetings on my calendar or projects due, so let me know if there's anything you can think of that needs to get done before then. If this is short notice (say it's Saturday and your boyfriend needs to take Monday off) he might send his boss an email (or text/call if that's the kind of relationship they have) either early Monday morning or over the weekend and say something like "Hi Boss, I need to use one of my sick (or personal/vacation) days today. Apologies for the short notice." Some people think that making themselves available by email or phone will makes things easier - that might apply to your boyfriend depending on his job. Personally, my office is very accommodating of my dog appointments (although I made it pretty clear while I was interviewing that my pup is #1) and my boss doesn't care if I use vacation, sick, or personal time interchangeably. I imagine, for someone who has a child/pet/other life thing that matters deeply to them, any place worth working will be understanding of the fact that having a pet/child/etc. sometimes means taking time off to care for them. 

Befriend the people who make the choices. That's a very secondary point, but a the same time very important to your morale. If you just "ask", you'll get laughed at. If you befriend the right person, and then say him/her "oh, by the way, it would be soooo cooooool to have vanilla tea", then you'll have vanilla tea rather quickly. That kind of topic is from the family of topics that don't go well with formal demands. Don't ask it during formal review, it's career suicide. Befriend people, learn who makes the purchasing list, and befriend that person. I'm pretty sure you'll get more advantages like that. I know I do. I can even ask for chocolate, and get it. But the most important is that I do have my vanilla tea. 

I think your approach sounds fine. You don't need to justify your conditions (rate, perks, benefits) - you just need to be clear that you are firm on those conditions. Or flexible, if you're flexible, of course. You could justify your conditions very easily - "I currently earn $X so I want at least $Y etc" - but they will understand that's how it works. Justifications normally happen when the conditions aren't very reasonable. If they ask why you want what you're asking for - which indicates they might not be completely happy with the conditions - then you can give your justifications. I like to think of it this way - when an employer or client makes an offer or counter offer, they don't normally justify it with "we paid the last guy $X so we don't want to pay any more than that" or any other reason. If they do try to explain their offer, it's normally because it's a low offer. And similarly, you'll only be expected to explain your offer it they think it is too high! 

A resume is a marketing document, not a binding legal one. It's best to use whatever name you go by on your resume, as opposed to your full legal name (unless your name is Benjamin Franklin du Pont or Maddox Chivan Jolie-Pitt). This also goes for LinkedIn, your professional website, and any other professional/marketing documents you have out there. There is ample research on the bias at play when someone reads your resume. You're more likely to get an interview in a western country with an Anglo-western name. Regardless of how difficult it is to pronounce your name, picking an anglicized name to go by is a strategic move. Why wouldn't you give yourself every advantage, especially given that finding a job can be hard enough? Personally, I use a shortened version of my name on my resume. Not because I have a foreign or difficult to pronounce name, but because my full legal name is quite long (around 30 characters) and it looks awkward on the page. Also, nobody calls me Elizabeth (my legal first name) and I would prefer it stay that way. To answer your question: Yes you should absolutely put an anglicized name on your resume if you're applying for jobs in the US.