The M2, a hundred-year-old design, is massively heavy (84lbs) for the caliber it fires. Modern weapons in the same caliber, such as the M82 anti-materiel rifle or XM806 machine gun, are substantially lighter. However, I ran the numbers, and found that the M2's ratio of recoil momentum to weapon weight is actually comparable to modern assault rifles. Thus, there are two ways to approach this question. 1. Running the numbers on the M2 The .50 BMG has approximately 11 times the momentum (and consequently recoil impulse) of the 5.56x45mm NATO cartridge, a common intermediate-caliber rifle round. Dividing the M2's 84lb weight (I'm assuming the additional weight of fitting rifle furniture and controls will be offset by lightening modifications) by 11 yields 7.6lbs, meaning that a 7.6lb 5.56 rifle has the same basic recoil profile as the M2. 7.6lbs is actually a typical weight of an accessory-equipped M16A4 rifle, a weapon platform which is typically considered fairly controllable in fully-automatic fire. It's not nearly as effective in this role as a machine gun, and it's virtually always employed in semi-automatic to maximize effectiveness, but when used on full-auto it is much less spray-and-pray than, say, an AK. The M2's lower rate of fire, about 2/3 that of the M16, will make it more controllable, so this seems like a good analogue for the handling characteristics stated in the question. So, assuming a linear extrapolation of mass to strength and proportional size increase (we're glossing over the issues involved in scaling up humans, right?) a 5'10", 150lb human wielding an M16 is roughly equivalent to a 13'0", 1650lb human wielding the M2. 2. Running the numbers on a more modern, man-portable .50BMG weapon The Barrett M82 is a 30lb rifle intended to be carried and fired by a single person, and is much closer to assault rifle ergonomics than the M2. It is not intended to be fired from the shoulder, but it's still heavy enough that the recoil isn't bad. The M82 isn't normally capable of full-auto, but redesigning it with a full-auto trigger pack wouldn't be too difficult. Using the 7.62x51mm NATO as a comparison, which has about one-fifth the recoil momentum of the .50BMG, the 30lb M82's recoil profile is comparable to a 6lb rifle in 7.62x51- only a little lighter than the AR-10, which was a 7.25lb 7.62x51 rifle intended to be capable of full-auto fire. So, to have equivalent performance, we only need to scale up a human by a factor of 5. A 5'10", 150lb human now scales up to 10'0" and 750lbs. Note that in this giant's hands, the M82 will behave like a battle rifle, not an assault rifle. Full-auto fire will, even with a reduced cyclic rate compared to actual battle rifles, will purely be for suppressive fire. For engaging point targets, semi-automatic fire will be much more effective- as is the case with every other shoulder-fired rifle, including the M16 and the big-giant-with-an-M2 described above. If you want to tweak these numbers, or find a middle ground: A smaller giant with the M2 will find it controllable, but heavy and difficult to carry, akin to a light machine gun in human hands. A larger giant with the M82 will find it very light and easy to carry, but 'snappy' in its recoil, and may actually benefit from adding on a drum magazine or conversion to belt-feed to add mass to the weapon platform. 

Consider this. A talisman is not an object in the way that a pocketwatch is an object. The talisman is both an object and a "feel". A person can have a "feel" for making talismans, but this person would have no "feel" for anything else. The talisman-maker would not make talismans by enchanting any random object, the talisman-maker would instead, for instance, make a fire talisman by burning rowan wood and pouring the ashes into a hollow ring with a stone of obsidan. The mage in question would be able to make as many talismans as necessary, but would have to own the required ingredients for a spell, AND have a "feel" for talisman-making. Unlike spells, talismans would be reusable, and the magic would never decay. An interesting possibility for this would be to have an ancient, utopian civilization that existed for thousands of years before falling to conquering outsiders. During their reign, they made some of the most powerful talismans the world ever has or will see. If these include time or mind control talismans, they will be sought after by every person in your world. 

There was once an australopithecine called Paranthropus Robustus. It was slightly smaller than the reigning hominid at the time, and was driven extinct by habitat loss. Had it survived, and had evolutionary growth similar to hominids, the creature would be slightly smaller than modern humans. Seeing as Paranthropus was a herbivore, it wouldn't be able to obtain the large amount of brain fat necessary to compete with humans. Thusly, it would likely evolve a larger stature and become an expert at hiding from humans, who had vastly superior technology. These adaptations would have all taken place by the middle ages. Considering the areas where these beings live (according to mythology) are not the ones containing the most technologically advanced humans at this point, it would have a perfect place to live without too many consequences if they were found. Interestingly, these places are still fairly to extremely isolated, so the only humans they would have contact with are lone backpackers. It would be interesting to see the instinctive behaviors of this species (e.g. avoiding certain areas like hiking trails, specific caves, parts of Mount Everest.) 

In the last few years there have been major improvements in the area of autonomy of the car: Mercedes, Google, etc. Driverless cars are less prone to accidents and such but the car repair industry depends on drivers making mistakes (collisions/accidents). What would happen to all these body shop workers, mechanics, and painters. I know they can work in factories but there are only so many people you need in a factory. And would some body shop owners have to close in the near-future or migrate to other jobs? And in the event there is an accident would these driverless cars go to privately owned shops or the dealer? 

wow..... That is a scenario where every kid is a good kid and none are bad... Now the USS Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier weighs about 100,000 metric tons. Comparing that with our calculations, Santa's sled is WAY HEAVIER, by about 3,347,337 metric tons. 

Enter the world of hypothetical-ness: Imagine a world where we have used almost all of our copper, lead, and iron supplies and deposits. The amount that we still do have is not enough to make a lot of bullets and military ammo. But what if we could use glass as a projectile that could be shot from a gun or military weapon? What type of damage would it do, how would it change warfare, and how would cities change, and what would be the economic effect (i.e, now they are making glass in large amounts, how would that change the economy and areas with high amounts of sand, soda ash, and limestone)? EDIT Also there is no way to recycle the metals: copper, lead, and iron. The Questions What damage could it do? How would it change warfare? How would cities change? (Defense) What would be the economic change in areas with high amounts of sand, soda ash, and limestone? 

In addition to what Tim B said about evolution favoring the fittest organism, which may not necessarily be the most intelligent, it sounds like what you're asking for is sentience, rather than raw intelligence per se. Slime molds, for example, are capable of surprisingly intelligent pathfinding, but are very, very far from any kind of sentience, self-awareness, or other qualities which we traditionally associate with human intelligence. Similarly, the computer you're using is certainly extremely intelligent in its number-crunching ability and with the right program can solve incredibly complex tasks, but clearly lacks sentience. So the simple answer is that no, it does not appear that evolution intrinsically favors intelligence. Intelligence is a trait with trade-offs that are not always worth it. However, the more complex answer is that even if intelligence exists, it may not be intelligence as we know it. An organism could be a highly intelligent, competitive problem-solver, but utterly lack the forms of cognition like self-awareness and introspection that are implied by your question. If you're interested in a (fictional) example, the core theme of Peter Watts novel Blindsight is whether or not sentience is a prerequisite for intelligence, and might give you inspiration for your worldbuilding. It's worth a read. 

Ammo Homing Bullets. Flying insects with pistol shrimp-like claws that find a victim and fly upwards in a parabola. At the peak, they start gliding downwards slowly, and use the pistol shrimp hammer-claws to launch themselves forward and shoot into their target like a bullet, cutting their spinal cord. Melee Blunt bony hammer-like tools with claws on either side to destroy enemy craft. Stinging nettles the size of swords with deadly neurotoxins in the needles. Explosives Witch hazel-like plants that explode on contact, with the force of a megaton of TNT. 

Wind comes from convection in air, i.e. when cold air (for instance, over a sea) meets hot air (for instance, land.). Given that, in your world, there is both a northern and southern sea, there would probably be winds blowing from the north and south, converging along the equator. This would create a continuous high pressure zone over the equator. 

The spriggan is a giant bioluminescent insect covered in barklike layers of chitin. The spriggan has branchlike appendages with "leaves" at the end, which are biologically similar to wings like those of a butterfly or moth. The spiggan's third pair of limbs are hinged behind their arms, and are covered in spikes to use as weapons. 

Which is still heavier than the USS Gerald R. Ford aircraft carrier, and the sleigh is even heavier than if all the kids were good in the world. Note: my first answer is based on the fact every kid in the world gets a present. 

Grab the popcorn ladies and gents, I'm gonna talk about a movie real quick. In the movie Total Recall (2012), the main character and his friend step into a huge earth elevator/public transportation system that zooms them through the Earth's interior. We can assume that the elevator went straight through the core and out the other side. During the ride, they seemed perfectly comfortable and really relaxed, which shows that the environment they were in was controlled (and there wasn't much turbulence/"shaky-shaky"). Now the question: What are the consequences of doing this? I know that the removal of the core is a pretty gigantic task by itself, but also combatting the temperatures itself would be enough to make most engineers walk away. 1) Can we emulate/imitate the presence of a core (to preserve magnetic fields, etc...) 2) What systems could we use the combat the temperatures? 3) How advanced of a society would we have to be to be able to make this? 

If you have orbital superiority, small teams are the only ground forces worth deploying. You can drop a nuke from orbit and incinerate a city. You can drop 'rods from God' to precisely annihilate bunkers with the raw power of kinetic energy. You can drop precision-guided munitions, turn sands to glass with lasers, or wipe out an army with a railgun shell. What you can't do is extract a VIP, or secure a hostage, or fight an insurgency door-to-door, or rendezvous with an asset, or take a command post, or seize a broadcast station. Your policy options go from 'sternly worded letter' straight to 'obliteration from orbit', with crater size being your only variable. Your ground forces do not exist to subdue cities or destroy armies as they did in the past- that function has now been taken over by your fleets. The ground forces exist to go where a spacecraft in orbit cannot see, do things a spacecraft cannot do, and surgically apply force in ways that spacecraft cannot. This is not to say that you shouldn't invest resources in ground troops: On the contrary, they should be significant investments, the best-of-the-best, as much diplomats and strategists as they are door-kickers and trigger-pullers. Because wars aren't always won by inflicting as much damage as possible, and accomplishing the primary objective of any war ('making the enemy stop being disagreeable to your policy') requires applying exactly the right level of violence in exactly the right way. For some cases, the right level is nuclear armageddon and the right way is rained down from orbit. For others, the right level is a single bullet and the right way is delivered from point-blank range. The side that does this well will accomplish its objectives faster, more completely, and with less collateral damage than the one that applies the sledgehammer approach of orbital bombardment to any and all obstacles. 

The phoenix has fireproof epithelial tissue, and a microbiome made up entirely of archae evolved for surviving massive temperature fluctuations. The phoenix has a special organ where it ignites methane, which is a byproduct of digestion. When the phoenix is infected by a parasite or bacterial/viral infection, it bursts into flames, killing the infection. The phoenix also has an incredibly long natural lifespan, so it can survive for centuries if nothing kills it. 

Petrification Medusa releases a toxin into the local environment that bonds to the color receptors on the optic nerve. The toxin activates when Medusa's eye color is seen, causing the calcium in the bones to leech out through the flesh and out of the pores, calcifying the skin, effectively making a person a statue. Snake hair The snakes contain glands that emit the toxin. Petrification - Alternative The toxin hijacks the amygdala, causing the person to experience constant fear. The person can't move while medusa covers them in cement. 

In your universe, people can move planets. By nature of this being possible, you can build some AWESOME weapons. One I would suggest is the "planetary nutcracker" concept, where you move two planets on the opposite sides of a fleet or planet, and launch them towards each other. Given the size of the ships involved, and that they use fusion as power, the bombers themselves are effective weapons. You might be better off shooting a gutted one of those at the enemy.