To tell whether your tree is correct, you need to find some way to connect the tree to facts of language, and then to actually look at those relevant facts. So far, it seems, you don't have a clue about how to do that. I can help, by telling you a way to do that. It's not a way you will perhaps agree with, or that any other linguist in this wide world agrees with, but it may give you a starting point in figuring out how to do grammatical analysis. By facts of language, I mean the actual occurrence of an expression in speech or writing, or a judgement from a native speaker about whether an expression is acceptable in his language, or about what it means. So here is what you do. It's some trouble, but conceptually it is very straightforward. I'll be more specific below, but in outline, you (1) find a context free phrase structure grammar (PSG) that generates your tree, (2) determine what other trees this PSG generates, (3) find out whether the expressions these other trees describe are acceptable. It there are no other expressions to evaluate, your theory is trivial, and it doesn't really matter whether it's correct. If the other expressions are acceptable in English, you've got a correct tree. If the other expressions are unacceptable, your tree is wrong. Specifically, to generate a tree, a PSG has a rule for each mother node in the tree that has certain daughter nodes, where the rule permits that mother to have those daughters. That's it. There are few simpler theories. (There have to be a finite number of different rules, different mothers, and different daughters.) 

Since something is always on TV (even if nothing worthwhile), the reply is literally false, so it flouts the 

Look here, On the natural phonology of vowels, for a comprehensive answer to your question. The short answer: a vowel system is governed by those universal context-free vowel processes which did not have to be suppressed in order for children to learn to pronounce the language accurately (and the stages of acquisition track these process suppressions). These processes correspond to implicational universals: if A becomes B, then A implies B. If foreign words are borrowed into the language, they are subjected to these unsuppressed processes in the nativization of those words. 

The SPE feature system is actually the "universal methodology" that you seek. This is because the features represent independently controllable aspects of articulation. In his book Speech Sounds and Features, Gunnar Fant called this property of the feature system "orthogonality". It means that for the binary features, all combinations of + - are possible, so that 2^(number of features) different sound segments can be distinguished. The appropriate feature difference between "consonants" and "vowels" is not terribly clear, but let's say vowels are [+vocalic] and consonants are [-vocalic]. Then the number of possible vowels is the same as the number of possible consonants, and for the consonants classified by the place of articulation features, there are also vowels classified in exactly the same way, by place of articulation. Chomsky and Halle do depart from the orthogonality assumption when they declare the combination [+high,+low] to be impossible. The first person to make theoretical use of feature orthogonality, so far as I know, was William Holder in Elements of Speech. Holder argued that there must be a velar nasal consonant in the series [m, n, ...] to match the places of articulation of [p, t, k]. 

Coreference anaphora is just one type of anaphora. Following George Lakoff, syntacticians distinguish between identity-of-reference anaphora (which includes definite pronominalization) and identity-of-sense anaphora (which includes indefinite anaphora with "one"). So as a first approximation, the answer to the question is that anaphora includes indefinite anaphora, or that is to say, identity-of-sense anaphora, as well as coreferential anaphora. For instance, in "He ate a green apple, but I ate a red one", in interpretation, "one" means "apple", but it is the meanings that are the same between antecedent ("apple") and pro-form ("one"), not the individuals. He and I did not eat the same apple. 

Some historical linguists feel about pronouncing reconstructions about the same way as structural linguist grammarians feel about pronouncing deep structures -- it's wrong in principle to attempt it. If you base an analysis on correspondences and patterns, you wind up with the same sort of thing. Not sounds, but rather, patterns. You can't "reconstruct forward". his [Hoenigswald's] conviction that it is not proper to present historical materials "downward, as history" but rather "upward in time, as inference". (from Henry M. Hoenigswald). (I don't share this view, so I can only hope that I describe it fairly.) 

The question of whether some version of X-bar theory permits a ternary branching structure for the subject in your example is beside the point for the example, because the example doesn't have a ternary structure. X-bar theory doesn't have anything to do with it. We can test for where the N' constituents are by constructing examples with parts of the subject taken as antecedents for the pro-form "one", since only an N' can be such an antecedent: 

I have a theory about that -- it is not generally accepted. Consonants as well as vowels can occur either stressed or unstressed (this is allowed in SPE features). Phonemic stress tells you where phonemic syllables are. I notice that you don't include stress among your "types of phonemes", but of course stress may be phonemic. A syllable consists of a longest sequence of stressed nonsyllabics followed by a syllabic, followed by a longest sequence of unstressed nonsyllabics. So if you know the stress and syllabicity of all segments, you can count the syllables and tell where each syllable begins and ends. Marking stress with a tic preceding the stressed segment, your example is /'B 'R 'OW 'K AH N/. The stress of consonants works something like other features; for instance here there is the possibility of regressive assimilation, where the stressed /'K/ assimilates in stress to the following unstressed vowel. Then we get phonetic ['b'r'owkahn]. Unstressed (i.e. not syllable onset) [k] is subject in some dialects to lenition: ['b'r'owxahn], or, marking syllable boundaries with a dot and omitting predictable stress, we go from /.B R OW . K AH N./ to [.br'owx.ahn.]. A more intuitive term for the stressed/unstressed distinction might be fortis/lenis. 

Example b., as it stands, is of course not a discontinuous constituent, but with a particle movement rule, [VP -> take off NP] ==> [VP -> take NP off], can be converted into one. (A constituent is a string of terminal symbols such as "take off", and a discontinuous constituent is a string of terminal symbols interrupted by a non-terminal, such as "take NP off".) This shows that the composition of discontinuous constituents, such as the ones involved in your examples, can be simply represented within a very well known theory, cfpsg, without appealing to an idiosyncratic framework. 

I learned Reed-Kellogg diagramming in high school, Ohio, in the late 50s. In teaching the elements of linguistic syntax to students over the years, from 1968 to 2010, I've never encountered one that gave any indication of knowing about this method of diagramming. It's dead. 

The direct object is the noun phrase immediately after the verb. That's the one that can be passivized (usually). 

I have never been able to understand the description given to digraph [æ] by Ladefoged and other phoneticians, as lax. To me, judging just on intuitive kinaesthetic grounds, it seems tense. And when I say it, but relax slightly to let the articulation centralize, what I get sounds to me like Boston ah (which I write [a]). (I'm not from Boston.) That is, I'm suggesting, that Boston ah is a low front lax vowel, the lax counterpart of the tense digraph vowel. 

I don't know of an α manner convention, but it would surprise me if no one had ever proposed one. So many people confuse phonological notation with phonological theory! If all you want is an easy way to say it, just say "the l assimilates completely". That's easy. If you want a phonological argument, take a look at the SPE argument for α place and see whether a parallel argument can be constructed for α manner. That would be doing old-style generative phonology. Another theoretical approach is to adopt Stampe's Natural Phonology in which "ease" is interpreted as lack of constraints on the universal phonological processes. Then every respect in which the l fails to assimilate requires a constraint that prevents an assimilatory process from applying, so the easiest assimilation is the complete assimilation that we find for Arabic l. You get complete assimilation in the absence of any constraint preventing a feature from assimilating. 

Generally speaking, I think you should prefer things written by people who have actually done some linguistics over the work of people who are sure they know what it's all about, even though they've never actually done it. Because maybe those people don't actually know. I have a somewhat offbeat recommendation -- a book I used as a text for a beginning linguistics course for several years, and I think it worked very well. It's especially good for people approaching linguistics from ground zero. Don't know what a paradigm is? Never saw a declension? This might be for you. The Decipherment of Linear B, by John Chadwick. It's a short little book. It's a detective story. 

Saussure proposed a phonetic theory of syllables according to which syllable onset sounds have increasing oral aperture for their duration (called explosive), syllable offset sounds have decreasing oral aperture for their duration (called implosive), and (Saussure doesn't say this, but it seems implied) syllabic nuclei, which have constant oral aperture. This is part of the discussion of the syntagmatic nature of speech in the Cours de linguistique general. The charm of this theory is that it does not require a separate level or dimension of syllable position or metrical structure, since it makes sense on a purely articulatory level. That is not to say there is no relevant notion of structure other the stream of articulations in speech, since Saussure also describes a syntagmatic structure for syllables (but, if I understand him, that is not a separate dimension, but is rather another aspect of langue). Personally, I do not understand how Saussure can fit syllables like [staps] into his theory, since aperture sometimes decreases in a syllable onset or increases in an offset. Accordingingly, I have proposed in other postings here a version of this theory with +/- stress replacing Saussure's explosive/implosive. Theories with separate dimensions for articulation and prosodic structure must assume ad hoc principles for relating the two.