Stop right there. Language is easy to learn. Children do it as easy as breathing. Kids can even learn multiple languages at once without breaking a sweat. It is just when we become adults it becomes hard. A simpler language makes for a simpler, less capable mind. We really don't want to do that to our children. Your only valid point is 

Build up You would want to build up anyway since there is so much more room up there. But building up also allows you putting things like heavily reinforced concrete in the enemy's path. Of course, even the heaviest concrete can be breached, but it will take time and be very noticeable. One might think that building a concrete floor under your entire country is not feasible, but in a hyperbolic universe it turns out you can. That is, if you aren't too hung up on the idea of defending the original surface area. Instead you put down a thick and strong concrete slab on a few square kilometers. Then you build a few hundred meters up from that and suddenly you have room for everything and everyone you want. Let the enemy have the rest of your old country, you don't need it anymore. 

Peter LeFanu Lumsdaine mentioned the book "The City and the City" in a comment. If you haven't read the book itself, you should at least read the Wikipedia entry. The author has put some thought into these matters. Telling people apart will be easy, because people will want to told apart. The easiest way for people to proclaim their nationality will be by their clothing. In addition there will be hair/beard style, eating habits, who you greet on the street and how you greet them. And so on and so forth. For somebody to disguise themselves as belonging to the other nation would probably be illegal or at least socially very unacceptable. As you say, each nation will have their own government and laws. This can work well, as long as most people obeys their own government and the two governments have peaceful relations. A war between them would be ... ugly. One thorny issue will be jurisdiction. An A-lander accuses a B-lander of a crime. Should this be investigated by the A-police or the B-police? It could depend on where the alleged crime happened... but that might not be entirely clear. Many interesting stories could result. International law is in general a difficult subject, especially when involving international corporations. Just look in any newspaper for inspiration. E.g. you could let one country be used a tax haven by corporation from the other. 

Nueroscientist Miguel Nicolelis has been working on a brain machine interface. He claims this interface has allowed monkeys to control robotic arms. Here is a Nicolelis TED talk. Dr. Nicolelis is hoping this will restore ability to those with spinal cord injuries. It might also be an interface to remotely operate tele-robots. I am hoping tele-robots will become more common in industry doing work in hard to reach or inhospitable places. ROVs are already doing work on the sea floor. If someone has grown practiced at using a Nicolelis cap to operate a tele-robot, it would be a small step to use the same interface to operate a robotic arm prosthetic. 

So long as we're not bumping into a logistic growth ceiling, I don't see a strong incentive to leave our solar system Along with generation ships comes the assumption of a non solar power source and the technology to engineer closed ecosystems-- the Main Asteroid Belt would be open to real estate development. I see several logistic growth ceilings here. I suspect it'd take centuries or millennia to fill the Main Belt. From there the Hildas are natural cyclers between the Main Belt and Sun-Jupiter Trojans. (See this vid where first half shows Hildas, 2nd half Trojans). When the Main Belt and Trojans are filled up, there's the Centaurs as well as moons of gas giants. After those are filled comes the Kuiper Belt. And then the Oort Cloud. By the time we fill the Oort, our civilization will probably have many millennia of experience building biomes from ice balls as well as using fusion power. Given a civilization with this infra structure and capabilities, I'd construct the generation ship in the Oort. On the boundaries of the the sun's gravity well, it only takes a small burn to drop the ship to a perihelion deep in the sun's gravity well. It'd take a few centuries for the ship to fall from the Oort to the inner solar system. But given city states throughout the Oort, spending centuries dwelling in artificial biomes is already the norm. When 1 A.U. from the sun, the ship would be traveling about 42 km/s. If perihelion is within .1 A.U. from the sun, perihelion speed is about 133 km/s. Doing the burn near the perihelion can give a substantial Oberth benefit. If the ship does a 55 km/s burn near perihelion, it'd pick up 133 km/s Vinf. Of course 133 km/s is only .0004 C (speed of light). It would take around ten millennia to reach Alpha Centauri and longer for other neighboring stars. If the ship had a drive capable of reaching .1 C, solar Oberth benefit would be of little consequence. In this case I might depart directly from from an Oort object a light year or two out -- as close as possible to the destination star. 

It makes more sense if we consider mermaids to be the origin for the siren legend. In this legend sirens/mermaids called to sailors and fooled them into wrecking their boats on reefs or cliffs. Presumably, the sailors then become food for the mermaids. In order for this deception to work, they have to look like beautiful women, and beautiful women have long hair. (At least, that is the easiest way to look beautiful from a distance) 

Whenever I see "labour-saving technology outlawed" I think "Trade Unions". Clearly the Space Farers Union is strong and can lobby even big governments into forbidding this great technology. Of course, that is not the official story. Some politicians see Caspars as humans and talk about how this is a terrible thing to do to them. "We have to protect space workers against becoming mere cogs in the machine!" Other politicians don't see them as humans and say "These things are stealing the jobs of real humans!" Either way, everybody agrees that Caspars are a bad idea. And any campaign contributions from the Space Farers Guild are utterly irrelevant. 

That message reaches the colony about 8.734 years after the first is sent. The clever colonists decide that the Earth is 4.367 light years away, so they add that much to the time signal, getting (or so) After this they let their local clocks tick time forwards, on Earth time. They will probably want to repeat the procedure periodically. This method works because the two stars are almost stationary compared to each other. Any speed they have in common is irrelevant. If the two ends are moving relative to each other with a relativistically relevant speed, the method breaks down. So space ships, both slower and faster than light, need to use more complex methods. The nice thing about FTL ships is that they can speed up the whole procedure. A ship leaves AC with the first message, immediately returns with the second message and you can get the whole thing done in days instead of years. 

Our Moon's Hill Sphere has a radius of about 60,000 kilometers. In my orbital sims I have placed objects in a retrograde lunar orbit having semi-major axis 50,000 km. These orbits have lasted centuries. I would imagine a DRO at 40,000 kilometers could last eons. And this is high enough that lunar mascons wouldn't destabilize the orbit. In a science fiction setting, a moon with a larger Hill Sphere is plausible. DROs are long term stable in the outer regions of the Hill Sphere. 

Sounds like you're thinking of an apohele or a near apohele with it's aphelion just over 1 A.U. I'm anxious about these guys because they're hard to see. They spend most of their time in the day sky. If they appear at night, they're close to the horizon where light pollution and atmospheric distortion hide them. When they're closest to earth, they are presenting us their night side which also makes them difficult to detect. There are a multitude of possible apohele impact scenarios. I'll pick one out of a hat. Say asteroid's perihelion is .3 A.U. and aphelion is 1 A.U. When this asteroid comes into earth's sphere of influence, it's path is better modeled as a hyperbola with a Vinf of 9.55 km/s. Set perigee of this hyperbola at 2578 km from earth's center (in other words, 3800 km below earth's surface). This rock would strike the earth at a speed of about 14.7 km/s and flight path angle at time of impact would be close to 45ยบ If you set up this rock's orbit so aphelion coincides with an ascending or descending node, you could pick the earth latitude of impact by adjusting inclination of the orbit. Don't have time at the moment to show the math. Some terms to Google are Vis Viva Equation and Flight Path Angle. 

In 1951, a researcher took a cell sample from a cancer. These cells have mutated into a form that is independent of the human body, they live and thrive on their own. (Well, at least in laboratories) This cell line is called HeLa from the name of the patient. It is much used by researchers since it grows easily and is still almost genuine human cells. If the spaceship laboratories had samples of HeLa they could very well escape after a crash. On an otherwise unpopulated planet they could survive and even thrive. Of course, the chance of these cells evolving back into something humanoid is slim. Even if you have all the genes you would have a severe chicken/egg problem, or rather a human/womb problem. Still, if a future researcher were to come to this planet and take samples of the local life they would be severely puzzled. 

The problem with the slow alternative is that somebody else will do it the quick way and colonize the heck out the planet before you get there. 

Ships Rivers have been important to civilization since the beginning because sailing up and down the river is much easier than trudging over land. A standard bridge will stop ships from passing! Everybody up-river is going to hate you and try to destroy your bridge/city. You can build a drawbridge or something, but you don't want to build houses on a drawbridge. 

There is always some resource being limited. Others have mentioned energy, which is never unlimited. The limits can be high, but they will always be there. Space Other than that, the most fundamental limited resource is space. Real estate is called REAL estate because it will never lose value due to mass production. People will be willing to do a lot to have lots of elbow room and a window with real sunlight. Copyright Disney will still own the right to produce anything related to Mickey Mouse. Just because anybody can print out a mickey mouse doll doesn't mean they are allowed to. Parents will be willing to do a lot so that their dear little one can get the toys they want. 

A few years ago I would have said stable lunar satellites weren't possible. High orbits near the Hill Sphere boundary get destabilized by the earth's influence. Low orbits are destabilized by lunar mass concentrations (mascons for short.) Then I read the Keck proposal for parking an asteroid in lunar orbit. I was surprised when they mentioned the possibility of parking the rock in a stable lunar orbit that would need no station keeping. Then I learned Distant Retrograde Orbits (DROs) are stable even when approaching the boundaries of the Hill Sphere. One example of a body in a DRO is Jupiter's Moon S/2003 J2. This moon's semi-major axis is nearly 30 million kilometers. Jupiter's Hill Sphere has a radius of of 52 million kilometers. The S/2003 J2 Wikipedia article says 

In this case the hottest region would be the near point and the coldest would be the far point. The North and South Poles as well as the right and left ear would all like on the planet's terminator. (Most call the left and right ears the leading and trailing points) The terminator would be the most temperate region. I haven't modeled this but I suspect the weather structure would be a torus with air rising from the surface of the Near Point and sinking towards the Near Point. Convection would mitigate temperature extremes at near and far points. 

If moons about our gas giants are an indication, the moons would likely be tide locked. This makes for some interesting differences in cartography. On earth's globe there's two non-arbitrary points: The north and south pole. And there's a non arbitrary great circle: the equator. But for a tide-locked world, there are 4 non-arbitary great circles and 8 non-arbitrary points: Non-arbitary points: Near point Far point Leading point Trailing point North pole South pole Great Circles: Equator Circle containing near point, far point, south pole and north pole Circle containing leading point, trailing point, north pole and south pole 

@dsollen has really given the correct answer to this. But I want to expand on the computer virus part. Any normal computer virus will be discovered, detected and countered within days. As @MichaelHampton mentioned, the Morris Worm took down much of the Internet in 1988. The first day was chaos, but then the important routers was reconfigured to stop the worm from spreading on the Internet backbone. After that it was a local problem and cleaned up in a matter of days. Since 1988 we have become far more paranoid about how we do the Internet. Pulling something similar today would be nearly impossible. What is needed is an Artificial Intelligence virus. I.e. Skynet. This AI would be a specialist in discovering new security holes in all operating systems. When it has access to a computer with a given operating system, it reads and reverse-engineers that OS, finding new holes. As one hole is closed, it switches to another. To get it started, our clever Hackers manually gives it access to machines with the major OSes, for computers, network routers and phones. First it needs a quiet phase where it just spreads. Then, it strikes... If you want to, you could leave computers running perfectly, except that their network cards somehow doesn't seem to work. During the pre-strike phase, it can give fake work orders to build a second independent internet for its own use. The AIs' various parts can use it to spread information about new security holes. This net can be kept running after the human Internet is down. If the Hackers ask nicely, they might be allowed to use it too. Even so, it would probably not be a total victory. There are many OSes out there. If the AI doesn't have any infected ObscureOS computer to experiment on, it would have difficulties finding that first security hole to get started. This will make ObscureOS computers immensely popular until the Hackers get their hands on one and break it open. Que EvenMoreObscureOS. If the superpowers manage to track down the Hackers, they will not be gentle.