Contact them, ask if they are still interested. If at some point they ask you why you have changed your mind, have a good explanation ready for how that job differed from your expectations, and why you didn't realise until you got there. The worst that can happen is that they say no (which could have happened the first time too), in which case you still have your current job. The fact that another company hired you is a point in your favour; clearly they had no problem hiring you. You should be fine as long as you can confidently answer qualms about why you found out that it wasn't for you until after you joined. 

I guess the common thread is to make the interaction and usage as seamless and effortless as possible. There also appears to be a wep app called sqwiggle for that, worth looking at? $URL$ 

The question shows you are aware that telling an employer you want to be on a different continent in the near future could be a bad idea. You're right. Don't tell them, for several reasons: 

Talk to your coworker Politely, without being sarcastic or testy, tell your coworker that it is your mug, and you'd like to use it - point out that it is moved by the cleaner, perhaps, and that you intend to store it on your desk to avoid causing problems. If that seems fussy, well so be it - be fussy, or don't be fussy, but don't be fussy and try to hide it, or make it some unsaid grievance. The essence of this seems to be that you don't like what they're doing but you can't quite bring yourself to acknowledge the pettiness of the behaviour. If you think it is that petty, why do you care so much? The problem with silently asserting ownership I'm slightly troubled by many of the existing answers; they are either evasive (silently hoard the cup), passive aggressive (lock mug, writing your name on the mug, add bitterant(!!)) or outright aggressive (take mug from colleague, pour contents down sink). Aggression (passive or active) and evasion are not constructive ways to behave in a community like the workplace. If you are passive aggressive, and it happens again, next time you'll be angry, and quite possibly with no one knowing why. Expectations in society This is all about expectations. I'm not saying mugs should be communal, I'm pointing out that it is very evident that mugs are assumed to be communal at this workplace. The OP acknowledges that, and that it will seem petty to point out that he/she owns the mug. In that context, it is not about the facts of possession, but about how you establish that you are going to break with the general rule. Of course if you own something you own it, but the context is that the coworker sees 1 mug in a collection of many that he/she safely presumes to be communal. You have to look at it from the coworker's perspective, and presume innocence. Society in general functions on the basis of expectations, and different cultures have different expectations. For example, in the UK driving is very rule-bound, and you expect others to obey the rules. My colleague tells me that in his country, people ignore most of the rules, so you don't expect others to obey the rules. Neither is universally the 'right' system, but it is important that you know which you are in and make it clear to others if you are about to go against expectations. It is more dangerous to break the rules of the road when everyone expects you to obey them, because they won't be looking for people who do that. Here, the expectation is that cups in the kitchen are communal, that you are free to choose a cup and use it. In that context, someone having their own mug is not wrong but it is different, so all they need to do is communicate that with the fellow members of the community. Don't go through life thinking that your rules are the only right ones, and that everyone else should stick to your system, or you will rub completely normal people up the wrong way and make difficulties for yourself. Is it that hard to talk to someone about a mug? 

I'm not a lawyer. Look at your contract. Most contracts will stipulate a notice period; you have to give this much warning (here it is commonly 1 month) to your employer, and leaving earlier than this date would be breach of contract unless you have a grievance. You should also find that the employer has to give you a certain amount of notice too, so it is unlikely that you would be immediately fired and have no income; that's why notice periods exist. Having said that, it may be different in the probation period. So read your contract and seek advice on statutory employment rights (i.e. rights given to you by law). Unless your unhappiness with the job has turned into poor work, there should be nothing to stop you giving the required notice to your boss, saying that you have found a better option but you wish them all the best. Employment isn't like a romantic relationship, where even mentioning leaving is somehow a betrayal; you are expected to act in your own interest in general but be respectful toward your employer and act within the bounds of your contract. -- Edit in light of probation detail -- If the probation part of the contract gives you freedom to quit at any time and them freedom to fire you at any time, then the clearest choice is to resign at the end of December. If they had employed you on better terms, or made the work more attractive, you would not be in this position. The alternative is to resign at the beginning of January and offer to work a few more days for a handover. If your new employer is keen to have you start as soon as possible, they should be happy for you to specify a start date around the 8th but with an option to start on the 2nd if your current employer doesn't take your offer. This is more complex, but may avoid burning the bridges. Your colleagues will grudgingly accept that you didn't have an alternative in the circumstances. If you are a significant asset to the company, be prepared for your boss to make you a counter offer to stop you leaving at all - recruitment is a long, painful and expensive process for employers of technical people. Work out under what circumstances you would accept; if you were offered more money and a better role, what would that look like? 

Don't try to be clever, just be direct. Arrange a private meeting with your boss, explain your grievance clearly and ask what the rationale is. My guess is that they offered what they needed to get more experienced staff, and perhaps thought that anyone who had a problem with it would raise it. Pay in private enterprise is rarely done on the basis of fairness, but based on what you need to pay someone to get them to stay. If you're fed up, get an offer at another company; then you have a choice and your current employer knows they have to compete. In negotiation this is called a 'viable alternative'. Bosses have to balance 2 things: a desire to reduce costs (of which pay is a large one) and desire to retain good staff. Being clear and open is the best way to deal with the issue.