Humans cannot. Transhumans can. If humans could, we would have already. Unfortunately our brains are tuned to tribes of maximally 150 individuals, and we generate more culture and sub-culture than can be spread in the same timespan. No one knows how many subcultures there is, because they pop up faster than you can count them. 

We can make a broad and sweeping general description of what a problem is: There is some way you'd like the world to look. The world does not look like that currently, and you are not sure what to do to make the world more like you want it to be. The thing is, if faced with an alternative to the current world, you can rate it better or worse. Problems are all those things that you can imagine or create a world which is better because of the existence of a solution. This makes even unsolvable things like the Halting "Problem" into problems, just look at computer science discussion forums that sport a "What would you do with an infinitely fast computer?" thread. 

In my knowledge of mathematics it is rather difficult to find something that is not a Category. It will not surprise me that Structuralism is one. In other words: to say of Structuralism that it is a Category is to say very little. 

There is nothing in modern science to suggest that we cannot one day understand everything general about our own minds. "Intelligence" is the label we use for the processes we do not understand yet. Everything else is a "Cognitive Algorithm" or similar nomenclature. We understand the brain when "Intelligence" is superfluous: when you can just refer to a specific cognitive function by name and write a formula for. More generally "understanding" is when you can predict the behaviour of a system better than random chance, or throwing your hands up and saying "I don't know". 

A popular saying is: "Time doesn't exist, only clocks exist." Time, like all units of measurement, are abstractions. In physics, the purest way of comparison is the direct one: How long is this thing compared to that thing. It yields a fraction of some sort, which most importantly is invariant. This fraction has no units, is directly bound to the original question and never varies, no matter our frame of reference or unit of measurement. The thing is, if we can't measure one of the things before tomorrow, and we can't measure the other thing after today. That is when we introduce units of measurements, because units of measurement co-vary. When we change our frame of reference, say by pretending everything is twice as big (effectively cutting all our reference units in half), all off our measurements go up by a factor of two. Therefore, comparing the measurements to one another still yields an invariant fraction! Time is measured in seconds, which is defined as some high number of periods in microwave radiation emitted by Cesium atoms cooled to some low temperature under some special conditions, in an atomic clock. But atomic clocks are subject to time dilation courtesy special and general relativity. If you put an atomic clock on a spacecraft (which has been done, by the way) and send it into orbit, the lower gravity will make the space clock disagree with an identically calibrated twin left on earth. So when we say "it takes N seconds" we really mean "if I put an atomic clock next to this thing, the dial on the atomic clock would show the number N when this process has reached the end state." Humans feel time passing because of some physical processes in our brains behave like (very inaccurate, compared to atomic ones) clocks. But what does time then abstract? Entropy. The universe is continually descending into informational chaos, usually in the form of heat. Entropy starts in the laws of quantum mechanics where a certain ubiquitous interaction causes loss of information; this can be proven to be an instance of Liouville's Theorem. Some cosmologists and epistemological mathematicians currently believe that the final formulation of quantum mechanics will not include "time" as a parameter anywhere, and that time will be a derivable quantity. 

One way to approach this is by Aristotle's metaphysics. According to Aristotle, everything there is can be classified in one of the following ten categories: (1) substance; (2) quantity; (3) quality; (4) relatives; (5) somewhere; (6) sometime; (7) being in a position; (8) having; (9) acting; and (10) being acted upon (1b25-2a4). According to his definitions, a substance is something that cannot "be said of" nor "be in" another thing. And substances come in degrees: primary substances are individuals, like this particular man or that particular horse. Next on the scale, we find species (e.g. "man", in the sense of human, encompassing the whole class of human beings) and genera (e.g. "animal"). Substance has a primacy over the other nine categories, since all of them exist "in a" substance. A quantity, for example, refers to how many items of a certain substance we are talking about. Similarly for all the other categories, known collectively as accidents.And, among substances, the primacy is reserved to the primary substances. Everything has to ultimately rely upon the existence of individuals. We can only talk about man – as a species – if there are particular men in the world, so we can apply the name "man" to them and say things like "Socrates is a man". In particular, the category "quality" is important to your question. Although Aristotle does not give us a precise definition of what quality is, we can grasp the concept with little difficulty. When we say that a certain horse is beautiful, it is clear that we are ascribing a quality to the horse. Consequently, we can also beautify a horse, that is, we can increase that quality in the horse. So, what about "beauty"? Is it also a substance? For linguistic reasons, we are sometimes led to think so. After all, "beauty" is a noun and therefore can be modified by an adjective, like "beautiful". Likewise, it can be the object of a verb, like "beautify". Semantically, of course, the phrases "beautiful beauty" or "beautify the beauty" are problematic (the very heart of your question, after all). But syntactically, they are ok. As in the famous example "Colorless green ideas sleep furiously", which is a perfectly grammatical sentence, but full of self-contradictions. But the fact that "beauty" is a noun doesn't change the fact that it still is quality. Moreover, there are no individual beauties, that exist by themselves, detached from substances and to which we can predicate things. A bit more formally: "beautify X" means "increase the quality beauty in X", where X is a substance. As we have seen, beauty can only be a quality, not a substance. So we cannot substitute beauty for X, in this case. In other words, "beautify the beauty" makes no sense at all. 

Peter Singer is a preference utilitarian as he expounds in his famous book, Practical Ethics. The author of the first document you cited also defines Mr. Singer as a preference utilitarian: 

The Socratic Method is the best way to teach any person because it requires that the pupil make attempts to solve the problems before being comprehensively shown how to do so. Philosophy is a prime example, but it applies to everything, even mathematics or computer programming. In philosophy, mathematics, computer programming, lecturers often say something like: 

The sentence in the Wikipedia article prior to the one you cited gives a rough idea of how Foucault moves towards to structuralism. 

The author is trying to argue that there is a fundamental division between act and rule utilitarians, and that these utilitarians are then further divided into flavours, such as preference and hedonistic: 

and yet you also have the battery as a physical object, as an actual battery in the world, an extension. You have that which you mean and your ways of meaning it. The referent and the symbol to refer to it. An interesting parallel between analytic and continental philosophy is Frege's distinction between sense and reference, which is also acknowledged in semiotics as the distinction between signifier and signified. Putnam differs from Frege in where meaning and reference sit. For Frege and others like him, meaning is a social, communicable sign/symbol and reference is in the world. For Putnam, both meaning and reference are in the world, because reference influences the formation of the symbols and names we use for meaning. Putnam sought to prove his argument with his famous Twin Earth thought experiment. 

Foucault has clearly moved away from a phenomenological perspective if he now concerns himself with the meaning of a sign or a fact such as madness, and how that sign is defined by cultural and political agendas, rather than possessing an objective definition. Concurrently Foucault addresses the impossibility of an objective definition for such a term that is not intrinsically biased. 

Preamble Your fears are regrettably well-founded. Unlike mathematical logic, the philosophy of language is not so clear cut and remains to this day a deeply controversial topic. There are a dozen schools of thought on the philosophy of language, both classical and contemporary. It is a fundamental and unquestionably significant field of philosophical inquiry, but unfortunately what appears as a stream of simple concepts that should be amenable to science soon reveals itself as an inconsistent web of increasingly intricate questions and facts rapidly give way to opinions. The philosophy of language divided, and continues to divide, the analytic philosophers—who are known for their predilection for rigour, valid method and proof. While I would love to hand you a shiny Cambridge or Springer text in the philosophy of language, I am afraid there is no definitive work. There are commentaries and historical discussions but these will not suffice at all. What I recommend instead is this: if you are sufficiently intrigued and if you have the time to spare, read through the texts I have listed below, which come straight from the field's most significant philosophers themselves. For if it is not possible to find an objective and rigorous account of something, one must build an internal consensus for themselves, generating an objective account from a rigorous treatment of the intersubjective account. Some essential texts Gottlob Frege - On Sense and Reference 

I really do not see how can you infer (2), (3) and (4) from (1). In fact, I'm not quite convinced that (1) is true, either. Is this a valid piece of reasoning, or is Plato purposefully presenting a non-sequitur? 

In the beginning of The Republic, when discussing the nature of justice, Socrates leads Polemarchus to agree with him in this line of reasoning (the numbering is mine): 

As a software developer, I often face the problem of meaningless terms. It is very common in our industry that a certain term is first coined with a very specific and useful meaning. Then, it becomes fashionable to use that term, so everyone starts using it to mean more and more things until, in a couple of years, the term has become so diluted that its original meaning is lost altogether. This has been occurring with the term agile, for example. Which philosophers have addressed this probem of dilution of meaning and how to avoid it? I have illustrated the problem with a software development example, but it may occur in every professional field. When a term has reached that meaningless state, it becomes impossible to have a rational, useful and unambiguous discussion. 

There is a consistent pattern throughout the corpus of Plato's dialogues: first, Socrates proposes a philosophical problem, like "what is justice?" or "is there an immortal soul?". Then he goes on to challenge each attempt of his interlocutors at defining the concept or solving the problem. As the dialogue evolves, the reader is presented with the opportunity of gaining deeper and deeper insights into the problem. But at some point, the dialogue ends, leaving the question unsettled. And then, the style of the text changes and he starts narrating a myth, like the one depicting the fate of human souls after death, at the end of Phaedo. How should we understand these closing myths? Are they the "correct" solution (from Plato's point of view) that could not be attained by the dialectic method? Or are these myths just a different approach to the problem that, although very useful, do not solve the problem, either? 

Derrida generally resisted labels, and in particular he resisted the label of post-structuralism because his ideas were derived from structuralism—différance arising from Ferdinand de Saussure's linguistics—and, in point of fact, deconstruction only makes sense as long as it forms an extension of the structuralist approach, i.e. is within the bounds of a structuralist conceptual framework. For Derrida, structuralism was not completely wrong, it just had limitations like every other school of thought. Without structuralism, Derrida's work does not make a great deal of sense. By saying that deconstruction is antistructuralist he is essentially creating a binary opposition between structuralism and deconstruction, and so it would never be post-structuralist, because it depends on its opponent; even if it does dismantle and criticise structuralism, without structuralism it is nothing. Appending would imply that structuralism was dead and buried, but this would be the last thing Derrida would say. Indeed, I imagine he would have rejected the use of for any school of thought in philosophy, because it would imply that what came before was irrelevant or inferior, which would stand in opposition to his idea that philosophy is essentially a genealogy, a taxonomy of ideas in which every idea or school of thought is significant and serves to define its precedents and antecedents. 

The difference is essentially the same as that which Gottlob Frege discusses in his seminal work On Sense and Reference. Putnam essentially uses the word meaning in place of Frege's sense, presumably because it seemed more intuitive for Putnam to splinter reference from meaning rather than make meaning a redundant term in our language. The distinction between meaning and reference is simple: meaning/sense is the intension or the word, name or symbolic representation of an object; the reference is the thing to which the intension corresponds in the world—the reference is the object to which you are referring, if you will. For instance, if you think of a battery, you have the word battery and you have symbols for batteries, such as: 

This indicates already that to be any of these things, you need to think for yourself and you need to think in a certain way. Your thinking needs to become structured, not to preclude novel, out of the box approaches to problems but to enable you to understand what you are learning in your own terms, rather than simply memorising somebody else's terms. The Socratic Method is ideal because, as I said, as an instructor you will appeal to your students to think about how to solve a problem and the only way they will arrive at the correct answer is to think like a philosopher, computer scientist or mathematician. The further advantage with the Socratic Method is that you will require your students to justify their answer, so even if they happen on the correct answer or a strong thesis, they have to understand why it is correct or strong in order to be right. Thus when a student gives an incorrect answer, you reply with an explanation of the flaws in their logic and they will have a blueprint for how to improve; when a student answers correctly, they are made aware of the fact that their thinking was correct and that they should refine and apply their way of thinking to future questions. In epistemological terms, you can view the Socratic Method as a way of embedding procedural knowledge in your students, rather than making them memorise propositional knowledge. In computer science terms, you are giving students imperative knowledge rather than declarative knowledge. You are not just feeding them definitions and rules from which they would be lucky to intuit the abstract nature of the subject at hand; you are not even just giving them a recipe or an instruction set leading to the correct answer for them to analyse. You are making the students think about how to formulate such a recipe and inviting them to challenge rules, to play Devil's advocate, all for the purpose of being wrong. Obviously some people possess natural talents, truly intuitive grasps of subjects like mathematics, but the Socratic Method appeals to all students. It refines the students who are already adept and it brings the uninitiated up to speed by forcing them to make mistakes. If we do not grasp something intuitively, we learn by trial and error, and what better way to force trial and error than to ask your students to give answers before being comprehensively shown how to answer? They will make mistakes and they will learn from them. Once you have students thinking for themselves, you can expect for your students to eventually challenge you—the definition of a great teacher according to Aristotle: