So every winter working in the dry cold, my skin, on my hands and feet, cracks. Particularly between my fingers and toes. What can I do to prevent this? 

Looking for something with a shade is not as important. I rub some sunscreen on them and reapply after a few hours. This works well enough in the Sonoran desert. For infants we have used and liked the Beco butterfly but it offers no storage, it's just great with infants. It has the added benefit of, when we need/want to cover ground quickly, allowing my wife to carry the infant front and breastfeed while hiking. When they are crawling on their own and starting to pull themselves up we switch to our larger pack. Which is a Kelty, but an older model that I can't find online right now. 

You might consider boiling it up with some berries, (suitable) plants or pine needles. In terms of treatment tablets, there are neutralisers to sort the taste out, but they are not perfect. For a double solution, you might want to try those effervescent vitamin c tablets. Orange is nice. 

Foraging is NOT looking at a plant and deciding if it's edible, nor is it looking in a book at a plant and then going looking for that plant. It's not possible to learn all the plants and it's not possible that all the plants will be in the area you forage. Foraging is about confidently identifying some edible plants. The two main components of this process are slow and steady learning coupled with an understanding of habitat and how plants and fungi feature and interact there throughout the seasons. I recommend not buying field guides initially. Books are good for reference, but overwhelming in the early learning phase. Set realistic goals based on the amount of time you spend outdoors. Try something like this: $URL$ When you get a bit more confidence, take yourself on a Fungi Foray, they are always good fun. Watch out for Wild Food courses, especially those that lay claim to you "learning 30 plants". Nobody learns 30 anything in a couple of hours, let alone remember it a few months later. Get involved with your local Bushcraft community, they are always good for knowledge sharing. Try some of the groups on Face book like Wild Food ($URL$ Good luck, take it steady and have fun. Steve (pro survival and wild food instructor) Marvell 

Parachute cord aka paracord comes in basically 6 major types based on weight limits of 95 lbs to 750 lbs. Type 3 has a weight limit of 550 lbs and is referred to as 550 paracord. Usually when someone says paracord they are referring to 550 paracord. For bear bags and tying tarps and tents and securing gear 550 paracord works perfectly well and is cheap and readily available. On Military grade 550 paracord the sheath has a weight rating of 300 lbs and has 7 inner strands that are each made up of 3 braided strands. Most commercial 7 strand cord has 2 lines twisted to make each of the 7 inner strands. You can also find commercial variety with a different number of inner strands. If you are looking for something other than 550 paracord the major questions to ask are what diameter do you need and what strength. Almost any where you go from 550 paracord it will get more expensive. For comparison Mammut is a company that makes climbing rope and rates their rope all the way down to 2mm (which is rated for .85kN) and 2mm is usually around $.10/ft. For your uses 550 Paracord will probably work best and be cheapest. 

The foam inside the mat prevents heat loss through convection which would be the case with the air if there was nothing to prevent it moving. This forms part of the open cell vs closed cell argument for sleeping mats. 

Dehydration occurs when there is more water going out or being used than is going in. Additionally, if you're drinking too fast (more than a litre an hour for an average adult male), you're not absorbing the water and so it doesn't count as going in. Confusingly, dehydration can also be classified loss of water, loss of electrolytes or loss of both. To add further confusion, electrolyte imbalance can be too high or too low. In one sense the electrolytes can be lost through something like sweating, and in another, the concentration can be too high due to lack of water. It's generally the electrolyte imbalance that causes you the problem and to the symptoms of dehydration are really the symptoms of electrolyte imbalance. For completeness, the electrolytes we're talking about are: 

Yes! This is a rewarding and awesome experience. I have three children that I take hiking all the time. My youngest is almost a month old and he hasn't been out yet, but will as soon as he has a bit of neck control. I was also raised going on many hikes in my father's pack. I have the old pack that I was carried in and let me tell you, they have made leaps and bounds since then. Things to look for now: 

So I built my survival shelter and I decide a nice fire would really warm things up. Is there a way I can build a fire that would heat the shelter without too much smoke? I know I could make the shelter better and warmer, and I would need to sit and stare at the fire making sure it didn't burn the shelter down. Is there a way to build a fire to do this? Side note, I am assuming a typical low crawl in shelter, would there be a better one to use with fire? 

Your urine will be darker. You'll get a headache. You'll get a bunch of symptoms like lethargy and confusion which others are more likely to notice. You'll feel thirsty. 

In terms of solutions. An imbalance where the concentration is too high can be solved by drinking more water. Where too low, you should go for oral rehydration and eating something. Six teaspoons of sugar, half a teaspoon of salt and a litre of water should do it. Don't forget to drink that little and often over an hour. PS for generation interest, the sugar is there to help the salt be absorbed through the small intestine and was considered one of the most important medical advances of the 1960s Sources: experience, training, training materials, NHS, Healthline, Medicinet and May Clinic 

I also can't offer answers to all your problems but on a couple of points: 2) Coconut oil is very good at restoring moisture to your skin. It's quite 'light' in that it won't leave a greasy film on your skin and given how little you need to use it's very cheap. I've also been told that a thin layer of Vaseline on your skin will help prevent it from getting so ravaged by the cold but haven't tried this myself. 4) I've seen people out in -10 wearing shorts. It's difficult to know how far that person is travelling, how recently they left their home / car, and how much they regret their choices at that moment. I wouldn't worry too much about other people's approaches until you get your own figured out. I recently moved to northern British Columbia from a warmer climate and am struggling to solve the same problems :) 

Well does it? Or does it only grow on one side? Or does it grow only on the side further from the equator? Is there any truth to this old adage? 

I think what you are looking for is Century Camping gear. It is mostly made in USA and they have all the accessories that you are looking for. If something they sell is made elsewhere, they note the country of origin in the product specs. Coleman still makes some stuff here but most of it is in China now. You have to check the individual box for them. You might also want to try REI.com. They are a great camping site and their online store has a button to show only made in USA items. I tested this and found it odd that they flagged all Century Camping gear as imported when only 1 of their stoves is actually imported. 

Something to be aware of is that many of the above symptoms are also associated with thing that can happen outdoors such as heat stroke, hypothermia, sleep deprivation, malnutrition and low blood sugar. So to answer the question about "needing salts", you'll be looking for: 

There are two components to staying warm and it's all generally centred around thermodynamics. You want to stay at one temperature and physics wants you to become the temperature of the your environment. You body, if 100% efficiently insulated, would get hotter and hotter because it's generating heat from all the bodily processes and chemical reactions going on, especailly movement. The source of this heat energy is food which is processed and/or stored in your body and if no fuel is going in, then your body itself. Equally, if you were 0% insulated, you would cool down at a rate proportionate to the difference in temperature between you and the outside world. To this, you add the heat energy you're generating and ultimately you get a rate of decrease in temperature. Somewhere between the two is a level of insulation which essentially allows you to create an equilibrium between the rate of generation of heat and the rate of loss. This is how you stay the right temperature. So some tips are: 

My Silvercore instructor said you should never store ammunition in an airtight or near-airtight safe, so that may be a contributing factor. If ammunition detonates in a fire or some other unintended scenario it can create a sudden and intense increase in pressure. If there is nowhere for that pressure to quickly vent your safe becomes a bomb and could explosively fail at the weakest point. 

I've hunted deer within 150 yards using 10x magnification and for the most part that was fine. However I encountered problems when trying to determine if a buck was a 2 point or a 4 point, which meant waiting / hoping for the animal to come closer or spending a lot longer studying the picture. Details like that can be critical when hunting and can make the difference between a legal and an illegal shot. I upgraded to a spotting scope that has adjustable magnification up to 45x and a tripod. A steady hold or a stable surface become really important when dealing with higher magnifications. Whether you choose binoculars, a spotting scope, or both will depend on several factors including how far you're travelling, how much weight you're comfortable packing, the style of hunting (e.g. spot and stalk vs still), and the type of environment you're in. Personally I would say go with 10x binoculars if you're hiking a good distance or through bush, but if you'll be mostly stationary try to get something more powerful - just because you can. Edit: you mention you'll be hunting in the open. In my experience magnification isn't usually required for spotting game out in the open or at the edge of a field, but it is essential for confirming the specifics. Because of this I wouldn't be too concerned about getting the widest field of view - the naked eye is very good at picking out movement at long ranges 

I would not advise putting wet socks anywhere near anything that's preventing you from getting cold if it would generate a risk of hypothermia through decreased insulation or increased heat conductivity. Using your body heat to dry socks is dangerous in cold conditions as you're taking heat from yourself. With this in mind, you should use an external heat source to dry your socks. This could be a fire or as you mentioned, hand warmer. Socks can also dry in the wind, so if you can arrange for them to be exposed to wind whilst being protected from rain then that will also work. As you mentioned, water can also be extracted using an absorbent material, such as a towel. You would have to decide which is more important to be dry at the time. Greater efficiency can be gained by an arrangement where water has a good route for escape and does not pool.