Any first year EE student has observed that you really can make a (fairly poor) voltage by simply waving a coil around in the air. This works in the usual way, because the earth has a magnetic field - nothing weird. It is weak - maybe even weaker than you think it is. But, it's enough for what we need. The biggest problem now is that the time traveler absolutely must have a way of rectifying current flow or else fail entirely. The reason why he needs it is because we need to feed the output of the generator into the input of a handwound electromagnet at the core of the generator end through sliprings - literally a round piece of metal that another conductor can ride on, to which the magnet is connected. If the input isn't rectified, then the north and south poles of the magnet switch places every cycle and your alternator doesn't alternate very well. If you can do that, the next problem is controlling the feedback loop. When trying to start the generator, everything is great - you have a tiny little current flow gradually bolstering the field of the ferromagnetic core. Once the field comes up, you have a problem - you are passing a non-zero voltage through a very low resistance. This is will do one of two things - most likely, it will prevent your generator from being able to develop a workable output, because it is shorted. But if you work real hard, and have steady hands, and built a pretty good generator head, the feedback loop will spike the voltage on the generator head and utterly destroy all your work. Note that this isn't free power - the equation sacrifices current flow for voltage and you arc through your insulation. This is almost the exact reason why permanent magnets are used so often - since they are constant, you don't have to have as robust a regulator. I'll skip over some of the more technical stuff by saying that it is much more likely that the brave adventurer would be forced to build a DC machine. This is actually harder to make, but, it allows the use of a special mechanical rectifier called a commutator. The commutator is a multi layered ring of conductive sections separated by a mineral insulator in thin strips, on which a conductor can slip while it is rolling. Each set of sections on opposite sides of each other is connected to a separate conductive loop, and no two sets are connected. Since the current goes into and out of the commutator at fixed angles, the corresponding magnets can be placed at a certain angle with respect to the commutator entry and exit conductors - the rotor spins but the relationship between the magnetic fields doesn't reverse. (Yes, this is about as non-technical as I can make this - sorry guys.) This still didn't solve our regulator issue, but if your time traveller knows how everything above works, there's a reasonable chance that he knows what a magnetic amplifier is, and that it's way easier than building a vacuum tube from scratch. This is basically a fancy transformer, designed intentionally to saturate at a specific point and then have a much reduced response. Without getting too into it, if he can do the math, and has copper and an insulator, he can do this and the electromagnet should self start AND not burn up. So, thousands of hours of grueling material round up, refinement and tool manufacture later, if he didn't starve to death or have a surprise party with some velociraptors, he now has what is actually probably a fairly decent generator head. The engine should only take about ten times as long. Build a bicycle, maybe. 

Sociologically, I'd almost expect the next picture in your sequence to be a screenshot of Breitbart and/or Drudge Report, followed by a picture of Reddit/Facebook. Even in the last couple of years, "media" has evolved from emotion-tweaking cover pages to bare-minimum clickbait titles for aggregation and social media consumption. Technologically, I'd love for the next picture in the sequence to be a Harry Potteresque "animated newspaper." I've often wondered why we don't have more dynamic "print" now that print is usually consumed on computational devices. Realistically, the next image, I think, would be a screenshot of a web page with an inflammatory headline, a "Share" link, a micro-summary of the content (which may or may not be accurate, but is designed to back up the emotional content of the headline), and an embedded video, which takes "burying the lede" to it's technological conclusion: to get past clickbait and advertisements, you need to watch a multi-minute video, where the actual useful content is as the end, voiced overtop of more emotionally charged video. One thing that has not changed, however, is the self-selection of media. There's so many people whining and crying about how social media has encouraged bubble-building, with everyone in their own personal safe spaces, but this has been a feature of human life from the beginning. You'd get your news from your preferred priest, or social group in the ancient past; you'd select teachers in the schools of the Greek and Roman world based on their compatibility with your worldview and your desired level of gnosis, when books came along, you'd only collect the books that spoke to you personally, and pass up much that you'd disagree with. Newspapers were rare at first, but eventually became a vast form of media, with you able to select which yellow journalists or editors you most agreed with, and consume only their published media. Radio would have you select the personalities you most aligned with, and television eventually grew to the point where you can find the news channel you most align to as your preferred consumption source. Nothing is new about any of this, except the technology involved; and with each technological advancement the old guard got a shock when new views grasped the new forms of media and became the new guard. Personally, I already find the current media to be rather dystopian. Everything is emotion powered, trying (and oftimes succeeding!) in sucking my reptile brain into a knee-jerk reaction. Depending on which channel you tend to watch, you're dragged by a riptide of emotions to the particular viewpoint of the handful of editors and financiers who dictate the direction of your news source. Nanobots are not required; we already live in that society. I highly recommend reading Scott Adams (of Dilbert fame) blog entries about persuasion; it's pretty eye opening on how we, as a species, have always been programmed by those more fluent in the use of persuasion. As for the "Future of Media," here's my extrapolation. Media will continue to become easier and easier to consume; social media will use AI to learn the types of things you tend to share and automatically share them for you. This will be pitched as a convenience, but the algorithms will also attempt to shift the zeitgeist by blending your real data with whatever the algorithm owners want you to read. Something like Doctor Who's earpods seem likely; streaming a constant background stream of news into your subconsious (hopefully not ending with everyone becoming cybermen, of course). I also predict, however, the return of the Samizdat; rogue printed publications not "approved of" by the ruling and media classes, shared physically between interested parties. The published media will continue becoming more convenient, more emotional, and more consolidated; those few who prefer content over feels will lean on the feelings of permanence of print on paper. Blogs and digital newspapers are too easy to memory-hole for these people, they'll want paper they can archive and cross reference. 

This is an induction heater. The amount of heat you can get out of it is, essentially, only dependent on how much power you have available, and being able to prevent the heated object from destroying the induction coil. 

I tried. I really did. Three paragraphs in, I had no choice but to turn this into a reality check. Do bear in mind, I gave this enough consideration that I reopened this. So. There is no way, on any Earth like planet, that primitive creatures don't learn to hit stuff with rocks before they learn anything else. I mean, sea-gulls know this trick, dude. The problem is this - lets say there are plenty of small, armored critters with chitin hard enough to woodwork, or whittle bone. Let's say there are enough of them that no one ever considers finding or using flint, because the pincers on these critters are that plentiful, and that effective. You now have the serious issue on your hand of dealing with wildly sharp, armored land bugs that only probably aren't very cuddly. Primitive bipeds aren't going to sit around and wait for these things to die - they're going to beat them down with rocks and scoop out the delicious insides. So you might be able to replace early flint tools with bug arms, from which they can start early woodwork and scrimshaw tools. These tools are soft, and leave you unable to cut anything harder than bug arm, so you have a problem - either bug arm is as hard as bronze, in which case humanity is totally hosed, or you have to write in a biological source of something even harder than bug arm, in which case humanity never evolved. Our brilliant tool making minds find ways to do things, but there isn't a way to make Mohs hardness not a thing - we survived because we were built better than our competition. This will not be true against a race of critters with metallic scale armor. If you take it to a certain point, and then do some future history, it makes more sense. Here, on Earth, right now, there are several processes we use organic bioreactors for. One that springs to mind is ethanol production, and we're trying to develop more. Note of course that there is a huge difference between organic and eco-friendly. Lots of organic chemistry is pretty bad stuff. 

The amount of angular momentum in a planet is incredible; planets are like giant gyroscopes. The lowest tech level required would be "Dyson Sphere," because you'd need MASSIVE amounts of energy to attempt to add angular momentum to the planet. Also note, due to conservation of angular momentum, you're going to need to "steal" momentum from an absolutely massive ... mass. We're talking, somehow transferring the angular momentum from Mars. As for "fun side effects," let's say you have a Dyson Sphere, or a Dyson Ring to collect power. You use this to build an absolutely massive space ship; basically, it's engines surrounding a huge conglomeration of asteroids. Maybe you even turn Ceres into your vehicle. You fly Ceres to Mars, and use tractor beams on the north pole. This causes angular momentum to transfer to the ship, which you then whirl on to Venus, and use tractor beams on the south pole to re-transfer the momentum from the ship to Venus. Do this a couple trillion times and Mars will be tidally locked to the Sun, while Venus is spinning a bit faster. Of course, once you've spent that much fuel, you might just put ion thrusters on ships, tractor beam them to the poles, and then fire rockets to rotate the ships (the angular momentum comes from the particles ejected into space). This is a MASSIVE undertaking; we're talking about fantastic amounts of energy required. Equal, perhaps, to the energy required to initiate warp drive on a ship, to boldly go somewhere with habitable planets. Or, eat a bit of crow and rehire the guy with the sunshield idea; it'll be way cheaper than a Dyson Ring, and makes a great place to put orbital solar power stations. 

Okay, hold on. Let the actual submariners weigh in. I spent 8 years of my life in the Unites States Navy aboard Los Angeles Class submarines as a Nuclear Electricians Mate. I have a background in engineering and radiological controls as a result. Please treat this as an extended comment - the answer as given is, in fact, no. But there are number of misconceptions that you guys are flailing around. I can unequivocally and without a doubt say that it would not explode. The air would leak out from around the shaft that makes the screw go around, but you'd likely weld that shut before spending several billion dollars flying something that heavy that high. You'd also have to seal a few cable ways but sonar doesn't work in space, so no big loss. As far as oxygen - (classified). But that kind of machine uses very very clean water, and uses it pretty slowly. It's not like it needs access to the ocean to work. Look up commercial grade systems and you'll understand. As far as radiation - bring it. The whole charged particle thing is simply incorrect. A beta particle or an alpha particle simply won't cause an avalanche cascade in steel. There's not a significant neutron source up there. That leaves the gamma rays that everyone has to deal with. As far as power - (classified). But no nuclear reactor anywhere can operate without a heat sink. That's just thermodynamics. And submarines sink heat to the Main Seawater Expansion Tank, aka the ocean. Period. No water, no power. Forget it - no workarounds. As far as burning up - the ISS is a thing that is real. Polish it shiny and paint it white and there is no real risk of burning up. The reactor is down so, meh. The biggest thing that everybody missed is that all submarines are built assuming that gravity is a thing that exists. The entire design of a nuclear reactor must take into account this very basic thing. Shoving something like this into microgravity means water starts coming out of the tops of tanks and pooping gets real risky. Steam that should be on top gets on bottom and water destroys your turbines while us enlisted men take turns opening various valves to naked vacuum because we like to watch things disappear into space - which is the real reason why we'd all end up dead from hypoxia. 

How sturdy is this supercomputer? Can it last for millions of years (evolution)? If so, I imagine it would find a whole bunch of likely species (dolphins, whales, chimps, gorillas, really smart parrots, etc) and start a breeding program, constantly iterating over the smartest animals until it's evolved self awareness. This is the long game. The short game? A sentient supercomputer is like a brain, and like the old saw about brains, it only detects the world through it's senses. As such, it can totally build technology that overlays another intelligence onto those senses. Basically, I'm saying it plays a planetwide game of The Sims. Using it's own intelligence as a model, it would build AI to interact with, AI not under it's control (that wouldn't be very fun). No robots or flesh bodies necessary, just enough tech to trick it's sensors into detecting whatever it wants. Basically, that's one of the things we humans do when we're alone too long; we start hallucinating other people, start having conversations with them, and after a while they seem real enough! (If I were writing a story, a supercomputer hallucinating an entire population of a planet would be a cool ending. ET comes to make first contact with an intelligent species that had been broadcasting hello messages into space, just to discover an ancient supercomputer suffering from computer senility. 

Unfortunately for the supercomputing bacteria, worshipers build things that the worshipers think is useful, not what the god itself wants. Even specific orders, like Yahweh commanding the ark of the covenant or the Temple of Solomon ends up more "inspiring" their charge the right direction, not providing detailed plans. So, without tools, what would semi-intelligent cuttlefish and octopi make for their gods? Ink clouds and structures of mucus. First off, they don't have tools, so they'll need to figure something out without being able to build things with tooling. They would be thinking of things useful to them... while also constructing things which bring themselves pleasure (because most temples are designed to wow their followers as well). Ink clouds, shaped into specific forms as they dissipate would be a beautiful, if pointless to their gods, form of worship; the brain's own "numinous" circuits would reward the animals for producing these beautiful forms. Structures of mucus, however, would be way more useful to the bacteria in building films and other organized structures. They could manipulate the religious sensibilities of the critters to make the macro-structures in the form they require, while handling the lower level stuff themselves. 

TL;DR - As long as you sufficiently explain and relate the power levels of all your magic users, you'll be fine. To keep them just as important as the other users is going to be difficult, and it kind of comes down to how hard we hand wave physics. The problem as I see it is that plasma is an incredibly high energy state of matter. To turn additional matter into plasma would require the input of significant quantities of energy. If you make this too easy for him to do, he becomes unstoppable. If you make it too hard for him to do, he doesn't stack up to the other users. This balancing is not something I can necessarily tell you how to do exactly, but I can guess that it is going to depend largely on installing a sense of how much skill these people have. First, let's assume that Mr. Plasma's generation method consists primarily of pulling electrons out of local matter to create his source of plasma, and that how much he can store and control depends on how good he got. Day one, he might be able to ionize someone enough to guarantee that person gets shocked on the next doorknob they touch. Some time into his studies, with extraordinary focus, he could ignite a piece of paper at six feet with what effectively amounts to a small particle beam (but not control the subsequent fire). More study and practice yields the ability to create and hold a small light source. After two decades of constant use, he could have the ability to compress a large quantity of ionized matter into a small point, push it through the wall of a building, and release it, causing wild electrical transients (if electricity is a thing), chain lightning and fire. Also note that Mr. Plasma, after many years of study and practice, could actually wield something that looks suspiciously like a lightsaber. Major homage possibility here. As long as you take some time to develop each of the characters, and remain consistent in the way you relate power levels to each other, this is all totally workable, but will rely very heavily on your execution.