Meanwhile, in the rest of the world: Europe's population was cut down by 4/5th as the elders clawed futilely at their eyes. Left without water and food supplies, the few unarmed survivors are at the mercy of roaming Albanian, neo-Viking and Roma gangs. 95% of survivors are dead before Spring. By the end of the next year, Europe is a depopulated wasteland, with organized enclaves of survivors in Ireland and the rural areas of France and Eastern Europe. South Sudan As all the tribal elders die, there is a bit of disruption before the eldest surviving sons reestablish firm control. Pastoral life goes on much as before. Japan The Machine Overseer AIs (監督機) detect a sudden drop in their elderly population. They react by reducing GDP allocations to nursing homes to 0, bringing Japan's budget out of deficit for the first time in a half-century. The unemployed robonurses are deployed to safeguard the 1% of the pre-event population under the age of 5. Robo-Police are deployed on the streets to prevent looting or littering, and arrange proper funerals for the 100 million bodies. Electric services, water and whaling continue unabated. Kuwait With the trade system eliminated, the water desalinization plants offline, 99.5% of the initial survivors die of thirst and hunger before the year is out. Israel The dazed Israeli survivors blink once, twice, utter "shlimazel", then proceed to continue to direct their eternal war with Palestine-ISIS from their bunkers, as above ground their respective gamma-ray robots continue the fight over the desolated sun and laser scorched holy land. 

Kinda like this, but likely with empty air rather than earth in the center, unless there is a central island 

From the Capital (let's assume from the map above it would be in Africa, around present day Libya) news could travel from around the Tethys sea in about a month at most. So you'd need some fairly significant improvements in shipping technology compared to the Romans to harden the ships for the larger distances across the more open Tethys sea compared to the Med. 

Ah, yes, Asimov's 1st meets Singularity. Or, the AI is always a crapshoot, and is now engaging in Zeroth Law Rebellion, because its programming has gone horribly right. For a good short (horror) story on exactly your question, see Friendship is Optimal: Caellum est conterrens, where a superfriendly CelestiAI is endeavoring to satisfy everypony's values through friendship and ponies. It involves nuclear war, of course. 

It it is possible to generate these via industrial manufacture, I'd prefer that over mining. If it is possible to break down the individual highlighted items by price, I'd love to see that, but it is not mandatory. I may accept partial answers if one or more of the estimates are impossible to produce. If multiple estimates are available (say depending on carat size), I prefer the lower cost one. Rough Fermi-style order-of-magnitude-estimates ok. 

Mutations in chromosomes Mutations in mitochondria. Intracellular Junk Extracellular Junk Cellular Loss Cell senescence Extracellular protein crosslinks 

Context: Your spaceship encountered a Grade III Anomaly (now you really wish you'd have read the darn safety manual to figure out what that would be -- too late now). Structural integrity of the singularity containment apparently was compromised, and an all hands abandon ship signal was transmitted by the pilot AI. Situation: You are now in a place that resembles Ice-Age southern Europe so well, you have a hard time avoiding the conclusion that you time-traveled. Reinforcing this belief is the band of 20 or so Neanderthals currently approaching you. Moreover, you managed to deactivate and drop your multiband rescue beacon during the late stage night-time parachute descent. Your PA, Vortana, helpfully informed you that given the prevailing wind patterns you experienced, the descent vector after the pod separation event, your flailing arms and general disorientation, the beacon is 95% likely to be in a roughly triangular 100 sq. km. area to the West, and with a smaller 80% probability in a 10 sq. km. sub-area. You would like to enlist the help of the Neanderthals in: 

I find myself disagreeing with the extant answers. I'll therefore go full contrary here, so expect a bit of exaggeration and hyperbole (take it with a grain of salt, heh). Hate and spite are the foundational bedrock of most, if not all modern civilizations. For instance, the (North) American settlers were, by our modern standards, hateful and very much Taliban-like, and they left England and the Netherlands because they thought the Crown was NOT bigoted enough against fun OR Catholics to please them. Many of the new colonies were essentially little theocracies (we would call them cults these days and set the FBI on them). Don't take this as me hating on the Puritans or whatever. Remember, the past is an Alien World. Everybody was crazy back then. Killing witches was all the rage, bleeding someone to near-death was what you paid doctors to do, and the French still thought that burning cats alive was a fun way to spend an afternoon. (I like cats. If that were happening today, I'd send in the bombers, or charge them myself armed with my keyboard, but I'm getting side-tracked here.) Most modern nation-states are what Benedict Anderson (one of the most famous modern political scientists) called Imagined Communities, namely people who have invented and largely believe a common origin story of some sort: 

In the Holy Books of a number of religions, we see the prophets of what is depicted as the true god always struggling against priests of false gods, who are often able to accomplish amazing feats. But the rival priests are all just faking it... Now imagine hugely advanced humans, with powerful silvery machinery, fracking spacetime itself for unobtanium, and accidentally drilling their way into what looks like Heaven. Picture it however you want: Angelic figures with wings on their backs, lots of harps, pearly gates, rivers of milk and honey and mead, 72 figs, the works. How would we be able to tell whether we're dealing with divine beings or simply sufficiently advanced aliens trying to co-opt our religious myths? 

Dolphins, elephants and whales have bigger brains, but they also have bigger neurons, so neuron density is lower. They're also noisier, so more redundancy is needed (and thus wasted neurons) compared to a smaller brain. In my story, I want my main character to meet a giant biological brain, preferably in a suitably sized vat. I need to know how big of a brain I can realistically get. Things I'm already considering are: 

Is innovation expensive computationally? Is competition for computing resources fierce, or are they in a post-scarcity world with endless computing power there for the taking? Are the AIs programmed to pursue their own disparate goals, or do they all share a broad set of values? 

It is like the Apollo Moon mission to Stone Age hunter-gatherers. We (the hunter gatherers) can probably recover some debris, use it to bash stones or store berries, but we have neither the industrial base or the scientific framework to comprehend and replicate the technology. Helicopters to Leonardo. Leonardo understood the concepts of helicopters, but didn't know about internal combustion engines. Given the field of debris from a helicopter crash, Leonardo might infer a few advances, but will likely be unable to build a helicopter. It would still revolutionize technology, though. Nukes to Stalin. Russian scientists knew nukes were possible. There was even a nuclear program. Knowing that the Americans had done it and stealing American tech allowed the Russians to build the same project quickly, without the steep and costly learning process that the Americans had to undergo. If this is the case, we'd have FTL within one to three years of the 'attack'. 

How would life be on a Jupiter moon? Nasty, brutish and very, very short. Jupiter has these massive radiation belts generated by its magnetosphere, which are about a million times stronger than Earth's. They were powerful enough to damage or throw into safe mode all of our hardened interplanetary probes. It is estimated that the accelerated plasma is energetic enough to kill unshielded humans in minutes. This would scale up supra-linearly with the size of the super-Jupiter. Organic compounds (such as complex organic molecules, people or cats) on an exposed satellite surface would be destroyed in minutes or hours. So colonies are unlikely, especially if you want them to live on the surface. 

Imagine that, without any aliens having been ever found, we get to a point where we can build sub-atomically precise simulations of reality, spanning at least something the size (if not the likeness) of a solar system within the sim (if needed, we can scale up to galactic scales)... Assume we go about trying to create ('evolve' within the sim) our very own aliens, that is to say new organisms 'living' within these simulations, the likes of which have never existed on Earth. Would we be able to create anything truly alien, or is our limited imagination and physical/biological convergence an inescapable boundary? Good answers will have a rough sketch of how one would go about generating alien sim-life, or alternatively a decent explanation as to why it's not possible. As to what would qualify as 'truly alien', it's a hard call, but as a rule of the thumb, if I can imagine it relatively easily (say a griffon), it's probably not alien enough. 

As you can see, the North and South Atlantic Gyres almost require a Cape-of-Good Hope-bound ship to get near the Brazilian coast. Historically, South and South East Asians who were better organized and had more advanced weaponry could not prevent Europeans from establishing forts and colonies. Spain and Portugal were full of conquistadors fresh from centuries of Reconquista, and these forces were occasionally capable of defeating on the ground and at sea the forces of the largest Mediteranean Empire at the time, the Ottomans. Similar reasons explain why Ceuta, Granada, and Melila fell to the Portuguese and the Spanish around this time. I somehow doubt a few dozen stone-age Arawak warriors could have wiped out the entire crew. There are three main reasons why the American natives were doomed: 

Revelation Jerusalem is the golden city, the true envy of the world. Tradition has it that it's bathed in eternal light, that the unworthy are struck down on its doorstep, and that a sense of holiness pervades the place. So much for tradition. More importantly for our purposes, it's really a golden city. Sounds expensive, but just how expensive? Required WB input: order of magnitude estimate of cost. I'd prefer the estimate in 2016 US Dollars or as a ratio to US Annual GDP at $17.4 trillion. Here are the salient features we are concerned with: 

It is going to be hard. Have you ever watched those grainy WWII documentaries, showing you clouds of exploding flak (anti-aircraft ammunition) that seem to render the skies unsurvivable for enemy bombers? Well, post-war analysis showed that even in the most heavily defended areas, employing the newest technology then available, over 90% of bombers safely reached their targets. And this, in the context of high caliber machine-guns and cannons going against aluminium-skinned fliers. You can imagine how effective archers and arbalists will be against nearly impervious dragon skin. Your mechanics can probably build spring-loaded ballistas with steel pikes as projectiles, but again, aiming them while fire is literally coming down upon you is bound to be challenging. No, this will likely require a more high-powered approach. In theory, you could hire a guild of mages to protect you, but mages have the disadvantage of wearing flammable robes and of being rather squishy beings, when compared to dragons of similar magical ability. Which finally brings me to the correct way of warding off dragon attacks. Since dragons are acquisitive, highly intelligent beings, the best way to ward off dragon attacks is to pay them off. While rampaging a city is undoubtedly satisfying, it is not entirely risk-free, whereas sitting in your cave as shipments of gold (and virgins?) are being delivered is a lot safer. The richest cities can go one step further, and hire certain nearby dragons for air defence purposes. 

The most immediately obvious characteristic of a free market anarchy (from the perspective of a reader) is that there aren't any around. In order to make a free market anarchy (or anything really) plausible, you have to ask yourself two things: why are there no such things in our world and what would be a few things that could plausibly change about our world that would make it more likely and more plausible for such societies to exist and survive? Perhaps you decide it's the issue of enforcement of contracts, or the issue of punishing the powerful who do wrong. Either way, something could happen that could turn what appears to be a near-insurmountable problem today into a trivial problem tomorrow. Given mankind's history, the most likely solution is technology. The problem with technology is that it tends to have cascading effects. Sure, you invented Y to solve X, but now that Y is here, Z is trivially simple. So you must be careful about your Deux-ex-technologia 

Note: To the untrained eye, it might look like there are 2 questions above, but I actually care about the entepreneur's profit margin, so it's really just one question... 

This means you can just have a set of navigational charts, assuming your captains have moderately accurate clocks. If it is Huesday, Vapril 4th around the first orbit of Sony, Mario Island will be at ($MY$45$i$35°☊60°$\omega$39°) moving with a speed of ($MY$0$i$5"☊6"$\omega$0.3") over the next Sony orbit. 

Imagine we're in a world where massive, outrageous amounts of energy are available at our fingertips. Perhaps one of those crazy cold fusion ideas panned out, or we eventually built ourselves a --partial-- Dyson sphere of glittering solar panels around the Sun. It matters not how. Now, one of the characters living in this setting (let's call her Young Alice) has a summer cottage. And she thinks the view from her porch would be a lot better with some minor landscaping, such as moving (or perhaps just wiping out) a series of mountain peaks in the distance. What sort of technology would be required to be able to literally dismantle mountains with a labor force of 0$^*$? * well, technically $\lim_{x \to 0}x$, since she has to think it at least. 

Ah, but emotionally as a flesh-based mammal with no history of backups, syncs or restores, the concept that you are fundamentally just data makes you uneasy. Who cares that ghost-in-the-machine dualism was disproved centuries ago? We just did not evolve this way. Think about it: you would never trust that impostor to be you. As the real you lays dying it a futuristic battlefield somewhere, it is in bed with your significant other, touching them, leering over them. All the while perhaps lacking internal subjective existence, a zombie with your memories. The horror. Your savanna-trained flesh mind recoils in fear and disgust. That thing cannot possibly be you! No. We cannot have that. Two versions of me? At the same time. Impossibru. (or its flesh-brain equivalent) The patient AI doctor sighs (we get these nut cases every day), and suggests a different approach. Instead, we follow this path: Step 1. Using a complicated machine, we replace just 1 neuron of your brain with a synthetic equivalent, copying its connections and ability to reshape, generate new and prune its existing dendrites as well as accept new connections from other living or synthetic neurons. This should be fine, after all we lose thousands of neurons (without replacement!) every day and never even notice. Step 2. Take some time, maybe even a few days, if feeling particularly antsy. Once you are satisfied that you still have your own subjective experiences and all, and that you are still you, you replace a second neuron. ... Step 85,999,999,999. Once you are satisfied that you are still you and still have your own subjective experiences and all, and that you are still you, you replace a the second to last neuron. Step 86,000,000,000. Replace the last neuron. Congratulations! You are now synthetic and the possibility of longer durability (since outright immortality is ruled out by the laws of our universe) is within your reach. You can now back up your self and reload states, store those or memories in nonperishable form. No longer will you die like the creatures of flesh that are less then you are, no longer will worms and bugs feast on your flesh, but instead you may rise above them and become the master of your own destiny. If you feel the urge to duplicate yourself now, you may, although for consciousnesses that begin in the flesh, there usually is a certain irrational reluctance and some minor issues & changes that need to be sorted/ironed out to enable a true sync process, such as tearing out your outdated dorsal spinocerebellar tract (you don't need it do you?) and replacing it with something more appropriate for controlling multiple avatars.