Note that both bacteria are shown to have some effect in this very small sample study. However, the one strain showing an effect here is not particularly known to be very effective either (Development of intestinal microflora and occurrence of diarrhoea in sucking foals: effects of Bacillus cereus var. toyoi supplementation: We conclude that the supplementation of B. cereus var. toyoi had no effect on the occurrence of diarrhoea and health status in the foals.) They followed this up with the detailed speculation on possible mechanisms: 

Simply estimating the caloric intake seems, for example by just counting bites and swallows, no less precise than these products. But wait a minute there is more: Scaling up Dietary Data for Decision-Making in Low-Income Countries: New Technological Frontiers (Advances in Nutrition, 2017): 

Assuming that at the time it would be almost appropriate to guess that roughly as many people present understood the English parts as well the Latin bit: Yes, it is perfectly possible that the lack of (language) context might have lead to the interpretation of jelly donut. But this would be a really clueless minority. 

But for the actual claim about the effectivness: There seems to be conflicting evidence out there: "Expert" opinions on effectiveness One Simple Trick that will Transform your hair, According to a top Hair Stylist: 

The authors and editors of Samuel and Chronicles did not aim to record history, but to promote David's reign as inevitable and desirable, and for this reason there is little about David that is concrete and undisputed. Summing up the relatively current views of theology oriented scholars and historians, between "no historical David at all" and almost maximal "full historical account": 

Since tar-based products contain a significant amount of known carcinogenic substances, the following has to be added: 

How were wheat cultivars bred? For what did breeders select? Was the nutritional value monitored, cared for, or ignored, or even systematically reduced? 

Less psychology, however, is involved when looking directly at the processing of words in the brain on a neurological level. There seems to be a certain selectivity for alcohol's effects: 

So they do have a technology that claims to measure blood glucose concentration and that while being non-invasive. No more blood pricking. Yay. Quite an achievement! That alone should be a godsend to all those insulin users out there. Seriously, very seriously: Why not bring that fantastic technology to the market as soon as the patent is granted? That tech is needed! (And others already pointed that out.) A Series of Doubts: Amidst all the PR in the above document we find the first part of the answer: 

Xanax, or Alprazolam is covered under U.S. Patent 3,987,052, which was filed on 29 October 1969, granted on 19 October 1976, and expired in September 1993. Market prices for this drug do not reflect recent development costs. If the situations in Europe and America are compared, correlations between anything like manufactures, developers or researcher and market prices of drugs are very hard to find. –– But a big correlation exists in how the local government policy plays out: Olivier J. Wouters & Panos G. Kanavos & Martin Mckee: "Comparing Generic Drug Markets in Europe and the United States: Prices, Volumes, and Spending", The Milbank Quarterly, Volume95, Issue3, September 2017, Pages 554-601, $URL$ 

This is a bit difficult to answer. One thing is clear. It was not Churchill studying the map the night before the operation Dynamo started then deciding this all alone on his own. Responsible for the whole operation was Vice-Admiral Ramsay. 

Update, solely necessitated by some comments, please excuse the length; can be skipped, since the above should be sufficient, if read thoroughly, for the two claims called into question: Since it was criticised in comments, apparently with some unfounded popularity: not all scholars agreed on the legal status of Germany or whether it ceased to exist, continued transformed or was founded anew, twice or thrice after the war. Just claiming the opposite is simply erroneous. There were several theories on how to view this matter, naturally also differing in emphasis between the West and the Eastern bloc. The West tending to assume continuation, the East favouring complete downfall. Please consider that each of the following theories had a number of adherents, rendering the shouting "all scholars" from the comments quite oblivious to history: 

and as such the newspaper is accurate. This is only moderately surprising, since the effects of alcohol are not always in a linear dose-response pattern. Regarding speech effects alone, there are some prior studies going into the same direction: 

Doing a review of previous research, on the range of possible effects of okra, it becomes apparent: First identification of α-glucosidase inhibitors from okra (Abelmoschus esculentus) seeds: 

A short, small study with little controls. As a first exploration this might do. For a "medicine" that is thousands of years old this will not do. The scientific quality of the evidence presented here is absolutely abysmal. And the quality of the publishing venues is not considered in this verdict. In vitro studies might show interesting results, like Antioxidant and Antimicrobial Activities of Cow Urine and Cow Urine Concentrate: A potent agent with Antimicrobial and Anthelmintic activity. But in almost every case the authors state that they are rooted in the tradition and wanted to prove the value of a traditional treatment option. They very often jump to conclusions that have no scientific or even logic basis: "a boon to cancer patients"? As a traditional treatment option this juicy medicine might also be applied to treat eye/vision problems. Judging the efficacy with just the alternative medicine adage of "who heals is right" it has to be said that cow urine does not seem to help very much: 

Whether he really injected himself with living bacteria, with inactivated/dead bacteria or whether he only ingested them: 

Yes. It can be. Mold is a known aeroallergen. Gastroesophageal reflux disease and eosinophilic esophagitis are closely linked: Chris A. Liacouras & Jonathan E. Markowitz: "Eosinophilic Esophagitis", Humana Press: New York, 2011, p253: 

One possible explanation is of course that that low doses of alcohol loosen the tongue in general and make it easier for foreign language learners to shed their inhibitions resulting from worries about correct pronunciation – or put simply: to stop overthinking it. 

These lies are used, as the great philosopher DJ Trump once said: "to get away with murder." Let's look at the developer centres in a what if scenario: The claim is based on implicit assumptions and indirect implications: that almost all the innovation comes from US based firms and that they throw the money at the problem of development. This overlooks gracefully that amount spent is not equal to either efficiency or effectivity in conducting research. It also overlooks gracefully that drugs from non-US companies are also often more expensive in the US than elsewhere. And it assumes that all the money going round in the US for research is the greatest amount anywhere. Is that the case? Let's ask some investors: 

(Stating the appeal was succesful because the exact wording was calling for a single scientific publication. Translation: "As a result, the appeal, in so far as it is admissible, is successful in any event, since the criterion of the claim to prove the existence of the measles virus by 'one scientific publication' has not been fulfilled by the applicant.") The Stuttgart judges commentating the ruling publicly : 

for milder cases the evaporation point is low enough to provide a cooling sensation, directly counteracting the "burn"-part of the condition (higher than using water/wet towels alone). the moisture might sooth dried out skin that will otherwise or is already cracking for slightly more severe cases it will also limit the growth of bacterial infections that might profit from such a situation a small direct reduction in pain might be difficult to be observed from the vinegar alone 

It should be noted that the movie presenting this claim not overly concerned with historically accurate details in general, and that the little ships did not play really such an important role in the evacuation itself, but in boosting morale (Nicholas Harman: "Dunkirk: The Necessary Myth", Coronet: London 1990). 

The whole substance is thought of as miracle drug –– in some regions and belief systems –– that is said to fight almost all diseases at once, 

tl;dr It's accurate, credible and in line with much of the work done in this field. Only one caveat in regard to the phrasing of the question and the parts cited: this is only objectively true for low doses of alcohol. With high doses of alcohol the objectively improved performance starts to diminish, only the subjective improvement remains – for a while. 

That life guards apparently in Hawaii do not shower compared to surfers according to this argument seems like a bit of a stretch. The original research article that seems to be used there appears to be "Low Vitamin D Status despite Abundant Sun Exposure" N. Binkley; R. Novotny; D. Krueger; T. Kawahara; Y. G. Daida ... The Journal of Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism, Volume 92, Issue 6, 1 June 2007, Pages 2130–2135, $URL$ In there neither showering nor washing are mentioned. What is mentioned: 

There are some studies in scientific journals that seem to indicate some qualities of bovine urine that may point into the therapeutic direction: 

Conclusion: The CIA apparently tried to get mobsters hired, successfully, paid good money on their operatives and even the originally mentioned Shaban Jafary got his share in money and street action. If the original question asks specifically for the actions and instructions this man had on 19th August then his role behind bars must be considered rather limited. Mobsters like Shaban Jafary did get money from covert operations intended to instigate a coup. Whether that played a significant role as they might have needed that money as self-motivation – or whether they handed most of it over for bribes and financing the coup otherwise – remains undecided.