I think quantum mechanics provides a pretty good counter-example: a qubit in an in-between state when resolved has a 50% chance of resolving in one direction and 50% chance of resolving in the other. Both can happen, but only one does. 

The example of Russell's Teapot has been brought up: the thought experiment is of course a great example of how (1) the burden of proof of a claim ought to be on the one proving it and not the one making the negative claim and (2) given that one side has offered an argument, it is then begging the question to dismiss it because the claim is impossible. 

From reading the paragraph after, it seems that Zoology is not a good guide here for being. Based on the line you quoted, a genus specifically refers to something that "predicates univocally." When something "is predicated univocally," there's an "IS A" relationship between the things of which it is predicated: 

I don't know enough about Wittgenstein, but this statement (1) requires a citation and (2) inexplicably offers the non-sequitur "or it might refer to the fact that biological life is essential..." which would mean that the question isn't meaningless. 

Approach #2 seems more common today - most people try to take their lead from data and extrapolate from that - atheists say that we have been given no evidence for anything beyond this, so that's the end of the story. Most religious groups believe that God, through revelation, has given us the needed data that supports belief in something beyond. In any case, the question itself seems useful, but depending on your perspective it might be less (for atheists) or more (for religious people) interesting. 

Positivists and utilitarians seem that they would both reject any argument that appeals to personal experience, looking only at the external results of an action to figure if something is good or not Plato (see The Republic, Gold Souls, vs. others) and Aristotle (Book 1 of Politics: the necessity of the governing class, heads of household) both argued that while some are well-suited innately for having a good sense of morality/virtues, others are not, and it is the job of the ruling class (composed of those who are to ensure a moral/virtuous state. 

I don't think it is necessarily relativism. The way I've heard this discussed before is that the virtue of Prudence mediates between two desirable things that are in conflict - this is something that all ethical frameworks must deal with. A specific example I've heard: (this is from a talk by Robert Barron, can't claim credit) 

Whether he counts as a philosopher proper or a scholar of philosophy, one important philosopher (in some sense) is Bishop Robert Barron. Bishop Barron is an interesting example of a "21st century philosopher" in that (1) he has formal training in philosophy at the PhD level, and (2) much of his work disseminating his take on things has taken place via YouTube videos, meaning he is a 21st century philosopher in medium as well as chronologically. I also happen to like Peter Kreeft, and he is at least prolific as an author. 

Not sure if there's any philosophers that have written on this subject itself, as opposed to knowing things in general. Practically, Phillip Armour wrote an article about the levels of ignorance: 

Your question really has two parts: (1) what can we know about metaphysics? (2) given what we can know, how can that stuff be useful? 

Reading the full text from Discours de la Methode, it's not clear that Descartes is claiming that the self generates thought or that thought generates self (or that the direction of which causes the other is what's important). What he is claiming is that because there is thought, there must be a subject doing the thinking. 

To take one example, consider the virtue of courage. Aristotle describes in 1116a and 1116b of Nicomachean Ethics (as just two examples), several examples of courageous and uncourageous behavior, frequently quoting Homer for his examples. One of the roles that Homer played in Ancient Greece was providing a large part of the canon for such examples. (Other examples of virtuous behavior also would have been taken from history, but as in their day as in ours would be subject to partisan bias.) This also would have been needed because there was a view that was expressed by Herodotus and by Aristotle: 

The first level of ignorance is what people normally refer to. Rumsfeld referred to the second level: there were questions that he didn't know the answer to because he didn't know the question in the first place. 

In a recent episode of EconTalk, Robert Frank (in the transcript as "Guest") gives this insight into economic-behavior problems: 

To the more general problem, there are cases where people all face the same (or very similar) incentives to not act for the general good, and this leads to bad behavior. See the Tragedy of the Commons for different ways of thinking about this problem. There are three problems with the particular problem of voting: The marginal utility of voting/not-voting in your argument is implicitly uniform. Instead, consider what happens as there are fewer people vote: the marginal benefit of voting is actually quite high (one individual vote is more likely to have an impact on the outcoming). So, as fewer people vote, there is increased incentive for more people to vote - this is the opposite of what happens in the tragedy of the commons, where as more people fail to act for the common good, incentives increase to act against the common good. The argument also assumes that the utility is uniform across members of society, but the utility of voting that we observe is actually very different across people (eg: people who are retired are more likely to vote, people with strong affiliation to a particular candidate or party are more likely to vote, etc.). Voting is also (mostly) independent - the decision of one person to vote seems to have a small impact on whether others vote (at least, in comparison to the analogous action in the Tragedy of the Commons). Taking these together, there are stronger arguments for the ethics of voting than "what-if-no-one-did-it" type arguments. 

Political word problems. See Radical Math as an example of an organization that promotes this sort of thing. (Personally, I'm skeptical that this is a good idea.) Acceptance into the Mathematics profession. See this paper for one take. Women such as Sophie Germain are a rarity in math history, and she was only able to have success by bucking societal expectations for women. (I think understanding this history and changing the gender-imbalance situation that persists is a noble endeavor.) How to do math "correctly." Not political in the sense of government politics, but political in the sense of it being a person-to-person issue more than a did-I-do-my-addition-properly issue. This comes up more often in statistics where the "right answer" is harder to verify. One example is the debate between Bayesian and non-Bayesian approaches to statistics. 

To conclude, it seems a tenable position, but not definitive. In any case, the authors of the New Testament have written what he was supposed to have said, and either one finds it legitimate or not, and therefore lives accordingly or not. I cannot see considering Jesus a philosopher adding or removing legitimacy to that for anyone. 

An obvious example of an ethical system that measures things by "goodness" and not just good or bad is utilitarianism. In Utilitarianism, it is understood that all actions have costs and benefits and it is ethical to choose the thing that maximizes overall difference. In many other traditions have an the notion of prudence, and define it as a practical application of the rules of absolute right and wrong you refer to. Christian philosophers continue to view it in this light, although the philosophical underpinnings go back to Cicero and even Aristotle. Then to answer your question, it is not only reasonable to expect an ethical system for help in making decisions, but is probably more common than not, since cost/benefit tradeoffs or prudence make their way into many ethical systems. 

The earliest I could find that particular quote is in Essai sur les définitions géométriques by Joseph Florentin Bonnel. He ascribes it to Leibniz in the work Nouveaux Essais sur l'entendement humain (New Essays on Human Learning). However, looking at the two complete copies I could find, I did not see anything quite resembling the quote you provided. Unless someone can do better, seems fair to say that Bonnel came up with the wording based on a paraphrase of Leibniz's work. 

I'm sure there are many out there that will disagree with all this, but hopefully this establishes that there is a rational, well-thought out tradition that expresses that (1) beauty is objective (and not subjective) and (2) it is not a coincidence that beauty and truth are both considered objective in that tradition. I haven't read the book you mention, so I am not sure if I have the full context. I will assume that he means "attractiveness" as the same as "beauty." It has long been part of the Christian tradition to lay down criteria for "objective beauty." Father Robert Barron has a good lecture summarizing why beauty is objective in the Christian (specifically Catholic) tradition. Most of his argument ultimately comes from Acquinas (summarized here, originally here): 

Then, it seems that there are situations where the death penalty is just, but once someone is captured those situations are rare. We shouldn't administer the death penalty for the sake of killing someone, instead we should first have a (just) goal for which the death penalty is the only option to achieve it. What things a group punishes with the death penalty will therefore depend on, for example, how capable the authorities are at retaining prisoners. 

So, we have to be careful: to ask about psychological explanations assumes the idea is false. To take your question then about the Pagan religion: assuming (for the sake of argument) that the Pagan religion is not correct, is it right to say that it grew out of a fear of death or a desire to create morality in society? 

During World War II, all of American society was mobilized toward one particular goal. Bureaucrats saw this and asked themselves if we could use the same efforts aimed at destruction pointed at other, more noble, targets. (Need to dig up a citation.) So, it has been common in America to speak of any societal mobilization as a "War on something" in the post World War II years, even without a formal declaration of War. On the other hand, the War on Terror actually is, in some sense, a violent struggle, even if not a formally declared war. However, the formal declaration of war relies on a nation state. Some of the premise for the War on Terror is that there are parts of the world where, although there is an official border, no nation-state effectively controls the area, such as along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border. I would disagree that it is simply an international police-action. That is one component of it (soldiers coming and acting as a police force), but a police force is not something that takes control of an area in the first place. 

Rather than putting some one on the defensive, it allows the other person a chance to make a sound argument. 

I think the Wikipedia article covers the arguments for this pretty well: 1) Since we are used to thinking about a material world, we can imagine a creature that builds things and lifts things. But, as Aquinas argued, God is not a creature but "being" itself, to think in terms of God's abilities as a creature doesn't make sense. 2) It also doesn't make sense to speak about something as omnipotent as something that is capable of creating logical contradictions. 3) As CS Lewis wrote, this idea is grammatical but non-sense. As someone who does believe in an omnipotent being, this supposed-paradox comes across as argumentative. There are much better arguments against the existence of such a being.