According to Sheldon Brown's site, there are 1987 Peugot Versailles with 23.8mm seatposts (and I have heard of other french bikes with 23.8 mm seatposts, so it is probable that you've measured correctly). The measurement should be done with calipers or a seat post measuring tool, though. One solution I've heard of is buying a 24 mm seatpost and sanding it down until you shave off 0.1 mm. Another is starting with a smaller seatpost (bmx for ex.) and trying to shim it in somehow (coke can or whatever). Of course this is all ymmv, but its quite difficult to find 23.8 mm seatposts. I'd probably just get the 23.4 mm one and hope for the best. 

The ideal gas law (which is a good approximation in this case) says PV=nRT where P is pressure, V is volume, n is mols of gas, R is the ideal gas law constant, and T is temperature in Kelvin. Thus, solving for n, we see n = (PV)/(RT). Then, assuming air is made up of {gas1, gas2,...} with fractions {p1,p2,...} (so p1+p2+...=1) and corresponding molar masses {m1,m2,...}, the mass of air in a tire is (PV/(RT))(p1*m1+p2*m2+...). So, what we see is that the mass of air in a tire is directly proportional to the volume of the tire and directly proportional to the pressure in the tire, and inversely proportional to the temperature of the air in the tire. We will make the following (reasonable) assumptions: Assume the temperature is around room temperature (293 Kelvin) and the volume of the tire regardless of pressure is the same (primarily determined by the shape of the rubber, assuming not severely under/over inflated). For convenience, air is about {nitrogen, oxygen} with {p1,p2}= {0.8,0.2} and molar masses {28 g/mol,32 g/mol}. Thus, under these assumptions (V is fixed, and T is fixed), the mass of the air in tire grows linearly with pressure. So, the mass of air in a tire of volume V and pressure P and temperature T is about (PV/RT)(0.8*28+0.2*32) grams. It may be better to write it as "P ((V/(RT)) (0.8*28+0.2*32)) grams" noting that V/(RT) is a constant for us. Since I don't want to put the units into wolfram alpha carefully, you can put in the entry "(7 bar* 10 gallons)/(ideal gas constant*293 Kelvin)*(0.8*28+0.2*32)" and read the result off in grams (ignoring the unit it says there) to get an estimate for the weight of air in a 7 bar (~100 psi), 10 gallon volume tire as around 313 grams. Is 10 gallons reasonable? No. Lets be crude about estimating the volume of a tube using a torus. The volume of a torus is V=(pi*r^2)(2*pi*R) where R is the major radius and r is the minor radius. Google will calculate it for you (and has a picture of what major and minor radius is). I can't be bothered to actually go outside and measure these things, but lets be crude and use a massive tire. Say the minor radius is 2 inches, and the major radius is 15 inches (this is probably larger the size of the tire on something like a Surly Moonlander). This has a volume of about 5 gallons. If you were a nutcase and running this at 7 bar, it would be around 150 grams of air. At a more reasonable 1 bar or 2 bar, youd be at 45 or 90 grams. What about a thin road bike tire? Lets also assume the major radius is around 15 inches, and the minor radius is around a half inch. Thats around 0.3 gallons of volume. Plugging into our formula, at 7 bar, we see that this is about 9 grams. At 10 bar, a whopping 13.5 grams. 

On a derailleur bike, its easier to see this. Let the gear ratio be the # of teeth in the front chainring divided by the # of teeth on the rear cassette. Higher gears have higher gear ratio, lower gears have lower gear ratio (so if you keep whats in the front fixed, smaller cogs in the back correspond to higher gearing). Lower gears will be easier to pedal than higher ones. Usually, these are numbered on the shifter the same way you would have on a car/motorcycle (1 is low gear, the big cog in the back, 2 is the second biggest, etc.). But nobody's really stopping you from numbering them in the opposite way. You have an internal gear hub, so you can't see it, but the lower gears will be the easiest ones to start from. 

A derailleur (or pulley-type chain tensioner) can't be used with coaster brakes. You also have vertical dropouts, so if you want to run something without a derailleur, you need an eccentric hub (which I don't think exists with a coaster brake -- the only one I'm aware of is the White Industries Eno) or eccentric bottom bracket (Phil Wood makes some). You can't just shorten the chain. You'll also need a new wheel on top of that (or at least a new hub) so that you can have a coaster brake. All in all, putting a coaster brake on a bike like this is not a good idea. As for the bike being any good as is, that's in the eye of the beholder; it looks like it was a decent bike when it came out, so assuming everything is in working order it'd make a great commuter, for example. If you really want a coaster brake, sell the bike and get a frame with horizontal dropouts. 

They may have been stored improperly (e.g. near a heater/source of ozone) or been old when you bought them. Also, if you wash your bike, you might be washing away some of the protectants in the tire from the manufacturer. That being said, this wear does happen relatively quickly depending on the conditions. In any case, tire cracks are not a big deal -- they don't affect the structural quality of a bicycle tire significantly. Replace the tire when you get punctures (which will likely happen before the cracks in the sidewalls and stuff become a problem) or you have structural damage (e.g. bulges in the sidewall). You can use armor all or something to help prevent cracks though. 

Frame size doesn't really matter. 11-32 does make a substantial difference; remember its the ratio of the front gear to the rear gear that matters. Your lowest gear will be 12.5% lower. Also, you'll get a wider (and likely more useful) spacing in gearing between changes. You will need a new chain as well, but it should be fine to install. Putting a bigger cassette on is a good starting point. Of course, you have to shift appropriately -- if you're running 50/11 all the time, you're going to be tired regardless of what the biggest cog is. A 11 small cog is not very useful all the time. Finally, "extremely steep" has a different meaning to everyone and their abilities (and the type of biking they're doing). For example, a touring bike in the mountains might be using a chainring in the 20's of teeth and some huge cassette to get the gearing needed to comfortably ride up the mountains. Most racing bikes aren't really built with that kind of riding in mind remotely. 

but after 5-10 miles they become uncomfortable. It takes a while to get used to a new saddle. You may want to start with a cruiser saddle and once you're used to it, measure your sitbones and get a normal saddle if you're riding longer distances. 2) You should really get smooth tires -- you'll go a bit faster, the road noise will be lower and you'll be able to corner more confidently so you'll probably end up riding more efficiently (and more). The knobby's also don't wear well on roads. And you're more likely to get a better tire pressure and performance balance with a smooth tire. I doubt the extra resistance from the knobs is going to do anything significant for the rate you build stamina -- you need to ride more to build more stamina (or do something smart, like high intensity interval training). As for choosing a higher gear, be careful -- you may overload your joints if you do it too much. The reason gears exist is so that we can transfer power more efficiently. Its not just intensity, but time as well. And learning when to use what gear is a useful skill to have.