Mercury's surface was not mapped up-close until Mariner 10 passed by in 1974. This was followed by MESSENGER in 2008. I have seen several attempts of mapping Mars that came before space exploration, such as Schiaparelli's maps from 1877. With regards to Mercury, were there any documented attempts to map its surface with ground-based observations prior to unmanned space exploration? If so, however unlikely, did any observed features from Earth match up with Mariner or MESSENGER close-ups? 

When it was 5700km from Earth, the Rosetta spacecraft was misidentified briefly as an asteroid as it flew by Earth for a gravity assist. I cannot find any more information on other spacecraft observed without radio from further away (I'm happy to be corrected!). If landers count; as mentioned in the comments, spacecraft orbiting Mars have observed their lander brethren on the surface. 

Neutron stars do indeed shine and some like this one have been observed in visible light. Like white dwarf stars, if they were scaled up to be the size of the Sun, they would outshine the Sun and most other stars in the galaxy. It is only their small size that make them hard to observe. As for neutrinos, it seems they do too. This link might help explain neutrino activity in / from neutron stars further. 

Some of this might stray into WorldBuilding StackExchange territory, and 'when' will be tough to approximate as galactic rotation and stars going through different phases of their lives can make constellations and reference points obsolete with time. As StephenG mentioned, pulsars, owing to their (usually) unchanging and detectable rotation periods, can be used as reference points. The plaques attached to Pioneer 10 and 11 provide the solar system's location relative to nearby pulsars. Pulsar coordinates were also added to the Voyager Golden Album too. The alternative would be to adopt relatively fixed locations on your 'local' celestial sphere and determine your position relative to them, and therefore where your destination is. This assumes you know where your destination is relative to your reference points. The galactic core's location, the direction of galactic rotation, the Magellanic Clouds or other extra-galactic sources could be your reference points. They would hardly be accurate but if you are attempting a Voyager-esque journey through the Milky Way, it's a start. 

Ignoring inclination and by simplifying the orbits into Kepler's ellipses, you still couldn't determine left and right because the relation would be relative to a 360 degree plane, like hands on a clock. Using this simplified approach, the Perihelion, the Sun, the center of the ellipse, the other Foci and the Aphelion are all in a straight line along the major axis. The Sun and the Perihelion point in the same direction relative to the "fixed" stars. 

Yes, but only trace amounts. The Solar wind is 92% hydrogen and 8% helium. Source. Very close to the universal average ratio. Solar particles are so hot that when they're ejected from the sun the electrons and atomic nuclei are largely separated so you get a stream of charged particles, electrons and protons being the most common and Alpha Particles (Helium Nuclei) 3rd. This means that any planets with a magnetic field, those particles get caught in planet's magnetic field. That's why a magnetic field is considered very important in preserving a planet's atmosphere. Some of the captured solar wind particles would probably get deposited into the Planet's atmosphere over time but I'm not clear on that process and I don't know the percentages. Getting back to the Sun, it has about 2% "heavy" elements in it, see article, and by "heavy" I mean, Oxygen, Carbon, Neon, others, but gravity draws the heavier elements towards the center of the sun. Also, the helium the sun creates is largely formed near the center of the sun, so the outer parts where the solar wind gets ejected has a more standard/universal balance of about 92% hydrogen by element. 

Honestly, I hadn't heard the term 'zero age main sequence' until this question came along. The Wikipedia page you linked mentions the zero age term and provides a link to an explanation. Zero Age Main Sequence refers more to a specific point in a star's life. When determining the age of a star, astronomers will sometimes start counting from when it joins the main sequence (so it would be 'zero years old' when it does so). Before this time in this case, the object would be considered a protostar. 

I don't know what could cause Upsilon Scorpii to appear red as it is not noted as being a highly variable star. It's spectral type is B2, which implies it would be blue/white in colour. If you know the spectral type of a star, which many stellar databases will note, you can work out its colour from this. 

It seems Walter Baade and Fritz Zwicky may have coined the term in 1934 (see here) and the name stuck around. I've known some astronomers to label them 'stellar remnants' for the reason you gave; they are not stars in the sense they do not produce energy via nuclear fusion, and that they are not made entirely of neutrons as the name would suggest. They seem to be called stars for lack of another layman's term (from our point of view on Earth, not all neutron stars are pulsars), and that they still share some characteristics of stars: they emit their own light, they have masses greater than the Sun and can even have planets orbiting them. 

I agree with David Hammen. Hyperphysics is mostly a very good site but they dropped the ball on that page IMHO. Hope you don't mind a partially speculative answer, but here goes: 

Technically, black holes don't burp it's the material that falls into a black hole, as it gets tightly squeezed and under enormous spiral and magnetic forces it shoots out gamma rays at the poles perpendicular to the accretion disk. More details here. The super-massive black hole (not holes as there's just one) in the center of the milky way isn't currently "burping" but the next time it eats a star it's expected to "burp" again. I remember reading that this may happen sometime in the next 10,000 years or so, but I couldn't find the article just now. "Burping" or Jets of material are more active when galaxies are young. The quasars observed by large telescope operate in that way. 

The problem here is, you can't see the beam. You see light as it's pointed towards you, you can't see a light beam in space (even if it's visible light). You can see a beam not pointed at you in the atmosphere because of reflection off dust and water molecules in the air. (see little picture) 

Jupiter's fast rotation and tidal forces would suggest that it's moons should move away from it similar to our Moon moving away from Earth, but a cloud of orbiting debris tends to slow moon's orbits and cause them to fall into the planet. Jupiter's powerful magnetic field and rapidly moving charged particles may also have an effect, the combination is too hard for me to say whether Io is moving inwards our outwards, there's too many moving parts and even an estimate of how those forces combine is above my pay-grade. 

I believe the two biggest things that determine whether or not a ring system forms into a moon depends on are the parent planet's Roche Limit and whether or not there are other moons that can disrupt the ring. The roche limit of a planet is how close a large body can orbit the planet without being torn apart by the planet's gravitational pull. The article I've referenced can show how this is calculated. Small moons like Jupiter's Metis can orbit within the roche limit as they are so small, the difference between the tidal forces acting on their near and far sides is not large enough to tug the moon apart. The presence of other moons - or in the case of stellar disks, other planets - will play a large role. Like this article explains about our asteroid belt, the gravitational perturbations of Jupiter prevented a planet forming between it and Mars. Smaller bodies cannot easily gather together when a beast like Jupiter swings by to scatter them all! This also means though that most asteroids within the belt are confined between Mars and Jupiter. Around Saturn's F ring, there are two small moons that slow down / speed up debris within the ring so that it remains gathered in a small space. This does keep rings and disks stable, but it also stops larger bodies forming. Long story short; if the disk if far enough away from its parent, and nothing else large is orbiting nearby, you should get a moon / planet. If it's too close to the parent and being shepherded by another large body, it's more likely to remain a stable disk. 

Just to add some detail to the above. If you set the 21st of March and September as the equinox dates, which is mostly not done, but still occasionally, and, also, not astrology but more, cultural, so probably not worth mentioning, but by the 21st or 22nd dates, then there's some shifting. As others have said, the date and time shifts, the sun passing over the equinox point always happens, every year, pretty close to March and Sept 21. Variation on the specific date and time changes not just because of orbital cycles but also, time-zones and leap-years. see here. on the Milankovich cycles Changes in the Earth's eccentricity cycle affects the inequality of length of the 4 seasons. For now, Winter lasts 88.99 days, Spring, 92.75 days, Summer, 93.66 days and fall 89.85 days. A year remains pretty much constant at 365.242 days but the length of the seasons varies slowly over the periods of two Milankovich cycles, eccentricity and axial precession. The eccentricity cycle is the most inconsistent of the Milankovich cycles, having periods of 95,000, 125,000 and 400,000 years and it won't peak for another 150,000 or 200,000 years or so. See chart. As a curious sidebar, the lengths of the months are somewhat adjusted to match this seasonal variation. Spring and Summer both have 2 months with 31 days. Winter has 2 but also 28 day February. Fall has only 1 month with 31 days. The Axial precession cycle that you asked about, the 25,771 year cycle, often abbreviated to 26,000, right now it's closely lined up so that if lands only a couple weeks off the winter solstice. In 13,000 years or so it will line up near the summer solstice. This means, 13,000 years from now, winter will be the longest season and summer the shortest. The Spring Equinox will "spring forward" a few days and the fall equinox will fall back a few days. This happens gradually, not all at once, but in 13,000 years, we might see the Spring equinox around March 25-27 and the fall around September 16-18, as a ballpark guess. This variation will be even more pronounced as the Earth's eccentricity grows. which right now it's not, but in 180,000 or 200,000 years, there's a chance, we'll get spring equinox in April. (Not making a guarantee, just saying there's a chance). But as others have said, the equinoxes will always line up perfectly with the structures, in as much as the structures are correctly built. But the dates when they line up will change, over Milankovich time, then change back. Tried to clean that up and remove the earlier errors. 

Mercury's surface was virtually unknown until Mariner 10 flew by and Venus is covered in clouds. Of the terrestrial planets, that leaves Mars. It was likely Christiaan Huygens in November 1659 who first realised Mars was rotating when he tried to map it. His estimate of roughly 24 hours was fairly close. I believe Galileo's earlier observations on Jupiter were with a telescope not powerful enough to resolve smaller 'surface' features (like the Great Red Spot), which may have either proven that Jupiter rotates, or at least that something on the surface is moving across it. 

To terraform Mars, broadly speaking would make it more like an analogy of Earth. As you say, it might be a little colder, but we would expect a terraformed Mars to have oceans, snow and maybe some imported plant life. How would Mars look from Earth? A good starting point would be to see it the opposite way around. Here is how Earth looks from Mars. Like Earth from a distance, a terraformed Mars would likely appear as a pale blue or white dot. If you want more snow or ice than water, it would surely lean towards white rather than a deep blue. 

My understanding is that there is a gravitationally stable region between the Sun and Mercury where asteroids could - in theory - orbit for long periods without being perturbed. However these hypothetical vulcanoids are seemingly non-existent; it being likely that their orbits decay through other means besides the influence of a planet, such as the Yarkovsky effect. We also have trojan asteroids, which share the orbits of planets such as Jupiter but spend their time in the leading and trailing Lagrange Points, keeping their orbits stable. If a Hot Jupiter such as 51 Pegasi b were to host trojan asteroids, would their proximity to the planet allow their orbits to remain stable for longer, or would their orbits decay regardless? If a Hot Jupiter migrated inwards towards its star, is it more likely to have swept away any possible trojans?