a) Devs don't need to interact with customers or other businesses. In my experience, the more rigid the company structure, the more mediocre the devs. While much of development is nuts and bolts, it is also a creative problem solving process that requires people be at their sharpest. It's also an unpredictable deadline driven process that results in very, very late hours at times. A side-effect of this is that devs often get the "creative" treatment. In a 30 person company it shouldn't be hard to insist people be adults about employees that need to be at their sharpest when present and are likely to ultimately put a lot more hours in over the course of a year than a 9-5er that's usually packing their things at 4:55 p.m. every day. b) In a company of 30, you should not be having so many meetings that this becomes a problem. Not counting things like sprint meetings or other bi-monthly planning sessions, tying your devs down for more than 30 minutes every day in meetings is an absurd, grossly incompetent waste of money. Likewise with general communication. 30 people means you walk over to the other guy and talk to him. In flex time scenarios it is reasonable to set a span of time where everybody is in the office at the same time. I can't think of a good reason for that span to be more than 3-4 hours of the work day and why it shouldn't be as close to the middle of the day as possible. 

You have somebody working under you. Imagine if she disappeared on a day you really needed her to handle a bunch of lesser busy work that would distract you from what you needed to get done. If you truly have too much on your plate, it's on you to tell people that the amount of short-notice rapid-turnaround work you've been handed is putting all of these critical deadlines at risk and could everybody please get together and sort out what the priorities are so you can focus on the truly time-sensitive tasks first. It also sounds like you're at odds with the culture, however. I may be reading too much into it but I gather that you've been at odds with at least some managers for a while now based on this: 

If not, why mess with a good thing? It's not their job to communicate with the other concerns at the company. It's yours. In a sane management structure, your accountability is to your immediate manager and the people you manage, not the sour grapes of other departments who have to be there at more typical hour for practical reasons. 

If you're not starving, don't ever apply for the job you don't really want. There's no point in applying to the intermediate role and the senior role because nobody who was confident of getting a senior role would do that, pretty much disqualifying you for the senior role. So go for the senior role. Odds are good that if they like you but find your knowledge-base a little lacking for what they had in mind that they'll ask you to consider the intermediate role. I'd be surprised given your answers on stack that you were desperate for work or that you'll make a fool of yourself at a senior level interview. The only way you might get consideration for both if you're not a good fit for one is to aim high. 

The only way I could see you negotiating for more would be after you're working in the job for several months to a year, but only if there's proper justification for it and assuming your probation period is done. Doing this during your probation period will likely just end with them showing you the door. For example, you approach your boss after 6-12 months of working at said job and make your case for a higher wage. This doesn't of course mean that you will get your higher wage, and very well could mean your boss says no. But when making your case bring up your work ethic, any special skills you have compared to other employees (additional programming languages you know that may help the company), something you've done for the company to save them money/make customers happier, etc. It also unfortunately depends on how your boss feels about you, if they disagree with your work ethic for example, and see you as a lazy employee they're less likely to give you a raise, or ask their boss(es) to give you one. If you have good rapport with your boss, it's more likely that they'll entertain the idea at the very least. Anything you can say that would reflect why you should get a 5k pay increase. TLDR; Ask boss about pay raise after having the job for 6-12 months, or more. 

I am updating my resume, and am debating putting the fundraising run I did back in the spring on as Volunteer Experience. I had raised some money for a cause and did the run, would this be something worth adding to a resume? 

The management at my company have been doing interviews to fill a few positions, I'm curious to know how the interviews are going, is it rude to ask one of the management about this? 

EDIT: djohnson has already mentioned what I've said below about the away status but I'll say it anyways to re-iterate. If you don't want to set up a new account, you could set your status to being 'Away' and write "At the office" in your personal message so your friends know not to bother you during that time. Also explain to your boss that he can still message you whilst you're on Away status and you'll specifically let him know if you're going to actually be away from your messenger, in a meeting for example. Also, why do you have people on your list that you don't want to talk to anymore? You should remove these people from your list so they're not an issue for you. 

As stated in the title, one of my coworkers is rarely in the office due to medical reasons. They do sometimes log on from home if they're feeling up to it, but their actual time spent in the office itself is maybe a third of the year. This coworker is also one of our support staff, and thus is somewhat important and it affects everyone else when he's absent. I can tell my manager is getting sick and tired of the situation and I know that firing this guy would be a slippery slope due to his condition. Is there potentially a reason in which this guy could be let go without it turning into a legal matter? I ask because it seems like a lot of my other coworkers are getting tired of this as well. But I realize this isn't really my business and is something my manager will have to take care of. My question is out of curiousity. 

But is your focus on Java, is my first question? There's a bajillion Java devs out there running around. Enough for people to believe they're going to find somebody in the piles of resumes on their desks that has Java experience going back to its origin and web experience back to its origin. And they will do silly things like cull resumes with single-property filtering schemes like StanfordOrStanfordEquivalent === true or "asked for a coffee when I offered one" But it sounds like you're getting past that and into the interviews you need to be in. Assuming you don't have a giant purple mohawk (That would actually be bonus points in my book), or you're not wearing a silly hat with a propeller on it (major bonus points) and maybe it's not overemphasis on getting those Java $s, it sounds like you're face-planting on something at the interviews so I'll ask the following: edit: good point. I'll number these. 

First of all, how likely is it that your efforts will lead to solving the problem. If the organization is: 

So.. what were the two of you doing in this isolated part of the building? Why was one of you (just one of you?) drunk at a time when it would be the company's business to care? More to the point, why did you feel it was important to point out that you "didn't touch her?" If some crazy lady in the street attacked me, I wouldn't tell the cop I didn't touch or offend her. I'd just tell him she attacked me. What happened here exactly? You were standing around in a broom closet by yourself doing nothing (model employee) and Suzy from accounting walked in, slammed 10 shots of tequila and then slapped you? You don't think management is going to want perhaps a little bit more detail than that? And will that detail paint your actions as an employee in a good light? And why am I, your manager, supposed to be anything but pissed at you right now for coming to me with this complete and obvious BS? Drunks don't slap people. Angry drunks slap people who through interacting with them, made them angry. So yes, you did offend her somehow. After all there was nobody else there to offend her so what I want to know, is what you want me to do about this problem other than decide both of you were engaged in highly unprofessional behavior and verify that by getting Suzy's side of the story before tossing one but more likely both of you out on your asses before one or both of you decide it's the company's fault for not protecting the two of you from each other. Unless of course the real story is just that you made a highly inappropriate and unwelcome advance on somebody at the company Christmas party, she got angry, and you're out for revenge for the slap. Then I'm just going to point out that you're a complete jackass in the most professional terms possible, and put a coded sticky note up reminding me to find a good excuse to fire you before the next company party because harassment suits bother me a lot more than you getting insult and assault twisted. If the story really is more like this: 

I will be applying for an open position within my company, this position is looking mostly for external candidates. Last time I applied and was interviewed for the position, the interview was understandably geared more towards external candidates. This time around I have an idea of making a Power Point presentation outlining to my boss (and possibly one of the executives if they're in the interview as well), why they should promote me into the position rather than look externally for someone. I know it's highly unorthodox to do something like that in an interview, and I feel like it would answer a lot of questions they would be asking me anyways, plus would highlight why looking externally isn't as great of an idea as they think. I also feel like it will just be geared towards external candidates again and there won't be a whole lot my boss can ask me anyways. Would a Power Point be too out there? Or should I just stick to the 'traditional' format of an interview and just answer what questions I can? 

I don't know how to go about doing this. About a month and a half ago we were asked what role we wanted within the company, I'm a developer and I chose Professional Services since up to this point that's basically what I've been doing is coding custom pages for clients, custom implementations, etc. I love it, it's what I went to school for, everything about coding is great (which is basically all they do over on the Research and Dev side of the company). I was also specifically told that I would still be a developer on the PS side of the company. Over the last couple of weeks I've been getting more and more support tickets coming my way as they wean one of the R & D guys off of support, I'll be the one that has to do client upgrades etc from what I've been told as well. It seems like my role is turning more from "Programmer/Analyst" to "Tier Two Support Analyst". This isn't what I want, I feel like I was sort of mislead (albeit not intentionally) or misunderstood what exactly my role would be. I was let go from my previous job, which was entirely support, because my support there was lacking, I'm really not suited to support. I don't want support to be jeopardizing my job with this company either, I am much better suited to coding. We're currently interviewing people to fill roles on both sides of the fence (R&D and PS), is there a way I can go about asking the management about them switching me over to R&D? I feel like it would disrupt some of their interview process by doing this however, what's the right way to go about this without stepping on too many toes? So to speak.