Both democracy (in its purer forms) as well as populism are ideologies involving a rule of the people by the people or representatives chosen/ selected by the people. 

There are several dimensions to consider. Pre-note: To fear consequence of losing or not gaining that which is valued by the self is a natural instinct. Even the sympathy-driven fear of certain others suffering consequences is natural enough. Firstly there is nature of the consequence itself. Is it threat of losing or not gaining that which one would consider a right or a privilege (a right to live versus the right to watch TV)? Secondly - the nature of the challenge set - whether such is cooperative or competitive (is the individual rewarded for personal proficiency or are multiple individuals assessed as a group or are multiple individuals assessed against each other?) Thirdly - Consent. Are the participants willing or forced? 

The two are colloquially interchangeable. But one could view the terms in various contexts and differentiate them accordingly. One potential way to categorize them, listed above, is by university department. I tend to believe that political philosophy more commonly refers to the underlying moral and ethical grounding behind political theory, whereas political theory comprises of both political philosophy and contemporary application where one has to take into account pragmatics. 

Perhaps, but not necessarily. I'm sure you've contemplated AI before (as we all have.) This intelligence would evidently not be biological in nature, so it more than likely would not have the five senses we commonly refer to, at least not as we conceptualize them. Yet, this machine would still be colloquially understood as conscious. We then might argue that this machine is not as "aware" as we are. Definitively conscious, but less aware. I hold the idea that consciousness operates on a spectrum- a spectrum of awareness. Consciousness then is merely a point by which we differentiate the "awake" from the less awake. Minor digression here: Often times people fall prey to the false doctrine of binary thinking. Take for example, the classification of psychopaths and non-psychopaths. Let's say that one percent of the population displays all the requisite traits that would constitute psychopathy (approximation here, though I've read the number is something close.) Lack of respective traits in the rest of the population does not follow as a corollary. That is rudimentary thinking. The same concept likely applies to consciousness. And while a machine can conceivably become conscious, the case will always remain that its perception is significantly different than that of our own. But all of this is purely speculation. 

From here i will use dependency on proposition to make us see a clear distinction for possible arrangement (easier then using syllogism). 

If this kind of relationship can be constructed nicely, it will be a mutual relationship to both. Both will gain assertions, corrections and possibilities wider and wider (applicable knowledge) than before, from both (philosophy and science), one to another. 

It's when philosophers having reasonable thinking but they will not be open minded. It's when philosophers will be open minded, but they don't have enough ability to think reasonably. 

Consequences Something has the rights asserts that something has ability to force. Domination in whatever degree. Without this, fulfilling the rights will be useless. That's why when we asked whether animals have rights? This confirms that the animal has the ability to impose what makes right. Coercion involving consequences. And we're going to get opposition from the animal, if we do not do the right for animals, is the arrival of natural law that comes to us in the form of extinction. And if this continues, this will bring the ecosystem imbalance. 

Why should one suppose that an omnipotent God necessarily has to be good? In the same way that a child might wish to build something up for the pleasure of breaking it, might it not be that God might have an interest in seeing such evils play out? What if an omnipotent God were to exist beyond what we would consider the remits of good and evil? What if an enlightened curiosity were instead to be unfolding? In fact, why should we not suppose that the universe is in fact one with such an omnipotent God? What if time and space were but of the fabric of God and that all sentient life forms are but vessels drifting through their short existences gathering the essence of experiences to once again become one with the Creator? If this last possible interpretation were to be close to the truth then perhaps the answer simply comes down to 'experience'. 

Interesting premise you've established. The question is deep, but so too is essentially every question posed on these forums. I've by no means fully articulated my thoughts on the matter, but I'll take a shot at it. Lives are valuable insofar as there are other lives around to symbiotically benefit. This is self-evident from an evolutionary perspective, though metaphysically the same concept applies. The original life that propagated had no inherent value, though this depends on what you refer to as "value." But as soon as that second amalgamation of genetic material came about, there served a purpose for the cooperation between the two (from an evolutionary perspective.) If we extrapolate that understanding onto metaphysics, we find that as long as human satisfaction is contingent on the prevalence of others, there too exists a value in having more than one of us around. Obviously there is some axiomatic logic with the case I make, namely: 

"Perceive to be" is a process, and "perceive that" indicates there is a fixed target (that) to be perceived (focused, to be felt). The points are: 

Asking something can be understood as: we need help to try to figure it out whether, what is questioned may be directed to the specific of something or not (maybe accomplished, may be fulfilled). 

If we are aware of something, then we perceive differences. When we are feeling of something, we are not perceiving differences, but we are focusing on something. For example, when we are thinking, we need to aware of something, we need to perceive differences to make a better comparison. When we are drinking, there is less thinking activity here, there is mostly no perceive differences, but there is mostly focusing to feel what we drink. We need to perceive differences to keep something (for example, hold the glass), but mostly we do focus when drinking (to taste something). Since perceiving slower time, fastest time and make a comparison, those are related to perceiving differences. Therefore our present are as long as we are focusing on something. The more we can focus on something, the more we stay within present. But once we perceive differences (we are not focusing on something), then our present become past and we experience new present as long as we can maintain our focus on something. 

You will find persons who live variants of both these lifestyles (catering for one's own happiness vs. catering for others' happiness). If one were to think of the self in terms of finite resources while taking the use of these resources to attribute benefit to the target (whether self or others) then one would face a few scenarios: 

The driving forces of sympathy and desire can transcend human-made rules and principles - and may take their place in their absence. A human being stripped of religion and philosophy is left with desires. Desires can be constant in their presence and they can also be impulsive in their intensity. Desires are self-centric and fan outwards. Independently of moral strictures the self will tend to benefit the non-self in gratification of the self. This is amplified in a context where the non-self is either inherently attractive to the self or where the assistance of the non-self may be of benefit for the self (selfish altruism). (A few classic examples. A male going out of his way to assist a female in distress (a flat tyre for instance). A restaurateur going out of his way to please a table of clearly affluent guests. The acts provide personal satisfaction and/or improve the odds of gaining the favour of the person(s) in question. The human being is a social being. To gain the approval of one's peers one will at times contradict principles that one holds to be true and/ or desirable. Perhaps halfheartedly, perhaps not. Perhaps driven by fear of rejection or ridicule. Perhaps driven by a greater trust. Humans, particularly those of a more mature age or inclination, are more at home with the familiar - with stability - and this is where consistency can be practiced as a means of satisfying this desire. However you will find that even those who live by consistency will at least desire to make exceptions. (An example of such is a person who may consistently advocate a particular penalty for a particular transgression - but who desires to make an exception for a familiar person - in such cases it may be desirable to review the proposed penalty in question if it be so harsh that one would not feel at peace to apply it universally) 

Our domination within boundaries is strongly dependence to our ego. Each time our ego is being threatened, then our domination is being threatened. And our ego have ability to push ourselves to dominate as far our own available functions (potential) that can be realized without obstacle. If our ego are being threatened and this threat restricts our ego to release our functions as human, then ourselves will try to find something better to support our functions as human. If our ego was failed to dominate, further our Id will not be satisfied, and we need another chance (freedom) to fulfill our needs There must be better synchronizing in between our functionality as human and something to support ourselves. Without this, our domination will be threatened easily, and our ego will be threatened, further our freedom (to fulfill our needs) will be restricted.