Anything is possible but this strikes me as unlikely. An intern is expected to have a rather steep learning curve. The intern has to learn about the company, the business, the company's systems and processes, plus whatever project(s) you hope the intern can work on, etc. It is hard enough to come up with a project that an intern can come in for 3 months and make reasonable progress on if they are working full time. Part time is going to mean that it will take much more time to come up to speed and will drastically reduce what the intern might accomplish. Plus, if you are planning to freelance on the side and to visit a boyfriend, the company is realistically going to worry about where your priorities will be, how you'll juggle competing deadlines, etc. Companies generally don't like regular employees to moonlight, they're going to be even less enthusiastic about interns doing so. December through February is a rather poor time to have an intern. Lots of people are going to be out of the office for significant parts of December and January for the holidays. That makes scheduling much harder and further reduces what an intern might accomplish. Getting work visas is a lot of work for the company. Doing that work in order to get, say, 12 20 hour weeks of work from an intern or 240 total hours (less if you plan on taking time off for Christmas or New Year) would grossly inefficient. You'd spend a tremendous amount of time for management and HR to complete the paperwork for a relatively minor return. Finally, companies run good internship programs not just because they hope that the interns will do something useful but because it's a way of recruiting. Hiring an intern that doesn't even live in the country would be an issue. Companies that run internships are also going to structure their programs around the schedules of local universities so they can get a number of interns at the same time and save costs by doing things like holding a "Welcome to Acme" class for 30 interns rather than 1. Your summer break probably doesn't line up well with the host country's university system so you'd likely be asking them to have a single intern and get none of the cost savings of having intern classes. 

In general, you should be listing skills that are relevant to the jobs that you're applying for and that you're happy to answer questions about in an interview. Listing things that you used for a couple of months as part of a class and things that aren't relevant to the jobs you are applying for will do far more harm than good. If you have a giant list of tools that mixes together the relevant and the irrelevant, it's going to be much harder for someone reviewing your resume to figure out which of the relevant skills you have. A "kitchen sink" approach that lists everything you ever touched also makes it difficult to figure out which tools you used once as part of a class years ago and which you have extensive experience with. If you list a skill, you should be prepared to answer questions about it in an interview. If you list things that you aren't reasonably experienced with, that's going to lead people to ask lots of "tell me about your experience with X" where your answer is going to be a disappointment. Beyond that, if you list random technologies on your resume, you're likely to spend the rest of your life fielding inquiries from recruiters about jobs using that skill. They're going to do a keyword search for some random obscure framework, your resume is going to come up, and they're not going to dig a lot deeper. Keeping the set of skills you show reasonably narrow at least keeps the spam relatively well targeted. All that said, if you are describing a prior position, include the technologies in the description even if those technologies aren't particularly relevant to you today. If two or three jobs ago you were writing a bunch of code in Foo, mention that in your resume. But if Foo is no longer relevant to jobs you'd want to have, leave it off your skills section. 

Unless your company has a ridiculously poor onboarding process, the obvious questions should already be taken care of. Someone will undoubtedly meet you on your first day and will show you to your desk, give you some paperwork to fill out for taxes and benefits, give you information about accessing the systems, and whatever else the company needs to give you. Realistically, the questions you're going to need to ask are things that the company failed to think about when putting together the onboarding process. It is unlikely that these are things you are going to think of in advance because they are invariably very specific to the organization and to the role. If you are a software developer, for example, there is a decent chance the the documentation on how to configure your development environment won't be 100% clear and you'll need to ask someone to clarify or that an account hasn't been set up in some system that you need to access yet. 

Assuming it is not trivial (if it's 5 minutes of work, it's likely easier to just do it as a courtesy), there should be a process in your company for assigning and prioritizing work. And that process almost certainly does not involve random managers picking a random employee and assigning work to that employee. If there isn't a project management system in place to give employees a queue of tasks to work on, the easiest option is to forward the email to your manager and ask your manager how he or she would like you to handle it. Something along the lines of 

It's not uncommon for employers to want to know what your salary expectations are before investing too much time on the interviewing process. It does no one any good if they have a budget of x for the position but you wouldn't consider anything less than 2*x. If salary discussions wait until everyone has invested multiple hours interviewing, that's potentially a significant waste of effort. It's perfectly reasonable to express your expectations in a range if you don't want to give a single value and to include caveats about the expected range of benefits. If you don't want to give a number, you could turn the question around and ask what the salary range for the position is. That accomplishes the same goal of ensuring that you're not wasting each other's time but it gives you a bit more leverage in negotiations. Any calls you have about job opportunities should be handled away from your desk and away from your current coworkers. There is no benefit to broadcasting to the world that you're looking for a new position. 

The question is terribly broad. Are there cases where a company pulls an offer immediately? Sure. Is that common? No. There was a bit of an internet kerfluffle about a year ago when an offer to a candidate for an assistant professor position was pulled when the candidate sent back a counteroffer. Quite a few people weighed in on whether the counteroffer was appropriate, whether the college was being unreasonable, whether it was an indictment of discriminatory attitudes in the hiring process or whether it was just an isolated case of a poorly handled negotiation. Now, is it likely that your counteroffer is going to lead to your offer getting pulled? No. The more reasonable and realistic your request, the less likely it is. If your counteroffer asks for a salary that is way above what this company usually pays for the position and you ask for a number of perks that people in that position don't generally get, you may cause the company to pull the offer figuring that you're too far apart to make negotiation worth it (and that you're unlikely to be happy with whatever is agreed to meaning that you'll leave very quickly). If you ask for a small increase to the offered salary or some small additional perks, you may not get them but it's unlikely that the offer is going to be pulled. 

This is almost certainly something that is specific to your company. There is a good chance that it is specified in your employment contract or in the Employee's Handbook you were given on your first day. If not, it's something that you should ask your manager about to understand how your company handles this sort of thing. Most of the time, companies prefer that things get rounded though they'll often differ about what they round to. If your time is billable, there are probably additional wrinkles where you always round up to a specified increment when counting up your billable hours. The company might, for example, bill your time in 15 minute increments with a minimum charge of 1 hour. So if a customer calls for support and you fix the problem in 5 minutes, the company might still bill for a full hour to deal with the time spent getting back up to speed with whatever you were doing and to prevent customers from regularly calling in with trivial issues. Another company might bill actual time. Yet another might record time in 30 minute intervals with no minimum. Even if your time is not billable, different companies have different policies because they're collecting data for different reasons. If the company just really cares that their salaried employees are generally putting in 40 hours a week, they probably want you to round off your time. Most companies aren't going to care about a few minutes here or there in that case. But that doesn't mean that your company isn't the odd-ball that is a stickler for exact accounting and wants to dock your time off if you only work 7 hours 55 minutes one day. 

No. It's perfectly fine to invest in competitors. It would only be in exceptionally unusual circumstances that it would be an issue. If you bought, say, 5% of the shares of B, that would likely create an issue. If you used insider knowledge of A to buy or sell shares in B or C, that could be an issue. Undoubtedly, you can come up with a few other corner cases but those would be highly dependent on localized circumstances. I've never heard of a company that asked (normal) new hires about their existing positions or that would ask someone to sell stock before their start date. Unless your country has a particular law that prevents that, I suppose a company could ask you to exit the position as a condition of employment. I certainly wouldn't worry that you'll actually come across such an offer until you're applying for CEO positions. 

If you leave a job without another job lined up, the problem is that future interviewers will assume/ suspect/ infer that if you weren't fired you were at least a poorly performing employee that was encouraged to leave. Different interviewers will make stronger or weaker assumptions, of course. In the United States (your profile doesn't say where you work), this is generally made worse by the fact that former employers are often loathe to provide any sort of reference (positive or negative) other than the dates you were employed and your title. So unless your interviewer happens to have a personal relationship with someone at your former employer that knows about your performance, it's hard for them to know whether you were really on the path to being fired or not. Of course, it's certainly possible for you to rebut this presumption during the interview process. There is a good chance that you'd be asked why you left your first job and you'd need to be able to give a convincing explanation. Taking a step back, it seems odd that you'd need to do a significant amount of studying for interviews certainly not so much that it becomes a burden. I get that you might want to brush up on some algorithms that you haven't used since you graduated or refresh your memory on a framework that you haven't used in a few months. But, presumably, that's something that you need to do once during the job search process not something that you need to do before every interview. It's useful to do some research on each company before an interview but there is little reason for that to be onerous. Unless you're being interviewed for a senior management position, it's generally more than enough to understand the general line of business the company is in and a bit about the challenges and opportunities they face in order to be able to ask good questions at the interview. That generally shouldn't require more than a bit of leisurely reading the night before. As for scheduling, that's what vacation time is for. Is it likely that if you take off 1 day a week every week for a while that folks will infer that you're probably interviewing elsewhere? Sure. But if you're prepared to quit, that's probably not a terrible thing. If you're being somewhat selective about the positions that you do full-day interviews for (that is, you're only doing them for positions you reasonably think you would accept if you were offered and that you reasonably think you're qualified for) and you're getting interviews once a week, it probably won't be long before you get an offer. It's not like companies bring dozens of people in for all-day interviews. 

In what context is this conversation occurring? If a recruiter calls you up, you chat for a bit, and establish that you probably don't have enough experience to be a good match, it would be perfectly reasonable to ask whether there are other open positions that you might be qualified for. If you've had a couple interviews and the feedback is that they like you but they're going with someone that has more experience, it's perfectly reasonable to ask if there are other open positions you might be a fit for. One more than one occasion, I've been involved in interview processes where we asked a candidate we liked if they were open to being considered for other positions that we had open. On the other hand, it would be rather odd to contact someone solely to find out if they have other positions open. Presumably, if you are finding a position that looks interesting but that you are not qualified for, you can use that same source to look for yourself to see whether there might be a better fit available. If you're looking at the company's web site, for example, it would be very odd if they had other positions that weren't posted there. If you're looking on Monster or Dice or a job board like that, it would be odd if there were other similar positions available that weren't posted on that board. 

There are risks to taking a job that you intend to stay at only a short time. You'd need to determine whether those risks are acceptable to you. 

Unless you have some specific reason to not want to meet with these executives (one of them made an inappropriate remark in your first interview or you're related to them in some way), don't ask a company to change who is going to be conducting your interview. If the company wants these executives to meet with you, they have some reason. Executives are busy people that are not generally in the business of finding excuses to have discussions with job applicants. Perhaps they didn't get a chance to drill very deeply in the first round, perhaps they realized after the interview that they wanted to ask some followup questions of a few candidates in order to narrow down the selection, perhaps they do all interviews for a particular type of position. If you ask to replace them, it's going to be a serious negative mark against you. If your real concern is that you want to meet more people before you accept an offer, that's a potentially reasonable request to make at the point that there is an offer or that the company is talking about an offer. If at that point you haven't met with someone who you're going to be interacting with and having that meeting is important to your decision about whether to accept the offer, you can certainly make the request at that time. If you find out that you're going to be working closely with the Director of Widget Marketing and you don't meet with that person during the interview process, it's reasonable to ask to have a conversation with her before you accept the job. 

So long as the reference is able to talk about attributes that you demonstrated at the prior job that are relevant to the new job, it would still be a good reference. For example, your supervisor from summer camp can talk about your punctuality, your interpersonal skills, your creative problem solving, your drive, and other "soft" skills that are potentially important for the position you're applying for. Since you're still in contact with this person, it would generally be useful to let them know that you're applying for a job where you've listed them as a reference and to tell the reference what sorts of skills you would like them to highlight. Your reference will generally provide a more helpful reference if you can prime them by connecting the dots of the experience they're familiar with to the skills the new employer is looking for. If the people running the computer lab emphasize the need to work effectively with difficult/ panic-stricken users (i.e. "Can you write my C program for me?" or "Ahhhh, the paper I've been working on for the past 12 hours is gone, my life is over!"), it would be helpful if you have primed your reference to recall how you were able to manage demanding parents and frightened kids. Otherwise, the sorts of things your reference emphasizes may not be the sorts of things that the new employer cares about. Ideally, of course, you would have a reference that can speak both to these "soft" skills and the "hard" IT skills you would need for the position. But it's likely to be pretty common for this to be the first job many students have, or at least the first IT-related job they have, so this is likely to be a relatively common problem. It's unlikely to be much, if an, of a disadvantage for you. Of course, that assumes that the university even bothers to contact your references. My wager is that most won't bother.