A seismic measurement, listens really close to the reflection from the subsurface. However, it's a little noisy. "Stacking" is recording the same place over and over, then adding it up to cancel out random noise and enhance coherent signal. However, just doing it in the same area would be very inefficient, therefore we change the acquisition over the point we illuminate, in the picture you see that we have a nice fan of ray geometries going to the same point in the middle, the Common MidPoint CMP. This leads some interesting behaviour. Normal Moveout this is the formulation to calculate how a record from a different angle can be shifted to be in line with another record for the aforementioned stacking. As you can imagine the records that have longer ray paths take longer, depending on the velocity of the rock they travel through. This shift down-ward is namen Normal MoveOut (NMO). The equation above is an approximation, but it's good enough for this explanation, check out the book for more info on this. Post-Stack vs. Pre-Stack A seismic acquisition over a 2D area is named 3D seismic, because X-Y-T (recording time). The data, repeated over the same point in X-Y as mentioned above will have several record with the same T and a different "offset" between the source and the receiver. That means, 3D seismic data coming fresh out of the field will be four-dimensional. This is called pre-stack. Once we do a lot of data preconditioning and filtering and a smarter version of the CMP stacking above, we get 3D seismic that is actually three-dimensional. Stacking versus Migration Stacked data will have all kinds of weird wave effects in it. Usually geologists will work on "migrated" data. A migration aims to find the "true" location of a reflector, reversing wave effects. I suspect you might get this one. Time versus Dpeth You may have wondered from before about X-Y-T. T stands for time not depth, that is because our data is measured in recording time and most geophysicists will work in time. Most likely the migration even is done in time and you get a X-Y-T cube. However, depth-conversion does happen, but it depends on a accurate time-depth relationship. People tend not to trust these too much. Caveat: A depth migration does not have to result in a X-Y-Z cube that you get. Practical Advice As a practical guide, you may want to start at the EBCDIC header. Was your data processed? Stacked? Migrated? Do you have a T-cube or Z-cube? Familiarize yourself with the binary header and a couple trace headers. What are the extents of your data? Etc. Machine Learning Most machine learning is done in proprietary code. The only open source code I know of in seismic deep learning is MalenoV. However, loading a full 3D seismic into RAM will not always be possible. Loading it into the GPU RAM will seldomly be possible. This is the first place, where you are free to come up with a smart solution. Bonus Here is a list of Free Geophysics Software and an awesome list of open geoscience. These aren't exhaustive, but a good start. 

Yes. In addition to triggering natural earthquakes, (as pointed out by @hichris123) Mines can also be sources of artificial seismic activities due to mine collapses and/or explosives. Miners will generally try their best to keep their mine shaft stable, but their methods aren't 100% accurate. Sometimes mining in an unstable area or with the lack of support to a mine will cause the shaft to collapse, killing anyone still in it. When this happens, there can be a chance that an earthquake could be felt from a nearby town or city. 

Even though only half of the water cycle is explained in my first paragraph, the other half is not needed to answer the question. If you wish to learn more about the water cycle, please visit this link. So to answer your question, a little bit of precipitation is from the atmosphere, but most of it is from water that has been evaporated from bodies of water nearby. And in the scenario you've mentioned, the moisture most likely came from the Atlantic Ocean. 

...and probably several more. But many times such an occurrence is typical, and often happen; such as oceanic earthquakes and hurricanes causing tsunamis; However, some of them are less likely to happen; such as the 'firenado'. A great example of a scenario you're asking to see is Hurricane Sandy's effects on North America. Sandy was known to be one of the worst hurricanes ever recorded; damagewise, costwise, and wave height (what you wanted to hear :D). It has been recorded on CNN (the link added goes to the CNN article on Sandy) that its wave heights reached 32.5 feet (roughly 9.9 meters) in height. So in conclusion; occurrences like this happen, and some of them are typically known to occur in some the circumstances listed above. (Information on Hurricane Sandy was grabbed from CNN) (Information on the scenarios listed above were grabbed from google) 

There are unusual cases with no (or only) organic matter, or with so little iron that iron oxides don't give color, in which case we see the underlying minerals, which can also have varying redox states. 

There are two main problems that "wear out" soil, and people working on this deal with both of them. A soil might be low in organic matter and nitrogen, perhaps because all the crops were sold away and the topsoil eroded off. This would also happen on a new sandbank, or where a landslide had revealed a lot of subsoil. Naturally what happens is that the site is colonized by "primary succession" plants that are good at surviving there. These plants photosynthesize carbon compounds, and have bacteriological associates that fix nitrogen out of the atmosphere. The plants and bacteria live and die and leave detritus that slowly turns into richer soil, and somewhat more complex "secondary succession" plants move in. Reclamation agriculture or reforestry helps this along, and agroforestry tries to forestall soil loss by growing trees instead of arable crops. But C and N are not all that plants and bacteria are made of -- just about everything else, eg P and K and Mg and Ca, comes from the geological parent material of the soil. When as anions and cations these elements are being traded and fought over by plants and microbes, they are soluble, and over time they will weather out of the soil. Over geological time they weather out of the underlying rock, which is the problem in the oldest parts of the Earth, and then it's difficult for even primary succession plants to grow. Hawaii is a beautiful natural laboratory for this, as the islands are made of the same lava but are of very different ages. The classic work on this is by Vitousek; here's an open access paper following up on it: Primary Succession on a Hawaiian Dryland Chronosequence. There's a ecology-economy group trying to fix this problem in Haiti. Haiti has exported so much, for historical reasons, that their soil is terrible and they have to import a lot of food although they were recently a very NPP-productive place. SOIL works on designing and introducing composting toilets so that the elements imported as food are incorporated into agricultural soil instead of running off (causing public health and fisheries problems as they go!). It's a very nice virtuous-circle, though it takes a lot of work to keep it going.