You might be lifting more in the bicep curl, but curl strength doesn't necessarily translate to pull-up strength. (Of the two, I'd say that pull-ups, being a compound exercise more applicable to real-life tasks, would be the better metric of strength overall. My understanding is that they use more of the back, abs, and shoulder girdle.) In light of your update, this also means that it's likely that you adapted to pull-ups with a specific grip. It's not the bar. It's you. Henry Rollins brings the truth in this domain with his essay, Iron and the Soul: 

I would pick one. Either gain weight and stop running so much, or keep running and give up trying to gain weight. If you eat gobs and gobs of food you might be able to sustain a slow rate of gain--a pound a month sounds fine--but why would you expect significant mass gains if you're undermining them three times a week? I might even back off to three days of weight training instead of four. Many mass gain protocols involve a lot less activity (just short, intense, heavy lifting) and a lot more rest and eating. 

(Reynolds and Halsmer are referencing my above quote from Marfleet.) It seems to me that if that greater number of shoulder injuries is from more laying out, then they could be from either side or back landings. Unfortunately I did not find definitive answers in my mini-literature review, but yes, injuries do occur from laying out, and proper technique can help prevent those injuries. 

If you can go harder by "running" rather than "jumping" then you should do that. Anything that you can do for 1 to 2 minutes isn't "all out". You need to find a way to go all-out, 100%, in that 25 seconds. Messing with the edges of the protocol--5 seconds less rest or more work effort--isn't going to solve this central issue. Increase or decrease the stationary bike resistance until you find the sweet spot where you can go all-out. If you absolutely can't go all-out on a bike, then try some other exercise where you are certain that you can't go any faster or get any more reps in. Maybe that's running, maybe it's air squats, maybe it's punching a heavy bag. Or, switch to a different protocol that understands that you won't be going at 100%. The Gibala Regimen sounds fine. But also consider non-biking modes of exercise: sport-specific abilities can actually interfere with improving your cardio. If it's metabolic conditioning you want (even it it's conditioning for biking), and you can't sufficiently challenge yourself with biking, then bodyweight or dumbbell high-intensity intervals could better help you hit maximum cardio intensity. 

Will one lose the weight if one stops drinking GOMAD? Yes and no. People who trade lifting 3x/week and GOMAD for 20 hours of TV a week and eating bags of potato chips will keep the weight and lose the muscle. If you keep lifting but stop the GOMAD, you'll either keep the weight or lose some of the fat. If you stop lifting and take up sprinting, you'll drop the weight really fast. Gaining 60% lean mass and 40% fat, for someone who wants to be strong, is not the worst thing. It can be easily corrected through diet and exercise, particularly since the body has only recently put the weight on and is not accustomed to maintaining it. If you're concerned with looking pretty all the time, GOMAD is not for you. I've heard LeanGains might be effective, but it certainly doesn't mix well with Starting Strength. Personally, 20 of the 25 pounds I gained from SS+GOMAD went away when I stopped GOMAD and started eating normally. I kept lifting, but with much less weight. I started running 1 or 2 times a week. It took between two weeks and a month to lose the weight. The 5 pounds that stayed was muscle. I don't understand your 4th question, but the gist of GOMAD is this: if you squat HEAVY three times a week, you need to eat a lot of food. 5000 calories or more is recommended. Meat, eggs, vegetables and milk are all great. Candy and soda are not ideal. One of the easiest, simplest, most straightforward ways to make sure you get enough food (including protein) is to eat three big meals and supplement it with a gallon of milk. If you don't like what it does to your digestive system, how it makes you look, or how it tastes, just stop and lose the weight. 

As is, you're making a lot of changes to parts of the program that have nothing to do with your stated desires for customization. Many seem both arbitrary or misguided: why 5 pound increases if you're already stalling? Why StrongLift's ABA/BAB instead of Greyskull's ABA? Why curls if your goal is strength? Why not alternate Bench/OHP every day like Greyskull recommends? If you have reasons, state them, because right now these look like messing with things just for the sake of messing with things. Why are you fiddling with these knobs when you know the issue is elsewhere? 

Note that step 4 could very well have been replaced or supplemented with 185x5. So, because I literally don't know what percent those warm-up sets were of my work sets, I'll calculate them now: 

If your depth is fine and the knee cave is moderate then don't worry about it. Maybe stay for a few extra sessions at this weight so you feel more comfortable with it. But a little knee cave isn't too much to worry about if everything else is copacetic. If you deload then ten or twenty pounds and working back up is fine. 

The Corrected Science: "Walking Is Almost Never Enough" The recommendation above "has been revised by the scientists who first developed" it! The old advice was adopted by the World Health Organization and the US and UK governments. Now it appears that while it was technically correct, it failed as policy. 

This schedule separates the two big heavy lower-body-dominant exercises (squats and deadlifts) as well as the two dumbbell presses. You're still doing two pressing movements (dips and overhead press) on the same day, which is not ideal but should be fine. (Dips could be considered accessory work in contrast to the heavy overhead presses.) In this schedule, you're doing one Big Heavy exercise, one Heavy Press, one Upper-Body Pull, and one Supplemental exercise (dips and sit-ups). Note that I dropped the Pendlay rows, since you're already doing pull-ups out the wazoo. Further Research Practical Programming by Rippetoe and Kilgore has an intermediate split program, and discusses the relevant principles in detail. I'd buy a copy if I were you. 

Lots of programs are "scientifically based". That doesn't mean that looking for "scientifically based" programs is a good way to find a program that works well for you. Most quality, applicable strength and conditioning research is done with athletes, sports teams, and gyms--not generally in universities or by people who write their results up in a scientific journal. If you want the science anyway, start by reading Practical Programming by Rippetoe & Kilgore (or Andy Baker? the second author changes by edition). Supertraining is another scientific strength-and-conditioning powerhouse, and I like the enormous number of studies cited in detail in The Science of Sports Training by Tom Kurz. Your routine Let's critique your routine. Running 30 minutes consistently provides a consistent stimulus. Your body is probably used to this and isn't getting the same benefit as when you first started. Why not try fartleks, or sprints, or occasionally running longer? Alternating muscle groups is known as a "split" lifting program. Colloquially, it's a "bro-split", since it's so common among bodybuilding bros. It doesn't sound like you want to bodybuild, so why not try a whole-body routine, such as 5/3/1 or a Starting-Strength-like program of squats, deadlifts, pull-ups, and presses? In the literature, plyometrics are generally not recommended before achieving rather high levels of strength. I don't see the need for you to do them. As for stability muscle exercises, using free weight exercises like barbell squats, overhead presses, and so on should cover the bases. If you want to go further, look into Olympic lifting (snatch and clean-and-jerk). If what you mean instead is that you want to do joint prehab work in order to prevent injury, then yoga is a good choice, as is finding specific mobility and strength issues and addressing them directly. "Stability" work often devolves into useless silliness like curling while on a bosu ball--avoid this. 

"Is This Overtraining?" There is no general answer to this question. Overtraining is not dependent on a program, but rather on the relationship between the trainee, their program, their recovery ability, and outside stressors. For some people, walking an hour each day for two weeks would induce overtraining. Other people can log hundreds of miles a week for months on end. For some people, going from three lifting sessions a week (using a given program, with given weights, and so on) is the edge of their capability. Others are not challenged by less than six days a week of two trainings per day. The only answer to "is this program overtraining me" is to monitor the markers of overtraining, which are numerous and complex. They vary from resting heart rate, sleep patterns, and degree of lethargy all the way to blood analysis and bar-speed tracking. 

If you're overtraining or near overtraining, taking a rest week (or two, or three) often results in a performance increase. Since you've had issues with overtraining before, this may be the situation. Taking time off is not helpful in all situations but it can work. Many workout programs (for instance, 5/3/1) recommend a 'deload week' or a complete rest week every month or two. See discussion of one recent study on this topic. 

There is no bodyweight training program that matches your expectations. No bodyweight routine can match the results of a barbell routine, because barbell training is different than bodyweight training. 5x5 routines get the results they do, in the time they do, in the way they do, because they use barbells. 5x5 is Barbells and Bodyweight is Bodyweight You should find a bodyweight training program and start doing it. Don't worry about getting the perfect program right now, just get started with /r/bodyweightfitness or something from Ross Enamait or Building the Gymnastic Body or just start doing pull-ups and push-ups and sprints and squats. But if you want to do a 5x5 routine, then go to the gym and use their barbells, or buy a barbell and squat rack.