You can do it on any surface which will conform to the shape of your butt, like a piece of memory foam. Sit on it, with your knees higher than your seat by 4-6 inches, then measure the center of the depressions left. There are different types of memory foam, and some will have a more durable impression than others. 

The short answer is, "Find a dealer you trust." Whether what he told you is right or wrong, you clearly believe he is having you on. That will not result in a good relationship, no matter whether he is scamming you, or not. Most likely, he is either poorly educated on the cause of the spokes breaking, and is having difficulty explaining something to you in an effective manner, and is therefore making stuff up, or he is having you on. Either way, move on. 

That is unlikely. The inside of a frame is machined/molded to a specific size for the seat post. An integrated post is not finished internally. Also, it is unlikely that the internal and external diameters of the post/frame/clamp would match well enough to be ridden safely. Seat post fitting is a zero tolerance game, and they are dimension-ed to the tenth om millimeters. You would have to be beyond lucky for that to work out. 

Saddle setback is a fixed position for each rider. It is necessary to place the saddle in the position which places your knee in alignment with the pedal spindle, when at the correct saddle height. Arbitrarily changing the saddle setback can interfere with a proper fit. You should set your saddle height, then fore/aft position to align your knee correctly, then choose a stem length that makes the saddle position reasonably comfortable. If the 20mm setback post is necessary to align your knee, then, yes, you may need to subtract that extra distance from your stem. But that will leave you with a very short stem in this case, which will affect how the bike handles. I would expect that if that change is necessary, you are on the wrong frame size. 

If they are both friction shift sets, there is no conversion necessary. Just new cables, and placing the new shifters on the bar before routing the new cables. Difficulty might be finding good quality friction shifters to begin with, but there's nothing complicated about the changeover. 

Usually, for a MTB hard tail, a 26 x 1.25 tire is the narrowest comfortable tire to ride. It is narrow enough to provide significant benefit to speed and rolling resistance, but not so narrow as to increase the probability of flats and rim damage. The continental tires you linked are a good choice. I would probably do the 26 x 1.3 version of that tire. 

This sounds like a stiff or separated link in your chain. There are other options, but this would be easy to eliminate, and a likely cause. Get off the bike, and very slowly pedal backwards while looking at the chain as it passes through the rear derailleur. A stiff or broken link should jump as it goes through the derailleur. If the chain starts to come off the gears, check the chain at the point where is is coming off. Most likely, you will need to replace the chain. If the chain is new, the link where it was joined may be the issue. In that case gently flex the chain side to side (against the link plates, not in the direction they pivot) at that point and it may free the stiff link. If not, replace the chain, taking care to join the links more carefully this time. 

Brompton is certainly a well known name in the bike industry. As such, I have faith in their ability to produce a quality folder. The £129.99 bike uses a design which is sub-optimal for a folder, since a single failure point has the option for the bike to collapse into the folded or partly folded position. Which is not to say it will fail, only that it could, and there does not appear to be a safety. In addition, the components on the bike appear to be the very basic type whih I would expect to see on a kid's bike, as far as quality. Brompton may not have high end parts on this machine, but they appear to be at least ridable quality. Whether the difference is worth it, is a personal decision, but I would not consider the £129.99 bike safe to ride for me or mine. 

Look at the Scott SUB line. The prices vary depending on components, but you should be able to get an excellent road hybrid commuter for $500 approximately. (Keeping in mind than I'm in Dubai, and prices are not the same here.) On the SUB line, you would ride a XXL, FYI, assuming accurate height and inseam. Also, consider asking your wife if she would prefer to increase your budget now by $300 or so, or have you replace the bike due to either wear and tear, or changing necessities, in a year or so. Long term, buying a "cheap" bike is generally more expensive, if you ride it. And yes, both of those bikes would be better than the Diamondback, if not by as much as I'd like. 

Safety. The kickstand is usually a relatively cheap piece of metal, bolted on wherever it will fit. Its shape and style lend themselves to ending up in your wheel or otherwise damaging the bike, if they are not secured to the frame so they can't accidentally deploy themselves while riding a rougher trail. Weight. If I pay a ridiculously large amount of money to buy a light weight, high performance machine, the last thing I want to do is pay extra to make it heavier. So that does play a part, but I wouldn't say it was the key factor. No need for it. As you mentioned, most riders are perfectly comfortable dropping their bike on the ground wherever they pause for a minute or two, and dealing with cleaning and fixing any damage that may cause when they get home. 

Shimano says "No, it is not compatible". If you are using it personally, perhaps it would be worth trying, but it can't be sold as 11 speed compatible. 

While price is not the defining factor, there is no doubt that it is a key indicator of quality. List of Groupsets Below is a list of the three largest manufacturer's groupsets for Road and MTB applications. Each manufacturer's offering is arranged in descending price/quality. The number of sprockets of the cassette in each groupset is shown in brackets. The total number of gears is determined by this number multiplied by the number of chainrings, for example a bike that has a double chainring and a 10-speed cassette has 20 gears, although some of them overlap. Road: Shimano - 2009 Dura-Ace 7900 (10) Ultegra 6700 (10) 105 5700 (10) Tiagra (9) Sora (9) 2300 (8) Campagnolo - 2009 Super Record (11) Record (11) Chorus (11) Athena (11) - new for 2009. Centaur (10) Veloce (10) Older Campagnolo groupsets that were discontinued from 2009 are the lower-end: Mirage (10) Xenon (10) Campagnolo also offers 3 triple chainring offerings for steep hill-climbing: Comp Triple (10) Race Triple (10) Champ Triple (9) SRAM - 2010 In 2006, SRAM released two groupsets for racing bicycles, aimed at competing with Shimano and Campagnolo's offerings. The top SRAM groupsets are called 'Red' and 'Force', being the pro-level and amateur racing level lines, respectively. It is worth noting that SRAM has trickled down its technology at an accelerated rate to compete, and that each year production groupsets feature several upgrades, some years more than others. In 2010 SRAM have released a new groupset, Apex, which is aimed at a more casual level. Red (10) Force (10) Rival (10) Apex (10) MTB/General Shimano - 2011 XTR (10) Saint (9) Deore XT (9/10) Hone (9) SLX (9/10) Deore LX (9) Deore (9) Alivio (8/9) Acera (8) Altus (8) Tourney (8) SRAM XX (10) X0 (10) X9 (10) X7 (10) X5 (9/10) X4 (8/9) X3 (7) SRAM also offer parts under several different marques as they've slowly bought out several smaller, specialist bike part manufacturers. These include: Brake systems - Avid Cranksets - Truvativ Mountain Bike Suspension - Rock Shox SRAM are phasing out 3 ring front chainrings in their MTB range for a 2 front chainring, 10 sprocket rear cassette setup, commonly found on road bikes. Specialist There are some groupsets which are designed for a specific purpose (track cycling, downhill etc.). Some are just partial groupsets which are intended to be used with other groupsets. Shimano Dura-Ace Di2 7970 - (10) - electronic shifters and derailleurs intended to be used with regular Dura-Ace 7900 parts (cranks, cassette, chain, bottom bracket etc.) Shimano Dura-Ace (track) - (1) - Track bikes Campagnolo Pista - (1) - Track bikes Campagnolo Time Trial - (N/A) - Time Trial components with bar-end controls, chainrings with oversized toothing and super-light brake levers in composite material. Shimano Hone - (9) - Enduro and Freeride applications Shimano Saint - (9) - Downhill and heavy-duty applications The Shimano Nexus began as a internal hub only and has slowly grown into its own groupset including a higher end internal hub (Alfine, previously Nexus 'Redline'), chain, shifters, cranks, brakes and calipers. Shimano Alfine - (8) - Internal (planetary) hub gearing, hydraulic disc brakes or mechanical calipers Shimano Nexus - (8) - Internal (planetary) hub gearing, drum brakes or calipers [edit]See also This information was copied wholesale from the linked Wikipedia article.