First, this won't happen all at once, because it can't become a proven technology all at once. It would start with someone being frozen briefly while awaiting some treatment, then iteratively longer periods of freezing in cases of necessity. If the technology were introduced tomorrow, almost no one will say "freeze me for a hundred years" because until the first person survives being frozen for a hundred years and revived successfully afterwards no one can know that it will all turn out OK. So there will be plenty of time to work out the laws around this and have them tested in the courts with the edge cases before there are large numbers of people to deal with. Secondly, let's seriously examine who is going to do this. This is a really risky thing to do even in the unlikely event you have complete faith in the technology - you are gambling that the institution looking after your corpsicle and its entire surrounding social and technological infrastructure will survive undamaged for decades or centuries and will respect your rights and wishes at the far future time you wish to be revived. Other than any friends joining you in the icebox for an identical period you will be socially isolated and simultaneously dealing with a massive case of future shock from changes in technology and society. Finally, what use is your compound-interest wealth going to be to you in a society composed of uploaded personalities? Simply put, the most likely candidates for this process are aged and/or crippled citizens who are optimistically waiting for rejuvenation therapies to be invented. Given how much of the GDP this demographic requires in health care spending today and how little they contribute to the current GDP, governments are likely to provide incentives for these people to be frozen. Yes, these people will be a headache in lots of ways for some far future government, but that's going to be long after the next election. Or even the one after that. 

The horse breeders possess massive political influence. They outlaw powered vehicles except on dedicated routes - so railways are viable but not cars and trucks. This may be reinforced by a scare campaign based on historical records of the carnage on roads. (They may be donkeys or moose or huskies rather than horses, but the principle remains the same.) As @ Mark Olson answered, the lack of accessible oil makes it harder to develop a compact engine, limiting self-propelled vehicles to railway engines. This results in infrastructure development focussing on mass-transit railways for both long distance and internal city travel. By the time cars are possible, the cities don't have the road structure to support them as a viable alternative, all travel is planned around rail transport, cable cars, trams etc. The government wants to keep control of where people go. Automobiles and motorbikes are symbols of freedom, as they allow people to go where they will either alone or with a few companions. An authoritarian government with knowledge of its history will nip this in the bud by hindering their development, or ensuring that only large cargo-carrying vehicles are developed and keeping a tight control on the infrastructure for refuelling points. Which leads to the next point... Population numbers are insufficient to develop the infrastructure needed to support automobiles. It is taken for granted today, but it requires massive spending to develop and maintain the network of roads, fuel distribution points and vehicles that exist. Scale efficiencies let this work (very profitably) in our society, but for a scattered, poor society (there must be a reason why they've taken 1500 years to regain the technology base) it may not be possible to attract the initial investment. 

Tanks are heavy. Really heavy. You may think that your groceries take some lifting, but that's nothing compared to a tank. The M1A2 is listed as having a weight of 65 metric tons. In order to distribute that much weight over soft ground without sinking, all except the lightest tanks are supported on tracks that spread that weight out over a very large surface area. Take a look at a picture of a tank. Look at how much area its tracks cover - let's call it a third of its width and as long as the hull. (Yes, I'm approximating.) So for a tank 8m long by 3m wide, the tracks are distributing the weight over 8 square metres. Now imagine your spider tank of equivalent weight - in order to not sink, its weight must be distributed over "feet" that take up that much area. At all times. So let's say you have a six legged tank and two legs (one each side) are being lifted up at any moment as it "steps" forward, it means that the four remaining feet must be supporting the entire weight of the tank. This means that each "foot" must have a surface area of 2 square metres. Visualise this and you will see that your spider tank is wearing clown shoes! Then you need to add legs, and armour on those legs (since they are outside the hull and not protected by it) and a much more complicated drive system than a tracked tank's (which is quite complicated enough), all of which adds more weight so you need bigger feet to distribute that weight and legs and - forget it. A legged tank is not viable on earth any more than a man-sized spider is, and for much the same reasons relating to squared/cubed ratios. Low gravity worlds with very rugged terrain might make such vehicles feasible, but that's a separate question. 

It's the end of civilisation as we know it Assuming that everyone knew that this event was coming and exactly what the effects would be and exactly how long it would last, civilisation might be able to pick itself up afterwards. I really doubt it though. The planet simply cannot afford to basically have all of its infrastructure go on strike for a week. Lots of factories, foundries etc could not be restarted if they were completely shut down for 24 hours, let alone a week. Most large powerplants could not be restarted for a prolonged period even if the shutdown was known to be coming, so it would be much more than a week without electricity for the large majority of the population. In mild weather the critical effect is loss of water supply - over 70% of the US population live in urban areas, with only a small number having access to "natural", potable fresh water close to their residence. In hot weather the water supply issue is even more critical and compounds with the lack of air conditioning. In cold weather the lack of heating will kill people - people living in apartment blocks cannot just "start a fire", even assuming anyone can start a fire (see below). While you have not explained what the previous weekly occurrences have been, they do not seem conducive to a stable economy. I would suggest that the current 13% of the US population who live in poverty would have increased over the six months of unexplained events. These people have a hard time feeding themselves when everything is working "normally". In uncertain times when everyone who can afford to is stocking up on canned food and shotgun shells (even if the latter turn out to be useless) the poor will be struggling even more, they certainly will not have a reserve. Within 48 hours they will be fighting the "haves" to get food to feed themselves and their children, and given that the loss of tech means that almost everyone is down to using knives and clubs (or their mysterious superpowers) they are on an even footing. A quick note on the psychology here - people do not deal well with uncertainty. If the government has all of the facts and was able to tell people in advance what was happening, how long it would last and how they would be looked after once it is over - most people still will not be making rational decisions after a few days without food. Neither will the people who feel threatened by them. In short, lack of water, climate effects, and fighting for remaining food will probably kill 30%-70 of the urban population after the week (or two plus) before electricity can be restored to some areas, depending on time of year and associated weather. Disease will probably kill another 10-30% of the urban population over the next few weeks. However, the situation is actually worse than this... No combustion or chemical reactions Your responses to comments regarding the "no guns" limit appear to read as "no combustion". If my understanding of this is correct - that is, fires, fuel-driven power plants and fuel-driven vehicles are permanently inoperable - then there is no more modern transport or industry. Ever. It also means that except for the few solar BBQs around, there is no more cooking until/if the electricity is restored - this renders lots of food staples inedible. At this point the nationwide casualty rate within 3-4 weeks is going to be well over 90% and the technological basis of our civilisation is gone. The small stocks of electric cars etc will be utilised by the survivors, but without energetic processes available for manufacture they will not be replaceable. I have deliberately omitted examining the neutralisation of firearms because their absence has no effect on the long term picture. For the short term, loss of communications is a far more critical problem for law enforcement. The loss of firearms may be psychologically traumatic to Americans on both sides of the law, but there are both historic and current examples of police forces, such as the British, not issuing firearms to most officers. Edit One additional point - if a major nuclear power knows exactly what is coming, they have a never-to-be-repeated chance for a pre-emptive strike. Let's say country X knows its missiles will take 15 minutes to reach their targets in country Y and vice versa. If country X launches at 11:44:30 then their missiles will have time to reach their targets and detonate, but unless country Y can detect the missiles, assess and confirm the threat, make a decision to launch and get their birds in the air within 30 seconds, their missiles will still be inbound when the magic takes out all electricity, including the detonation circuitry. Without a detonating mechanism, country Y's missiles will just slam into the ground, contaminating a tiny area with waste, whereas country X's missiles all detonated. 

There is no question that wheeled transport will be in use from day 1 of the apocalypse, even if motive power is provided by human or animal muscles. So the question is why with increasing technology an engine isn't used to replace the muscles. Several options: 

The setting for this question is Earth or an Earth-like world 1500 years after some apocalypse. A human civilisation has attained a general level of technology comparable to the early 20th century or later. 

Welcome to the world government elections! In the year 20nn there will be elections for a world government held over a 24 hour period. (Or maybe a referendum to see whether there will be a world government - it will not matter in the end.) These are compulsory for all adults, defined as being persons 18 years or older, with extreme incentives for participation and penalties for non-participation. In order to avoid election fraud, each voter is required to enter a voting booth, provide a DNA sample and enter their vote. Due to the widely varying definitions of sanity and criminality around the world, no person will be denied the requirement to vote. Oh dear, the antiseptic used on the DNA sampler was contaminated (probably deliberately by terrorists such as apocalyptic religious fanatics) with a fast-acting virus. Or it could be something else - as @Morgen stated, the children won't have the expertise to determine what went wrong or to analyse the impossibly huge failure of risk management. The point is that you have a mandatory, near-simultaneous, activity that all adults will be exposed to and only adults will be exposed to. So long as the onset time is more than 24 hours then no one will be warned in time to avoid exposure. 

Land without being detected Kidnap people without leaving witnesses who can identify the kidnappers as aliens Get them into Earth orbit without launch being detected 

The human will die instantly if blown out of the cannon (Note: skip to "Launch Detection" for how to address the changed focus of the question.) A back of the envelope (literally) calculation full of approximations shows that in order for the bullet to reach the mesosphere (50 km ASL) on a ballistic arc, launched from sea level, it needs to be launched at around 1200 metres per second. Note that this will just reach an altitude of 50 km after 80-90 seconds and start falling back, the rocket will need to do all the work of getting anywhere after this. Assuming perfectly smooth acceleration over a barrel length of 300 metres (1000 ft), acceleration will be on the order of 2300 metres per second squared for almost half a second. While all my numbers could be off by as much as 50% in either direction (lots of approximations) 230 G is simply not survivable. Even by adding all plausible (and some implausible) favourable factors, humans can't get into space this way in any condition to achieve a mission. Single stage to orbit - not that easy... The main difficulty in getting into orbit is not achieving the required altitude but reaching the required orbital velocity of over 9.4 km/sec. Escape velocity is 11.2 km/sec. This is not practical with current technologies (which is why multi-stage rockets are used to get to orbit in the real world). Is there an alternative? All you are launching is a single soldier in exoskeleton armour. This doesn't look like a long range or long duration mission, more like a special forces job in earth orbit. In that case - why send a fragile human? Send a drone (or 3 smaller ones), controlled from groundside. The drone will need some pre-programmed routines, but lightspeed delay is minimal, especially if in low-earth orbit. (Although you will need to keep switching to a new retransmission station with line of sight as the drone orbits.) This allows you to use your payload for mission-critical capabilities instead of life support and means you no longer need to worry about how to retrieve the operator at the end of the mission. However, given that you have clarified that the crucial element of the story is to deliver four humans into space unnoticed, the following section will examine how to do this. Launch detection and covert options Assumptions regarding the enemy, designated Red Force: 1. Red force has finite forces that are in total control of Earth orbital space. 2. Red force has satellites in orbit with ground observation capabilities sensors equivalent to current United States surveillance satellites. 3. Red force has other sensor capabilities equivalent to current United States capabilities. 4. Red force has both space-to-surface and space-to-space weaponry equivalent to current Earth prototypes or near-future concepts, primarily mass drivers or missiles. As other answers have covered, it would require a linear accelerator hundreds of kilometres long to launch a person into orbit without fatal acceleration levels. Building such a linear accelerator (overcoming massive engineering challenges) without being detected and attacked from orbit would be extremely difficult, time consuming and hideously expensive. So let's look at other options using conventional launch vehicles. If a satellite has its sensors watching an area, there is no real way to disguise a missile or spacecraft launch. Any currently existing rocket which is efficient enough to get a payload into orbit will produce a massive thermal signature. It's the same as being in a very dark room, yet the tiny indicator lights on appliances are easily visible. The only way to mask them is to put something thermally opaque between the sensor and the thermal source (not practical), increase the temperature of the entire region to match the temperature of the rocket exhaust (not survivable), wait for the observer to stop watching (maybe) or poke out the eyes of the observer (ahhhh!). The Defenders need to be tracking the enemy satellites in order to make this work - no alternative. If they are lucky there is an existing hole in the Red Force satellite coverage that they can take advantage of, somewhere that is not being directly observed for a few minutes every so often. If such locations do exist then they are probably in bad locations for launches - it would be all too easy to keep the entire equatorial area under observation, for example. If there is no practical location that they can take advantage of then they need to get into the anti-satellite business using either rockets, cannon or lasers. So there is a use for the cannon - a bunch of depleted uranium marbles in a casing can survive a savage acceleration and only need to reach the satellite's altitude for a moment - then the satellite's > 9km/s speed will provide all the kinetic energy necessary to destroy it. Ditto for a rocket, no great performance required. Regarding lasers, I am suggesting tracking the satellite with a laser powerful enough to dazzle the onboard sensors, not something powerful enough to cause material damage. If at all possible, hit additional satellites covering different areas at the same time, otherwise Red Force can focus all its reserve sensors on the one area. While the eyes are poked out or looking elsewhere is the time to launch. All four humans launch in a single 2-stage vehicle with a bullet-shaped final stage. At roughly the same time five smaller rockets also launch. The smaller rockets will deliberately have the same acceleration profile as the primary and cube-corner radar reflectors to give them the same radar signature. Once they are out of the atmosphere they will inflate "caps" at the front to give them the same visual profile as well. (This is assuming that the Defenders are on a budget and cannot afford to waste six full-size launch vehicles.) Now switch to Red Force's viewpoint for a while. They just lost a few satellites or their imaging, refocus other sensors on the area and pick up six bogeys as they clear the atmosphere. It looks like the Defenders had trouble getting quality components because one suffers a catastrophic failure at first-stage separation. The other five continue on but as they get close to an intercept course on an important Red Force target two more malfunction - the lead one explodes into tiny fragments and the last one loses thrust and starts venting fuel on one side, throwing it into a flat spin. The three remaining rockets accelerate towards the Red Force target to ram it but miss, either as a result of more poor engineering or point defence fire. Red Force has emerged victorious, albeit fairly easily against the ragtag Earthlings... Switching back to the Defenders' viewpoint - the rocket that failed at first stage separation was to make the subsequent malfunctions believable. The second rocket to go will explode into prefragmented pieces designed to provide maximum visual and radar distractions, with the direction of shrapnel release to provide masking without endangering the humans. The four humans were aboard the third rocket - the rocket's spin was carefully planned to be in a plane that will give them the vector they need to reach their target (or get close enough for low-impulse thrusters to do the rest) if they release at the correct point in the rotation. The humans' armour is as non-reflective to visual and radar wavelengths as possible and includes thermal masking - I strongly recommend it is made of carbon composites as much as possible instead of depleted uranium. Provided they keep tight emissions control, the humans will look far less interesting and important than the thousands of bits of space debris in the area. I acknowledge the influence of the late Nigel D Findley in the plan presented above - see p127 of the Aztlan sourcebook for Shadowrun 2nd Ed. Edit 1 - previous alternative Recent events in Hawai'i have inspired an enhanced solution, albeit with no research to back it up. While it would be a really bad idea due to the geological instability of the area, let's posit an undersea tunnel linking O'ahu to the Island of Hawai'i. Hidden from prying orbital eyes, this tunnel could be repurposed into a linear accelerator a few hundred kilometres long, with the normal exit on the Island of Hawai'i extended and aimed upwards, albeit in a gentle curve. There are lots of engineering difficulties, such as evacuating all the air in the tunnel in front of the bullet, but these are not inherently impossible if the tunnel has sufficient integrity. Time the launch to coincide with a volcanic eruption (predicted or induced) and the Defenders can launch their projectile with hot ash covering any thermal signature and the eruption covering for the shockwave. I realise this is nowhere near the original specifications of the OP's cannon. However, it does give a vaguely plausible mechanism for an undetected, human-survivable launch, with the added drama of requiring precise timing to avoid the bullet being destroyed by airborne debris from the eruption.