The wiki subsection on the Minoan Peace is worth a read - it presents the arguments for and against the Minoans as warlike, and is well cited. The crux of it is this: 

The fascist government of Thailand was pressured into declaring war on the Allies by the Japanese, who strong-armed their way into Thailand to build military bases and roads. The Thai government went along, hoping that this would appease the Japanese, who would leave after the war. (You'd think they would have heard of Manchuko or Korea...) Here is the Wiki article on the Japanese Occupation of Thailand that explains it. 

Here is an internet archive of photographs and film footage of the USS Hornet (CV-8), during her construction and operation. There is a sizable section on her participation in the Battle of Midway, with both stills and motion pictures (can't really call it video... it was shot on film.) So, no, there is no conspiracy to cover up the USS Hornet's (CV-8) existence or her participation in the battle of Midway. 

In terms of the area of control established by communications, unquestionably the British Empire - with telegraph connections to Australia established in 1871, Britain had enormous swaths of the globe - from Tikitiki on the North Island of New Zealand all the way west to Beaver Creek in the Yukon, with stops for the Indian subcontinent and an enormous chunk of Africa along the way - under its direct control with end-to-end communication. In terms of the length of time it took to reach the farthest corner of the empire, the British still win, with some sea routes to its farthest possessions taking many months even with the sophisticated and well practiced maritime practices of the 19th century. It was much longer with older vessels and navigation techniques. 

You are referring to the 1999 Seattle WTO Ministerial Conference Protests. It is historically notable for breaking ground in two respects: 1) The way it was organized by the Direct Action Network (pdf) - their organization techniques allowed very different political allies to effectively communicate and collaborate with each other. This was more in-person rather than on-line, but it innovated processes and strategies (such as total consensus) that are still being effectively used today. 2) The way it was reported by the Independent Media Center, aka Indymedia. Indymedia relied on firsthand accounts, photos and videos by the participants, and provided a way to publish them directly on the internet in near real-time. This method of reporting on protests and other fast-moving political events (such as the Arab Spring) is now widespread, and use vehicles such as Youtube and Twitter - and this all began in Seattle in 1999. 

Roger Williams was from London, John Clarke was from Suffolk, Ezekiel Holliman was from Hertfordshire... so, generally, the preachers from the first three Baptist churches in the Americas came from the Southeast of England, but that doesn't tell the story. None was a Baptist when they came over to the New World - Williams, Clarke and Holliman converted each other after reading Baptist literature and discussing it with each other, and converted their flock with them, once they were settled in their respective corners of Rhode Island. (Clarke had come with Anne Hutchinson from Massachusetts colony to found Portsmouth, the first municipal democracy, and was persuaded into his new spiritual life by Williams after he broke with Portsmouth, and settled in Newport.) Of William's parishioners who moved with him to Rhode Island from Massachusetts, one was from Sussex and the other from Wiltshire, both in the Southwest of England. So the answer is technically "Massachusetts" - in actuality, they came from all over, there wasn't a hotbed of Baptists in England yearning to be free. Most of the early colonial Baptists were converted peaceably to the faith once they arrived. 

The same reason the "Democratic People's Republic of (North) Korea" is a democratic republic... It wasn't. There was a time when socialism really seemed like the way forward, tempering free enterprise with thoughtful regulation and investing workers in the means of production. So non-socialists like the Nazis and Communists called themselves socialist to appeal to the political moderates of the interwar period. In the modern day, anyone who equates socialism with either Nazi-brand Fascism or Soviet-brand Communism is a political propagandist, usually affiliated with right-wing US interests. 

Wikipedia has an excellent overview of the history of religious tolerance from antiquity to the modern day. (Unfortunately, it seems to have been ham-handedly shoe-horned into the entry for Tolerance, which is a political science thing unto itself. Gotta love the never-ending Wiki edit wars...) Here is another, under the heading of "Christian Debate on Persecution and Toleration." It's got a lot of other links on persecution and tolerance with regards to European history. 

1) They weren't actually aiming. With a few notable exceptions, archers were not the cream of the army - they were rabble not considered worthy of even the infantry. They couldn't be trusted to tell their right foot from their left, and fletchers and goose quills cost money - can't waste that practicing. The officers told the archers what direction to face and how high to aim their arrows, and had them let loose all in a volley. The typical unskilled archer couldn't get a gauge of how high to aim without someone nearby to check themselves against... so fire-at-will wasn't a good way to put arrows into the badguy, unless you had Immortals or Longbowmen. 2) You can deflect or dodge one arrow. Different story when there are a few dozen coming down among your ranks all at once. Likewise, it's unlikely the archer could chose and hit a particular target - a volley meant the arrows were spread through an area, rather than cluster uselessly. 3) You can effect maneuver much more quickly and with more precision if all of your archers are in the same stage of load-aim-fire, which is real handy when you suddenly see a cavalry charge change direction your way. 

Well, written language was, at the time, an economic tool primarily. It was used to record business, political and liturgical transactions, and to cary on a conversation at a distance through correspondance. The things we use it for, instructive texts (such as language instruction courses) and recreational reading, developed much, much later. But! There are ancient documents that are meant to instruct scribes in how to learn and teach writing itself - one such is detailed in this online book. (Begins on page 181 "How did they learn Cuneiform?" by Niek Veldhuis). These were word lists, lists of kings, and snippets of seemingly unrelated text, meant as a "primer" for the neophyte scribe to copy. 

Poland was indeed involved in the 30 Years War, sending death squads to aid Habsburg allies in Bohemia and getting decked when Bohemia sicced the Ottoman Empire on them. At this time, Poland-Lithuania was far more unified politically under the Magnates and royalty than the Holy Roman Empire... and nobody kid themselves, the 30 Years War was a political as well as a religious war. Rising European powers sought to solidify their power into what we know now as a nation-state, and the implosion of the Holy Roman Empire gave them the opportunity they needed. Distance from Rome was not as much of a factor as the political landscape - Ireland remained Catholic, mostly to spite their regional rival, England, and they were a very long way from Rome - and many Swiss cantons became protestant, despite bordering on what's now Italy. The strong leadership in Poland-Lithuania allowed it to quell internal cultural strife with the Warsaw Confederation, which granted religious freedom to the subjects of the Commonwealth. This was something of a tradition for the area, going back to the Statute of Kalisz, which formalized tolerance for Jewish subjects, and the continuation of the toleration policies of Zygmunt II. This dual policy - tolerating protestants at home and slaughtering them abroad - kept the peace without endangering Catholic rule. 

There are a number of Egyptian defeats known to history - some of them come to us from contemporaneous accounts from neighboring civilizations, others from archaeological evidence, but many of them come from the Egyptian historical record. In direct answer to your question, here is the Victory Stela of Piye, which documents the conquests of the Nubian kingdom of Kush in Egypt and Libya. It details battles in which Egyptians lose, and badly, to Piye's Nubian army. Piye's image has been somewhat inexpertly redacted by subsequent Pharaohs, but the text remains untouched. 

You're thinking of the First Fitna - the Battle of the Camel was a significant battle therein. Caliph Uthman was assassinated because his and his predecessor's policy of appointing family and those with tribal affiliations to important posts was massively unpopular (altho overall Uthman's reforms were effective). In his place, Ali ibn Abi Talib was appointed the new Caliph by an uneasy alliance of rebels and religious leaders - and this was unacceptable to the very same family members and those with tribal affiliations that were put into positions of power (most notably Muawiyah) by Uthman and his predecessors. The casus belli put forward by Muawiyah and other leaders of the faithful, including Aisha, is that they would only accept Ali as the new Caliph if he could bring Uthman's murderers to justice. Ali could not or would not, and so began The Fitna - the first Islamic civil war, who's effects are still felt throughout the world today. The Battle of the Camel came on the heels of the Nakithin (a name given to the faction lead by Aisha) moving in to sack Basra, a city nominally allied with the new Caliph that also happened to be the location of a large treasury. Whoever took Basra would have gold and supplies - neither side could afford the other to have the city. They negotiated a bit, and then had at it, with Ali and his allies getting the upper hand in the end. This is one of the most contentious parts of Islamic history, and the origin of the Sunni/Shia split, so be wary of religious-flavored crackpottery when googling around for more info. The Wikipedia entries are pretty closely monitored and good sources, with plenty of references. 

A good point of departure is the wiki page on the Rashidun Army, which gives an overview of early Islamic infantry and cavalry. Also, the Military Legacy section of the Khalid ibn al-Walid wiki entry has some great info on the organization and makeup of his armies. The "Mobile Guard" is especially famous - the exceptionally quick Islamic light cavalry. 

This is incorrect. It is the result of Imperial Conquest, and that, I think, is the real heart of the matter. If you look at Common as an imperial language - an official language of government - then yes, human kingdoms at war and "non-humans" (and let's be frank, that notion is grounded firmly in Tolkein's quaint victorian notions of race) would both speak it and their own language, even if the empire is a fading memory. Take, for instance, not a continent, but two subcontinents - India and Europe. In medeval Europe, if you knew Latin, you could generally find someone in town who knew it as well - clergyman or clerk - and you could fake your way through a conversation in a place that spoke a romance language, if you hit your language rolls. So, Latin as "Common" would still require a player to sink some stats in languages if they want to talk to random villagers. In modern India, you have the language of Empire, English - if you do business or deal with the law or government, you speak it. You also have the language of faith - Hindi - which even non-hindus learn in order to communicate with others in the community. Then you have twenty one "mother tongues" - languages learned from your mother, this is the official language of the place where you live. Of course, there are even more unofficial "mother tongues", the language of your ethnicity, of your social caste, of your particular village that's different than the province's. So, you would have an imperial language or two, "Common1, Common2", and some NPCs might know one better than other NPCs, but most everyone would know a smattering of either. Mother Tongues can be then broken down by race (ethnic-centric language) and alignment (caste-centric language). So the way to run the campaign is to make the players roll language skill to speak common, to see if they can actually communicate. Knowing another "Mother Tongue" fantasy language, elvish or evil, improves the ability to talk to those NPC's that might also know them, even in passing. Jaques Cousteau has a story of his wife, French, trying to hail a Greek captain on a nearby yacht, and both parties are attempting to say hello in every language they know - and tho France and Greece are only a few hundred miles apart, they wind up speaking in Japanese! In this way, learning languages should improve a character's ability to speak with others generally. See also, Lingua Franca a "third language" that people who don't know each other's languages communicate in, and poorly. Everyone knows Common. No-one knows common very well. 

The Romans used mercenary Numidian cavalry at Zama, and they were more effective than the "Native Sons" in the Roman cavalry, so the assertion is false. Scipio was a better general, statesman and politician than Hannibal. That's pretty much the beginning and end of it. 

This Wikipedia page has a nice overview on pre-columbian writing systems in mesoamerica. These are true writing systems, capable of representing spoken language. Some of them have been deciphered and translated. Additionally, there are two other systems from outside mesoamerica, the Andean quipu and the Ojibwa wiigwaasabak, that may also represent writing systems, but ones that are dramatically different than any currently in use, and may be proto-writing rather than actual writing. Regrettably, not enough examples of either remain to adequately translate. 

The answer is in the meat-packing industry and the development of a practical refrigerated boxcar, also known as the reefer. This permitted livestock ranched in the West to be slaughtered nearer the cattle ranges, and shipped back east with little spoilage - before, livestock were shipped live to local slaughter-houses in the East, who distributed the meat to local butchers. The problem with this arrangement is that the animals lost weight or even died outright during the stressful journey, and needed to be fed, watered and exercised along the way, so the quality of meat was not the best, and expensive, to boot. Before the advent of the reefer, only preserved meat products, like barreled (pickled) pork and cured sausage, could be shipped. The reefer permitted raw meat rather than the animal or processed meat-products to be shipped to wholesalers in places like Boston and Philadelphia from industrial-scale slaughter houses out west, in regional rail hubs like Kansas City and Chicago. The first practical reefer car was designed by Andrew Chase at the behest of Gustavus Swift, a Chicago meat packer magnate. They were well insulated, and had a large compartment of ice set above the cargo compartment, allowing the chill air to circulate over the contents. Swift used these cars to create the Swift Refrigerated Line railroad in 1880, and began shipping beef to Boston, moving over 3,000 carcasses a week by the end of its first year in business. 

In short, it's a Christian symbol loaded with meaning, and the symbol of the Lion representing royalty [goes back even further than that.] ($URL$ 1) It's representative of God, indicating that God is King, and also emblematic of heavenly favor for the monarchy. 2) The lion was considered king of all the beasts, a royal symbol if ever there was one. 3) In pre-modern times, among other things, it was believed that Lions slept with their eyes open - a lion is always watchful over its domain, and so it is with the monarchy it represents. I don't think a lion was mandatory for royal heraldry, but it's easy to see why it was so popular. 

Mycenaean Greek is an Indo-European language. Hebrew is a Northwestern Semitic language. This by itself makes the notion a non-starter. Gordon makes the case in the book that Minoan and Hebrew have the same roots, and Minoan culture preceded the adoption of Greek in Mycenaea in his speculative Eastern Mediterranean civilization, but this is unfounded in science - as Minoan remains untranslated and unclassified. If it were as closely related to Hebrew as he claims, it would be translated or at least classified into a language family by now by tracing back language features to Northwestern Semitic or its precursors in the Afroasiatic family. In short, Gordon could not prove Minoan was related to Hebrew in any meaningful way. Without a shared language, it's unlikely the cultures developed from the same source. More, he was invested in other questionable historical beliefs that receive regular debunking - such as precolumbian trade with the Americas by many of the ancient Mediterranean civilizations.