The "only in Canada" answer...odds are if you were drinking a regular beer like those of pre-war times, it came from Canada. WWI saw the return of victorious soldiers to their home nation which had gone dry! 

They were present in Rome for pilgrimages and Bohemia contains pilgrimage sites...I would be surprised to learn that they settled into communities, but it would be hard to completely negate their presence. 

The Romans are thought to use dogs frequently in war...at first as combatants, but that might not be the case. $URL$ 

This is listing Dr. Robert van der Molen as the source, who, in his book Honden bij de Grieken en de Romeinen came to this conclusion. Unfortunately I can't find that reference in English to verify. $URL$ gives the same paragraph. If that source is accurate, this would date dog use as messengers in armies back to BC times 

Both. Wars of succession take it's toll on a people, and once a people are no longer united, an empire and it's people decline. Much of Ptolemy VI rule and his successors can be defined as civil war between Alexandria and the rest of Egypt and that took a heavy toll on Egypt. The slaughter of Alexandria's intellectual elite was a huge hit and dropped Alexandria from what is arguably the most enlightened city of it's time. 

The problem here is Celtic culture lacks a written language, and the urnfield (proto-celtic) peoples definately don't have their own writing. It makes identifying town names challenging to say the least and pronunciations of their town names is long lost 

Pre-Flemish people fit into the urnfield curlture and their modern day borders are a decent approximation. Western Belgium has some of the more famous urnfield culture excavations. From the link, here is a (fuzzy) description of potential borders in todays terms: 

I'd go with hardness as Silver is soft but becomes much harder the more copper content is present. Take a known silver coin and a coin in question and setup an experiment where a jewelry hammer hits the coin with the same force. A pure silver coin should indent with a significantly lower force than the silver/copper coin. It's a pretty steep curve with a 10% copper impurity being almost twice as hard as a pure silver coin would be. 

First the supply issue : The biggest reason for Horse archer scarcity is the training curve in becoming a mounted archer. It's not a simple task, you need to be able to ride and control your horse with only your legs while drawing a bow and accurately firing all while the horse moves...not a simple feat by any means. Roman (and Greek) society were founded in cities...infact most 'empires' excluding the mongols were not nomads and had settled into cities. Although they made use of horses, much of the population were not active riders. When you get into medieval times, only the wealthy had the access to horses and time to train. Mongol society is heavily different than other empires...it's people were heavily nomadic and as such, much of the population were actively riding horses on a daily basis. There is the saying that a mongol warrior was born on horseback...not quite accurate, but many were already proficient equestrians by the ages of 3 to 4. This gives the mongols an unprecedented population of riders to recruit from that already possessed horse archery skills, while other empires would have to actively train these people. Second is the tactics Much of Mongol success was also found in surprise. They marched incredible distances in amazingly short time frames and struck enemies before they could organize an effective resistance. However once the defenders started adapting their tactics to be 'anti-horse archer', the mongol forces began suffering some pretty heavy losses. Although the horse archers were dominant on the open field and in raid settings, they don't really add much to a siege and a fortified town often proved resistant. 

Ptolemy Egypt was ultimately Hellenistic in origin and fell into the wars of succession after Alexander the great died. Ptolemy III was the height of their reign, after that the Ptolemies faced several issues...infighting and succession being the largest. Their challenges: 1) War with Seleucid. There were several conflicts (6 in total $URL$ including a pretty full capitulation of Egypt and a puppet monarchy 2) Egypt was not united. Under Ptolemy, Egypt lost direct rule over 'upper Egypt' (Nile upstream, south in direction). The battle of Raphia included the mass rearming of the Egyptian population and that would lead to revolt. $URL$ was the first and $URL$ Ankmakis was the final ruler there as the Ptolemy's were eventually able to crush the rebellion. 3) Inbreeding. One of the Egyptian traditions the Ptolemy reign saw was a return to inbreeding (King Tut's rule saw heavy inbreeding) and Ptolemy II picked this up again. He earned the nickname "Philadelphus" to describe his marriage to his sister Arsinoe II. This trend continued with Ptolemy IV and his marriage to hi sister Arsinoe III (This was done in part to keep the Macedonian bloodline separate from the native Egyptian population, though it's can be speculated that it was also done to show Egyptians that the Ptolemy's were true Egyptian rulers). Edit I can note that Ptolemy III was married to Berenice of Cyrene (think modern Libya), which was his cousin (not sister, somewhat better?). As much as we can point to Ptolemy III as the height of Hellenistic Egypt, it should be noted that Berenice was a very strong ruler herself, potentially involved in battles and a renowned equestrian (apparently participating in and winning in Olympic games). She was originally engaged to Demetrius the Fair, but had him murdered after she found him with her mother. She was strong enough that after her husband Ptolemy III passed away, her own child king Ptolemy IV had her killed so she could not claim the throne herself. Ptolemy V (or Ptolemy Epiphanes as he was called) was the son of a brother-sister wedding. He was married to Cleopatra I of Syria (named Syrian, but traced her origins through Seleucid, ultimately Greek), a wedding arranged with the Seleucid empire that held peace until her death. The Cleopatra name would be passed to many of her female descendants. From this point forward, no new genetic material would enter the Ptolemy bloodline (Ptolemy VI to X could trace their lineage back to these 2 and nobody else). /Edit 4) A messy mix of politics and intrigue. Ptolemy VI was defeated in the wars with the Seleucids and a puppet monarchy was installed in Egypt under Ptolemy VI. Alexandria's population rejected this and adopted Ptolemy VIII as their leader (Ptolemy VI's younger brother was Ptolemy VIII, though known as Physcon (the fat) as he wasn't considered part of the Ptolemy reign yet) . Rome intervened (threats only) and the Seleucid withdrew, leaving a triumvirate of Ptolemy VI, Physcon, and Cleopatra the II as rulers (All three siblings, Cleopatra being married to her brother, Ptolemy VI, at this time). Ptolemy VI tried two separate assassination attempts on his younger brother Physcon, both of which failed but ended in Physcons capture. Instead of killing his brother, he arranged Physcons marriage to his daughter, Cleopatra Thea (uncle marrying niece here). Questionable if that marriage ever happened as Ptolemy VI died on campaign soon after. Cleopatra II had her son proclaimed Ptolemy VII, however Physcon returned and married Cleopatra II (his sister and brothers ex-wife). Physcon then had his wife's son Ptolemy VII (Physcon's nephew) killed and assumed the title Ptolemy VIII. It's a bit confusing here, Ptolemy VII was Ptolemy VI's son, and Ptolemy VIII was Ptolemy's VII's uncle and Ptolemy VI's brother. To further confuse this, Ptolemy VIII would marry Ptolemy VI and Cleopatra II's daughter, Cleopatra III (To clarify, Ptolemy VIII married his sister Cleopatra II after his brothers/husband of Cleopatra II's death. When Cleopatra II's daughter Cleopatra III from Ptolemy VI was of age, Ptolemy VIII married her (his niece/step child) while still married to her mother. THe intrigue here was Ptolemy VIII never wanted to marry Cleopatra II, but did so to solidify his claim all the while intending to marry Cleopatra III once she became of age). I hope I got all that right as it's a silly web that gets a bit worse...Ptolemy VIII's children with Cleopatra III were able to say their dad was grandma's brother and their cousins were also their half-siblings. Ptolemy VIII (Physcon) would extract some revenge upon Alexandria and her intellectual elite, killing many and expelling more, and permanently altering Alexandria's status in the world. Around 10 years later, this culminated in a riot in Alexandria that saw the Royal palace burn and Ptolemy VIII, cleopatra III, and their children fled. Cleopatra II turned to her son Ptolemy Memphites as the new Ptolemy ruler (I'm a bit unsure on lineage here, but I believe Ptolemy Memphites was the son of Cleopatra II and Physcon/Ptolemy VIII), however Ptolemy VIII/Physcon got his hands on his son Ptolemy Memphites and sent his dismembered body back to his sister/wife Cleopatra II. There would be a short civil war between Alexandria (supporting Cleopatra II after Physcons attack on the intellectuals of Alexandria) vs the rest of Egypt that viewed Physcon as the proper ruler. Cleopatra II would eventually flee Egypt, leaving the rule to her brother Ptolemy VIII and her daughter Cleopatra III. When Ptolemy VIII died, he left the rule to either of his sons (didn't care, Cleopatra III was to choose)...she chose her youngest but the people of Alexandria would want her oldest to become Ptolemy IX. Ptolemy IX would marry his sister Cleopatra IV, but Cleopatra III would push her daughter Cleopatra IV out of the picture and replace her with her other daughter Cleopatra Selene. Cleopatra III (probably the epitome of the absurd political intrigue) would then expel her son Ptolemy IX and replace him with her younger son she had supported earlier as Ptolemy X (Ptolemy IX would return twice though with the crown passing from Ptolemy IX to X a few times, all civil war). Ptolemy X would eventually have his mother (Cleopatra III) killed, putting an end to her involvement in Egypt. Ptolemy X would eventually be chased out of Egypt by the people of Alexandria. If I have it right...Ptolemy IX's child had 1 grandma/grandpa, and the great grandpa / great great grandpa was the same person. I'm not 100% sure on the effects of inbreeding, but the Ptolemy family tree was a pretty straight line by this point. ** Just a side note, the Ptolemy's never referred to themselves as Ptolemy VI or Ptolemy VIII. It was Ptolemy Philometor and Ptolemy Physcon. The numbering of Ptolemies was a much later invention by historians. So with all that said: 

Timeline was the first win north of Sicily, second win en route to Africa, defeat in Africa and the storm wiping out their fleet on the way back. The Romans somewhat rebuilt, but no where near the numbers and were actually defeated in their next engagement off the coast of Sicily. $URL$ 

A funny side note, Canada's Prime Minister issued the 'Wartime Alcohol Beverage Order' which restricted domestic beer consumption during the war. This led to a nearly immediate black market and protest: 

You would need someone to look out for the not too distant future for this to apply. Most Western Empire Roman Emperors would be looking long past their own death to see the not too distant future. The only thing that the Western Roman empire possessed that it could support an army with was land, not money. The feudal system was very much a response to the economic state of Europe. 

Rome was actually decently resilient to these tactics as anti-personnel siege weaponry was a Roman specialty. Roman Legions would posses a large number of ballista, scorpians, and other large crossbow like weapons that would wreck havoc on horse archers. The specialties and discipline of the Roman legions was somewhat lost in medieval times, what they transitioned to were much more prone to horse archer warfare. 

This is going to be more difficult...population can be (somewhat) determined by frequency of urns found at certain excavations. The article above lists a few: 

It's hard to answer this as it's not focused on one particular group. Medieval forces were rarely uniform (English being a notable exception) as most soldiers provided their own equipment, which gave formations an interesting mix match of whatever a person could afford and what they could train with. Generally nobles and elites (knights) made up around 20% - 30% of an earlier medieval fighting force, although this number declined steadily and late medieval forces were lucky to be 5% of the noble knight makeup. The other 70% were a varying mix of peasants to men at arms that would enter the army through a variety of methods. Knighthood was somewhat from birth, but a good deal of it was due to accomplishments, with those accomplishments often being proven on a battlefield. Men during this time would often be inspired to change their and their families fortune by taking it at the end of their sword and would enlist for fame and a bit of pay. If they proved their worth, in an accolade ceremony $URL$ they could become knights, though in the end they were often doing it simply for pay. This setup was more Enlgish in nature and arguably the first professional military setups. Squires and other classes that served a knight would often find themselves in this position after their service had ended. However this is Feudal society and not everyone was allowed the choice of a military career and were often forced into it by status. In most other nations, the men-at-arms were drawn from a Gentry class (french gentil hommes). A Feudal lord would designate vassals who were land holders in their own right. These land owners would fund themselves (equipment) and made up a good section of the ranks of an army. Their service guaranteed their (and their familys) status as land holders in exchange for the obligation of military service. These vassals could also enforce rules upon the people whom lived on the land they were given, and these rules would often include 1 person per household in active military service (often a peasant levy). This form of military service is often referred to as obligation. However this model was proven ineffective repeatedly and failed to provide the standing army a nation would desire. In times of peace, this setup caused some degree of social upheaval as well (mostly related to pay or lack there of). Knights services were often in 40 day terms, but extended military campaigns disrupted that as well. Simply put, Obligation worked well in early Feudal times, but as cities and population developed, this model would become obsolete as it was highly inefficient. When you start reaching later medieval, the concept of obligation was being replaced by a bunch of...we'll call it 'adhoc'...processes that saw some obligation, but more and more a paid standing military force. Very much inspired by the 100 year war, the concept of gendarmes came to be (English 'Yeoman' would fit in the same category I beleive). Through a series of ordinances, these gendarmes evolved into paid companies of men that would be stationed in cities (by this time, knight participation had fallen to around 1% of the total military force). This model would evolve many times and eventually provide become standard practice for modern militaries. 

(copy and paste above didn't go to well...weird formatting) Ultimately the answer to your question is we don't know how accurate he is being here as there is little to nothing to compare these accounts with. We can verify a bunch of his geographic data as accurate, but at the same time find many examples of extreme exaggeration and quoted speeches that he could not have been around to hear. This is a trait of the majority of Historians from this time 

As a nod to Roman adaptability, by this time they no longer needed the Corvi. In the short time frame of this conflict, the Roman sailors now exceeded their Carthage opponents in terms of sailing proficiency as the hastily levied Carthage fleet was relatively green in comparison. Army: Though the battle for Sicily saw much naval warfare, the Romans managed to supply themselves with the help of Syracuse early on until establishing themselves there. There were times where the legion was actively harvesting local crops to feed themselves though. The first major conflict was ultimately :$URL$