Alternative. Take the lantern to various outdoor stores and see if you can identify the maker by similarities in details. Ask the oldest looking floor help (more likely to have seen it...) for help. Alternative. Here the various scout and cadet groups do a course in repairing naphtha powered devices. They may be able to give you a lead either on the make or the appropriate replacement. WARNING There are pressure lanterns designed to run on kerosene. Operating these on naptha is a potential bomb. These can usually be identified by a ring shaped depression around the generator designed to allow the use of alcohol to heat the generator. 

Do not get too wrapped up in easy tooling. Remember that generators are cheap, and running one for an hour or so to get your project done is not a big deal. Walls: PT plywood + paint. Easy to cut with jigsaw. Prepaint full sheets at home. This way you only have minor trimming. Lots of cool decorative things you can do with stencils. Roofing tin. Needs a solid backing. You can get it in various ridged patterns for rigidity, or in full width smooth strips. Ceilings. Moisture isn't as big a concern here. (If your ceilings get wet, I suspect you have other, more serious problems.) If you have the height, consider hanging T-bar ceiling. The space between the real ceiling and the tiles give you a place to hide all sorts of utilities with easy access. OTOH, there is a lot to be said for not finishing the ceilings with anything but a coat of varnish or paint. 

If I slice across your knit rope, in a flat cut, how many strands would I cut. Looks like 8. Now use the best lies you can find about the strength reduction in a bend in kernmantle rope. My recollection is that it is about 80% of the original strength. (60% in a stranded rope) (The core fibers in a kernmantle rope have room to slip, so all the strain isn't concentrated on a few of the fibers.) So your new root = 8 * 0.8 * original rating. or 6.4 * 550 Think like block and tackle: How many strands support the load? 

At the risk of being politically incorrect, how pretty are you? I see a petite, pretty woman as being far more at risk than a bigger less vogue-looing woman. Being pretty makes Black Hats consider it. Being petite makes them think you will be easy to overpower. If you are fearful of attack: 

When I ran winter trips (at much lower elevations) we had a rule that the person who fills the stove, doesn't light it. And also that you filled the stove 40 feet away from camp, down wind if there was perceptible wind, or down hill if calm. (Fuel vapor is heavier than air.) 

Light colours don't heat up as much during the day, nor cool off as much at night. Light colours allow more light in the tent. If I'm stormbound I'd much rather be in a white/light beige tent than in either red or green. 

A garbage bag is a good piece of survival gear if you are in the mountains for the same reason. Test: On a winter day go outside with a bucket of water, dressed in a t-shirt. Get someone to pour the bucket over you. In a very short time you will be quite cold. Put on your garbage bag. Instantly you feel warmer: 

A good burning barrel needs holes near the bottom to supply air. A pick axe or a geology hammer works well for putting in the holes. Put most of them between 6 and 12 inches from the base. Used for burning trash on a weekly basis a barrel lasts for years. If you store it where it is dry, it will last longer, as the alternation of heat and wet causes it to rust faster. Leave a few inches of ashes in it when emptying. This protects the bottom from the heat of the coals. If you store it out of the weather during the off season it will last longer. failing that, store it upside down. This will slow down the bottom rusting out. 

Travelling across Canada I was near Regina in mid winter. Pulled off into a campground closed for the winter, and made my camp under a picnic table. 

Depending on the weather, I would try to keep them alive in the water until you are lamost ready to start back. Clean them just before you start back. If the weather is colder than that water, clean them immediately, and hang. You can wrap them in a burlap bag. If you keep the bag wet, evaporation will further chill them. Refrigerators are kept below 40 for a reason. And from experience I've found that keeping ours at 34 F (1.5 C) increases the shelf life a lot. (E.g. at 34 F keeping hamburger for a couple weeks isn't a problem) At 40, its good for about 4 days. The spoilage rate is first order exponenential from above freezing to about 120 F. What will keep for 4 days at 40 will keep 1 day at 50 will keep 6 hours at 60 will keep 2 hours at 70. Will I swear to those numbers? No. Much depends on the bacteria count at the start. It may be to your advantage to use an edible anticeptic on the fish immediately after cleaning it. E.g. 2 oz of Jack Daniels in a gallon of water. This will reduce surface bacteria and may double the time you have until it spoils. The other option is to bring a collapsible cooler. They aren't as effective. You still have the hassle of ice. If the weather is cool, I wouldn't worry about it. If the weather is hot, let the fish be until you come up with a portable cooler. In passing: If the trail is a good trail, a bicycle makes a great carrying system. Don't ride it, just strap what you want to carry, and roll the bicycle. Viet Cong used to move 600 lb loads this way. 

I have found that many drycleaning/laundry agencies (where you drop off your clothes and pick them up later, not laundromats) will do small repairs/alterations. 

As the elevation increases, the boiling point of water drops. This makes cooking times increase enormously. You may want to essentially ignore cooking, and rely on cold food, and warm drinks. The whisper light is a good stove for such events. I have also used regular gasoline at low temperatures, but due to the explosive nature of fumes, I would never do so in an enclosed space. If you use stoves where the bottle is not the fuel tank, be very careful filling the stove: 

Rubbing alchohol is also an effective disinfectant. However, the problem is more general: Wearing socks inside foot boxes on a day in, day out basis is the root. Recommendations to prevent a recurrence: 

Training: Know the symptoms. Teach the symptoms. Teach the responses. There is merit in going out on a cold windy day, having people peal down then put on a soaking wet t-shirt. Do this near a heated building obviously. Talk about the symptoms as they occur. When someone can't stop shivering, go inside. Have hot drinks and a roaring fire handy. Buddy system. Pair everyone up. Practice calling out "Buddy Check" and have people talk to their buddy. Since 'umbles are usually first this is a quick check. More experienced personelle double check. If hiking, the easy way to do this, is to step off the trail and look at faces as they go by. Fall in and chat to any zombies. Do this from the start of the trip to recognize the differences. Keep people hydrated. Lots of people won't drink enough if it's just water with no flavour. Make sure they drink. Train them to notice their pea color. Colourless to light yellow. No problem. Dark yellow to orange. Get them to drink. (Some foods and vitamins will darken your urine.) Keep people fed. 

Every case of hypothermia I've seen has been near the end of the day when people were running on empty. As leader on day hikes, I always carried a couple of bread and honey sandwiches (easy fuel) If I didn't use them, I took them for lunch the next day. Candy bars work well too. Eatmores and snickers are hard to eat when cold. The mini bars available at Halloween are easier to eat, and easy to share. 

Given your environment, disguise the packed portion of dirt with litter. If you make it look disgusting (add a rubber dead rat...) more people will avoid even walking near it. Adding something that stinks in a mesh bag tucked out of sight nearby will also repel people. If the trail is more than one bush long, put a more than right angle turn in it.If you look down the trail start and see a bush, it's not obvious there is a trail there. Keep the bushes on either side thick: Add about 1/2 cup of 20-20-20 fertilizer in a 4 foot diameter circle for each bush. 

Basal metabolic rate is about 75 watts. That is, this is the price of keeping a normal body temperature. Can drop some during sleep. Light exercise -- you can talk, but not sing without excessive pauses -- raises this to 200-300 watts. A trained athlete can generate 500-1000 watts for extended periods of time. A person has about 2 square meters of skin. Under comfortable conditions, the skin is at a fairly constant temperature. As you bundle up for colder weather, more heat is lost on the exposed bits, and less on the covered bits. Exceptions: A: When under cold stress, the body shuts down surface circulation to the extremities. (Cold fingers, toes) then arms and legs. B: Blood circulation to the head is not restricted during cold stress. The combination of these two factors and given environments is the source of such sayings as "You lose X% of your heat through your head" However, "if you hands are cold, put on your hat" remains good advice. 

The link to the image of your pack is broken, so I'm going to generalize. I still prefer my external frame pack (hard to find nowadays) I will gladly live with the extra pound to have pockets, and tie points, and enough frame to lash to. 

Cause of dew: You have a local surface that is below the dewpoint. It has gotten enough colder than the air, that water condenses on it. Dew is heavy on clear nights (more surface radiation cooling as your sleeping bag tries to warm up interstellar space) Smoke in the air, or overcast will reduce or eliminate the amount of dew. Dew is heavier when the air is more humid. (Temperature doesn't have to drop as much for water to condense) However water vapour interferes with radiation. Dew is almost non-existent if there is a breeze. The air next to a surface can't get that bit colder to allow water to condense. Avoiding Dew: Move away from water. Running creeks, lakes, swamps will provide a source of water vapour. Large bodies will be warmer than the land at night and will evaporate strongly, putting more water into the air. Move away from the bottom of the valley. Cold air settles. I've found that being even 15 to 20 feet vertically (5-6 meters) can make a 10 F (5C) difference in temperature. Put something between you and the sky. This blocks radiation from the surface of your bag, so the surface doesn't cool as much, reducing or eliminating dew. This can be a tarp, a tent, or the canopy of a tree. Reduce the amount of visible sky This is a variation of the previous point. Radiation is going to be proportional to the amount of sky that your sleeping bag can see. Very little dew at the bottom of a cleft. A ravine can reduce sky by 50% Dealing with Dew. If you use a tarp or tent, pack the wet layer in a plastic bag so that it doesn't get your other gear wet, or roll it up in your foam pad to keep it out of your pack entirely. Site your camp to catch the sun at sunrise. Or as soon as you get up move the wet item to a spot that is sunny. If I've tarped it, I will raise the west corners so that the entire tarp is exposed to the sun. Get a lighter coloured sleeping bag/tarp/tent. You actually want a fabric that is very reflective in infrared. This radiates poorly. As far as I know no one makes such a fabric for backcountry gear.