There are two approaches you could take here. Semi-Permeable Membranes Membranes of this type allow only certain ions or particles via diffusion or passive/active transport. A dialysis machine for example uses this sort of membrane. For ion transport, these require a carrier fluid. Oxygen, Nitrogen and CO2 are all mildly soluble in water, so we could use something water-based as the carrier. In this situation, the membrane is just a sieve with an extremely fine mesh size. Well-controlled, this mesh would only allow your selected compounds through. Sickness or mutation could cause this to malfunction in similar ways to how kidney disease affects humans. Interestingly, this means that compounds with a similar physical size to your usual source will be allowed through. This is similar to why carbon monoxide ends up in our bloodstream. It has a similar size and charge to oxygen, and thus gets through the sieve. To prevent poisoning via these chemicals, a secondary mechanism is present in most complex life forms. Biochemical Filters Our liver is one of these. It uses various enzymes and chemical pathways to process chemicals in our bloodstream, and neutralise toxins. This type of filter is often employed after initial size and charge filtering via the normal input pathway (the lungs in this case). Let me get back to your question. 

One solution I don't think I've seen anyone else bring up is to not include the location of Earth in the ship's data. If there is nothing on board that would help locate Earth, then there's no target to redirect to. Don't even have to lie, just make it part of generation 1's agreement to not bring aboard anything that would help locate Earth. You might also need an odd route so that a path can't be traced back simply, and the ship would have to avoid saving data about this early maneuvering. Not sure how plausible this sort of maneuver is. I'm also not sure how much info would need to be censored to prevent future researchers from figuring out Earth's location by looking at simple things like old movies and books, and searching for planets that might fit the description. Of course, the farther from Earth you go before someone starts trying to find it, the less likely it will be possible. You could also send off a beacon of some sort ahead of the ship that would land on the destination planet in advance and which would contain any missing information about Earth, so that after the mission is successful, future generations could locate Earth for whatever purposes. 

This boils down to the age old question of "can crime be eliminated"? The short version is no. Over a long enough time scale, some poor sod will break the law, either out of ignorance or malice. As for why someone might break the law considering the penalties are so harsh. It's a cost-benefit question. After all, you can only be punished if you are caught, and also convicted. Thus a good lawyer and/or some crafty planning will let you get away with it. If we assume that the judges are all-knowing, mind-reading gods, and that all judgements are true and fair, then we can still fall back on the person only being convicted if caught, so they could just become a fugitive, after all the punishment doesn't get much worse for each subsequent crime. A person treated like X becomes X, because there is no possible downside to doing so. The way they are treated will not change. This is a flaw in all extreme punishments. Once you cross the line, there's no, or little harm in crossing it more. Thus, in such a system you would have no minor crime, and the occasional murderous rampage. EDIT: Extra information has been provided by the creator, thus some clarification is required. The Church has some way of determining a corpse's crimes This changes a few things. Now it is an invetibality that if caught, a fugitive will be subjected to their torture/punishment (whether they are executed first or not). In this scenario, these people have two major options: 

Not an expert, but I believe you can get a simple form of black powder from just charcoal and saltpeter. You need just the right type of charcoal, so that might take some experimentation to get right, but it's essentially burnt wood, so it should be easy to experiment with. Saltpeter can be obtained from human waste, so while distasteful, it's certainly doable. But this isn't something they could do on the fly, they would have to have been working on this for a long time already, but maybe they have just perfected their mixture and so you can still get some drama of them rushing to mix a big batch from their stockpiled saltpeter and a big effort to make the 'right' charcoal, followed by very carefully attaching a make-shift bomb and laying a trail of powder Wile-E-Coyote style so they can ignite from a distance. 

Not necessarily. Logistics The answer to any question of "should we do X" can always be rephrased as "is the benefit of doing X greater than the cost(s) of doing X". So let's rephrase: In a civilisation that has access to tonnes of planets, would vertical farming outweigh the cost of setting up the farms? For certain planets, the answer would be yes. Temperate planets that are close to existing hub worlds for example would have low cost of transport for goods manufactured on them (food included), thus more extreme forms of manufacturing (such as vertical farms) could be utilised before it becomes inefficient to build more dense and/or complex systems. It's not just a matter of the space required, but also the world's climate (and how easily it can be terraformed), as well as how it relates to the economy at large. If it is in a convenient location, or is highly abundant in a particular resource, then it may be worth it to employ advanced engineering techniques to maximise the utility of that planet. 

Others have discussed code-breaking or code-making, which would certainly be useful, but my first thought was more direct: Artillery One of the early projects in computing had a goal of pre-calculating shell trajectories to support targeting in the field. This is the ENIAC project. I expect a modern laptop could generate the firing tables needed by artillery operators in a fairly short period, giving our side a massive advantage in being able to target artillery quickly in the field. Even if our protagonist knows nothing but basic programming, he should be able to go to the mathematicians working on these tables and coordinate to crunch all the numbers at a speed that would seem like magic to them. 

Yes, of course. Our lungs do this. The type of membrane you want is a semi-permeable membrane. The material used for this would be similar to mammalian veins, as they perform gas exchange in our bodies. 

Filtering CO with only a semi-permeable membrane is impossible, due to its similar size to O2. Thus, to satisfy all conditions, we need some mechanism that will separate out unwanted chemicals (preferably in a way that doesn't poison the animal), and then allow the required chemicals (oxygen) into a semi-permeable membrane for a final size pass. The setup that would achieve this is a biochemical filter that feeds into our semi-permeable membrane, and finally into the bloodstream. This has some important implications. The creature will probably have no way of dealing with chemicals that do end inside its blood, such as dissolved CO in liquids, and thus there is a variety of liquids (and solids) that would decompose in the body and become toxic. This is the equivalent of injecting ethanol into someone. You're bypassing the liver, which would normally deal with it. Besides this, its breathing liver (if you will), would need to be able to neutralise a variety of harmful chemicals. Due to how absurdly complex biochemistry is, there probably exists some gas that will get through the filter and come out toxic (this is why methanol kills humans but ethanol does not. Neither are very toxic in the first order, however the same chemical pathway that turns ethanol into vinegar, turns methanol into formic acid, which is quite toxic). Thus it's impossible to have a creature that will survive all airborne contaminants. There will exist some situation in which they'll need a gas mask. However you can have a creature that can deal with most commonly found contaminants on the planet upon which they reside, with analogues to those contaminants being toxic. 

Actually, I think you might have a better shot with the opposite of famine. A post-scarcity world would have little or no incentive for war or conflict. I'm not sure this would work by 2020 if you're similar to Earth, but if you diverge enough, maybe. First step would be nearly free energy, so you're probably looking at an early acceptance of nuclear power, possibly followed by breakthrough in cold fusion (perhaps hastened by the cheap fission energy). Next, you need robotics advanced enough to replace all physical work performed by humans. So, you have a society where dirt-cheap energy is used to gather materials and mass produce every item a person might want, with no human interaction. Pretty much all wars are fought over resources, so that eliminates most war alone. Don't need to steal from a neighbor if you have all you could want. Another cause of war is ideology, which is where you get a lot of difficulty. I'm not sure it's possible to stop people from killing one another over things like religion or sports teams or whatever differences of opinion. One dominant ideology with totalitarian control might be able to do it. Or perhaps you could provide channels for conflict that don't qualify as war. Or perhaps you just lobotomize everyone, or at least indoctrinate them from an early age.