Check out this runner's world article. The main subject is whether you burn the same number of calories walking versus running the same distance, but there is also a discussion about total calories burned (TCB) during an activity versus net calories burned (NCB). In general, people talk about TCB because it's a higher number so it seems like you did more work, but in order to get the actual number of calories burned because of the exercise you have to subtract the "resting metabolic calories your body would have burned, during the time of the workout, even if you had never gotten off the sofa." This doesn't tell you whether the cardio machines give you TCB or NCB, but if you go by their calculation guidelines, I personally should have a NCB of .63 x 130lb = 82 calories per mile. However, when I run 3 miles on a treadmill, it tells me I burn around 350 calories, or 116 calories per mile. So, if their guidelines are correct, it looks like the treadmill I'm using is giving me TCB, which includes the resting calories. They do say that these guidelines are for up to 4 mph, and I run around 6mph, so maybe that accounts for some of the difference, but I don't think it accounts for all of it. 

According to Swim-City, your foot can cramp up if you deliberately point your toes when you swim. That's because in order to do so, you have to contract the muscles that run up the back of your leg, including your foot arch. This can be exacerbated by a variety of things, one of which is wearing fins: 

As @Sarge says, it's best to ease into running when you first start out; but it seems like you are doing that already. I'd say the most important thing to do is stretch out really well and cross train. Many runners neglect leg strengthening exercises, thinking that running alone will do it. Running certainly will make your legs stronger, but it's really beneficial to do things like squats, lunges, etc. Check out these calf exercises, and these leg exercises. 

I jammed my ring finger playing keeper in a soccer game last night and it's pretty swollen and discolored. It hurts but I'm pretty sure it's not broken. What is the best way to treat it? Having done this before, I've heard varying recommendations over the years, including 

If you're looking for nutritious foods that have a lot of calories, try things like nuts and peanut butter or almond butter. They're a good source of fat, protein, and carbs, and they also have a lot of calories (peanut and almond butters have about 200 calories per every two tablespoons). Avocados are also a good source of healthy fats and calories. In general, it is better to eat smaller meals more frequently, but if you're only going to eat in the morning or at night, in my experience it's better to eat in the morning. There is a lot of evidence that people who eat breakfast are healthier and have a better metabolism. Of course, if you're trying to pack on the calories that may be the opposite of what you're trying to do. I can't really speak to that unfortunately. 

Obviously to correct for #1 you could drink more water (for dehydration) or intake more sodium (for sodium depletion). I'm not sure what to do about 2 and 3, as they are both givens with running. 

Running uphill is obviously more challenging than running on a flat surface, but on a hilly course, there is also an equal amount of downhill. If my goal is to have the hardest workout, burn the most calories, etc - does the downhill cancel out the uphill? Do I burn fewer calories running downhill than on a flat surface? Does that cancel out the extra calories I burn running uphill? If so, are there other benefits of running on a hilly course, besides added caloric burn? 

Check out this LIVESTRONG article for some reasons why running might cause you to experience stomach pain. Given that you're running 3-5 miles at a relatively relaxed pace, here are some reasons that might apply to you: 

I'm double-jointed in a lot of places, one of which is my shoulders. Every time I raise my arms straight over my head my shoulders dislocate. It's not really painful, just uncomfortable. It also makes doing yoga poses like Warrior 1 and Chair Pose difficult. Is there a way to keep this from happening, or a way to modify the pose so it doesn't happen? Along the same lines, whenever I do Side Plank I'm placing a lot of weight on my wrists. They are also double-jointed, and it actually is quite painful to place weight on them. How can I modify this pose to alleviate the pain? 

Dehydration/sodium depletion - even though you're not running that far or fast, if you don't hydrate properly that could be causing it Reduced blood flow to your intestines - while you run, more blood is flowing to your muscles and less is flowing to your intestines and stomach, which can cause GI problems The "up and down" of running - the motion of running is kind of jarring, given that you're constantly jumping up and down and hitting the pavement 

Cold weather might also cause muscle soreness indirectly. First of all, you're more likely to get sick. With sickness comes fever, and with fever comes inflammation. When it's cold out, you're also less active, and inactivity itself may also cause your muscles to be stiff. You said you've reduced your exercise intensity to about half... are you still exercising 3+ times a week? If not, maybe the lack of exercise is what's causing it. And if your muscles are stiff, they're more likely to be sore when you do exercise (even if you do warm up). 

You're right that a pound of fat and a pound of muscle both weigh a pound, but a pound of muscle takes up less space than a pound of fat. So, if you have the same volume of muscle and fat, the muscle will weigh more. If you're working out a lot, you may be toning up and getting smaller but still gaining weight - this is because you're converting fat to muscle, which takes up less space. This article puts it pretty clearly: "muscle weighs more by volume than fat." 

It partially depends on when you're going to run. If you're doing the majority of your training in the morning, then you might have enough fuel in your system from dinner to get through it. However, if you then don't eat until dinner, you won't be giving your body anything to recover with. According to this article: 

For those of you who aren't Harry Potter fans, Quidditch is a wizard sport played on broomstick that has been modified for us non-flying people and is now pretty popular (Quidditch World Cup is coming up on November 12th-13th in NYC). In Harry Potter, a Quidditch Game ends when the Seeker catches the flying Snitch. In the modified muggle version, the Snitch is played by a person who isn't a part of either team, and his/her goal is basically to run away from the Seekers. I found this article about training tips for Quidditch positions, but all it says about training to be a Snitch is to try cardio kickboxing, and that cross country runners are ideal candidates. How else could I train to build up my speed so that I can run away from the Seekers for a sustained period of time? 

Additionally, exercising in the morning gives your body the most amount of time to take advantage of the "after burn" effect. Your metabolism increases after you work out, and while this is true no matter what time you work out, it's also true that your metabolism slows when you go to sleep. So, if you exercise closer to bed, you won't get as much of this particular benefit. 

Turn fitness into a game. I agree with the advice to find something you like doing and vary your workouts, but there are also some apps out there that are specifically designed to help make working out fun. Runkeeper is a great smartphone app if you're into running or biking because it helps you track your distances, speed, and calories burned. It also has music integration, so you can hook up a playlist and get updates on your progress without the music stopping (the volume just turns down). Additionally, you can integrate your RunKeeper account with your Twitter and Facebook accounts, so you can post updates for your social network to see. I use this when I'm training for a race and doing a lot of long runs - it's kind of fun to brag to your friends about how far you ran, and it also keeps you accountable (I don't want to share a really slow run, for example). RunKeeper also has a feature called RunKeeper Elite, which allows your friends and family to track you live during a workout and cheer you on via comments. So, it's really helpful if you're the kind of person who likes to set a goal and try to beat it, or if you want the support and accountability that goes along with having your family and friends watching you. Cardio Trainer is very similar to RunKeeper in that it uses GPS tracking and has voice notifications and music integration. It also has a few additional features, such as a Pedometer and Move Your Bot. Move Your Bot is pretty cool because it gives you points for your workouts and allows you to compete with your friends on games inside the app. In that way, it makes the app even more social. However, I don't believe Cardio Trainer has a live-tracking feature like RunKeeper has. Edit: As Scott just informed me in a comment below, both RunKeeper and Cardio Trainer have Autopause (the app automatically pauses the workout when you have to stop at traffic lights, etc). Fitocracy is another great product that is designed to help you track different kinds of workouts. You get points for all your activities, so you can focus on beating the number of reps you did last time, and also on beating your friends. It's more versatile than RunKeeper or Cardio Trainer because you can you can log strength training, swimming, yoga, and a lot of other things in addition to just running and biking, but it requires that you manually enter a lot of workouts. It does have RunKeeper integration so you can automatically import your runs/bike rides, but you do have you manually enter weight lifting, swims, etc. Ultimately, you have to find exercise enjoyable in order to stick with it, but these might help make it more interesting.