I wouldn't go for tubeless as a first attempt to solve the problem. Tubeless might be a good solution for skinny racing bike tyres, which are rather prone to puncturing. But you really shouldn't be having much of a problem with punctures on a hybrid bike with 32C tyres. 

(Image source: posted to the site by Freiheit; apparently his own work.) This would be impossible with your brake levers because that's where the shifters are. Having multiple different places to put your hands is one of the big advantages of drop handlebars. 

It's not true that a 90-degree crosswind doesn't affect handling. Suppose you're cycling in such a crosswind, coming from the right. That wind is trying to make you fall over to the left. As it pushes you over to the left, your bike steers to the left so you don't actually fall (this is why bikes are actually stable to ride). You can see this by holding your bike by the saddle indoors: as you lean it to either side, it automatically steers to that side. So, the net effect of the crosswind is to make you steer away from the wind, even if the wind is putting an equal force forward and aft of the hub. 

Yes, 4km is good, especially if the road is hilly. Any new form of exercise is difficult at the start because it uses muscles you're not used to using, in ways you're not used to using them. It's completely normal to be tired and a bit sore. That's your body's way of saying "OK, I've done enough – ive me a break for a bit," and it's important to do that. If you're sore and tired, don't ride until you've recovered, or maybe just go on a short, relaxed ride of one or two kilometers. If you bought the bike from a department store, or second-hand in a private sale, it would be good to take it to a bike shop and make sure it's properly set up so it fits your husband properly. Beginners often have their saddles set much too low, which makes pedalling much harder – especially up hills. Also, make sure the tyres are properly inflated: especially with the big tyres on a mountain bike, under-inflated tyres absorb huge amounts of energy and make everything much harder. As for motivation, what motivated your husband to start cycling again? If it was for general fitness, he might be motivated by keeping a diary of how far he's cycled and how long it took him. If it was to lose weight, again, keeping track of progress can help. (Of course, if progress isn't being made, that can be demotivating, so be careful! But I'd expect a new cyclist to progress quite a bit in terms of distance, early on. Things might flatten out after a few months, though.) If he's motivated by just getting out into the world, trying new routes will keep things fresh – maybe even put the bike in the car and drive somewhere new to ride. Finally, motivation's often easier when you have company, so how about you get a bike too and join your husband? 

NO!!! Of course you can't. Why do you even need to ask? You're in a country where traffic moves on the right. You're asking if it's OK to move on the left. It isn't. Specifically, Section 70.03(C) of the Louisville Traffic Code states 

I doubt it. During a track stand, you and the bike are essentially stationary so the bike's doing little more than just holding up your weight. That's peanuts compared to the forces involved in pedaling hard and bouncing through potholes. 

Instead of trying to modify your chainrings, just tuck your trouser leg into your sock or use clips, velcro bands velcro bands or any of the other similar products on the market. They're cheap, effective and often high-viz and/or reflective. 

It's hard to diagnose the problem remotely, though the suggestions in the comments are good things to try. Normally, I try to give "educational" answers that show people how to fix problems on their own, but I don't feel I have the expertise in this case, so I'm going to make the non-educational suggestion. Your bike is brand new, so you should take it back to the shop you bought it from. New bikes almost always need a little adjustment after a few weeks and your bike shop will be happy to fix the problem for you. There's probably nothing seriously wrong and it won't even be treated as a warranty issue unless parts need to be replaced. They'll just make the necessary adjustments, very likely without charge. From a purely mercenary point of view, they want you to be a happy customer so you come back and spend more money there. But, actually, my experience is that bike shops seem to be full of genuinely nice people who want you to be happy cyclist because they care about cycling. 

If you feel that signalling puts you in danger of falling off your bike, are you really sufficiently stable on it to be safe in traffic? The wind can easily upset you much more than sticking your hand out. Or the turbulence from a vehicle passing too close. It's probably a lack of confidence than a lack of ability. Being able to ride the bike is the hard part and you can already do that; going from riding with two hands to riding with one hand doesn't take much more. Practise on a quiet street with a decent surface, riding at a comfortable pace (it's harder to balance when you're moving slowly). To start with, just release your grip of the handlebar with one of your hands, with your palm still on the bar. Once you're confident that this actually does nothing at all, lift your hand just above the bar – you can grab the bar again in a fraction of a second if you need to. Then take your hand further and further from the bar. Then try sticking it out to the side. You just signalled! (So best check there's nobody around who'll misunderstand that.) Don't assume that anything other than signalling will alert drivers or even other cyclists to your intentions. 

Your new bike doesn't work properly: of course this isn't normal. At this point, your best option is surely to return the bike to the shop for a full refund and buy a new bike from somewhere else. If there are no other Trek dealerships nearby, buy another brand. You exact legal rights in this situation will depend on where in the world you are but I would expect that the right to return faulty goods for a full refund should be pretty much universal. One would hope that the shop will just accept your request for a refund. If they don't, you'll need to find out about your rights, and maybe ask on Law Stack Exchange. 

The tyre wall appears to be splitting or the layers are coming away from each other. Yes, that's bad because it will lead to failure of the tyre. Failure probably isn't imminent but you should replace it as soon as is practical; new tyres aren't very expensive. 

Standards documents themselves are usually rather expensive (£254 for this one, even though it's obsolete) so I doubt many here have access to the full text. 

You definitely don't need rear suspension: that's for serious off-road riding. For riding on the road and the very mild hardly-off-road-at-all riding you're proposing, rear suspension just adds a lot of weight and it flexes as you pedal, which uses up some of your power. Also, it's a complex system that gives you about five more things to go wrong on the bike you're trying to make your living with. Your profile says you're in San Francisco: you do not want to be lugging a full-suspension bike up those hills. Good rear suspension systems are very expensive: the systems fitted to lower-end bikes are not good. I would advise against front suspension. It does help smooth rough roads but it comes with the same disadvantages as rear suspension, albeit to a much smaller extent. It's perfectly possible to drop off kerbs without damaging your bike, as long as you go slowly and use your body to cushion the impact: lift your ass off the saddle and bend your knees and elbows to act as your own suspension. All of the above is assuming that you'll be carrying stuff in a backpack, rather than on the bike. If you want to carry stuff on the bike, your only suspension option is likely to be front suspension and a rear rack. I wouldn't recommend dropping off kerbs if you're carrying stuff on the bike. Definitely get mudguards. Don't get super-knobbly tyres because that buzzing noise they make on the tarmac is the sound of angry bees stealing your power. But you probably don't want completely slick tyres since you won't be on the road all the time. Final recommendation: talk to a bike shop. They'll be able to give you more detailed advice about your specific situation, not least because you can have an interactive conversation with them, whereas we have to just read your question and write a few paragraphs of text. They'll also be able to do some customization for you, such as fitting a stronger rear wheel with more spokes, to better cope with the extra load and the fact that you have a job to do so you don't want to spend all day mothering your bike. Double-final recommendation: don't buy the cheapest bike you think you can get away with. I'd aim to spend at least twice the minimum, to get something that's nicer to ride (you'll be on it all day) and more reliable (so you can be on it all day). 

What harm could it possibly do? The cranks are held firmly in place by the bottom bracket; the back wheel is held firmly in place in the drop-outs. The chain is completely non-structural: all it does is transmit power from the pedals to the rear wheel. The only issues I can think of are 

The system you propose is just a third way to change gear, in a mechanically very complicated way. Any benefit that could be obtained by lengthening the cranks can already be obtained by moving to an easier gear and a bike with two or even three front chain rings and anywhere between five and eleven rear sprockets has plenty enough gear ratios available to cover all situations. And if the range of gears available isn't wide enough, replacing the chainrings and/or rear cassette is a much simpler fix. 

In terms of safety, it's very difficult to give any advice other than "get it fixed." You're basically asking people to evaluate an unknown risk for you – we don't really know the condition of the bike, we don't know how you'll ride it. It's possible that somebody who rode the bike could understand its limitations and therefore ride safely on it. But, even then, it's hard to advise somebody else, who doesn't have that feel for the machine, how to ride it, what situations to avoid and so on. And how terrible would we feel if we said it was probably OK to ride, you took that advice and ended up in hospital or worse? Ultimately, if you can't tell by feel what is working and what isn't, you should just get it fixed.