Before you start, check very closely at the top and down tubes, about 1-2 inches behind the head tube welds. Your frame may be damaged in these spots, which is totally counter-intuitive. A steel bike will develop two rust rings here after a front-end collision. Use a magnifying glass or a jewellers loupe, and a bright light to look for any cracks or distortions. A metal ruler can be used as a straight-edge to look for sharper bends. Spending money on forks may be wasted if the frame is damaged. That said - I rode a steel bike that had frontal damage for several months. You need to make a judgement call once your inspection is done. Can't build a house on a poor foundation; can't build a bike on a damaged frame. 

Three is no way to know what you have. BMXs are generally very similar. Serial numbers are not like VINs on a car, they are not catalogued together anywhere and they're not even guaranteed unique across a manufacturer. Your best bet is to talk with whoever supplied the frame. Ask them for info, but sellers may state its ValuableBrand when its not. You appear to have a lot of bearings and parts, which is awesome and uncommon. Simply paint it and reassemble, and enjoy the bike for what it is. Just don't label it as something its not. You can get custom decals made up for cheap, call it a "Jutorrey" and you're no less wrong than anyone else. 

Second thought - noone has mentioned checking your fluid levels. There should be brake fluid in the reservoir, which will be at the top of the hydraulic part/downstream end of the cable part. Low fluid levels will end up drawing air into the system, which makes for poor squishy braking. If this is happened, you need both a brake bleed and a topup minimum. Otherwise a complete flush and then refill with new fluid, followed by a bleed. 

The minimum you'll need at least a triple front crank. You can't just attach a third chainring to your existing two. Depending on what you find, the right crank arm may be integrated and non-removable from the front chainrings. Of course the new crank arm would require the same bottom bracket fitment as your existing one.... or you're up for a new bottom bracket too and a replacement crank arm on the left side. Pedals should be fine - there's a good chance they're 9/16" thread, and a very small chance they're 1/2" which is a kids size. If your front derailer has enough range of motion then it could be okay, otherwise a new front mech. Some front cages (the bit that pushes the chain about) may not drop low enough to cover the three cranksets. You'll have to try and see. Your left gear shifter - if its a friction one it may be okay, but you probably want one with enough cable pull to haul the derailerereureur about three positions. Good news is you shouldn't need a new chain (although check for chain stretch and replace if its got too much longer. The rear cassette should be okay. This answer is not SRAM specific because I don't know a lot about their models. Someone else who knows their product? 

Backpacks are intended and designed for backs. I've biked with a tramping pack on and its not fun (modern ones tend to be too tall behind your head) I'd go with a trailer. Here's some ideas These guys make single-wheel trailers and are well known. $URL$ They are "in line" and give the least frontal area increase. $URL$ Some trailers are built with the same size wheel as your bike, so you have a spare with you. Some more "home made" approaches $URL$ Here's exactly what I mean 

Switching mechanically is nothing more than having a toggle switch fastened to your bowden cable inner, and mounted rigidly so that pulling the inner cable switches the switch. Poor picture but imagine this with the bowden cable inner clamped to the slider. Downside is the switch will limit the travel of the inner. Electronic/magnetic switching straps a permanent magnet to your bowden cable inner, and then runs that magnet past a reed switch. They relay will be either a Normally Open or a Normally Closed, and will close or open as the magnet moves. Downside is that these cannot take much current, so are often used to drive a relay capable of higher currents. 

That's an indication of possible crash damage, because the brake arms have bent and distorted their mounts. However your photo shows rear mounts which are rarely damaged this way. It can also happen if someone deforms the mount by using the wrong bolt, or over-tightening it and deforming things. You may be able to use a small automotive bearing puller to pull the brake arm off. A couple of flathead screwdrivers can help provide leverage. Another moderately good help is to warm the area with a hairdryer on high. This may be hot enough to damage plastics, but shouldn't damage paint. If the frame is carbon fibre or aluminium alloy then don't try heat, but it works nicely on steel. Last resort is to cut the brake arm off using a dremel and small cutoff wheel. Its very hard to avoid damaging the mount posts though. 

Looks like there might be welding in your bike's future. A competent welder might be able to attach some better seat stays that terminate below the clamp. Then you'd use a normal saddle on a normal seat post. BUT there will be a lot of unsupported seat tube poking up. As a tall rider, I have over-extended seatposts leading to bent seatposts and cracked frames. 

Curiously, I learned that some cycling police are permitted to choose their own bikes, either from a curated list or simply given a spending limit. Other bike cops may pick something from the "recovered bikes" impound lot once the 6 month claim period has expired, rather than sending the bikes to auction or to a recycler. 

* Not a bike, but I've had to do this on my car more than once. You could use an automatic center punch, just a little off center. If you're getting nowhere, move on to something more vandalistic. 

What to do? Null case - Nothing If you're just tootling around, you don't have to do anything. Simply be aware you may suffer from shortness of breath, dizziness, headaches, nausea and vomiting, brownouts, blackouts and fainting, so rest periodically and don't push through any warning signs. 

When drilling, it was easy to drive a bit hard and clonk the drill bit into the far side of the tube. The tapered reamer didn't work for the same reason. So to protect the bare steel I sprayed some zinc-based paint on the edges, and into the hole to hit the far side. Finished fitment. The paint's not great (okay its pretty awful) but the insert sits really close in and has no problem with M5 bolts. 

Cadence - the faster you can pedal while maintaining a good posture and bike control, the better. The indicator that you're spinning too fast is bouncing in the saddle. If that happens go up a gear, or try to round-off your pedal stroke into a more circular shape. If you have a good steady climb nearby, try doing it in a lower than normal gear, but turning the cranks faster. Avoid bouncing in the saddle - its a waste of energy and makes your backside sore. Plus it looks bad. 

Iberia From $URL$ Please remember that safety considerations determine the ability for the aircraft hold to carry items of special baggage. Therefore, in some cases it may not be possible to check in these items. Space reservation: In order for special baggage to be carried on the flight, it must be accepted beforehand and a space reserved at least 24 hours prior to check-in. Checking-in at the airport: The passenger must arrive at the airport with sufficient time for their luggage to be checked in, transported to the plane and loaded in the hold. Loading of equipment: Due to their size or shape, special baggage normally cannot be transported on airport conveyor belts. The use of an alternate system to make transporting such items from the check-in area to the aircraft easier is at the discretion of company staff. The passenger will bear any costs that may arise from transporting the equipment. Luggage that must be checked-in: A charge of 45 euros* will be applied, irrespective of luggage allowance, to sporting goods and musical equipment.Payment for these items must be made at the check-in desk. *Except firearms and at London Heathrow Airport) **Different taxes, charges and fees may apply, in accordance with the relevant legislation in each country. Exception: For Iberia Singular, Iberia Plus Infinite, Platinum, Gold and Silver cardholders, these items shall always be considered as part of the luggage allowance. This advantage is not extended to oneworld holders. Bicycle A non-motorized single-saddle bicycle. Must be checked in with pedals removed, tyres deflated and must be perfectly packaged. Price: 45 Euro