Realism is a priori neutral on these issues. It only says that there exists something objective, independent of the fact that we observe or represent it (and usually that it corresponds to our representations of it). The issue of mereology has more to do with the question of reduction and emergence. You have reductive and non-reductive physicalism for example, but both are versions of realism. 

It is generally assumed that scientific theories are underdetermined by experience (there can be alternative theories with the exact same empirical content), and that in turn the metaphysical interpretation of the theory is underdetermined by the theory. One argument that supports this assumption is the Quine/Duhem thesis: no hypothesis is tested in isolation (there are always many auxillary hypothesis, for example concerning measuring apparatus), and when a test fails, there are always different ways to fix the theory, which means different theories equally well supported by experiment. The examples you provide are good historical examples and generally, although there are other more philosophical ones, such as Descartes' evil demon (the theory that everything I sense is produced by an evil demon) and toy examples constructed by philosophers themselves (Newton's theory, plus the assumption that the whole universe moves at a certain speed). Philosophers discuss the criteria that allow one to choose between competing theories, such as simplicity, non-adhocness, explanatory power, and whether these criteria have anything to do with truth. Some argue that they are strategic criteria for directing inquiry toward the truth, or that they are pragmatically justified by their success in past scientific inquiry. It can be also argued that apart from trivial cases (such as Descartes' demon or Newton's theory plus universal movement), there will always be a way to discriminate empirically between competing theories in the future. What counts as empirical data evolves with time and somehow depends on the theories. New theories can provide new kinds of experiments. Furthermore, the process of unifying distinct theories which apply to distinct areas of inquiry could eventually solve the underdetermination. Differences in interpretation could play a role in entailing different ways of unifying distinct theories, and could then be indirectly discriminated empirically. In this debate, you seem to be advocating some form of structural realism: we should only be commited to the mathematical structure of theories, not their metaphysical interpretation. This is a rather fashionable position. However there are also objections to it (which in turn might be answered): for example, how do you make sense of the distinction between mathematical and physical structure if not through a metaphysical interpretation? Or do you endorse mathematical platonism? Don't you need some common-sense interpretative content to apply your theory in specific experimental contexts? There are also arguments to the effect that claiming that a mathematical structure exists or is instantiated in reality is some trivial statement, from a logical point of view (you can always arbitrary arrange anything in order to "view" it like any structure you like, if only the number of objects to realise that structure are sufficient). So structural realism would boil down to another, anti-realist position: the claim that our theories are empirically adequate. This amounts to accept the underdetermination of theories, and therefore refuse to assume that we are in a position to know whether our theories are "true" in a strong sense. Having said that structural realism is still defensible and could be a good answer to underdetermination. 

Patrick is a bachelor is equivalent to Patrick is unmarried. If Patrick is a bachelor, then he is unmarried, and if he's unmarried, then he's a bachelor. Quantifiers 

Philosophy of physics is a whole field of contemporary philosophy. There are many debates in the field, concerning for example the interpretation of quantum mechanics, the role of symmetries in physics, questions regarding formalism choice or relation between the formalism and reality, the status of causation in physics, the status of laws of nature, the role and nature of explanations, the nature of space and time, reduction and emergence and relations between physics and other fields (chemistry, biology), continuity between old and new theories, the nature of observation and the pragmatics of experimentation, the role of epistemic or non epistemic values in theory choice... There are also methodological issues concerning the relation between metaphysics and physics. Philosophers of physics are usually taking a difference stance than that of Bergson, in that they attempt to interpret physics and provide conceptual tools to understand it rather than criticise it in relation to pre-theoretical intuitions. There is a dialogue between philosophers and physicists, and although most physicists are not acquainted with philosophical jargon, they mostly talk the same language. Most philosophers of physics have a scientific training. Physicists are often invited in philosophical conferences. Some work together on the same projects, for example in the field of quantum gravity. Having said that, this dialogue is rather scarce due to institutional separations. With notable exceptions, most physicists completely ignore philosophical work on their topics. If you're interested, you can find articles there: $URL$ 

Per my understanding, he means that we only come to know our own existence in contact with others, when others send back to us our own image (how we appear to them). It follows that "I" is an inherently social concept and that the cogito "I think" (recognizing one's own existence) is only attainable for social beings. 

If you take "fitting a definition" to mean meeting the criteria associated with this definition, then it's a fact that something fits a definition. So for example, as you say, it can be a fact that an object O falls down. Now imagine that you define a new term "fallingobject" with the criteria that something is a fallingobject if it falls down. Then it's a fact that O is a fallingobject, i.e. that it fits this definition, because what you mean by "O is a fallingobject" is just that O falls down, and by stipulation, this is a fact. 

A and possibly not-A are not contradictory in modal logic. In your question, you use epistemic possibilities: what is possible or not given our current knowledge. Now A could be the case while it would still be possible, according to our limited knowledge, that not-A, so A and possibly not-A are not contradictory. You seem to mean by "let us assume A" that we would know that A is the case. Then of course it will be contradictory, but this should be expressed in modal logic by "necessarily A"which is indeed contradictory with "possibly not-A". If you had assumed, say, nomological possibilities, whether something is possible according to the laws of nature, there would be no contradiction either: "tomorrow or will rain"could be true while at the same time, "tomorrow it will not rain"could also conform to the laws of nature. However there's indeed a paradox with knowledge, called Fitch's paradox, which more or less resembles yours. You might be interested in that. $URL$ Also related is Aristotle's discussion on fatalism $URL$