An article (link below), an essay and the story around the intention and means on right speech, might help to understand the "Demons of defilements" in regard of certain justifications good: Right Speech is Not Always Gentle (by Sallie B. King) - about justifying wrongs That same issue counts as well for speaking and not speaking. Skillful and unskillful delay. But since the untrained mind is not capable to trace the real intention, the Buddha did not gave much advices there and it's not even judgeable from outside if not capable to read others mind, why one might be silent and why speaking. It's complex but also easy when keeping it simple. Precepts just as they are without justification. Additions on question in discussion: 

But there is no real evidence (althought really not praiseworthy) if relation-free (or given free), "voluntary", and correct in regard of the deal, that selling ones own body is primarily to be regarded to be unskillful, not to speak of general worthy to be as "bad" blamed. Cheating others harms, of course. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains of trade and exchange] 

An Arahat does not accept, does not believe. He knows, has gained the knowlegdes, this seeing clearly are features of awakening, and to get disenchanted with any kind of craving ofter becoming or no-becoming. 

In modern world it's often regarded as "poor" if asking questions. "What, you don't know?", others would fast lower others, yet forgeting that they have been given before as well. It is also the subtil fear to be obligated, fall into debt, that people "force" not to ask or on wrong places, wrong people and so the tendency goes in direction "steal" thinking not causing debts. The times of google and more or lesser anonymos exchange places make it even more common that people seek, if even, for places to gain, where they believe not to accumulate debts. It's not seldom, out of this, that "asking questions" is estimated as childish, the way "unwise" and "poor", "people of less skill" come to gain Dhamma. What do you think, is there an adult way that replaces questioning? Is asking questions, asking for things childish? (A maybe useful reflection that might make some parts understandable for answering the question: Giving, taking and the "new" world - "Labour makes (you) free!?") [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

[Note: this is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by trade and exchange] 

To deal, sell or operate with sex-worker, making use of them, would be in the sphere of "business with living being, humans, salve work, so to speak, which is sure not easy to be done without getting involved in primare unskillful deeds. Not that primaly unskillful can be traced if doing such voluntary, yet of course can involve one in conflicts brought by the buyer and of course sensual pleasure is an obstacle for the path, yet normal way of business in all sphere under lay people. As for the seller and also buyer, he/she should be aware, this message needs to be reflected clear: 

As long it is seen that "even this state is fabricated, subject to decay and therefore suffering", (e.g. leads to disenchantment, no-craving at least) doing Jhāna in excess gives release. Note, that for this "simple" approach, all Jhānas need to be inspected, all kinds of places of existance, even the most refine, should be known, so that what ever kind of being is not confused with release. Upāli Sutta as one of many example. It would not be ease for a householder to ever reach Jhāna, since he/she is by nature stingy in many regards, grasping after a home, not able to travel far and get the world known as it actually is. A feartue that is prerequisite even for the first Jhana. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low kinds of gain by means of trade and exchange.] 

At least yes, the Dhamma as a stand, or "my" understanding of Dhamma, all stands/views (diṭṭhī) have to be abounded at least, whereas the Dhamma (teching), the raft, will be abounded when having reached the other shore, see the "raft - simile". Note that it is the very last, and in no way good to abound fist or in the middle of the ozean. Having layed down all views, seeing knowing as unreal as well, one then might reach what is called paññā-vimutti knowing-release, where all kinds of stands or views are abounded, would no more related to. The word under-stand-ing it self shows well that it is a matter of "holding on it" (upādāna), yet there are Dhammas, there is a Dhamma, that is useable to get free of unreal, insecure (anicca) things. The first step here is to distinguishing right understanding from wrong understanding: Micchatta Sutta: Wrongness, and after having developed the path completely, one, by abounding it also, gets free of troubles: 

Wisdom is only gained by giving and letting go for that is the only way to see: "This is suffering. This is the cause of suffering. This is the cessation of suffering. This is the path of training leading to cessastion of suffering. Before going on to the supramundane right view (without stand), there is mudane right view to developed first, since right view beyond would be just paññāti (illusion) if not based on right stand at first place. When ever a liberated being would take a stand so that he could be understood within the world, he would take his stand on right view, a firm base where one can but on his next step. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

Having trained them quite good and eager, they might be able to understand the teachings on Kamma and rebirth later on better. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purposes or other low wordily gain by trade an exchange with it.] 

(Not put on accesstoinsight.eu, as htlm, for now, so letters are here not proper displayed, open work, but fine in the pdf) 

[Note: This is agift of Dhamma and not meanr for commercial purposes or other low wordily gains in trade or exchange] 

So if not jhanaing, listen, think, read, reflect, talk... on Dhamma is quite fine. Don't 'relaxe' on unskillful causes. When ever possible, instead of letting attention get off, take the hand of an admirable, friend, ni-mitta, Wether by mind, speech*, Or the body of breath. Appamada! [*] Food is used to become free of desire after food, so train your hunger all the time and don't let you become a Sea Squirt [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purposes or other wordily trade] 

My person likes to correct. It actually needed for every deed (by mind, speech an body) to "know" what's up, to speak in common words. Such can be done by everyone, everywhere and will possible lead to insight. In regard of this and the question on "keeping on thinking: anicca" it's possible not only for insight, this world and the next of benefit to apply anicca. Especially if just an idea, defilements will use it when things actually matter (in thimes of dislike) and forget it in times when actually of use (when greed arises). So if not leading a complete contemplative live, especially then, it (the constant repeating of anicca) will propably lead to dangerous householder-equanimity. To provide here some words of people who practiced: 

Often my person comes accross certain "disclaimers" in regard of the use of Dhamma-Practice, the medicine of the Buddha, his therapy, saying, like just read again here in an answer: 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gain by means of trade and exchange] 

Orion, There is a nice explaining by Upasaka John Bullitt, generous giver of ATI: Befriending the Suttas - Tips on Reading the Pali Discourses which does not require much to add at all in the questions regard. Maybe a random Sutta as restarter today? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for commercial purpose or other wordily gains] 

It's the time of many illness, (hot, heavy rain, cold,... hard work on field.... was troubled by my self by heavy malaria attack those days and many villagers have/had also troubles these days. Not so access to medicine in earlier times, the "time" probably "caused" more death and pain as other) Wiki might also give food for thought in regard of origin and practicing: Ghost Festival 

One might fear to try it, but than it's known, possible to make it a valide direct perception again. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange, directed to Nibbana, to simply let go] 

What do you think? Is the lack of saṃvegaṃ the root cause of not striving after benefical deeds of merits and the path? Is not seeing "dukkha' the cause why the prince in the palast does not really act? Or do you think that pasada, or such as possible further pleasure, is the root of the sequence at the first place? And what does the Buddha's insight into dependig co-arising, cause and effect, teaches about that? [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

If knowing even this that fertlized... If not knowing that it died, it is to be assumed. Eggs have possible life in it. That is something seen and known, for the most, yet not an inherent knowledge of everyone at the same time. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

The notion (ārammaṇaṃ) of "self" is impermanent. Therefore it is 'not real' (anicca). Not real 'does not make sense' (anattha) . What ever is not real, does not make sense, is brudensome, makes stress (dukkha). It's just the process of becoming and decay, which is seeming to be real (nicca), till stopping to build again and "take a grasp", giving it a sense (atta). For now, you are real and act with effect. (Atma/my person, "likes" the word 'Paññatti', 'taking for real', but more 'paññāvimutti') [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma and not meant for trade for wordily gain] 

Non of both, if it has been seen as it is. Of course the endless taking birth is caused by desire for becoming or not-becoming, but to see or to have firm faith in tgat fact, is not to be seen as wrong view, but actually as right view. 

And the best way to learn things is: Better to Give than to Consume. So if one gives time and effort and goes through all given links and reverences, with respect and gratitude, one can espect to gain really good understanding of the matter of judging of what is worthy and will find out that there is no way than to eager strive by means of giving to become worthy of gifts by oneself and represent one self in the way one has received the goodness of others. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.] 

but with who and for what purpose. A person tended to Dhamma and liberation will not be found on ordinaty social medias by nature but would seek for association with Noble one or those following them. My person gave a extanded talk on Sangama, yet it is in German: Socialicing - សង្គម [Sangama] One might now thing that "buddhist" Forums and Networks are differen. That is not the case. Nearly all those places and Networks, since mostly also householder undertakings, are nothing else as places for low kinds of coupling, entertainmend, nourishment of sensual pleasure and becoming, identify. If someone, in the way of serving, helping, assisting, those with noble inspiration, with tendency to Nibbana, seeks of relation with them, seeks for much as possible assosiation, this would be the reason why it can be aspected, that such a person soon might develope right view and progress on the path. So one is wise if only join places and communities where good deeds are in action practiced and to possible avoid places of consumery, of what even many "buddhist" place are, just charing and eating food (most from third, without any estimate ir obligation) and non of virtues visible. 

Breath, and those interested, those possible worthy of special gifts, capable to take, assuming that accurate is meant in regard of the followed question that might be rephrased "Does the Buddha say here: Giving does not lead to merits, when saying: 'If one were to develop even for just a finger-snap the perception of inconstancy, that would be more fruitful than the gift, the great gift, that Velāma the brahman gave, and [in addition to that] if one were to feed one person...'. Actually this Sutta (or better wrong understandig of it) is in fact for most wester and modern people the reason why they deny that making merits, developing goodness, is needed and so deny the developing of generosity, sila, if even, without goodness cause of letting go for the sake of beyond. Most western, moder "Buddhist" are actually training in line of th Jains who seek refuge in what is called householder-equanimity by the Buddha, meaning that they develope ignorance in the cloth of equanimity the construct around the actual path of letting go and factually do not give anything but merely amass in this way. Make simply sacrifies to keep the flame of death alive, loka-dana. See: [Q&A] What happens when your tank is empty, and you’ve got nothing left to give It's message is also (and with the same cause) that giving without virtue "regardless of whether a gift is coarse or refined, if it is given inattentively, disrespectfully, not with one's own hand, as if throwing it away, with the view that nothing will come of it", or an object of virtue (without reflecting and keeping "buddha, Dhamma, Sangha", un-deluded in mind, has not much value for the path. Giving so, no good perception of something worthy for gifts (because there is no worthy known or traced), the gift, sacrify is for like-alike, sacrify for like-alike or even lower, leads one there, keeps one there, simply for the sake of keeping the flame of death alive. Like many (Brahmans, some even for what they think that it leads them to become Buddhas, being Velama, yet not even have wealth to share, to possible differents to Vemala) here. They possible think that they make merits why carring about an "unclean" place, are attached to like-alike and not directing their sacrifies to the three juwels, the Sangha as the unexcelt field of merits. So they nurish just whe world, what ever one nurishes will grow (inwardl and outwardly), and that counts for staring as well. Doing "merits" in such a way, it is clear that people putting effort into perceptions which are not worthy of special sacrifies, actually just sacrify for their own sake, becoming and selfish purpose. That is why one should keep right joy in giving in mind, using the three juwels as persection, Nibbana and what leads there, as object of ones deeds, one who seeks for gaining merits, goodness, that leads upwards and beyound. It such is done in an enviroment that does not provide for developing such, has not the purpose for such, is not supported by proper joy, people directed to Nibbana, but simply fot the worlds and becoming sake, to keep the flame of becoming, death alive, its of no fruits of no merits at all: 

Nevertheless, like food is used to overcome desire for food, so is it with socialicing. It's not so that one should abound what is called 

Althought there are many expressions denoting Nibbana, even and especially by the Buddha: No, is't not possible to describe, just or simply not in the sphere of "All", senses and their faculties, since it lies beyond. 

[Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other kinds of low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange] 

Two days ago, my person translated a possible benifical talk on this matter, which is actually nothing else as complacency, or pamada. ([Q&A] Appamāda - What is it? How to practise it? Benefits?) So here are the traditional and required three tools: Respect, Confidence & Patience Is more than smart, to beginn with devotional practice and integrate it in daily live, for a practice without that will in all ways lead just to another complacency. As the Buddha told even after awakening: "One suffers if dwelling without reverence or deference."... now think how poor and in suffering are those not awakened, not having proper means for devotion and act on it. All they could do and do is consuming, consuming signs, sounds, smells, tasts, touches, ideas... a poor consumers life like that of the most. There is no much better practice as to simply assist and render help for ones teacher, and it's already a practice on the path. Veyyāvacca, only in German for now. Usually one starts by his first Gods in doing so, one parents. And to give you as well as others the possibility to serve, having the Sangha and the other Gems as object, there are many ways to get joy and to spend ones time by working on ones conditions, even if maybe not capable for intensive meditation practice, here. There might be others as well, and if even have a monastery near, monks you could assist, take this oppotunity. [Note: This is a gift of Dhamma, not meant for commercial purpose or other low wordily gains by means of trade and exchange.]