The market for a currency typically has the y axis labelled as (currency1/currency2) where currency1 is the currency in which the demand and supply is for. If this is the case, wouldn't it mean that a vertical movement upwards along the vertical axis mean that the currency is in fact depreciating rather than appreciating? For example, if a point on vertical axis is originally at £3/1USD and a movement upwards along the vertical axis to a point where £5/1USD, does this not mean that the pound has depreciated? I'm curious all of a sudden because I've always been told and analysed the currency market as one where any upwards/downwards movement on the vertical axis represents appreciation/depreciation, but the example I've just given seems to conflict with this. I've also found various sources where a movement upwards along the vertical axis shows an appreciation, such as in the pic below, which is how I've always viewed the market until just now. 

If an indifference curve shows quantities where a consumer's utility from consuming two goods are equal, then why are there infinitely many indifference curves? From the diagram, you can have Q1,Q2 on IC1, but then you'd have Q1,Q3 on the other indifference curve, wouldn't that mean the consumer would receive the same utility from consuming Q1 and Q2 as well as if he had consumed Q1 and Q3, i.e. for a given Q1, the consumption of Q2 gives the same amount of utility as Q3? Shouldn't this mean that the indifference curve should be unique? 

The answer is A. I understand why it is A, but do not understand why it isn't C. Doesn't the point where the consumption line and 45 degrees line intersect represents the equilibrium income level? 

How/why does the money supply shift leftwards to accommodate a return to "money-market equilibrium", and what is such an equilibrium to begin with? Additionally, is this shift automatic or is it one where the government must intervene? 

I understand that within a single labour market, the wages would be the same between two workers as firms and workers are both wage takers, but what about when there is more than one perfectly competitive labour market: if the labour market for jobs A and B are both perfectly competitive, would the workers in A earn the same as the workers in B, provided that the two jobs are not the same? 

Would it be correct to say that the Permanent Income Hypothesis (PIH) stipulates that current consumption decisions are made based on future income projections/expectations, while the Life Cycle Hypothesis (LCH) claims that consumption is constant over the average person's life time, and this is made possible, despite changes in income level throughout his/her lifetime, through borrowing when younger and savings during the elderly years? 

Which of Arrow's four desirable properties is violated? I'm guessing that the "Unanimity" preference would be violated, because agent 2 prefers $b$ over $c$, but this is not reflected in society's ranking? The four desired properties I am referring to are: 1/ Complete and transitive preferences 2/ Respect unanimity 3/ Non-dictatorial outcomes 4/ Independence of irrelevant alternatives 

I understand most of the reasoning, but don't understand what the actual paradox here is, as I believe there can be up to three potential paradoxes: 

As far as I'm aware, in the absence of any changes in the long run aggregate supply LRAS, any changes in the level of aggregate demand AD or short run aggreagete supply SRAS should eventually in the long run see the economy return to full employment, as per monetarist theory. How does the economy return to full employment when there is a change in the SRAS, when, for example, SRAS decreases? 

In the next paragraph, there is another reference to the price as being the minimum that people were willing to pay: 

individuals increase savings when they should be spending more to get out of the initial recession an increase in individual saving actually ultimately decreases total savings what benefits an individual (increased saving during a recession) actually makes the overall economy as a whole worse off. 

I have always thought that if occupations belonged to a perfect labour market, it would mean that due to the assumptions of perfect mobility and homogeneity of labour, wages will always adjust so that wages are always equal across industries. The marking scheme seems to imply that this does not have to be the case. One possible caveat I suspect would make the question's situation possible would be if the firms do not operate in perfectly competitive product markets, though I am not sure about this, and neither did the marking scheme mention this. 

If money neutrality stipulates that only nominal variables will be affected following changes in money supply, then does this mean that following such money supply changes, real GDP remains unchanged while nGDP changes, as changes in money supply causes changes in price levels, and nGDP is by definition real GDP (which is unchanged) * price level deflator? 

My question comes out of the context of the explanation for quotas in the textbook Macroeconomics, 4th edition by Paul Krugman. The explanation is for what could've happened had a quota on cab rides not been placed. In this explanation, the price of $5.50 is apparently the minimum price consumers are willing to offer: 

According to the following question, it seems as though cutting back on government spending increases the money supply (the answer is C). 

I understand how changes in interest rates affect the demand for currency (i.e. foreign exchange), but was wondering whether there is also an effect on its supply. I am hypothesising the following: high interest rates -> lower MPC -> people spend less on imports -> will supply fewer domestic currency in exchange for foreign currency -> reduces supply of currency in the FX market. Does such a hypothesis sound at all credible? Is there another way in which the interest rates can affect the supply of a currency? 

Firstly, my understanding of the interest elasticity of investment (IEI) is that it is the responsiveness of investment to changes in interest rates. As a result, I can think of one reason why the IEI may be affected: when there's a recession, the IEI may be more inelastic because of low business confidence and a negative accelerator effect. However, I believe there are most likely other fundamental factors that affects the IEI as well, which I haven't been able to think of. 

Shouldn't this price be the maximum price that consumers are willing to pay for, instead of the minimum price, as the book suggests? Why would a consumer not want to pay less that $5.50$ dollars per ride, at $5.30$ dollars for example, if the same quantity of rides (9 million) is offered? I have included a copy of the diagram that is referenced, which I redrew. The x axis is quantity of cab rides per year, in millions of rides. The y axis is the fare price per ride. The green, orange and red lines are the demand, supply and quota restriction lines respectively. Please click to enlarge image. 

My understanding is as follows: Normal Goods: Income and Substitution effects are both positive. Inferior Goods: Income effect negative, substitution effect positive. Substitution effect outweighs income effect and so although when the price of an inferior good F decreases (real income increases) and leads to an increase in the quantity of F consumed, this increase is small relative to the decrease in its price due to the substitution effect's magnitude being bigger than that of the income effect. Giffen Goods:Income effect negative, substitution effect positive. Unlike inferior goods, income effect outweighs the substitution effect. Please verify whether my understanding, as described above, is accurate. Additionally, is it correct to assert that the positivity/negativity of the substitution/income effect of a change in price of a good remains the same regardless of whether said good's price increases or a decreases, e.g. regardless of whether the price of a normal good N increases or decreases, its income and substitution effect will always be 'positive'?