There's a fine line between killing someone and failing to prevent their death. We have a lot of health and safety systems in place that are designed to prevent accidental death and injury, an environment where these aren't in place is not actively killing him, but nor are you trying to prevent him from dying. The numbers will get him eventually. Consider sending him to war. The bulk of people shooting at him aren't considering killing him. They're just killing and they don't care who. You could also set him up as the world's most successful sniper, those he kills, he kills and those who try to kill him, he kills. As it stands, you're making him suffer for no good reason, and in the process making yourself responsible for the deaths of many others. The simple fact you've put him in long term solitary has drawn attention to him in a way that is killing people whose only crime is wanting to kill him. Let him be an anonymous nobody in the street again and you'll have a lower death rate. Let him out, announce his death so that people stop thinking about him, and let him try to kayak solo across the pacific in winter if he wants to. What your question and many of the answers are showing is the moral to the story of Rudolf. Being different is punished unless it can be exploited. The fact so many people die around Joe is a testament to their character, not his, but he's the one who ended up in prison for it. 

But I want to go too! Everyone wants to go! but anyone whose skills aren't on the required list will have to pay the costs of their share of the ship, supplies and for all the support crew required for an extra person on the run. That's a lot of money for a pleasure cruise, I suggest making sure your skills are on the list and up to scratch for some highly competitive places. Either that or you have a whole lot of disposable income. Don't worry though, costs will come down once the technology matures (and competition will drop once the best people have gone). 

They represent a competing power Consider the spacing guild in Dune. They, for various reasons, control all interplanetary trade while being outside the control of any of the other competing powers. The Caspars represent an equivalent competing faction with no need to play the power games along with all the great powers, their own independent and incomprehensible aims which could be almost impossible to apply leverage to. They have no apparent needs apart from an occasional warm body, and who wants to risk becoming that warm body by upsetting a Caspar? Stories will abound. Why do they provide services? What do they gain from the relationship other than power over the groups who are dependent on their services? Governments fear that which they do not control, they fear even more that which could control them. For the sake of survival, the governments must maintain their own shipping fleets with human crews. 

One of the hardest things in military training is to get one man to kill another just because he's been ordered to. This was a key driving factor from conscripted armies to professional armies. Conscripts don't shoot to kill, that's if they shoot at all. This is not a problem for robots. Politically they're also a lot safer. Bringing home most of a robot because it was ambushed has a lot less political fallout than bringing home most of a soldier. Irrespective of which of these factors is stronger in your society, robots on the battlefield are ultimately inevitable. Cost is nothing in military spending. 

If you want to encourage more parties into your system use an AV/IRV voting system. This makes it easier for small party candidates to get in as it allows tactical voting as second option rather than only option. 

Balance is not an option, yet balance is the only option All things that are created must ultimately be destroyed. While the demons do their best to destroy everything and undo the balance, ultimately they cannot as they were not granted sufficient power. Loki is a special case Loki is not a spirit of destruction, he's a spirit of chaos. Sometimes a friend, sometimes an enemy, always bringing change. Loki stops you getting stuck in a rut and slowly fading away. 

Remember that the British Empire was partly democratic and partly autocratic depending on where you were standing at the time. This is liable to be true of any colony based expansion of human territories. Empire is not such a bad word as it specifically implies an entity made up of many smaller entities. The difference between an Empire and a Federation being that an Empire is centralised. 

Hubwards, Rimwards, Turnwise and Widdershins. If there are no fixed points then you have a problem. If there's an orbital mechanic of some sort then you have one of your directions, with the turn or against it. You have to remember that everything is ultimately arbitrary. Since you're in three dimensions then you'll have to pick three cardinal directions, give them fix points to plot relative to and you're done. Don't forget about the North Star (Polaris) and the Southern Cross when you're thinking about this. 

Transport: The first problem for steampunk is this: Electric cars (1834) predate IC cars (1885). As much as I keep trying to make it happen in theory, the traction engine (1850) does not evolve into the steamcar, we go straight to electric. Luckily this only applies to personal transport, the steam wagon did happen and that's what you need to build from. Given suitable investment and time, this could potentially develop into a viable long term form of transport. What you need is high pressure gas powered boilers, a closed steam cycle so you don't need to take on water all the time, and for really heavy loads, an equivalent to the diesel-electric engine (look at the size of that thing, it's no 2.0 TDI). The modern age and our toys: The key to making this happen is localised power generation. With the best steampunk will in the world, neither your computer nor your phone is going to run on coal. Your office however will. You can have a boilerman who is responsible for the power supply (and heating) for your office building, he comes in early, stokes up the boilers and gets the building ready for the day's work. There's no reason for most industry to suffer all that much, it ran before centralised electricity, it'll run without. You could also have localised residential power stations, but on the whole, electricity, and with it personal transport beyond the bicycle, is going to be a luxury for the wealthy. 

There's no such thing as bullet proof, only variations on bullet resistance. The answer to your question comes in the form of a poem. THE HIPPOPOTAMUS 

People have an addiction to working 9-5, it's built into our social status. Remember your first proper 9-5? The status boost you felt you had when you moved into real grown up working hours from whatever shifts you'd done before? That's why we have so many time zones rather than larger time zones where people work 10-6 on one side and 8-4 on the other. Consider taking that away and letting people not really care. In the UK they still work 0900-1700, in New Zealand they now work 2100-0500, it comes with a complication still. You went to work on Monday, but came home on Tuesday. Does your week start on Sunday night going into Monday or Monday night going into Tuesday? The days will still be tied to daytime in people's heads, regardless of what's on the clock. That's going to make international coordination even more complex than it is at the moment. When I was doing shifts, the first working day of your week was called Monday, it could well have been on Wednesday but it was still Monday. (The last working day was Friday, even though we worked 4 day weeks.) You could certainly reduce the number of time zones, but not all the way. It may be better to leave well alone as you add the complication of not just needing to know "what time it is there" but also "what time they start work there". As it is, 9-5 is a reasonable assumption and you just need to know the local time. 

What you're probably looking for here is a classic case of Gunboat Diplomacy. It's about as diplomatic as a knuckle sandwich but it does get the point across. As a tactic it sounds like it fits the personality of the leader in question as it's a true demonstration of how "great" the country is at least at a military level. One of the best known examples of this is the black ships that forced Japan to open up to international trade after the imperial powers had destroyed the Chinese fleet with similar vessels. Of course these days gunboat diplomacy doesn't need to involve actual gunboats. You could also use aircraft carriers, or economic sanctions. The latter being the preferred method in the modern age, though perhaps less effective in the short term than the black ships turned out to be, it has been effective in reigning in Iran and possibly toning down Russia's war in Ukraine. While sanctions have not been effective against DPRK, the gunboats didn't work there either. Sanctions are likely to be the most effective against a smaller partner directly dependent on your economy and trade with a near neighbour, say Spain and Portugal. They're less likely to be effective against a distant already somewhat isolated economy, like the US and DPRK. 

Townsfolk, carpenters, tailors etc. would not have horses. Nor would labourers, domestic servants or otherwise. There aren't in practice a lot of horses around. The militia would fight on foot. 

At this point I've already pretty much won the election and I haven't needed to find a weakness in your polling system yet. Unfortunately all these methods are par for the course even in our "free" "modern" western democracies. Gerrymandering is a favourite in the US, in the UK the Labour party has just run a massive soviet style purge of, ironically, the communists on their voting lists.