I did my first Vipassana course in Feb 2016. 10 Days. As a first timer, it went pretty well till the 7th Day. 1) On 5th, 6th and 7th day i was suffering from my head thrown back, or front, or sideways. At that that i thought i had dozed off hence the jerk. I ignored it. (I can never sleep while sitting, what i learnt in life from flights and long bus rides). 2) My forehead, third eye, used to feel strong sensations from past 1-2 yrs. It increased in vipassana and Teacher said it was normal. 3) On 7th day, I started having a feeling of light-headedness, like I was flying. I did the evening meditation very dedicatedly. I started "flying" even more, and i went ahead with it thinking it happens in meditation. It drove me away from focusing on body sensations. My focus went to forehead and head which was feeling extremely high sensations and feeling of flying. I ceased to feel my body. There was no pain anymore due to sitting for long without moving. My head was spinning, very high sensations, and flying high and high. I went with it. This was last meditation of the day and I went to bed. 4) The sensations wouldnt stop. Even with eyes open, even if I focused at the wall, the head would spin, sensations in forehead were strong and i would "fly". I tried to sleep, but as soon as i closed eyes, head was extremely dizzy, strong sensations, like maddening. Head was oscillating back and forth and sideways.I had to open my eyes. I sat up and rested my head against the wall. I fell asleep very late, when the body was so damn tired that it gave up, when i went to sleep in 1 second, before the closed eyes could feel the sensations i fell asleep. The night was spent sitting. Next day I talked to the teacher and she said the experiences were normal. She asked me not to "fly" and focus on sensations. 5) Day 8, 9, 10: I was not able to meditate. Day 8 - I was not able to close eyes. The moment i would close, the spinning and flying sensation would start and was unbearable for me. To stop from flying and focus on sensations i had to open my eyes. Day 8 i pretty much spent with few minutes of closed eyes only. Rest, i have sat with eyes open looking here and there, or focusing on breathing with open eyes. 6) Day 8, i realized that the spinning feeling was because of an invisible magnetic field moving around me. I was feeling it like wind blowing around me. Passing time nothing to do, i was casually looking at my thumbs together. My palms were in shape of a ball/cup. And it was like oh my god!.. There was a ver strong magnetic field rotating between my palms!! With this revealation, i focused on it and realized, that was what causing my head oscillate upto 135 degrees left and right, back and forth, 24 hrs, if i didnt held it with force. 7) Day 8, i decided not to meditate in evening. I sat through the sessions blankly with open eyes, after permission from teacher. But this helped me fall asleep at night. 8) Day 9, I met the teacher again. She said, meditate 2-3 min as much as i can. The moment i start flying too much, i should move to Aanapan and focus on breath. If i still fly, i should open eyes, come back to normal, and restart again with sensations. 9) I accepted it and spent my day9 and 10 like this. My concern was, what after 10 days? Do I continue like this? Am i doing anything incorrectly? 10) after returning home, the dizzyness continued.Flying sensations continued. It has been 10 days since i have returned, but i still feel little dizzy all 24 hrs. Dizzyness has reduced as my meditation has come down to 1 hr per day. But not gone. A hard rock music listener before, now even loud talking hurts my ears and head badly. But i take it as anitya and bear with it neutrally. The first time i drove car after vipassana, i took reverse to take it out from house. The reverse movement spinned my head so badly, if there was a car behind me, i wd hv hit it. It's difficult to focus on one thing, like a book, screen, one car ahead close to you, someone talking to you standing close,etc. This is going on with me all the time. I am not reacting, letting it go. 11) Meditation : I try for 1 hr daily, but the same problem persists. In 3-4 mins, i start flying. Forehead has severe sensations and takes my attention away. If i dont open my eyes, i start flying with the flying feeling. Magnetic force starts running around me again. If I continue with it, my head will oscillate again. But I shift to Aanapan, and open my eyes. Take 2-3 mins to be normal. Then restart. I am a strong believer, and I am not gonna leave it being scared. I am hear to face it, and if anything needs to be changed i am ready. Question.. whats happening to me? did i do anything incorrectly? what should i do with problems in normal life? what should i do with meditation practice? Please help Be happy and God bless 

Maybe Mr/Mrs Wally likes to start with "The Truth of Rebirth: And Why it Matters for Buddhist Practice". Its based on the Buddhas Leagcy and leads - in a direct way, without holding something back - to them in detail. (Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

(Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

One is simply not touched. Who should be touched. Things are arising, stay a little and decay. Its often described with the hide of a cow, replaced and put on the cow again. So here an Exhortation (Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

Maybe of thinking in loops? May Mr/Mrs stay with that and do fall into the all is anatta nonsens, which is simply vibhava tanha. Mr/Mrs would get tired even faster. (Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

Mr Ivan ("god is merciful"), because the Buddha did not like Mr Ivan to mistake an realm of existence for Nibbana, or the heartwood. That is why he described those states of being in detail. So when you start to travel, and do not just ponder why you should not travel yet, Mr Ivan is well prepared. In which plane of existence did you now take place? Nobody aside of Mr Ivan would know that, does Mr. Ivan do? (Note: this answer has not been given with the agreement to be means of trade or the purpose of/for trade and/or keep people trapped and bound. How you handle it lies in your sphere, but does not excuse the deed here either.) 

So your question is "" which means sacrifice, renowned and non attachment will bring Salvation. Nothing like anything is never said by Buddha. However coming back to question first of all Lord Buddha's view on salvation is a bit tricky if you are coming from a Hindu background, by that I mean you are not supposed to sacrifice anything just remain in the middle, as Lord Krishna also said remain in tranquility or there should be equanimity in life. As the question has been asked on Buddhism, So lets stick with buddha's view. So the aim to be always remain conscious, which seems to be impossible but with practice you will start realizing that you are doing better. Sit silently and start by focusing on breath, just observe your breath for 3 minutes in starting and do this at least three to six times a day, which should be easy you are android developer. Now also try to use 30 second rule multiple times a day, which in short is to try to remain in the present moment. Now lets say you feel good in meditation and at some point bad, Buddhism approach is that you will not get flown by mind in either of the above said situation, do not get excited when feeling good and do not feel depressed on feeling bad, just OBSERVE. OBSERVATION is very powerful 

Suppose I gave an good answer or a bad answer in both cases you do not get close to the reality because you will just believe me or not. Buddhism teaches you not to believe any thing you heard just observe yourself, Focus on sensations because higher class intellect is the only thing which differs humans from animals, So be wise and see yourself through vipassana and learn Dharma. We only ask this question when one is feeling negative sensation, Suppose you are ecstatic you would not ask this question, Why or what is life. Buddha said "when you realize the truth(how perfect is everything) you will tilt your head to the sky and laugh at it" 

Mind is a non living thing same as any object like a book or stone, it does not have its own existence, it is getting pran from soul. For example these trees and plants does not have soul, but there is one mind in earth. As Buddha says "Experience it, don't believe anything". So we are supposed to observe pran and chitta and then they are supposed to be mixed and become one.