There are a couple of suspension fork manufacturers that have adopted a fork design where the lowers have a reversed arch. I can't see that they claim any particular performance advantages for it, although there are some people on mountain biking forums saying they have improved torsional stiffness. Why would that be the case? Also, how do they compare in muddy conditions, more/less resistance to clogging? 

I have some new tubeless MTB rims and I'd like to avoid buying new tyres for them. The tyres are reasonably sturdy (Continental Race King Protection - 4 plies / total 240tpi) and I have sealant. As I understand it the sidewalls aren't as tough so you can't run on quite as low pressures as UST tyres but that's OK with me. Any other potential problems? 

In the end I put the nut bottom-up on an old piece of carpet, held the forks upside down and struck the nut into the steerer tube with medium force. It went in fairly flat. Then I screwed in the bolt and tapped it in carefully. It's actually quite straight. I don't think I'd recommend this method: I may have just been lucky this time. I do have the forks on now though! 

You can easily inflate a completely flat tire (provided the tube is still good). Usually, when a tire is completely flat, you have to press the back of the tire so that the valve doesn't recess into the tire so your pump can be attached properly to it. With a presta valve, you can use your mouth for this (well, on a clean tube, since the valve stem isn't spring loaded), but with a schrader valve you have to use a pump. If it still won't inflate, check the tire and tube for damage and replace accordingly. 

Don't ride like a numpty -- jumping curbs at 18 stone is not a good idea, especially with a loaded bike. You need to ride more carefully. However, many non-racing bikes these days are rated for around 18-19 stone riders (but of course, heavier riders will be more likely to cause damage). As for what to look for, a good quality hub (e.g. Shimano Deore), 32 or 36 spokes and a good name rim. It's not just the components that matter, but how they're put together, which means if you're concerned about it, talk to a good wheel builder. Some examples of why its not just the spoke count or whatever are outlined at this page by Peter White (thus, there isn't an objective number that will tell you wheel x is going to be stronger than wheel y -- a poorly built 36 spoke wheel can be much weaker than a well built 32 spoke wheel). Also, make sure your tire pressure is set appropriately for your weight. 

New wheels often make noise when the spokes settle. Avoid leaving tension in the spokes while building the wheel to avoid some of it. Read $URL$ I don’t know the English word for the German „Abdrücken“, but it basically means pressing the wheel downwards like this with considerable force all around the wheel and from both sides. It will relieve the spokes facing downwards, releasing their tension and you’ll hear lots of *pling* sounds from the spokes when doing this. After doing that you’ll probably have to re-true. Rinse and repeat. If you do that thoroughly enough the spokes shouldn’t move any more during usage and you shouldn’t hear any *pling* sounds on your first ride. A tensiometer is a good investment. 

So guessing from the figure they have something like 17mm width on the inside. A bit more than twice the (interior) width is usually okay for tires. So you could safely go up to ~35mm if your frame and brakes have enough clearance. You are probably considering the Schwalbe Racing Ralph, which are not bad, but if you have the money I’d recommend Michelin Mud2. 

Inline barrel adjusters shouldn't need be glued or anything -- they're held where they are due to friction. Depending on the adjuster, you put ferrules on both ends of the housing and then stick it in the ends of the adjuster, or you put some ferrule-like adjuster on one side of the housing and then a ferrule on the other and stick both ends into the adjuster or similar. All of them will do something like this if you remove the tension and pull them apart. And you normally hold one part and turn the other. Other barrel adjusters like the ones on frame stops will thread in or have some other locking mechanism. As for the particular adjuster you have, that seems to be a Jagwire inline adjuster which is normally installed in the middle of a cable -- normally, the STI shifters come with something like this installed as the adjuster (Shimano Y6UM98010, see this EV for example): 

I doubt the rolling resistance or air resistance will be much changed by using a 3 mm narrower tyre. In terms of compatibility there's a chart here where you can check your rim size against safe tyre combinations. Although as it says below, many people go outside this range without problems and I have done so myself. 

I doubt you will find any way of making the bike secure enough to leave alone for hours on end. Perhaps you could somehow fit solid motorbike panniers, but they would be awfully heavy and inconvenient when you do have to remove them. When buying groceries you basically have the choice of taking the bags with you or leaving them on the bike. What I do depends on the situation. Sometimes I'll put the panniers in a supermarket trolley and push them about the store. Sometimes in the countryside I'll go in a shop to buy some snacks and not even bother to lock the bike. But I always have my valuables in the handlebar bag and that always comes with me. As for wandering around the city, I would recommend you take a rest day and spend that one night in a hotel or hostel and leave the bike and bags with them. You'll be able to relax without worrying about your stuff and you'll have earned the hot shower and bed. 

Isn’t your front derailler simply mounted way too high? As a rule of thumb when shifted to the big chainring it should be ~2mm above the big chainring and parallel to it. 

Is there any kind of wobble or unevenness in the rim? There shouldn’t be more than about 1mm of wobble. If there is a noticeable wobble the wheel might simply need truing. Are the brake pads properly aligned? They should wear evenly over the whole surface. You can measure rim wall thickness with a caliper gauge. A sign for rim wear is also if you can measure a deformation (change in rim width) between zero and maximum tire pressure. 

I’d say it’s totally okay if the road is not closed for the event and still open for cars and other vehicles. 

Yes it is normal. You can carefully tighten the valve core with pliers or special tools. Medium strength Loctite helps a lot too. 

You have friction shifters so you don't need to worry about shifter compatibility -- any derailleur can be shifted with a friction shifter provided the shifter pulls enough cable to get through the range of required shifts. So, all you need to worry about is the capacity and extreme cog sizes. I'd just buy some Shimano derailleur like a Shimano Acera one for 15-20 bucks. 

You can give it coaster brakes (but note that it won't be a fixie; it will be a single speed which can coast without peddling with coaster brakes). Just buy or build a wheel with a coaster brake in it (you will need a coaster brake hub of the appropriate width) of the appropriate wheel size, put it in the dropout appropriately and then make sure to clamp on the reaction arm to the chainstay. That being said, coaster brakes for mountain biking are generally not a good idea. They don't dissipate heat very well, and you have less freedom to position your pedals. On top of that, coaster brakes often lock up which isn't great. On top of that, removing a coaster brake wheel is more work than just a quick release (for flats, for example). 

Where is the problem then? Saddle too high even when lowered as far as possible? The wheel size is completly irrelevant for that problem. Or are you unable to stand on the ground without your privates hitting the top tube? 

Is the question about non-stop cycling or just riding over several days or weeks? For non-stop cycling it’s less about starvation and more about the maximum power you can get from burning body fat. For the Race Across America the record (without any food restrictions) is 27km/h average over 4860km in 7d 16h. Since stopping and sleeping is allowed (though discouraged) on the RAAM I searched for longest time spent cycling non-stop. A record I could find was George Hood who spent about 178 hours over eight days riding a spinning bike. They state a distance of 2,016 miles (3,244.438km) though I don’t know what kind of conversion factor they use (since you obviously don’t move while riding a stationary bike the only meaningful number would be average power or total energy output). If we just trust that number we get an average speed of 18.2km/h which is really slow for road biking on flat terrain. I don’t know what the limiting factor for such extremly long distances is, but at such relatively low speeds it should be possible to depend on fat alone without slowing down much. There are endurance athletes who deliberately stay on a low-carbohydrate diet to force their bodies into Ketosis while still training many kilometers per week. Thus I doubt that food makes much difference for low-intensity, very long distance bicycling. For bicycling until starvation the limiting factor is available body fat. With 400km per day you’d need about 8000kcal (assuming 16h of bicycling at 25km/h with 400kcal per hour (-> 6400kcal) and 1600kcal basic requirement) per day. Which is 888.9g of fat per day. Thus with 20kg of fat you could go for 22.5 days yielding 9000km. 

If you get a 3 x 10 STI shifter, the front (Sora) shifter will work fine. For the rear, you're going to need to replace it with a 10 speed Shimano road rear derailleur or a 7-9 speed Shimano rear derailleur due to the change in cable pull (7-9 speed and 10 speed road use the same cable pull in Shimano. 10 speed mountain does something else). Note that the bar ends spec'd on the Disc Trucker are Microshift BS-M10, which are specifically designed for 10 speed mountain cable pull. You can use the JTek Shiftmate 6 as an alternative to putting a 7-9 speed or 10 speed Road Shimano rear derailleur, but I'd recommend against it since its one more place the cable can be damaged, and it will cost more than buying a 9 speed Deore rear derailleur (which is what I'd do to save some cash rather than buying the 9 speed XT, unless you have it laying around or can get it for very cheap). As for brakes, the Tektro RL520's are for linear pull (V-brakes / mountain disc brakes). This means that the Disc Trucker is outfitted with the Avid BB7 Mountain disc brake calipers. So, if you want to switch to STI brakes, you can either swap out the brake calipers for road brake calipers (e.g. Avid BB7 Road) or use a Travel Agent, which is a pulley that switches the cable pull between short and long pull brakes. These increase cable wear at the pulley so you have to check them every so often to see the cable is in good condition. Travel agents may be a bit cheaper (two of them should run about 50 USD), but I'd probably opt for the new calipers since it removes one failure point in your brake system (two brakes with rotors will probably run about 100 USD; less if you can find them without rotors). Hayes and Tektro/TRP make disc brakes with short pull (such as the Hayes Comp CX) which you can also use. 

$URL$ Uses OpenStreetMap which is usually much better than Google Maps for Cycling. There are also 2 distinct bicycle profiles (fastbike and trekking) available and you can customize them. 

Is the axle flush in the frame/fork? Do you have rim brakes? If the rim is old and the brake surfaces already quite abraded, inflating with high pressure or installing a wider tire could have broken or deformed the rim walls. Was the the wheel true (i.e. no wobble) before? How much wobble are we talking? 1mm? 5mm? 

An upper limit for the adjustability of mountain-bike cleats is the size of the cutout in the outsole. Road-bike cleats could theoretically offer more adjustability but I think in practice at least Look Keo, Speedplay Zero and Shimano SPD-SL cleats are all limited to a few millimeters (~±2mm) left/right and a bit more (~±3mm) fore/aft. The holes and cut-outs for the screws+washers are intentionally oversized to allow this movement/adjustability. With road bike shoes you are basically walking on the cleats. This gets harder when the cleat is moved to the left or right very far. I’ve tried some relatively extreme settings and in my opinion it really doesn’t make much sense to offer more range since you tend to twist your ankles. If you need more left/right adjustment, at least Speedplay offers replacement pedal axles with different lengths (shorter and longer). Look allows you to use 2mm washers on the pedal thread which move the pedal outside by 2mm.