I currently work at company A. I have worked here for over a year and I love the environment, job, etc. During this time, I have also started my own side business that isn't related to company A, it is more of a product than a business. This does not affect my work at company A at all (performance reviews have been fine, getting raises, etc). I have recently launched my side business product and it is doing decently well for a single person start up. Now, while I mentioned company A is not related to the start up, it would help them in a huge way. So my boss contacted me today during work and asked me how the side business was going and I said well. He expressed a lot of interest to integrate my side product into company A. And here is the problem. He believes that because I work for the company A, my side product will be 100% free. Not only free, but work to tailor it to their preferences to fit them. I do love working for company A but I have also worked very, very hard on my product. If I am honest, I would not give the product away for free to another company(and I have not). I'm afraid by saying "hey boss, this isn't free", he will take it as if I am leveraging my position (get paid salary from company A who then pays me agin for the product). How do I treat company A as a customer/client and not as a employer of mine? How do I manage this situation without it blowing up? Edit: he never said "it's nice this will be free too", but I am very confident he believes this is the case. Having worked with him for over a year, you start to understand how a person works. 

If the employee is in fact an employee and not contracted or otherwise exempt under FEDERAL laws, then they have to pay for any mandatory meetings or trainings. $URL$ Louisiana follows the federal laws and doesn't have laws specific to their own state. If the meeting is voluntary, then the employer is not required to pay. 

I'm not a coder, but I'm a sales person (I've heard "no" more times than you ever will) and I'm also a supervisor (I'm tasked with motivating others), so I will give you my advice on general ways to improve your next review and keeping motivated. First, both you and your boss identified an area that needs improvement. So, do your best to improve and learn. Can you take courses? Make a conscious effort to fix just one of the mistakes or errors you do on a consistent basis and soon you will stop making that mistake. Repeat as needed. Second, while time is of the essence it typically takes less time (in any task) to do it correctly the first time than it does to fo back to correct mistakes. Do it right the first time and you may just find that you have more time to complete future tasks. Motivation can, and should, be internal in addition to external factors. What drove you to this line of work? What inspires you to stick with it? Keep those things in mind. As for your self doubt, remember that this company hired you and keeps you for a reason. If you continue to improve yourself, without being asked, they will have little reason to sever the relationship. 

Very simply, no. You are not required or obligated to go. In fact, if you truly do not want to go or not interested in the job opportunity, cancel and do not waste your time or the employers time. Although they won't be happy, it would save them time and money to focus on another candidate that is interested. Note: This probably won't look great on you cancelling last minute, so expect bridges to be burned. 

This is actually a very normal thing to do, not only in the computer industry, but also in virtually every other industry. I have found that the majority of people in cyber security for example, were usually in a branch of the armed forces. What's more important is that you go after the things you are interested in and pursue opportunities. You have just graduated, you still have plenty of time to figure out what you want to do. Because you mention the computer industry, I can confidently say this will not affect you at all. Some even may look at it as a very positive thing. This is a decision only you can make, but it certainty will not affect your future employment. You have a long, long career 

Based on your list of odd behaviors, I would say person has a personality disorder. It sounds relatively harmless. First, do not attempt to distance yourself from him by badmouthing him or making specific references to him in your discussions with others. They already know he a funny nut, no need to keep that part going. Second, (and this comes from my "I don't care what people think of me" side) if someone does try to put you in the same box as him, push back. Tell them you are your own person and there's no need to try to label either you or your boss. Third, realize that your boss will probably never change. His abilities as a manager in your field outweigh his odd behaviors. He has his position for a REASON. Fourth, stress with him the importance that you aren't singled out as his favorite. He may be doing these "praising" sessions to impress or align himself as your friend. Be direct. 

My work used to be the same. We had a toxic director and gossip, banding together, and the like were some of the few ways we survived her idiocity. It was also one of the ways we caught her lies, which lead to her ultimate downfall. Since her departure things have settled down, though we still have a few pot stirrers in our mix. I've taken it upon myself to give gentle nudges to more positive chatter when the rants and gossiping begin. Instead of "yeah, he was completely out of line and a real jerk for saying that" (even if I agree) I remind the person trying to vilify another that we are all human and can only improve if we're told we made a mistake. We all have disagreements and misunderstandings. How we take action on the frustrations we feel towards others involved really make a difference in how our coworkers and managers see us. I had to mediate between my boss and my coworker (who is now my employee). They had a few disagreements where each had a completely different take on what happened. One thought they deserved an apology because they were having family issues and the other person should have taken that into consideration before saying what they said. (I know, vague, but roll with me a little on this) Instead of saying this directly, they went to every member on our team and complained about the other person. The other person thought there wasn't an issue at all and was shocked to find out how the other person felt about the situation. They were confused why the first person didn't talk to them. I reminded both that we have other things going on in our lives and that they were both reasonable people who shouldn't be afraid to talk to each other. It took a few days but they finally talked and sorted thing out. If you want a better work environment, help create it. Redirect to the positive when a coworker pulls out a dagger. Remind yourself that it will take time and it will be worth it. 

I'm in a situation where my Boss only wants very simple answers. The problem is that in the information security and software business, this doesn't really exist. Here is the situation. My Boss is in the process of drawing up contracts for clients where they pay us for services rendered, simple. My Boss brings me in, says "hey, based on our current stack (how everything is set up), could we support 20,000 clients?". My first answer consists of lots of questions. What client is it? How many hosts per client? What operating system? What services? What processes? How is their network set up? Etc. There is not a straight forward answer. My Boss than says, "I just need a yes or no answer so I can relay this to the client". I basically refuse to give him a answer and try to explain. He wants to say "x=2 and y=3 and so x*y=6. But it is never that simple in the software business because there are many other externalities. He gets frustrated because he wants a yes or no answer but we do not have the available information from the client to say so. I have expressed that we should tell the client "let's start out with 1000 hosts and we can build our way up as both of us are happy" but this gets refused. How do I deal with a Boss that does not understand the complexities and wants a clear cut answer I don't feel comfortable giving? 

Hand written thank you notes will get you bonus points. Don't go too cutesy. Be professional and mention specifics from the interview. Address it to the person you interviewed with, not HR. 

Why argue with this situation, unless the time punch system is cumbersome or unreliable. I'm salaried and have to fill in a time sheet every week. For HR purposes it is sometimes necessary to have all employees track hours. Also, some types of exempt employees are required to work 40 hours per defined work week but aren't given overtime for days they work +8 hours. Even high level executives are required to submit time sheets or record hours within my organization. Just clock in and out and stop complaining. Honestly, it makes you less desirable as an employee to protest against such a simple request. 

This reminds me of when I worked for a union store. The union beat us over the head with "buy union made only" rhetoric. Frankly, it was no ones business what I bought, where I bought it from or anything else about my private finances. I would typically respond with "my money, my choice" in a super sweet voice or some other short snip. But, I'm a very direct person and don't worry about what others think of me in general. You may not need to take my direct attitude. I might suggest laughing it off and say that the store was out of products made by your employer. Or, ignore the comments altogether, as it is your business what you purchase, not theirs. If you are further ostracized or poked at by the people who made those comments you may be in for a rough time for a bit. Next time either buy the items and take them straight home, leave them in your vehicle or wait until you're shopping on your days off.