These are just some of the protein-rich food items. Search google for more options. Eat right and exercise and you'll be as fit as your friend :). 

When something is inconclusive (and even when it is), it's always your personal choice to determine if you want it or not. For me, there's time to indulge and there's time to abstain. Your mileage may vary. 

Also, look out for things that can cause allergies. Your symptoms could be the results of allergies. You can try switching gyms, equipment, or clothings to determine if your situation is allergy-related. 

HIIT exercises are cardio exercises that are designed to burn a lot of calories in the shortest time possible. Its goal isn't to make you big; it's goal is to reduce your weight (usually fats) in the shortest time possible. 

Arrg, To gain muscle mass, you need to consume lots of protein, either through meals or through meals and shakes (my recommendation). I'm not certain what exercises you're doing, but hopefully, they are weightlifting. You won't bulk up with cardio exercises. The most popular programs that focus on gaining strength (and mass) through weightlifting require you to increase the weights you lift constantly. They also require you to weightlift about 3 days a week. Less exercises, in some cases, can be beneficial. However, what she's proposing doesn't seem to be beneficial. Even if the advice came with increase in weights lifted, the repetitions/sets are too small to see much benefit in a short time. Taking breaks between exercises are only necessary (my opinion) if you're exhausted from each exercise; there's no need to take breaks if you aren't breaking a sweat. A good reason to do less is if the body's being overworked and overstressed. For example, doing 3+ hours in a gym everyday lifting higher volumes with higher repetitions/sets and no rest is excessive. However, with what you seem to be doing, it doesn't seem to be too much. You might need to ask her why she felt it's not necessary (it could be that she was referring to specific exercises and not the overall exercises). Overall, consume lots of protein, lift higher volumes, perform cardio (to give your lungs/heart more endurance), and rest your body. Edit Based on the new information added into the question, I'm need to add a few information: Based on the answer the second trainer gave you, there are two possibilities for what's going on: 

I think the body will burn more calories (or at least, the same amount) during exhaustion. This is because the body is actually doing more work (thus, expending more energy) while in this state. Although the body might not be moving as fast as it was or as intense, the whole body is firing on all its cinders, the heart is desperately working to keep up with the blood circulation, the lungs are overworking themselves to provide the body with the needed oxygen, and all the muscles are fighting to take as much energy as they can find. As a result of this phenomenon, the entire body becomes stronger and its endurance is longer. A lot of calories ends up being burnt as well. This is why a lot of marathon runners or those that partake in endurance sports have lean bodies. I'll update this answer once supporting sources are found. 

Remember to exercise your core: There are varieties of core-strengthening exercises and a lot of them can be performed without any equipment. Plank is a favorite; push up is another awesome exercise. Burpees, running, jumping jack, and legs up are great ones too. Even high-tempo dances are great for the core. 

All these will activate your muscles, keep your metabolism up, and reduce the effects of sitting. And they shouldn't really affect your work performance. 

If you feel you need the rest, take a break. One week break will have little impact on your performance, provided you've been working really hard during your training AND you just don't sit down on the couch for a whole week. Subjectively Don't take a break; instead, reduce your intensity or follow a less intense program.. This is because you're still a newbie in training and it's too early to take a vacation. You might not come back! You've started a good thing; don't ruin it with a long break; instead, you can perform some bodyweight exercises or cardio. The idea is to make training a natural part of your life; when you reach that stage, you can take as much vacation as possible because you'll always be back. But If You Must Here's a motivational site you should check out everyday while on break. Check out the profiles everyday and you'll always find the enthusiasm and encouragement to come back. Good luck! 

After all, if you exhaust yourself trying to get the perfect form, you might end up quitting the program in frustration. 

However, with such exercises in the heated room and for that duration, you're bound to feel dehydrated. Without the water, you might not be able to perform optimally and your exercises might be in vain. Obviously, you want to drink as infrequently as possible while maintaining your hydration. But drinking the cold water seems necessary. So yes, listen to your body and respond appropriately. 

If you can afford the help of a personal trainer, go for one. A good one should be able to motivate and help you perform better. However, if you cannot afford one or your time schedule doesn't allow you to have one, you can continue your self-training; however, you might need to join a fitness community (online or in person). It's much easier and cheaper to have workout buddies who motivate and challenge you. So, everything deals with the cost (time, effort, and money). Whatever you do, just ensure you don't stop working out. Ensure 2 days doesn't pass without working out. 

Secondly, no exercises will let you sit properly; all they can do is to strengthen your core and give you good reasons to sit properly. You have to make a conscious effort to sit properly. After practising it for a while, it might become second nature to you; however, it's still up to you to continue. 

Walking an hour every day is definitely an aerobic exercise However, it's only good for weightloss and general fitness for beginners. Depending on your goal, the walk should be an accessory exercise and not your main aerobic exercise. This is because the benefit will diminish after performing this activity for a while. Thus, you might sweat the first few weeks (or it might take a longer time to reach the destination) but after a while, it becomes relatively easy without getting tired. Unless you introduce some variations in the walk (alternating between running/walking), the benefit will peak. I would suggest having a short HIIT session to complement your resistance training. You've already got the low intensity exercise covered. Use short HIIT sessions to complement your resistance training. Of course, I fully agree with swimming too; it's an awesome exercise worth performing often. 

Sit straight in your chair! Unless you're sitting on a sofa or a very-cushioned chair, most chairs have a rigid structure that allows you sit straight. Make sure that your butts are touching the back of the chair and simply sit straight. When your butts touch the back of the chair (or is as far back as naturally possible), the only ways for you to sit improperly would be tilting the chair backwards or bending your chest forward. You can easily correct those once you realize you're doing them. 

If these concerns are addressed, I don't see any reason why balancing shouldn't be easier with the cane. 

BTW, if you decide to skip Strong Lifts, there are other compound exercise programs you can follow such as Starting Strength or Wendel's 5-3-1. However, they all require barbells and incremental weights. Safety is very important and you should ensure you have the proper equipment and form for each exercise; otherwise, you can really injure yourself. Whatever you decide to do, doing nothing is the worst injury you can inflict on yourself. Go get stronger :). 

However, because you are placing weights on your joints, you might experience joint problems later in life. On the other hand, your body might adjust to accommodate it. It's not advisable for large weights and for extended periods of times. But everything depends on the context and you. 

If your workout session is limited to the gym, you need to be introduced into the world of Calisthenics Let me whet your appetite with a few links: 

Unless you're interested in purchasing equipments, sprinting, plyometric, and body-weight exercises are your best options. 

I've seen you ask and answer questions, so I'm certain you have most of the theoretical answers you seek. Now, to make them realistic (aka broscience that's working for me). Don't eat when you are hungry. Eat when it's appropriate. Don't eat because you feel like it; eat because you don't want your body clinging to the fat you have. It's not just about eating lower calories; consistency is equally important. Even if you are eating lower calories but they are inconsistent, that won't help much. Protein-and-fiber-filled breakfast, protein-and-fiber-filled lunch, and light dinner. I'm just about to start StrongLifts (because I just got all the needed equipment: bench, rack, etc); however, I currently lift weights constantly. I like well-defined muscles. The accepted theory is to not lift weights daily. However, I ensure I lift something daily. On my weight days, I lift heavier weights for definitions and strength; on other days, I lift regular weights (usually dumbbells) because they also burn fat. Those extra weightlifting are just to increase my metabolism, make me perform some work, and burn fat. Also, I perform cardio every other day.Perform as much cardio or HIIT exercises as much as you can. I use Insanity and P90X; so, I know that they are HIIT-oriented. They help me burn fat; also, they help with my flexibility too. If you can get a similar program, use it. You want to burn as much fat as you want; so, you need to increase your consistency. Also, you need to move about more. I used to be sedentary. I work in an office; so, sitting 8 hours a day is normal for me. However, I perform crunches everyday in my seat; other times, I'll go into the breakroom and perform some burpees, high jumps, pushups, or planks. I try not to sit for 3 hours without performing some exercise (even if it's just stretching). Don't just think you'll do HIIT exercises and that's it. Or you'll lift weights and be done. No! Move your body as much as you can. Park your car and walk (power walk when you can) to stores. Or run. Work that heart at every chance you get. Jump. Dance to music. Sit tall in your chair (instead of slouching). Add pull-ups, chin-ups, and legs-ups to your repertoire. This should be for strength purposes. I should be able to lift myself (I don't care how strong a person is, if they cannot perform pull-ups, they aren't strong enough). Build up your strength by lifting yourself. This might seem like a lot (someone commented in one of my questions that I was throwing everything at the fat....lol), but it's not really a lot. Pullups, chinups, legs-ups take about 2 mins or less. Same as for pushups, reverse crunches, and other calisthenics. You shouldn't think of them as exercises, just as normal daily activities (my pullup bars are on my bedroom or bathroom doors; this ensures I see them daily and constantly). The more active you are, the more active you'll want to become. Now that you are doing all these: 

As long as you keep at it, you'll get better and your form will improve. Consistency is key! Good luck. 

Hi DoubleDouble, There's this general myth (usually by people who spend countless hours at the gym) that one needs to visit a gym in order to exercise effectively. 

In Conclusion Your body has indicated to you how it plans to shed the weight; listen to it and reduce your intensity. Weight-loss is a long-term program (even if one drops 100 lbs in a day). Commit to an efficient program (along with a nutritious, balanced diet) and be more active for a long term and adjust when it no longer seems to be working. 

Drink the protein before (on the same day) the exercise. Recent studies are beginning to show that pre-workout protein intake is more effective than post-workout protein intake (source). Wake up about an hour earlier, ingest your shake and go have fun :). What you can do the evening before? 

Geeky, If you sit all day, you'll develop a big waistline (sources: Live Science, NPR, and US National Library of Medicine). The main way to prevent that is to move around often, even if it's just for a few mins . Many of us are in similar situation as you (sitting for an extended period); so, we have an idea what you are going through. To keep a flattened belly all day, try the following tricks: 

Rather than trying to learn the perfect form for all the exercises at the same time (probably exhausting yourself in the process), how about either 

You can also try other exercise programs to determine if these particular exercises are too strenuous for your body to handle. We can't exactly tell you what the problem is, but by changing a few things and observing the results, you might be able to determine where the problem lies and then fix it. Hope this helps. 

This is why most weight-loss programs use progressive loads or variations in exercise complexity in order to prevent the body from fully adapting to the process. Summary Progressively increase the backpack weight or progressively increase your intensity. Your burn rate won't be the same; however, it won't stall as long as your body is being challenged. Disclaimer: This answer is based on observations, common sense, and my perception on how the human body works. If any of these is directly contradict any scientific-based paper, comment or update the answer. 

If you're sprinting, breaking the routine into intermittent sprinting and walking is a great idea. It's similar to a High Intensity Interval Training exercise. However, if you're jogging, perform your jog first before walking. Your goal is to increase your endurance so that you can jog all the way without walking. This accomplishes that goal for you. As your endurance increases, you can simply extend your jogging distance. The only thing walking's good for is to enable you to catch your breath. Now, go jog some more :). 

Yeah, but not much. Training for size will guarantee muscular endurance because you're working on exhausting the muscles in order to grow. This will increase your strength, but not much. For example, if you're performing 4 sets of 15 reps of bicep curls with a 30-lb dumbbell, you should be able to perform 2 sets of 5-10 reps with a 35-lb dumbbell. That's an increase in strength. However, because the focus isn't on strength training, gains in strength will be slower. Equally important, if strength isn't the goal, your strength will peak. As the weight increases, the number of reps performed will increase. The strength to pump 1 set of 10 reps of bicep curls with a 100-lb dumbbell is much higher than that of a 30-lb dumb bell. Doing 4 sets of those might not be worthwhile for you, especially if your goal can be achieved with smaller weights. So, when you realize you don't need higher weights to achieve size, you'll stop increasing the weights in order to focus on size. 

While the Internet is packed with specific food items for anyone to consume, your primary food intake will contain both protein and fiber. In summary, both sites tell you to consume enough calories for your body to function. Fat loss (and ultimately six pack) is impossible if you don't have the energy to exercise. 

First reason is because the time frame is too short. You have limited effective exercises to complete within 30 seconds. You're more likely to quit after realizing it isn't that effective and seems like a waste of time.