The reason I asked about the hardware above is because many GPS devices (stratum 0, the 'root' source) connect to the computer that then acts as the NTP server via a serial link. Serial connections often have 1-5ms jitter on the line due to signalling overheads/interrupt waits. Hence, I'm guessing your NTP source is reading from a serial source. There are some tweaks you may be able to perform on the serial connection to reduce jitter. Primaily, disabling FIFO may gain you decent results. $URL$ $URL$ 

Check Group Policy on your domain to ensure there is no policy preventing installations that's being applied to your member server. Verify that 'Domain Admins' group is a member of the local administrator group on the server. If UAC is enabled on the member server, start your installations with right click -> Run as administrator. Verify that Enhanced IE Security Configuration is not blocking the content you wish to install. 

Completely dependent on what each of those VMs is actually doing on a per-second basis. If they're all ticking over and doing very little, you can potentially run hundreds of VMs on a single chip (up to the configuration maxims of your chosen hypervisor). On the other hand if you have a few beastie CPU hog VMs, it won't be long before performance suffers across the board. You can mitigate that by ringfencing resources for VMs or groups of VMs. However, you're still ultimately bound to a division of the total performance of the chip. 

Check the event log to ensure that DFS isn't complaining about anything. The most common one is that it encountered a file larger than its staging space, and stopped replication. If this is the case you'll need to increase the staging space, or snipe the file out of the share to things can continue. Just a word of caution - Don't manually copy files from one folder to another if they're both supposed to be replicating with DFS. It'll get in a big tizzy if you try and manually override it. 

Administration FSRM requires local administrator privileges on the FSRM host server (Source). When you upgrade a server to a domain controller, it ceases to have any local accounts at all. All of it's accounts become domain accounts. It's local administrator becomes the domain administrator account. At this point, the local administrator of the server and the domain administrator are one and the same thing. Since FSRM requires local administrator permissions to configure, and your server is a domain controller with no local accounts, you are now in a situation where you must have domain administrator privilege to administrate your FSRM instance. Your possible solutions for this are: 

Shut down all active services/applications on the server Copy all data off the second partition to a backup location Delete the second partition Use windows Disk Management (if 2008) or GParted LiveCD (older versions) to extend the C:\ partition to the desired size Re-create the second partition Copy all data back to the second partition Start your services and launch your applications 

Is there a firewall between your machine and the ESX host in question? Remote console uses an additional port (902 TCP) which may be getting blocked somewhere along the line. 

Out-Of-Office replies do usually get sent via return-path, yes. It's correct to the RFC specs, too. More info here: $URL$ 

How long is a piece of string? There are many different technologies, approaches and codecs you could utilize when setting this up, and the figures you arrive at will depend entirely on each choice you make. For example, you could run a site that served direct user-to-user camera connections via a flash interface, bypassing the need to act as an intermediate point for all traffic. This has the benefit of drastically cutting your bandwidth requirements, but the negative of allowing clients to discover and connect to each other directly. In this scenario, your bandwidth requirements are only what's needed to serve out the initial web request & flash files, then some ongoing communication/state messaging. You avoid the actual streaming traffic handling and palm it off to the clients themselves. On the other hand, you could host the video connection directly between yourself and the client. Which codecs would you like to use? What resolution voice and video? Your bandwidth usage would be: Each clients upload rate added together for your download rate, and the same again outbound to send that data onwards to the client. Are you going to also record each session to the server as it's occuring? Significant additional resources will be needed for that. Anecdotal: For me, MSN uses about 12k/second for video chat with audio, on a 320*240 average cam. From a server's point of view, you'd be looking at 24k/s inbound and 24k/s outbound plus a bit of overhead for control traffic, to host that conversation. The only way to get decent info about CPU/Memory requirements will be to run a proper test on the particular hardware you intend to use. All CPUs are not created equal. 

Check connectivity between the MOSS server and domain that it's authenticating against. MOSS Service account being locked out would be one common cause. Also check the IIS config to see if it still sees the domain. Depends on your authentication configuration as to the specifics. 

Not feasible. HTTP and HTTPS are two distinct services which behave in markedly different ways (despite the naming and payload being similar). Unique services must bind to unique ports to enable client and server to communicate in a language both understand. To accomplish this you would need to have a client that would connect to the port, negotiate which type of connection is to be made (HTTP or HTTPS), then switch to the appropriate communication mode. That negotiation logic doesn't exist on the clients, so there's no way for you to implement this server-side. 

It wouldn't be too surprising given that the CPUs (and therefore the surrounding hardware also) are nowhere near equal. The Atom CPU is tailored towards low utilization, low-power-consumption usage, and lacks a fair number of features in order to reduce its power draw. Your specs show a number of factors straight away - The VPS has higher clock speed, larger memory bus, MUCH larger cache. 

For the specific models you've listed, I cannot find any information about the presence of read and write caches, or even the model names for the array controllers that are used in those devices. IMO this is a big concern. An iSCSI storage solution with no read/write cache will suffer severe performance penalties when serving VM disks. Think, like 1/10th the throughput you would otherwise be getting with a 512Mb battery-backed cache or flash cache. So this'd be my major concern. Outside of that, performance-wise, they will probably meet your needs. Dual PSUs and NICs, decent amount of storage space, reasonable processing ability. SATA disks are not ideal for longevity, but throughput-wise they should be fine (just make sure to buy enterprise-grade drives designed to work with your intended workloads (i.e. if you buy western digitals, make sure to get TLER-enabled drives) 

You should also be able to solve this at the firewall level using two NAT rules, assuming the websites can be bound to seperate IPs. You NAT one of the websites through from external port 80 to internal port 8080. As an aside, I prefer a port other than 8080, as that's conventionally used for Web Proxies. 

Unless you have a compelling reason to change your strategy (and I can't see anything in your post to suggest that you do - You're well within capacity. LTO2 is still widely available and used, throughput speed/window problems weren't mentioned so I assume not a problem), I recommend sticking with your current system. If a component has failed, replace it like-for-like. LTO 2 drives are still widely available. Tape backups are not a legacy concept. They're still 100% relevant today, and widely used in most medium and enterprise businesses. I hate to ask the obvious questions, but lets cover them off just in case: Has the tape drive been taking a cleaning tape regularly (every couple of weeks)? Has the server been rebooted/backup exec services been restarted? Have any Windows patches been applied recently? Have any other configuration changes been made to the server? Is the SCSI cable terminated properly? Have you tried swapping the SCSI cable for a replacement? I'm always very wary of using a component failure as the business driver to move to a 'new and improved' system. The quickest way of getting a successful backup is likely to be replacing the tape deck with another tape deck. 

No, there is no method for doing this. This is specifically why Zone transfer is to be disabled to untrusted DNS peers - To prevent discovery of the entire DNS topology. 

What's the file system in use on the LUN? I ask because as far as I remember, you can't resize a VMFS volume. So if you're using VMFS and hosting VMs on this space, your best bet is to migrate your data to another LUN, then destroy and re-provision the LUN across the extra disks. Edit: To clarify - Adding additional capacity to a LUN is feasible with extents, but not recommended practice (direct advice from VMWare support/techs). This was accurate as of 12 months ago. 

First off, Joel is correct: For competent IT support you're looking at a higher cost. The bottom end of the IT pro market is saturated with self-taught people working from home. The price is good, but the attention to detail, professionalism and consistency isn't there, and there's the tendency to do things 'my way' rather than adhere to best-practices (or even be aware of what they might be). In other words, shoot for the cheapest and you will usually end up with the cowboys. You should be able to find a local IT support company that'll offer you a fixed-term fixed-price environment support that's specific. For example, a 6-month contract for 25 man-hours of environment support per month, of which 10 hours is remote work doing x/y/z maintenance tasks, 5 hours producing a monthly report, an 10 hours on-site work as required. On-site work beyond this charged at x per hour. Ideally you want a company offering their own helpdesk software (we use Beetil, it's great) and you'll just get logins to the system, not have to run it yourself. Key things to look for from your support provider: