Practically: Stating a bi-conditional in plain English can be provided by: Emotionally To avoid ambiguous, "I'll buy you a new wallet if you need one" must be replaced with: 

Second understanding: The question asserts "How can we know that we are not placed on reality that are completely different but fake?" 

Our domination within boundaries is strongly dependence to our ego. Each time our ego is being threatened, then our domination is being threatened. And our ego have ability to push ourselves to dominate as far our own available functions (potential) that can be realized without obstacle. If our ego are being threatened and this threat restricts our ego to release our functions as human, then ourselves will try to find something better to support our functions as human. If our ego was failed to dominate, further our Id will not be satisfied, and we need another chance (freedom) to fulfill our needs There must be better synchronizing in between our functionality as human and something to support ourselves. Without this, our domination will be threatened easily, and our ego will be threatened, further our freedom (to fulfill our needs) will be restricted. 

Eliran H's (accepted) answer gives an excellent and interesting response from a classical point of view, and I thought it may also be useful elaborate further on the non-classical views. Philosophers find it convenient to divide paradoxes into two types; the semantic and the set-theoretic. Semantic paradoxes express paradoxes of truth, denotation, predication, and the like, while set-theoretic paradoxes express paradoxes of membership and cardinality. The example you site of "This proposition is false" is (obviously) a semantic paradox. There are some philosophers, such as Graham Priest who take the view that semantic paradoxes are bona fide sound arguments. Such a view requires that one adopt a non-classical logic, specifically what is called a paraconsistent logic. According to Priest's methods, if we let A denote the statment "This proposition is false", then the proposition A ∧ ¬A is true. In other words, both A and its negation are true. Another alternative take on this paradox, as mentioned in Eliran's answer, can be found in the work of Saul Kripke. While I am not entirely familiar with Kripke's work, I believe that Kripkean analysis would entail that the liar paradox, as stated, is not true, and so, according to Kripke, we should assert this. On the other hand, Kripke's methods would have nothing to say about the possibility that the proposition is also true, as is the case with Priest's paraconsistent view. As I say, I am not familiar enough with Kripke's work to be certain of my comments so perhaps someone else can elaborate. Ultimately, I believe that how one views such paradoxes all comes down to is whether or not you accept that natural languages satisfy Tarski's theory of truth. 

Infinite Backward Infinite backward asserts new creation: If an infinite backward asserts there is no creation then there will be an ended point as an uncaused cause, therefore we try another assertion to assert the consequences 

It may be considered incomparable in between "something" Versus "nothingness" (whether it maybe considered "doesn't make sense", contradiction in between both or whatever), but it can be considered as our trial to push our logical to the farthest extent and see where is it going to? And eventually it asserts there is only "dimensional" which assert "something". 

How can we decide that one statement is more objective than the other? The more a knowledge can be accepted by as many as our possible senses, the more a knowledge can be considered more objective, the more it becomes closer to us (more real). 

I largely agree with the other answers posted, that, in a "real-science" context, there is no apparent practical applications of transfinite numbers or their arithmetic. But I'm inclined to want to come up with something, so you may consider this - and admittedly this is stretching the meaning of practical to breaking point : In cosmology, the popular eternal inflation model makes it possible that actual infinities exist in our universe. For example, the universe could be infinite in extent, or there could be infinitely many universes in the multi-verse, or there could be a temporal infinity, etc.. If this is the case, then the question of assigning cardinals to these infinities would be one such application. 

According to the paper I have referenced (above) the term “totalize” means to “count as one”, or “count as a set”. If this is a correct interpretation of “totalize”, then Brassier is plainly incorrect in the context of set theory. It is not clear if Brassier is expressing his own opinion or interpretting that of Badiou. The original naive statement of set theory (as per Cantor), which is based on set as predicate, runs into inconsistencies which imply problems with unrestricted “totalization”. However, these problems are removed by the axiomatic formulation of set theory which followed - i.e. ZF Set Theory. This is reflected in the statement : 

Freedom within Dependence upon Something Escape But since mostly we are dependence to something else, then in general, we are within boundaries. Free is an escape. Escape from what? Free is an escape from dependence to something. But if we can escape from dependence to something then we have to stay within another boundary. If that so, then where is our freedom? Is freedom an escape from all boundaries? Surely no! 

(ONLY IF) (Q) (is perceived) then (P) (IS A MUST) (be perceived) = (ONLY IF) no functions in this reality at all (are perceived) then dead (IS A MUST) (be perceived) = "ONLY IF there is no functions in this reality at all, then it MUST BE concluded that they were dead" 

What properties does identity have? First, it is a relation. Most importantly, it is a very special relation. It is the relation that relates every object to itself and to nothing else. At first glance, this appears to make identity a rather uninteresting relation. But this is not so. It actually contains a lot of significant information about how different names can identify the same object. Equally importantly, it allows us to make inferences via Leibniz's Law. Thus, it is not correct to identify an object, such as an electron, with its properties. 

It is an interesting observation that you make, since, on the surface, the two "statement functions" appear to express contradictory things. Your headline question "How can a statement function make no definite assertion about anything?" is answered with the obvious response : because that is how the author has defined a statement function in the quoted text. When one reads a statement function such as Sx ⊃ Px, one needs to ask "what x?" before one can impose any meaning, and this is what the quantifiers do. As the author states, the green expressions (statement functions) cannot be translated as a statement, so according to the author's intentions it is not correct to say than the green expressions "match, and so assert" the statement "S are P". Indeed, according to the quoted text, a statement function makes no assertion. The author's example shows how quantification of a "statement function" can impose meaning onto the resulting statement, and that different quantifiers can yield quite different symbolic translations and meanings. EDIT If you are familiar with the concept of function in mathematics, then just as a mathematical function has no meaning without a domain, in logic a statement function has no meaning until its domain is specified by quantification. 

"Perceive to be" is a process, and "perceive that" indicates there is a fixed target (that) to be perceived (focused, to be felt). The points are: 

Depending on your definition, an argument might be like this. Abortion is not wrong, because women have a right to control their bodies. 

Simply put, the position of philosopher as an observer has already different. Pulling it down from top to downside, from social, down to particle, where those are having different position relevant to different viewpoint, therefore those must produce different sightseeing however it is. You might say that there were two with the same quality of understanding but actually not identical at all. Because when you try to understand things from different people, you may consider any possible different aspect from the speaker. 

How can we prove the material implication without first establishing what the truth values of p and q must be? 

Hilbert's response was to introduce formalism in an attempt to bypass Russell's paradox. Gödel took up Hilbert's monumental programme by attempting to see whether one could prove the consistency and completeness of a formal axiomatic system for mathematical analysis. Of course, he discovered that neither was possible. What Gödel first discovered was that mathematical truth cannot in principle be confined to a formal system - i.e., truth is not reducible to proof; syntax cannot supplant semantics; intuition cannot be dispensed with in mathematics, indeed, even in arithmetic. This was first metaphorical nail in the logical positivist coffin. The second nail in the coffin of logical positivism came when Gödel demonstrated that if a given system of axioms for arithmetic were in fact consistent, then it could not be proved consistent by the system itself. In other words, only an inconsistent formal system can prove its own consistency. The logical positivists did not go down without a fight. By all accounts, Hilbert's first response to Gödel's results was anger followed by denial. He became the first, but by no means the last, to propose an anti-Gödel principle; an ad hoc principle to be appended to formal mathematics simply to block the application of Gödel's theorems. Gödel was apparently genuinely irritated by this. Hilbert's idea was to append a new rule of deductive inference that would allow for the employment of infinitely many premises. Gödel was quick to point out that this would violate the very idea of a formal system. The cure would kill the patient. Few of the logical positivists, or philosophers in general, appear to have initially fully understood Gödel's results - the exception being von Neumann. Gödel simply stopped responding to Zermelo's frequent letters. Carnap too, the first to hear Gödel's result, appears to have failed to comprehend its implications for some time. Gödel famously rubbished Wittgenstein's criticisms as trivial. And a host of others. So although it is unclear whether Gödel initially opposed logical positivism, it is clear that his results spelt its demise and that he well understood it. 

Different degree of comparison "How do we know that this current life is the real continuation from the past life as it should be?" "How do we know that this current life is the fake continuation? 

I am aware, it means i perceive difference. I feel something, it means i am not perceiving difference, but i am focusing on something. I am aware is, when i am thinking, and i feel something is, when i am feeling of something without thinking, just doing things, enjoyment. But indeed sometimes (mostly) we couldn't keep our feelings longer, and it will cause distraction and switched quickly from feeling of something to thinking about situation to maintain what we are doing (feeling of something itself). We may guess that feeling will involve thinking, but actually it won't. We just have to think deeper, strictly and see the border that may be very thin. Conclusion: "i am aware" has nothing to do with focus. I am aware and it's merely our thinking that active to aware from one point to another point to see the differences. If we thought that while we were aware of something also we felt of something (aware = focus), it's wrong (aware is not focus). What really happened was, that we did, comparing, and (quickly) after that we switched to feeling (focus on something) and this will make us looks like thinking & feeling of something that is equal to aware of something, but it's wrong. Now, we have two assertions: 

We can do the same for every compound tense composed of P and F in a consistent manner. Thus, McTaggart's argument fails. 

The Law of Identity ( whatever is, is ) ( in other words, x = x ) The Law of Non-Contradiction ( nothing can both be and not be ) The Law of the Excluded Middle ( everything must either be or not be ) 

TL;DR The Concordance Model is a recent formulation, coming to be the theory of choice as recently as the late 1990s following the unexpected observations of the accelerating rate of expansion of the universe and the "rotational flat curve" features of galaxies. It is an extension of the existing big bang model obtained by adding two auxiliary hypotheses - dark energy (Λ) and cold dark matter (CDM), hence the designation ΛCDM. The observation of an accelerating expansion rate led to the dark energy hypothesis, while the unexpected galactic rotational characteristics observed led us to the dark matter hypothesis. The philosophical considerations of rational choice and Bayesean arguments led us to adding two auxiliary hypotheses to our existing, well supported model (up until then) rather than adopting a radical new model or making ad hoc modifications to our existing model. 

(All)P then Pr = All(cd1) <- (c1) (If there are all propositions, then, those are provable) (several)P then G = several(cd1) -> (cd2) (If there are some propositions, then, several of propositions are typical G) G then Pr = (cd2) <- (c1) (If some of propositions are typical G, then, those are provable) 

First understanding: The question asserts "How can we know that we are not placed on reality that are similar but fake?" 

If we compare between our expectations with the size of the steps to achieve what we expected based on the general view or a particular view. Then we will feel that "we are waiting for something so long", or at reasonable (speed of) time. But if anything follow "the one time" (as described above), then our perception of speed of time maybe agreed generally (at least on majority level). Speed of time depends on where to put our perceptions on changing based on "one time" or relatively.