Does any language express the less form using bound morphology the way we do with -er in (1) and (2)? 

Extensive typological study doesn't appear to have been done on this. However, this is probably so because it has been difficult to say precisely what the mass/count distinction is about. What we can understand is that the mass/count distinction tracks (imperfectly) an important human cognitive distinction between objects (or, countables) and substances (or, uncountables, "fake mass nouns" like furniture aside). As with many conceptual distinctions, different languages may mark the difference overtly, others may not. To give a different example, a language like West Greenlandic has a host of "pluractional" morphemes that attach to verbs, one of which indicates whether an event description picks out a series of iterative events, or whether it picks out a single event of continuous extent. English doesn't have such morphemes, but interestingly in this language we see certain event descriptions as underdetermining the two uses (e.g., John ran more than Mary last year, if true, can mean he ran on more occasions (iterative), or for a greater temporal or spatial extent (continuative)). So a conceptual distinction that is overtly marked in West Greenlandic is left implicit in English. Similarly, English does not mark mass occurrences of nouns, but marks individual (with the indefinite article a(n)) and plural (with the -s suffix) occurrences of nouns. The bare form of a noun is often understood on a material reading (which is why the gruesome interpretation in There was boy all over the road, as if uttered after a horrific accident), and singular/plural occurrences are understood as picking out a singularity or multiplicity of individuals that fall under the concept named by the noun. If a language, for example, doesn't have a singular/plural distinction, one might think that noun occurrences there are understood via a combination of the preferred conceptualizations of things falling under the concept (e.g., we think of boy best as describing individual boys, and water best as describing an unindividuated substance), and extralinguistic context. The grammar doesn't force such speakers to express which conception they intend. An oft-discussed counterexample to the idea that the distinction is universal, is the claim that all nouns are actually mass in Chinese---"count" nouns don't exist except in the sense that they are "built up" in combination with classifiers. However, as Cheng and Sybesma argue, and Chierchia accepts, even this language has reflexes of the conceptual distinction---i.e., it uses only "classifiers" for nouns that are understood as "count" (i.e., highly individuated), and only "massifiers" for those understood as "mass" (i.e., low individuation). In sum, the role of grammar seems to be specifying what kind of conceptualization we're after. In English, there are a lot of nouns that are comfortable occurring as either mass or count, the difference ending up in whether we want to express a notion of the material, rock, or that of some quantity of individuals comprised of that material, rocks. Other occurrences, like muds seem less acceptable, but this could just be a matter of the frequency with which we encounter individuated MUD; if we can talk about kinds of muds or jars that contain some mud in a context, so that I bought three muds at the mud store isn't really so bad. Extralinguistic context can help us individuate even under the concept MUD. Whether a language uses grammar to express the mass/count distinction will be a fact about particular languages, but the conceptual distinction is likely universal. (Hat tip to Dustin Chacón for discussion of Chinese.) 

Each is not a 'floating quantifier' here (whatever that means), and each does not modify boys. The reciprocal meaning is expressed by each in combination with other, and although each other is written as two orthographic words it is actually a single grammatical word. The two components are inseparable and thus form a compound reciprocal pronoun. In your example, the compound functions as direct object of hit. You may be thinking of the 'spilt' construction as in 

Some student saw every professor There is a (single) student (say, John) such that he saw every professor For every professor x, there is a (different) student that saw x There is a solution to every problem There is a (single) solution such that it applies to every problem For every problem x, there is a (different) solution for x 

The main question you're asking has been addressed directly in a recent paper on the relationship between morphological and semantic markedness. 

Phrasal Verbs: First, I’d advise you to drop the term 'phrasal verb'. It’s thoroughly misleading. It’s not the whole expression "call for" that is a verb; it’s just the lexeme "call". Your example, This calls for a thorough examination of the facts is analysed as verb - [prep + O]. It’s a verbal idiom headed by the prepositional verb “call”, where the preposition “for” is specified by the verb. Particles are intransitive prepositions (plus a few adjectives and verbs) which can freely come between a transitive verb and its direct object. The distinctive property of particles is that they can precede the object but in general they don’t have to, so there is alternation between, say, Ed took off his coat and Ed took his coat off. Now compare that pair with your example This calls for an examination” ~ * This calls an examination for. Clearly "for" is not a particle on two counts: in that example, "for" is a transitive preposition and "call" is an intransitive verb. Complements vs adjuncts: Complements in NP structure are virtually restricted to PPs (usually headed by "of") and subordinate clauses. In your example, the PP "of the facts" is complement of the noun "examination". In NPs, dependents with the form of PPs qualify as complements when they are licensed by the particular head noun. In your example, the PP "of the facts" is licensed by "examination". The clearest of cases have one or more of these properties: (1) The PP corresponds to object or subject NPs, compare the facts examined ~ the examination of the facts. (2) The choice of preposition is specified by the head noun, as is the case with your example "call for a thorough examination", where "call" specifies "for". (3) the PP is obligatory because the noun makes little sense without it: "the advent of the steam engine", "the feasibility of the proposal", "a dearth of new ideas" and so on. Complements are a kind of dependent that must be licensed by the head of the phrase. By contrast, adjuncts require no such licensing; they function as modifiers in clause structure, or as supplements. Obligatory elements are always complements: they are needed to complete the verb phrase; optional elements may be either complements or adjuncts. Matthews in The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Linguistics defines complement as “A syntactic element seen as completing the construction of another element”: the syntactic concept construction is preferable to the semantic concept meaning. He goes on to say, more specifically, that it applies to elements which are within the valency of a verb or other lexical unit. And his entry for "valency" is: “The range of syntactic elements either required or specifically permitted by a verb or other lexical unit"– which is equivalent to licensing. 

Linguistics is the scientific study of language. A language is narrowly defined as the set of rules that "speakers" (speaking or signing) acquire when they are very, very young. There is evidence for processes of language acquisition underway at the very youngest testable ages (under a year old). A speaker with a grammar like mine knows, without ever being told, that strings of words like colorless green ideas sleep furiously are well-formed, but strings like furiously sleep ideas green colorless are not. I can say that the first sentence would be true if (i) there existed some things that were colorless, green, and ideas, (ii) such things could sleep, and (iii) such sleepings could happen furiously. The other string supports no such interpretation. Since I don't have to look up these two strings in some kind of book to tell whether one is good or bad, we say that my grammatical rules are internalized. The rules of grammar (again, in the linguist's sense) are learned implicitly. They are not taught, as the rule "i before e except after c" has to be learned when one learns how to spell, but rather inferred on the basis of experience in a linguistic environment (i.e., a community of speakers who do some speaking in the presence of the child). Lastly, knowledge of language is universal. Barring severe cognitive deficits or social deprivation, every normally-developing child acquires a native tongue. Written language stands in sharp contrast: children learn to read and write much later (usually once they start attending school) than they learn to understand and produce spoken language; written language has no internalized rules, it reflects only the speakers' internal rules and, possibly, a speaker's regard for the prescriptive rules of style; written language has to be learned explicitly (often laboriously); and, written language is not universal—there are many, many people on this planet who have knowledge of language but can't read or write. "Written language" is an artifact of (some) human cultures who already had spoken languages. Spoken language is definitional of our species, and it is this kind of species-specific capacity that linguists study. This is not to say that the capacity for writing is not complex; it is in fact more complex than the capacity for language, in that explaining how we can have writing systems requires in part an explanation of what the language we're writing down is in the first place. 

For locatives, the basic suffix is –de/da (otelde, okulda) but after an unvoiced consonant (ç, f, h, k, p, s, ş or t) the suffix appears as –te/ta (otobüste, maçta). Now for the vowel harmony. a is followed by a or ı e is followed by e or i ı is followed by ı or a i is followed by i or e o is followed by a or u ö is followed by ü or e u is followed by u or a ü is followed by ü or e It will all become second nature once you practice it repeatedly. 

I have found a paper that addresses this question directly (finally!). Svenonius & Ramchand's 2014 paper (here) offers an explanation for universal "grammatical zones" that appeals both to innate grammatical principles and properties of extralinguistic cognition. From the abstract: 

In brief, whether speech error data is relevant to the question of derivational order in syntax depends on just how much explanation syntactic theory owes to a theory of linguistic performance. 

which is semantically and syntactically different. Here "each" is a determinative and "other" a common noun, as opposed to a single compound pronoun. 

Leaving aside "interjections", we recognise eight (8) word categories (parts of speech). Six (6) of them can function as the head of corresponding phrases: the other two can’t. The very small coordinator and subordinator classes do not function as head but serve as markers of coordination and subordination: there is no such thing as 'coordinator phrases' or 'subordinator phrases'. [1] Noun (NP) “this clear case of dedication to duty” [2] Verb (VP) “saw something in there” [3] Adjective (AdjP) “very eager for further news” [4] Determinative (DP) “almost every” [5] Adverb (AdvP) “quite separately from this issue” [6] Preposition (PP) “right out of the area” [7] Coordinator (no phrasal category) [8] Subordinator (no phrasal category) Note: pronouns are not treated as a distinct part of speech, but as a subclass of noun. 

Mary is taller than John |= John is shorter than Mary Mary is shorter than John |= John is taller than Mary Mary is longer than John !|= John is shorter than Mary (where !|= reads as "does not entail") 

I think your question may reflect an instance of a much more general pattern. That is, suppose you find an expression X in a language, and another expression Y in that language, and you believe X and Y to stand in a "privileged" relation (two types elaborated below). It seems that, across languages, one is likely to find that X and Y occur as simplex (i.e., nondecomposable) lexical items asymmetrically: i.e., if Y occurs as a simplex lexical item in the language, so does X. But simplex X occurring in a language does not guarantee expression of simplex Y. One concrete example to explain one notion of a "privileged" relation between two expressions is privileged antonymy. Consider the adjectives tall and short: we "feel" that these expressions are related in a way that makes the inferences in (1) and (2) valid, but not that in (3) (despite long on occasion meaning something very similar to tall): 

Transitive clauses, the kind with a transitive verb and a direct object, can sometimes contain a further constituent called an objective predicative complement that refers to the direct object. It is typically an adjective phrase, as in your example, but it can also be a noun phrase. The objective PC occurs after the direct object, not before it. Reversing the order either changes the meaning, or yields an ungrammatical sentence: [1a] We painted the fence blue. [1b] We painted the blue fence. [2a] She made him a good husband. [2b] * She made a good husband him. In these pairs, [1a] tells us that we painted the fence, and we painted it a blue colour. But [1b] has a different meaning; it tells us we painted the blue fence, but it does not tell us what colour we painted it – perhaps we painted it green or white, who knows? In [2a] we understand that her efforts resulted in him being a good husband, but [2b] where the predicative precedes the object is ungrammatical.