There is no or just little wood above the flames. This reduces smoke a lot. Also the construction allows from loads of fresh air flowing in from the bottom of the flame. The fire burns from thin to thick, top to bottom. Less maintenance. Sure, this takes some time to build and collect the wood for it. However, you don't need to take care of it during the night very much. Means more sleep for you as well as longer sleep periods. Hot ashes and coals will not be wasted, but start to burn/dry the wood under the actual flame. This way you can even use quite wet wood for the base. Safe: This fire is relatively save. This means: Most of the time the burning ashes and flame won't touch the ground and heat it up. 

A lot of good and correct things have been said here. However I want to add something: When I used to sleep in a tent, I took a UCO candle lantern ($URL$ to give me light, but also heat. It works similar to the hot stone, but is much more safe and easy to operate. If the tent is good enough, this small and quite safe to use, lantern, will heat up your tent quite quickly. In general you can also say: The smaller the tent, the more warm it will get. 

A variation of this, suitable for an a-frame shelter would be a long-log fire. However without the correct tools (aka a good and long saw and dead trees with a diameter of at least 40cm) this is an impractical fire and takes quite some time to build. 

This question is almost as hard to answer as the question about a good knife. :) A general rule: The more expensive the sleepingbag, the more expensive the materials involved, the better the ratio between packweight, packsize and temperature. However this totally ignores the additional costs for the brandname and such. One company I can really recommend is snugpack. I personally use a SpecialForce 1 for the spring/summer/fall seasons (+6 celsius comfort, 1000g, 16x16cm pack size). In europe it's around 130 euros, but they also have cheaper models like the Merlin or such. For the price you should try to aim for a cheap primaloft filled sleeping bag. Primaloft, if you can afford it, is almost as effective as down, but doesn't care about humidity that much. You could try to get surplus military sleepingbags. The US amongst others have a modular sleeping bag system you can use for all climates and seasons. It's a a small summer bag, a winter bag and a bivi bag. Combined these allow for around -30 celsius, but the summer bag is still light enough. Have a look at the snugpak ones. I am happy with the two I have and preferr them to my Anjingulak or Mamut bags. 

I don't think you will get consistent 40-60 daytime highs (what I assumed you meant) anywhere that isn't moderated by the ocean. However Fiasco is correct: The Olympic Penninsula around Sequim is very close. Summer temps are cool enough that tomatoes won't rippen outside of a greenhouse. Winter has frosts, but not consitently. The mountains nearby get significant snow. Another possibility is the "Sunshine Coast" in British Columbia -- that's the east side of the Georgia Straight. You have Vancouver island acting as a rain screen. Not as dry as Sequim. It however still gets frosts in winter, and on a summer day it will usually be in the 70's, and sometimes in the 90's Failing that: In general you want the east side of a coastal range of mountains, a range that is high enough to precipitate out most of the rain. Interior ranges will do the same thing to precipitation, but they will have more continental climates so the temperature range will be significantly greater. As you move south, the temps get warmer. Compensate for this by moving higher. The tradeoff, is you get more cloud spilling over the tops. Take a look at the east slopes on the north island of New Zeeland. A final suggestion is the coast of Peru and Chile. The Humbolt current is cold, and wrings out most of the moisture of clouds passing over. Archeologies still talk about discoveries made after the 1923 Rain. Apparently that's the last time it did rain. Lots of fog, no rain. However it is hot in summer. You may want to migrate: Have two households. Become a snowbird. 

Walk the line on a humid very cold still morning. If the hot spring is of any significance -- e.g. enough surface to get in, and enough flow to be hot, -- you should get a plume of steam rising off the water. This will likely require an air water temperature differential of at least 40 degrees F to be visible. I have seen 'steam' (fog) tendrils off of lakes with a 20 F degree differential, but they were fairly insipid. You can check this by going to one of the known hot springs, and seeing what sort of conditions are required for reasonable visibility. If you have a friend with a plane, you may be able to check more quickly from the air. Method 2. The forest service uses some satellite (don't know which one) to spot forest fires when small looking at the earth in IR. See if the known springs show up in IR on the views from this satellite. If they do, track the fault line. This method will give you a false positive for every furnace chimney and badly insulated shack, but comparing locations with a visible light image of roads and access points will weed most of these out. Note: Remote buildings that are too bright may be a grow-op. Proceed with care. 

Recently my girlfriend and I were invited to go camping with our friends at a cabin in Flagstaff, Arizona. My buddies have already left and we're supposed to leave tomorrow to go and meet them up there. Everything has worked out great so far... except for one thing.... I want to bring my dog. Now I'm sure your wondering what the issue is, and well my friends have already left and took their dog with them. Now both theirs and mine know each other very well for they have played together during SEVERAL bbq's, so thats not going to be a problem. The problem we are currently facing is apparently if my dog goes, according to my girlfriend, that my friends will have to tie up their dog while ours is there where as if I just leave her home their dog can "run free" so to speak. Now I can honnestly see their point in the sense of the two dogs playing and getting carried away and taking off twoard another cabin. But outside of that? I don't personally see a problem and I seriously doubt they would do it, but you never know... This is the first time I have gone camping in YEARS and its most certanally the first time since I've had my dog... I don't think its fair to just leave her home like my girl seems to think so.... We do live in an apartment where she doesn't get out as much as she should, but she DOES get out. We can't take her to the dog park because of her breed, despite the fact she is friendly. She gets to go for walks and about once a week to once every two weeks she gets to go and run free on a 2 acre property until lays down in a heap of happy tails and belly rubs. She does really well as far as listening goes when on this property, but thorw in another dog and she doesnkt listen as well as she should, to be honnest sometimes I have to call her multiple times. sometimes I don't. just depends. So please, I'm asking for your advice, should I bring her or should I leave her? My Dog: Breed: Pitbull Boxer Mix Age: 3 Years. Sex: Female Personality: Loving, Sweet Adhd Hyper, protective will probably run circles around the cabin for at LEAST 30 minuets when we get there. Their Dog: Breed: Brindle lab mix Age: 4 years? Sex: Male Personality: Loving, sweet, protective, at times adhd hyper and will probably run circles around the cabin with my dog once/if she gets there. How many people total there: 4 adults. 3 kids (6, 7, and 9) and 1 dog for sure. How many days: For my friends: a week For us: Two Nights and two and a quarter days. EDIT: I would just like to add that if we leave the dog, the dog will NOT be neglected. I have a cat as well who needs to be fed and given attention to. We have someone who is going to be stopping by the house to spend time with the cat/make it seem like someone is home. The main reasons why my girl does not want to take the dog are because we recently have gotten knew neighbors within the last week, we're pretty sure the people beside us do drugs and we don't want to risk our things stolen and in her mind the dog would scare intruders away (yes i have pointed out that if they REALLY want in, they could kill or harm her) and the last reason, she doesn't want to have to worry about said dog doing something she's not supposed to. I'm confident in her, but my fiance is not with another dog around. I need to know opinions soon, we're leaving tomorrow (8-26-14) evening. 

I used to apply the 30% rule, and for out of shape adults it works pretty well. But I worked with teenage males, ranging from the 70 lb dripping wet grade 7 to the 160 lb lean as a rake grade 12 just starting to come into his adult strength. But in between were a bunch of butter balls. They were already carrying excess weight. Those older boys (which we shamelessly used as pack mules on trips with the younger ones) would quite easily carry 80 lb packs. And Ive heard of climbers doing the same on journeys to base camp. Those 70 lb grade 7's didn't have much trouble with a 30-35 lb pack either. So the rule I came up with was 50% of lean body mass. In practice we took an eyeball look and categoried like this: Visible ribs. 50% Can see muscles, but not bones. 40% Layer of baby fat 30% Obvious Molson Muscles overhanging belt line: 25% Small plump kids could barely carry their own clothes and gear. We made a point of finding something bulky but not massive so they would still feel like they were contributing to the group. Egg noodles and scalloped potatoes. Once on the trip, we sometimes had to shift things around. The goal was to equalize the discomfort. This estimation rule usually meant we only had a couple of individuals whose load we had to lighten. You can train yourself to carry heavier loads. When I was in university, I borrowed a couple of lead bricks (35 lbs each) and kept them in the bottom of my book bag. Had to restich the bag every few months -- they aren't designed for that kind of weight. I lived a mile from campus, and biked or walked to class. (Warning: Biking with a pack that heavy is very odd) The key is that you develop habits of posture that minimizes the pain. While daily work this way is best, setting up a pack at 40% and carrying it for an hour or so at a time on walks in the park. (wear the shoes you will on the hike too.) will help, either by training you to the higher weight, or by motivating you to leave stuff at home. 

Ben's answer above is good. I wish I could give him more than just one upclick. Rules of thumb: Carbs and proteins run 3.5 to 4 calories per gram. Fats run aobut 9 calories per gram. Working hard, especially in cold weather, you can tolerate a lot of fat in your diet. When planning food for teenagers, I figured on 4000 calories per day. This is sufficient for days with 8-9 working hours per day. (Pretty hard core compared to most recreational use.) With a 40% fat content diet, each hundred grams of food with provide 40 * 9 + 60 * 4 = 360 + 240 = 600 calories. So it would take 700 grams of food per day -- about a pound and a half. Our meals tended to be lower fat than that, and a rough rule of thumb was 2 lbs dry weight per person per day. Two pounds per day means that the groceries for a 15 day trip are 30 lbs. With the high fat option (LOTS of nuts, lots of cooking oil) There really isn't getting around that. So, as others have pointed out, you need to make the rest of your gear light, and minimize the parasitic weight (packageing) of your food. If you do trips frequently, set up your food in a spread sheet. I had one in which I figured on the weight/volume per serving, had a constant for the number of people in the trip, another constant for the class of trip, and the spread sheet would figure out the packing weight/volume for everything. This makes things a BUNCH easier when packing for an expedition of 30 people for 3 weeks in the wild waters of northern Saskatchewan. One aside: An external frame pack is considerably easier when handling lots of weight. They tend to be wider and flater, so keep the load closer to your own center of mass. They are however a true PITA in brushy country, as the extra width and exposed corners catch.