Which gives a general direction. From what I read linen performs in the regions of cotton regarding UPF. 

Are there any suggestions on what footwear to wear in a wet climate (specific: Vietnam in September)? The use case would be mostly walking on streets, with occasional hikes in easy but slippery terrain. For short term undertakings I would simply go for hiking boots. But in that case the shoes won't have a real chance to dry as I infer from other reports. Typical suggestions include: - FlipFlops (plastic) - Birkenstocks (the plastic ones) - Crocs (plastic) - Basically everything that is made of plastic und soaks up no water All these solutions seem highly unreasonable for longer periods of walking, let alone off the streets, let alone with a backpack of approx 10-15kg. I am looking for suggestions that are backed up by experience and minimize the amount of shoes that need to be used to achieve a comfortable and healthy trip. I am also looking for suggestions on how to dry shoes in a wet climate. 

Our club's empirical threshold is 30% of you body weight. Which simply means, that if your pack is heavier than that and you don't have much experience, you should strongly consider either removing some unnecessary items or choosing a shorter trip (so you can carry less food). Of course this varies wildly and body weight is just one of the variables, along with strengths/fitness/endurance, skll, motivation, age, sex (girls are stronger in %), backpack quality, ... In our trips you sometimes have to carry food for about 2 weeks (and all the technical and camping gear), so this 30% guideline is somtimes violated. And our fathers, when things were much heavier, used to carry as much as 50% of their weight. And sherpas routinely carry up to 100%. Backpacks do damage you health, if they are more then your personal limit. So it's wise to increase it slowly (starting from shorter/easier trips). Note, that heavy backpack needs some skill to put it on right, otherwise you can damage your back before even walking out of the door. Regardless of the limits, if you can make you pack lighter without jeopardizing safety, do it. Poetically, if you pack is 100 g heavier than your friend's, after you come to a camp after a day hike he starts to relax and you first have to run with a 10 kg bucket of water for 5 minutes. 

It's interesting but just banging amazon with "linen shirt upf" didn't do anything good. But it turned up another subpage of your referenced page. It has a nice graphic with a distribution of UPF Rating per material, which should give you a rough direction of how big the differences per material are actually. 

Now for the real interesting part: I found this Google Books link which gives quite some comprehensive tables. 

This picture emerged for me: The material itself is not as important for the UPF rating as the used thickness, dye, weaving technique and color. But we can clearly see from the table that Indigo has a way higher UPF than Madder and Cochineal. If we extrapolate this (not very scientific) we can assume that with lighter tones there will be worse UPF. 

I think raw wool / raw fleeces are already your best bet on researching this. At least e-Bay turns up some results that may be what you are looking for (based on where you live). 

The most obvious thing is an emergency blanket. It will add a lot of extra insulation per gram. It'a good to have one in you bag on any trip. However, a mere blanket is definitely not enough for all seasons, elevations and weather conditions. When planning at home, you should ask yourself a question: "What will happen to me if I have to be on the route overnight?" Than take this much insulation that will make the answer not worse than "no permanent injury". While at home, think of where (at which points of your route) would you sleep if something happens. Good shelter is very important, because wind and elements take a huge amount of heat from you. On top of the mountain is the worst, near a wall is better, between 3 walls (rocks) is even better, snow cave is the best (so learn how to dig one, if you are going very high up or in winter). Another lifesaver is water boiling gear (I'd recommend JetBoil), it also has a very high rate of heating per gram (compared e.g. to clothes). Of course you'll need water to boil, so know where you can find it or take some extra. 

I have a Vango Hurricane Alpha tent (made in Scotland) which I have owned since new in the early 1990s. I have recently noticed that there are irregular white patches on the inside of the flysheet which appears to be the inner coating beginning to delaminate. Is there any way of repairing this coating other than as a temporary repair or must I just accept that this tent, otherwise still in excellent condition, is just reaching the end of its useful life? 

Sometimes shadows or shapes in the snow give away the location of covered crevasses. Sometimes you can detect a crevasse with a shallow covering of snow by poking with an ice axe or a probe of some sort. The only sure way to detect if there is a crevasse is when you can see it, or when you fall into it when you cannot see it. 

It looks like the waterproof coating is flaking off. Try washing with a cloth and warm soap and water. I've had reasonable success with this method in the past. 

I use tape medical plaster for labeling tubes: wrap your tube in it and then write over using a pen or permament marker. The plaster just makes the surface less smooth and the writing can't be rubbed of that easily. It's not waterproof, though. The other idea which has just occured to me is to use some sharp object to carve your lables in plastic. So even if the marker paint goes off, you'll be able to read the label. 

Why, you can sacrifice some huge-size rubber boots for this. Warmth upgrade Overshoes by themselves provide additional warmth, but this may be not enough. To get really warm one should add another layer - warm overshoe ("chuni") - between the boot and the overshoe. Basically it's crafted just alike, but you use a warm cloth (e.g. Polartec-100/200) and you don't need laces. 

One point besides being warm (which is a really tough task by itself), is having something to drink - it's not easy in below-freezing temperatures. You'd want to have a reliable stove or you'll be forced to share your body heat with this show filled bottle. Another option is using sun light to melt snow during the daytime: use a lens or try to heat your black sleeping mat - but this will probably work in the summer only. Having a stove and a gas cartridge is really a big deal in winter survival. Just as a good map and a compass are. I hope you are asking just to be prepared for some highly improbable emergency. If chances of this surviving-without-sleeping-bag situation are high, I would just cancel the trip - or get enough camping gear to make this not an emergency but a routine. And please don't go alone. And if you get such an emergency, it's essential to think of it as an emergency, i.e. don't try to finish he planned route, don't hesitate to call a helicopter if you have the option, don't hesitate to leave some expensive but heavy/unnecessarry gear behind, etc. 

Pulling down ropes after abseiling in caving is common here in the UK, where a cave has an upper and a lower entrance with one or more pitches in between. We use Static rope and caving descenders are usually designed to only use a single strand of rope. We double the rope and tie a knot with a small loop near the middle of the rope. Then feed one end of the rope through the anchor (usually a bolt and hanger of some kind) so that the two sides of the rope are parallel as in your diagram, with the knot and loop near the anchor. Then we clip a carabiner to the loop formed by the knot and clip this carabiner to the other side of the rope. The next step is than to abseil down using the end of the rope passing through the carabiner (the side without the knot). This causes the rope to pull through the carabiner and tighten around the anchor. When the last person is down, you pull down the rope using the other side of the rope from which was abseiled down (the side with the knot and loop) and continue on your way. Obviously you need to take extreme care and not abseil on the wrong side of the rope. This can be mitigated against by clipping the carabiner to the anchor until the last person is on the rope and ready to abseil. They double check they have attached their descender to the correct side of the rope and then unclip the carabiner from the anchor and abseil down. Also you can coil the "pull-down" side of the rope and keep it at the top if the pitch until the last person is ready to abseil and lowers this end down, in order to prevent someone attaching to the wrong side of the rope. 

If the temperature is about 0 C, the water will not freeze for a long time anyway. If it is way below 0 C, than you are probably having snow nearby, which you can perfectly use for cooking. You can melt snow during your breakfast, lunch and dinner. If you want to avoid spending time on boiling at lunch, take a thermos with some hot tea from breakfast. In a good thermos it will remain quite warm for a half of a day. If temperature in the evening is above 0 C and in the morning all the running water gets frozen (typical in mountain trips), fill some plastic bottles with the running water in the evening and put them inside your tent. Depending on the temperature you may need to put some of them inside your sleeping bag (well, that's life). 

(origin: commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Corda_alpinismo.jpg) This is a "last resort" type method, because it is quite hard on your body on inclined slopes and simply painful on verticals. But it works and you can even use a prusik to back it up. Because the rope presses hard on your leg and eats up your clothes by friction, people started to add more fabric to their pants at the main friction point. Then they started to sew metallic parts to their pants. Then they realized that they didn't need pants if they had metallic parts. This way the first belay devices were born.