I think the correct word is intelligence, not consciousness. If I am correct, then a higher level intelligence should be capable of: Faster and more efficient space travel. Telepathic communication. Eradication of most deceases. Peaceful coexistence with themselves and other beings. 

It seems you are using the singularity of the "output" (purpose) to imply (require) the singularity of the "input" (final cause). It is certainly possible to have a single input (cause) for a given output (purpose), but it is also possible to have multiple inputs (contributing causes) for a single output (purpose). 

First of all (in the general case), there are "things" that "come to existence" (emerge) without a creator, and there are others that do require a creator. Typically, things that are made by nature and/or random processes do not require a "sentient creator" whereas, tools, buildings, ships, etc., do. Focusing in the specific case of our Universe, I submit as a possible explanation, that just like there are "spontaneous" emissions of particles from radioactive materials, our Universe "came about" from a spontaneous perturbation of highly unstable energy field, in a 4-dimensional space volume. The wave created by the perturbation caused a 3-dimensional "surface" (in 4-dimensional space), which is our Universe. No "sentient being" required for this. 

Mu In short, asking about religion in the context of philosophy without defining your terms does not a good discussion make. 'Dogma' requires definition, for us to tell if atheism has that/is that or not. 'Religion' would probably benefit from definition, given that you ask "Is atheism supposed to be only anti-religious". 'Atheism' most certainly would benefit from definition. Depending on the definitions you propose, the answer can be quite different. In many cases, atheism has dogma, meaning that it is a perspective or system of belief (and, obviously, has foundational tenets in these cases). In other cases, atheism is a dogma prescribed as foundational for certain systems of belief/perspectives on the world. In other cases, atheism is neither a system of belief nor a belief and thus neither has nor can be dogma. In yet further cases, dogma isn't necessarily entailed by a system of belief, so atheism can be a special unicorn system with no dogma. In still other cases, things are defined unconventionally and anything can happen. 

Based on the fact that humans are not happy with just health care and not working, there would eventually be demonstrations, riots, and possibly revolts - and/or mass suicides. 

Making the statement, "I don't have a choice," is not a choice. Making a choice involves taking (or avoid taking) an action! You can make all the statements you want, but they are not choices. 

The last sentence gives a clue as to why "man is not yet a self." Since a synthesis is a relation between two (my emphasis) factors, and since "the self is a relation which relates itself to its own self," is only one factor, - man is not yet a self! However, I think this is the wrong conclusion. It should be - man is not yet a synthesis! From the first sentence, one obtains what Kierkeggard thinks the self is, "Spirit is the self." 

Whether there are or not "other worlds" is irrelevant, since we have "access" only to one. At any instant of time, we live in "The best possible world," because even though the ratio of Good/Evil can change, it is the best it can be, at that instant of time! The reason it matters, is that if we are not happy with the current ratio, we can take actions, individually and collectively, to "improve" the ratio. 

Of course It's not so bleak, though. So, you and the people you are speaking with here seem to be defining 'faith in something' equivalently to the belief that there exists intrinsic value; that is, to have faith in something here seems to mean that one acknowledges the intrinsic value present in that thing. Deific adoration, then, presupposes faith, since it is necessary to acknowledge God's intrinsic value to worship Him. Moreover, though, faith 'in something else', if it is to be differentiated from the ordinary faith of expectation, is most reasonably understood as a holding of that 'something else' in the place of God (c.f. idolatry). Since to take something as God requires the attribution of the intrinsic value due God, this, too, seems to map well. Given that that is the definition we are dealing with, it should be no surprise that faith is necessary to avoid perceived meaninglessness; indeed faith is definitionally that which is necessary for meaningfulness! So, the statements made by these speakers are true, but vacuously so. They don't really reflect on the nature of Man's relationship to God nor Man's need for that relationship, and neither do they say anything which legitimately concerns mass shootings, depression, or the other Scary Social Things that they mention. They merely say "If you believe that anything has intrinsic value, then you don't believe that there is nothing of intrinsic value", and also "If you believe that there is nothing of intrinsic value, then you don't believe there is anything with intrinsic value", both of which are obviously true. The problem is that the speakers are trying to imply things that may or may not be true via other meanings and implications attached to the specific words employed. Essentially, those points which are argued by implication ('suicidal acts of violence are the result of not having enough faith', for example) are argued only via equivocation. 

Lets start by defining "physical" as perceptible by one or more human sense. Then, the answers to your 3 sub-questions are: 1 - What does it mean for something non-physical to exist? It means it is something that exists but it is not perceptible by humans. 2 - How can something exist without having a causal effect on the physical world? If it exists, it will have some physical effect, but we may not be able perceive the effect. 3 - Is there any way to prove the existence of something non-physical? Most of the time the answer would be no, but there are a couple of exceptions that I am aware of; a) A man named Jesus Christ (and all his "works"), testified to the existence of an entity he called Father. He further testified that the Father and He, were ONE. He also said that the Holy Spirit would be sent to the apostles. Of these three "entities," one was perceptible to humans. We know of the existence of the other two, through the testimony of the one that was perceptible. b) In Mexico city, there is a "painting" of Our Lady of Guadalupe, that was "painted by magic". But the "amazing thing" is not the whole painting, but the eyes. In the eyes, there is the image of the people She was looking at when the "painting" was made. This happened over 500 years ago! Long before humans had any notion of how the retina of our eyes acts like the film in a camera. How the whole image and the images inside the eyes were "painted", has not been determined, as of late. 

This comic by Corey Mohler does a good job of addressing this question. In short, because said people find a sort of short-sighted "New Atheism" convenient for maintaining the marginalization of women and other oppressed groups and preventing social change in general. While this position may seem quite harsh, it is well supported in the case of Sam Harris and Christopher Hitchens, as the lengthy explanation following the comic shows. Most of that explanation (the parts relevant to the discussion at hand) are reproduced below: 

I believe this to be a reasonable definition for this question's purposes as you give examples from a Judeo-Christian background, though it is possible, given your very unusual choices for the definitions of other terms, that this is an error in premise. 

In the 17th discussion of The Incoherence of the Philosophers, Al-Ghazali attempts to explain how a certain view of causality (which we can see is quite certainly intended to be that espoused by Avicenna) fails to meet his four requirements for an acceptable understanding of causality. However, both Avicenna and al-Ghazâlî seem, at least to me, to argue for different strengths of Occasionalism, and it is not at all clear that Avicenna's view fails to meet the four requirements put forth, at least to me. I don't really understand al-Ghazâlî's explanation as to why this view is rejected, can someone explain how the position is incompatible in a simpler manner? 

You are using the wrong interpretation of Reductionism. The correct one to use here, is that a given theory gets "absorbed" into a new theory, not that a given theory has a particular limit(limits). Think of Reductionism as a process and a theory as an object. So what you are asking is, "is a process compatible with an object"? You would need to define "compatible". Lets say you have a machine that "squishes" (the process), and the object is oranges. Then you ask, is the process this machine provides compatible with the oranges, the answer would be yes, if you define "compatible", as capable of producing orange juice. Now lets say you define the process as being able to divide an object in half, and the object is matter. Then we define "compatible" as being able to apply the process indefinitely to a given matter sample? Then the answer would be no, because there is a limit as to how small an object can be. But, this process would be compatible, until the last division. 

In order for a thing to be potentially 'unethical' (here defined as a thing which ought to be done in a given circumstance), we only need to show that it ought to be done in even a single circumstance. That is, if we can show even a single example where thinking something contrary to societal norms (as we have thusly defined immoral) is good, given the context, then we have shown that thoughts can be potentially 'unethical'(again, remembering that this is here defined in a manner more akin to how 'ethical' is usually defined). We have not, for the purposes of this question, defined moral goodness, so for the purposes of this answer I will be using the following definition1: 

(from the Catechism of the Catholic Church) Now, we must find a thought with a morally good object, end, and circumstance (which here means something that is a superset of typical usages for 'consequence'). Any such thought will suffice, because our definition of 'immoral' requires only that an action be "deemed improper by the modi operandi of a given society" and societies are quite capable of deeming anything improper. Most readers, I think, will agree at least one of the following suffices: 

It depends on what meaning we give to "akin." If it means "similar," then the answer is yes, it is similar to believing in magic. If it means "the same," then the answer is no, it is not the same. 

What is making it hard to address the question(s), is that two different subject matters are being treated as one. The first subject is "mastery level" proficiency. The second subject is the truth value of Alice's answers. Addressing the "mastery level" questions: yes, it is possible to construct a series of problems that Alice can solve - they would all be at level L (which has been established Alice can solve). You can now give Alice a problem at level L+1, which she will not be able to solve. What this would show, is that Alice's mastery level is still at level L. So she can in fact, at all times, show her mastery is at level L, even if she failed at the L+1 level! Whether Alice got the answer at the L+1 level right or wrong, has no effect on her mastery at the previous level (L). Also, whether she is telling the truth or not at the L+1 level, is irrelevant for the L level. There definitely could be many disciplines were Alice could be telling the truth - but would have "nothing to do" with (irrelevant to) her mastery level! 

There were some links to explanations of topics like 'logical positivism' in the original that are not preserved here, since they aren't strictly necessary. The linked youtube video is an excerpt from an interview with Mr. Hitchens where he talks broadly about how women should stay home and raise children and men should go get jobs. At one point he says "No. I'm not having any woman of mine go to work." The interviewer then says "You know you're going to get in trouble if you go down there" (Mr. Hitchens tries to say something over this about halfway through her talking, but I'm not sure what. Possibly "No, no they-- no, they-- I don't--". In any case, I think he's just trying to interrupt and the line I can't quite make out isn't critical). Mr. Hitchens then says "No, they don't need to work. They can if they like, but they don't have to". The interviewer then says "You are joking, aren't you?" to which he replies "No, I'm not. No, I would expect her to take care-- Well, you can work if you want, but you don't have to." 

Upon analyzing the determinism dilemma, I find that one part is false (or incomplete). I agree that all actions are either determined, or undetermined. For the determined actions, "free will" is not present. However, for the undetermined actions, there are at least two types, random and selected. Also, for the random actions, "free will"is not present. But for the selected actions, "free will" is present. This results from the application of "free will" by the selector! 

What is a miracle? A miracle is an event or object that has characteristics or attributes that can not be explained by the current state of the "world knowledge." An example of this is the "painting" of the Virgin Mary in a canvas at the Basilica in Mexico City. It has been studied several times and its creation can not be explained. In addition, there is a "picture" inside the eyes of the Virgin, showing what she was looking at, when the painting was made. This "painting" was made over 500 years ago, when nothing about how the eyes work, or that the retina has the image of what the eye is looking at, was known! If this is all legitimate and true, then this would be a clear example of a miracle. Why should it influence our metaphysical beliefs? Just like in science, repeatable test results give validity to the theory/premise/experiment, miracles give evidence that a "superior," "omnipotent" being exists. If this evidence convinces us, then our metaphysical beliefs would be affected.