Here is a real-life example showing how multiple mouths are possible even with the bilaterally symmetrical body plan. $URL$ Evolution is the ultimate cost/benefit shopper. It costs energy to make a redundant body part, so that body part better be worth keeping. A body plan with multiple mouths would evolve when you need to cover more ground (e.g., foraging) or eat very quickly (e.g., feeding frenzy) or you are likely to lose one mouth and need backups (e.g. lungs will pop) or the cost of making of an extra body part possibly confers some advantage not directly related to its primary function (e.g., huge breasts don't feed babies better than regular breasts but attract more mates). One interesting idea is "stereo." You need [at least] two eyes for depth perception, and two ears for stereo to tell where a sound is coming from, and two nostrils to tell who farted (though this last one works better for dogs). The heads of hammerhead sharks are shaped that way because in order to increase distance between their electroception organs, and thus get a better targeting read on their prey. Maybe a pair (or more) of mouths can actually double as smell receptors too (think snake's tongue), so as to more accurately locate food? 

So, working off of @NoAnswer's answer, you could have a bit of ultra-dense (say some neutron star material) formations hidden in the top of hill, which has such extreme gravity that everything flows upward toward it. Not enough to cause a black hole, but enough to overcome the gravity of the entire rest of the planet. And this stuff would have to be sitting on some very strong foundation so as to resist sinking to the core of the planet. ALTERNATELY You could have some algae or fish spawning goo that is seasonally secreted into the river that turns that section of the river into something like polyethelene oxide ("the liquid that pours itself"). It would work like this: river runs parallel to raised area with sharp drop off, then down hill. Fish spawn temporarily changes the viscosity of river, which then tends to pool up in places in the raised area. Eventually a pool reaches the edge of raised area and spills over, which pulls the down-river part of the river back uphill. I don't know. 

I Said Do You Speaka My Language One thing about names is that they are pronounced like regular words. That's because often names actually are regular words. Consider, for example, that silly trope where boy meets exotic girl and she says her name is Mortihomoalbus or whatever and the boy asks, "What does that mean?" Invariable the girl has some cheeseball answer. Many names are derive from words already in common usage in that language. For example, a lot of family names come from trades (like Baker). A lot of place names are descriptive (like Buena Vista). And a lot of family names incorporate their place of origin (like names of nobility but also like Jesus of Nazareth). Hooked On Phonics Given the above, you need to start stringing some syllables together. You said you don't want to use real Earth names so I recommend you start imagining what the language of your culture sounds like. You can start off really basic and bombastic. I don't mean to offend, but consider for example how the movie "Team America" characterized Arabic as "durga durga," or how the Muppets Swedish Chef made a lot of "herdy birdy" sounds. Then, consider all the other the awful stereotypes that people have when they are making fun of Chinese-speakers, the French, Jamaicans, and other languages. These sounds are the types of sounds (whether real or imagined) that are associated with a culture, which includes both regular words and also names. A Rose is but A Rosé More on the above point, consider also that different cultures will literally convert the same name to fit their language. Like the name "John." A name from the Bible, originally Hebrew "Yochanan" which then grew in popularity among Eastern Orthodox so you get "Yannis" and so forth but then also the rest of Europe where you get the German "Johann," the French "Jean," and the Italian "Gian." How Do You Identify Yourself Which brings me to my last point: why on Earth would an English guy have a Hebrew name? You know why: Christianity. Europe (and the Middle East for that matter) was crazy about religion for a long ass time and the plethora of names based on religious characters is a reflection of that. The Borg are super into order and "thinking as one," and their names are reflective of their hierarchical predilections. Cartoon cavemen are super into being stupid but strong and so you use onomatopoeia to get names that sound like bashing something with a club, "Klag" and what have you. (I guess Klingons are too, but I didn't want to lean on Star Trek too much.) Don't get me started on pop-culture versions of Native American names, "Sitting Bull" turns into "Dances with Wolves" and or whatever. 'Cos we all know Native Americans cry a tear when you litter. Ugh. The point is, names often come from whatever it is that the culture is holds in high regard. (Consider, for example, the bastard names of Game of Thrones.) But to summarize, if you are going to make up new names that are not based on existing Earth cultures, then I think you think about that culture's language and ideals. You can also consider historical events that brought cultures together, either through religion, conquest, slavery, trade, etc. Good luck! 

As @Seeds and @John Feltz said above, you really can't logic evolution. The answer is always "because survival." But, below at least are some "reasons" how a species came to have multiple sexes: Trisomy Most life on Earth is diploid: each chromosome comes in pairs (X and Y are a famous variation on the rule). In "higher" species, having three of just one of your chromosomes leads to a syndrome of some sort. This is not good. Having three of every chromosome (triploidy) is always unviable. But maybe your creature evolved with three sets of chromosomes, meaning three gametes (be they egg or sperm). That could be a reason for three sexes (after all human males and females only vary by one single chromosome). Chimeras/Mosaics Chimeras are produced by the merger of multiple fertilized eggs. While it's considered a fluke from us diploid normal pants people, maybe your species has a reproductive mechanism that actually waits for eggs to be fertilized by more than one individual--who must be of different sexes themselves--then fuses them into a chimera. Life Cycle-ish? Maybe creatures with more complex life-stages might could be said to have an extra sex or two, depending on your story. Usually life-stages are quite different from each other, for example, Egg-->Caterpillar-->Chrysalis-->Butterfly are different life stages of a single individual. (I really like Egg-->Facehugger-->Chestburster-->Xenomorph!) But to get to your question consider the hydra. Let's start with an egg. From that you get a polyp, which is basically a sessile non-sexual stalk that reproduces asexually by budding. When food is low it will bud off male and female medusa (which are free floating). The medusa spurt out gametes which join to form eggs. So, you sorta have three sexes: a non-sexual polyp, and male and female medusa. Using this life-cycle idea, perhaps your made-up species could have three sexes in the adult stage, A,B, & C, which produce different life cycles depending on the pairing. A+B produce A or B or C. A+C produce a Type D warrior caste that can asexually clone itself (after all, Type D need genetic variation too). B+C produce a sterile Type E. A+B+C produce a trisomal crazy pants variant. And so on. 

An Amish community? Let's do the time warp agaaaaain! Or inside a container on a container ship with some illegal immigrants. Which would be crazy if they woke up one day and some new guy was there. Or on the vast estate of some eccentric rich dude who likes to kick it old school. Or in a deep subway tunnel where some homeless people live. (Like the movie Dark Days.) Or in an insane asylum or prison where the guards just don't give a f*ck who is in there. Or Guantanamo or some other military base where they will definitely keep him under lock and key for a little while. Or Supai, Arizona. No cars! But probably satellite TV. I think a lot of these would be easier to explain if he transported naked, a la Terminator. 

We think of boomerangs as returning to the thrower. But think about Angry Birds, where you primarily use boomerangs for their curved trajectory rather than to actually return all the way back. This could be handy for throwing what is essentially a grenade to attack enemy "from behind," or to throw around corners or you could chuck it into a window and down the hall into the third door on the left. 

Here's a shot in the dark: When faced with an inhospitable environment, we can either change the environment or enclose ourselves in a bit of our own. As for the barren soil and poisonous air, an initial colony would be established in some kind of self-contained habitat. Everything would be grown hydroponically. (Basically, you can just land the ship you arrived in.) Eventually you could terraform if you bring in more equipment and also deal with the aliens who were there first. As for the magnetic field from the magnetar, you will want magnetic shielding. If a Type II civilization can build a dyson sphere then it can also build shielding around the planet. But if we want to start small, you could just shield the ship you arrived in as well as any vehicles you travel around in. Either method could involve passive and active shielding. Magnetars (and their magnetic fields) rotate rapidly, about once every second to ten seconds. Surface flares are normal and this affects the magnetic field too. With such rapid, inconstant changes in magnetic field strength, you would probably opt for some kind of active monitoring and countering system, basically like noise cancelling headphones, but with magnetic fields instead of sound waves. Again, you could either build a planetary system or just give everyone a "magnetic umbrella." EDIT RE: RADIATION Also, you will need shielding from radiation. Astronauts in the ISS are pretty shielded but have to hide in a safe room during some solar flares. But again, if you can build a Dyson sphere, you probably have access to a lot of radiative shielding material, which you either build around the planet, or the star, or just the habitat. EDIT RE: GRAVITY Also, you will need like DARPA exo suits, or a lot of steriods, 'cos people cannot walk around with three times their body weight. At least I can't. At least not right away. 

If you want battles where it takes multiple hits to destroy a ship, it would stand to reason that attacking weaponry is not strong enough to overcome defensive weaponry. How About Force Shields? Force Shields could explain why missiles are no longer used. Basically, you could have some kind of shields that are very effective against projectiles, which would render missiles (or "torpedos") useless. I think this makes some sense in that explosives on Earth do most of their damage by shockwaves propagating through the air. Obviously not possible in space. There are Kinetic Energy projectiles (like railguns) that do their damage by smashing into things. Even if you put a shaped charge in front of that projectile (like anti-tank artillery) you would still be basically just shooting molten armament. If there were some type of ion shield or other force field technology that provided excellent protection against all matter projectiles, that would end the use of missiles. 

Durakken suggests that the Articles of Confederation basically failed (which it did). kingledion suggests that differences in manufacturing base and preferred trading partners and attitudes on slavery and loyalty would have kept the colonies apart. Those are both great ideas. Perhaps another option would be if England did not force the colonies to unite in the first place. The Seven Years War (or more to the point: the "French and Indian War") began when England decided to stop French expansion in the inland areas. Ben Franklin had the bright idea that maybe the colonies should create a unified governance for defense of the 13 colonies, thus proposing his Albany Plan and calling for the Albany Congress of 1754 (twenty years before the first Continental Congress). Maybe, just possibly, if England had decided to wage a Continental war (in Europe) and focus its strong navy and commit troops to attacking France directly (along with its ally Fredrick the Great of Prussia), the New World could have been spared as a theater of the War. England, knowing that France did not have a navy strong enough to transport troops and supplies to win in America, might have decided that America was theirs for good and that England should therefor focus military action directly against France. This would mean the Colonies would have less to fear, and they might not have felt the need to unite in defense. Also, maybe England would instead decide to wage economic war against France, and to treat the Colonists a lot better then they actually did. England regarded its colonies as golden gooses that you just squeeze the crap out of. Thus, you get bumbling moves like the Stamp Tax. What if, instead, England had decided that the better way to extract wealth was to invest in growth and productivity, rewarding entrepreneurship and fostering strong market development. As kingledion points out, each colony had different things to offer, and under an English crown, these differences would be skillfully exploited for the good of the Crown, but also for the good of each colony individually. If each colony is relatively happy with its relationship to England, then there's nothing to rebel against. Call off the tea party.