The short answer to your question is No. Other factors do play a part in how many calories you burn during exercise. Since calculating the exact amount is somewhat difficult, researchers have published tables of energy expenditure for common activities. The energy expenditure is typically expressed in METS for some of the tables. The tables are not an exact measurement of the expenditure for physical activity, but, rather a way to classify physical activity by METS. In the Compendium of physical activities: classification of energy costs of human physical activities (Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Department of Exercise Science, School of Public Health, University of South Carolina), the researchers indicated that the amount of energy expended for weight bearing exercises was… 

You’re opening yourself up to lots of opinions. But, one of the indicators that could impress on you to make a change is your BMI. There are others, but, a BMI of 36 suggests obesity and the possibility of an onset of a host of medical problems. I would suggest you discuss your weight with your personal physician and get a complete medical check up to rule out any health concerns before they become chronic. 

What you are describing is typically referred to as "super setting". There's nothing inherently wrong with that approach, and, it's typically used to try and invoke more muscle growth/strength. However, super setting is usually a fairly high intensity type of routine that should not be followed indefinitely. It can be used effectively if it's cycled with other approaches to training. 

I personally love big calves, screw pants and wear shorts and show them off. But if you really want to lose them, then i'll try to help. Following these steps will not only burn some of your leg muscles tho, but from everywhere, so you may need to counter it by working upper body more. Basically what you need to do is lower your caloric intake, so your body would need to zap into something, like the muscle, to get the energy it needs. Mainly protein intake should be reduced. Do hard cardio, in the mornings, with an empty stomach. Many say that doing heavy cardio in the morning actually reduces muscle mass, people avoid it, but it may help you. In the gym do high reps, low weight to tone the muscle you want to reduce. I hope these tips will help you. Best of luck losing your awesome calves. 

First things first, nothing can substitute food. Protein supplements should only be taken when you know you simply can not eat that much. Protein is actually cheaper. Right supplements can actually save you money, if approached in a smart way. A chicken breast that has 20g of protein costs 1-2 euros depending what you are buying. A serving of protein costs .50-1 euro, also depending on what you are buying. That being said, you can not replace (it is not healthy) food, with only supplements. From fish you get many other nutrients. E.g. different fatty acids, like omega-3. For example, instead of eating 2 cans of tuna, i eat 1 can + 1 serving of whey protein. That saves me a little bit of money already. If doing something like this daily, you can actually save a lot. But again, don't completely replace food, just use supplements to aid you a little bit, while still eating real foods. I do believe in the "1 g of protein per pound of body weight", but that is only when you want to build muscle. Also, it is not important to start from the very beginning like this. Just start consistently going to the gym, eat more calories than you burn, but still eat plenty of protein and carbs. 

As a 50+ athlete, I can tell you that gains are still possible. However, they are harder to achieve and less frequent. It's just part of the aging process. That doesn't mean you can't train with gains in mind. You just need to train smarter. 

To ensure a proper heart rate range, I would invest in a heart rate monitor. There are several, but, since you ride a bike for the most part, you should look at a chest band with an accompanying watch. A heart rate monitor can assist you in maintaining a heart rate to reach your goals. 

As ZOD has indicated, for a more accurate record of heart rate, the standard practice is to wear a heart rate monitor belt paired with a wrist watch receiver. Polar heart rate monitors are a leader in that industry. 

The study looked at the results of several other stretching studies to identify the potential benefits of stretching. In its conclusion, the study indicated: 

It's never too late to improve your health and fitness. You may not be able to get the exact physique you want due to reduced testosterone, but, that doesn't mean you can't improve on what you already have. As we age we don't produce the same amount of hormones as we did early in life. All that means is that fitness gains may be harder to achieve. It does not mean you can't make gains. And more importantly, the improvement in your quality of life as a result of a health and fitness lifestyle certainly outweighs a muscular physique. 

I totally agree with @Ker p pag about walking. Just an 30 min to an hour will help, but it may not be enough. Drink things like green tea, in the morning and evening and maybe a cup of coffee or tea while on lunch. Green tea will help your metabolism a lot. Eating fibrous foods will also help, like oatmeal, broccoli etc. Training a minimum of 3 times a week would be required at least. But that is the bare minimum, anything under that is a waste of time in my opinion. And lastly water, drink a lot of water. At least 2-3 liters a day. Not juice, not milk but water. Following these steps should be enough to make you go to the toilet once a day. 

Heavy lifting does not cause toothache. Unless you are pulling the weights up with your teeth, then it might. It is very, very unlikely that you will press your teeth together so hard during a lift, that you will damage them. It just will not happen. Don't worry, your teeth are safe. 

Having a overdeveloped back is nothing you should be worried about. It is not like your shoulders, at some point, are going to get cracked backwards. As you said, if chest, is the overpowering part in that balance, the shoulders will be pulled forward, which is correct, but it does just not work in reverse, after reaching a certain point. My friend did nothing but rows and deadlifts for a few months. His posture improved a lot and there were no negative effects for him there. Over developed traps are another thing. If other parts of the body are not balanced it will probably make it look like you have a hump on your back, which is not nice. But as you said, having everything balanced is the ideal, to prevent injuries. I will try to improve my answer, after i have done further research, but i hope this will answer your question. 

The study emphasized that the key to the process is optimizing your training and your protein intake, not, adding excessive calories. Lastly, the study recommends 

However, beginners (recreational athletes) tend to lose muscle mass at a slower pace during detraining. The study group consisted of sedentary males and found that atrophy and decreased strength occurred aft 12 weeks. 

My club has a rowing machine. The staff does not instruct anyone on how to use the machine, so, I'd like to know the right way to use the machine, and, how to get an effective workout. By effective, I mean one that stresses my whole body and my heart. 

There's no one specific type of routine for getting "ripped". It's generally agreed in the bobybuilding circles that the formula for getting ripped is an increase in exercise volume with a corresponding decrease in calories. Each part of this equation should be done gradually. For example, remove 250 to 500 calories from your total caloric intake over a period of a few weeks. Evaluate the results and continue the process. On the exercise side of the equation, this may mean performing more reps, or, more sets with the goal to burn more calories. Regardless of the approach, getting "ripped" should be a gradual process. You need to give your body a chance to adapt to its new restrictions. 

I was told recently that eating meat will cause weight gain. I fail to find any research on this and i call bs, but i am very curious about it. If yes, what would be the amounts (for chicken/fish). Any linked research would be welcome as well. 

I will give you an vague answer. Since, as you stated, you think you have good slow-twitch fibers, which should make you a good marathon runner. The best way to find out, in what area you are better is to run 100 m. How fast were you? How do you feel?. That will give you your answer. There is this good site, where you can learn more about different kinds of muscle fibers, and how they work. As for eating. Just eat healthy. I strongly believe in "If it fits your macros". There are some good calculators online to figure out your macros. Just fill them with some healthy foods, and occasionally(not more than once a week or two) reward yourself with something dirty(if you want), but make sure you are not going over your macros. A great site, to track them is myfitnesspal. As for the "I feel discouraged". How do you think they started? Do you think they woke up one day and just ran 8 km without any effort?. No. Running is something that requires dedication. I was always good at short bursts, one of the best in my school day, but i never was first in marathon running, because i did not even care for it. Oh, and i was almost 100 kg and 190 cm tall. Do outdoor running as much as possible(but do not over do it of course). It is way better than treadmill in every way. If you want to be a jogger you have to be ready for everything, from downhill to uphill. That is why outdoors is better. Run to different places, enjoy the weather etc. Depending on what your goals are, you can train in one or the other area. Do not feel embarrassed. You are already doing more than most, you should feel proud for wanting to do something like this. Your goals are there, fulfill them, and do not let anyone judge you. Push yourself and one day, you also can run 8 km without even breaking a sweat. The only limits we have, are the ones we set ourselves. 

This question is primarily opinion based, so, I’ll answer it in that context. When it comes to triceps development, I’m a firm believer in attacking all three heads of the muscle since triceps make up the bulk of the upper arm. For me, that means using many different types of exercises and different angles (flat and standing). While using a plate is an option, I don’t think it is sufficient if that’s all you do. If available, I would suggest you use a combination of dumbbell, barbell (e-z bar), and cable exercises to ensure you train all three heads. 

You can't tell, and, nor can we. Only a trained professional can advise you on the extent of the trauma to the muscle. Having said that, you should let your pain level guide you to amount and extent of the activity as you ease back into it. Ideally you would have progressed through some sort of rehab program to strengthen the injured area. 

Most personal trainers will tell you to work a muscle through its full range of motion (ROM). The goal is to ensure that the muscle is under a constant and consistent load during each repetition of the exercise. The load on the muscle tends to be greater for full range of motion even if you lift less weight. A relatively recent (January 2014) study by the Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research found that 

Maybe calisthenics is something for you. When i was younger i trained 1-1.30 hours every day in the gym and then had a hour of handball afterwards. It can be exhausting at start, but your body will get used to the high intensity. To build muscle, as a beginner, just try to find a good program that has a routine for each body part. As you advance, you can start training each body part twice a week. Best routines to build muscle are bodybuilding routines. You can find some from sites like bodybuilding.com, you can find some plans in here Nothing bad will happen if you try it. I do not know how you will fit it into your schedule tho if you have such time frames. Once you go on that road, nutrition will be very, very, very important. You need your body to recover as fast as possible. Meaning you will need good nutrition and lots of rest(8-9 hours of sleep) If you start feeling tired and moody all the times, your might be over doing it, and you do not want that. At the end of the day, every one are different. Something like this has worked for me for years, because i was eating right and had lots of sleep. I hope this answers your question. 

shortcut to size is fine BUT, don't follow the supplement and nutrient guides. They are way too focused around supplements. The answer to your problem is easy. Eat more. Track your macros (Macronutrients). Sites like myfitnesspal can be very helpful. To know what is your daily caloric need, try googeling "Caloric calculator" I can not recommend one or another, there are many different ones, some get more specific and give better answer etc. You need to not only consume a lot of protein, but carbs and fat as well. For example, for bulking i go 200G of protein 200G of carbs 80G of fat daily (This is only me, your values will be different). From your weight, i would say you need about 134G (Bodyweight(kg)*2) of protein a day, and a lot more carbs. I used to know a guy who drank chocolate milk every day to bulk, because he could just not get enough carbs from foods. So to conclude. You need to eat more, track your macros. If possible, follow the workout routine (4 days a week). This program is pretty good for beginners, since it offers variety, and gives you an good idea of what a program should look like, once you start putting together your own. 

Exercise form is something that seems to be invariably related to Range of Motion (ROM). Although they are two separate concepts, they tend to be mentioned together since form usually affects ROM. Intuitively, one would expect that “bad form” (ie. Sloppy) can lead to injuries since the movement tends to be fast, not controlled, and, the movements jerky. I, personally, would not risk form break for the sake of reaching a rep goal simply for the potential of injury. It becomes more important if you utilize bad (sloppy) form while handling free weights. There is, however, a study that partial range of motion may provide some benefit. The study, An analysis of full range of motion vs. partial range of motion training in the development of strength in untrained men used the bench press (similar movement to your push up) to gauge the effectiveness of ROM on that particular movement. The study concluded: 

Exercise resistance bands are not all alike. The typical difference is in the colors that indicate the amount of resistance. When purchasing resistance bands, you should consider the muscle groups you plan to target and buy bands that are appropriate for your goals. And, since it is beyond the scope of this site (and purely opinion) to recommend what bands to purchase, you'll need to research that on your own. 

If you haven't already done so, start a food journal. Most people underestimate how many calories they are consuming. Guessing at what you are eating while trying to lose weight will not help. Use the food journal to record what you eat and drink for a structured period of time. Then, look where you can slowly cut calories from your diet until you reach your goal weight. Set a goal weight that is realistic. Don't expect to lose a lot of weight all at once. It's not healthy, and, in the long term, is counter productive. Structure your lifting around a strength training program that includes some form of aerobics. Adding muscle mass will help you burn more calories. Whatever you do, don't give up!