Presumably the neutron star remnant would be acting as a gravitational attractant to pull the fragments of the shattered planet together. In that sense, this process is feasible. For clarification, in this case a neutron star remnant is not a full neutron satr, it is a piece of neutron star. using small fragments of a neutron star is more feasible route of building planetoids. Remembering a planetoid is only an astronomical object that is a dwarf planet like Ceres and below. Sometimes, actually quite often, they are called asteroids. However, what may this infeasible is whether the neutron star remnant would be stable. If it's stable, then using the gravity of the neutron star remnant the shatter planet fragments could be pulled together to form a planetoid. Sorry about the repetition, but helps preserve the magic. of course, if the neutron star remnant isn't stable it may be emitting neutrons, gamma radiation and sundry other particles. Possibly not, surviving long enough to assemble a planetoid. This is a big unknown in the picture. The stability of the neutron star remnant. An actual neutron star, assuming its cooled and isn't rotating at high speed would have stellar mass, several times the mass of the Sun, in which this wouldn't form a planetoid at all. It would form a planetary matter coated neutron star, initially. Gradually the ordinary planetary matter would be crushed into a thin layer and it turn it would become neutronic matter , part of the neutron star proper. Of course, to do this, is a non-trivial engineering exercise and would require an extremely advanced technological civilization to do so. But this would be the least of the problems in making a planetoid using a neutron star (complete) or even a fragment of a neutron star (with its unknown stability problems). 

Most probably the astronauts will have to deal with someone has the worst case of space sickness. The sheer delight of having the stowaway vomiting copiously and regularly. If everybody is exceptionally lucky, the stowaway won't be affected by weightlessness, but that seems very, very improbable. The astronauts will report the stowaway. The mission will continue under severe constraints. It won't go to Mars or anywhere in the solar system (except back home to planet Earth). Stowaways on the space shuttle are extremely unlikely. Strangely, NASA isn't stupid. They make access to the space shuttle extremely difficult unless you have an authorized reason for being there. Therefore, an unknown person won't have a chance of getting on board. Oh yes, there is the distinct possibility the stowaway will be injured during lift-off. Experiencing high g-forces, while not properly seated or secured, has a definite risk factor. In summary, the astronauts should be delighted to find they have a vomiting medical emergency in the form of a stowaway. A person who has no training or expertise in space travel or the requirements of a space shuttle. Just the thing to ruin a good space mission. To say nothing of all the extra cleaning up they will have to do. Provided they don't succumb to the temptation of pushing the stowaway out of the airlock. :) 

This suggests the radiation emitted by a white hole will be the equivalent of Hawking radiation. This is hardly anything at all especially if the white. hole has any substantial mass. This means the equivalent of stellar masses and above. Any planet relying on light and heat radiated from a white hole for the evolution of life there, will be effectively be dead planet. More energy will be received from starlight than its white hole. Sources:White holes and Hawking radiation 

After a long run of publishing in New Scientist for 24 years Daedalus (Jones) was poached by Nature and The Guardian where he continued until 2000 when he retired Daedalus due to a stroke. Daedalus proposed that a submersible vessel instead of relying upon a heavy and sturdy hull to protect itself from the external pressures of the deeps could make use of centrifugal force to supply the dynamic counter-pressure. This proposal suggested that the liquid metal mercury would be the suitable circulatory mass to apply the centrifugal force necessary to support the hull of the submersible. Mercury would be a better choice than the suggested (a) Hoops of copper, (b) Hot Plasma, (c) Cold superfluid, or (d) Bose Einstein Condensate. It is readily available material and at a reasonable cost. Also, it wouldn't present insuperable problems managing it. Hot plasma or superfluids, oh no! Too many problems dealing with them under normal temperatures and pressures even in a diving bell at great depth. The proposed rotating mechanism for dynamic structural diving bell sensibly keeps the cabinet where the crew and personnel would be located separate from the external spinning structure. Its main disadvantage would be the need for continuous power to maintain the centrifugal mechanism. The slightest power or engine failure could lead to rapid catastrophic failure. Something best avoided. Toby Weston, sir, it is my sad duty to report that Daedalus (David EH Jones) published first and any patent disputes will need to be resolved in court. This would not the first time one of Daedalus' contrivances turned out to a workable invention nor will be the last. In summary, it is recommended you consider the suitability of the mercury-filled centrifugal submersible as devised by Daedalus in the 1960s, only now is science and technology catching up with his genius, as the template for your dynamic structural diving bell. IN MEMORIAM: David Edward Hugh Jones, scientist and writer, born 20 April 1938; died 19 July 2017. A creative mind who will be sorely missed by all those who love exploring the consequences of "what if" ideas. 

If an asteroid cluster "kills all carnivores, most herbivores, and almost all of photosynthetic life", then there's not much left. The plants are almost entirely gone. The few remaining herbivores will soon run out of food -- unless any surviving seeds can germinate. The absence of carnivores will allow herbivores to flourish and that's a problem. Whatever plants will, once more, be soon be eaten. Since the question asks whether insects and weeds, this suggests the OP may not consider the insects are also carnivores and herbivores. This could be a case of implicit mammal chauvinism. Somewhat to be expected, since there's a lot of about. It's tempting to tidy up this post-catastrophe world and get rid of the insects too. It's possible humble organisms like nematodes will survive. They are ubiquitous and extremely diverse; the parasitic varieties probably won't. 

Random Events These include asteroid or comet collisions, nearby supernovas, and a gamma-ray burster pointing at the solar system. It might include unforeseen technological events causing massive environmental degradation, the rearrangement of the Earth's surface, and the extinction of the human species All of which are unpredictable and, obviously, do not follow any long-term trends which is a useful for any reasonable futurological exercise. Geodynamics The following geological events will occur in the relative near fture compared to your hundreds of megayears timescale. But hey give an indication of what a dynamic geological system can produce over sufficiently long timescales. 

Spiders evolved 380 million years ago, humans between six to three. Spiders have been able to differentiate into multiple species by exploiting different ecological niches. Humans haven't had enough time or occupied habitats sufficiently different to evolve into new species. Reproductive isolation, adaptive pressures & an enormous amount of time are needed. Open one-way portals to parallel Earths and you're in business. Isolated populations of humans on alternative versions of planet Earth. Vast tracts of real estate to occupy. New environments to inhabit. The whole business of hominization can go down a new road. 

Simply implant the idea in the oppressor that he is God especially if your world has a monotheistic belief system. It won't matter if this drives the oppressor insane, everybody else will think said oppressor has gone absolutely crazy. When everyone else thinks you're insane, soon the oppressor will fit the role to a T. My other suggestion was to totally remove all risk aversion. Sooner or later the oppressor will something sufficiently dangerous to kill himself. The oppressor would become so dangerous to everyone around him they'd think he'd gone nuts. 

Again environmental conditions will be more extreme than on Earth. But by comparison with our deserts. 

Generally temperature cycles, between day and night, and between seasons, are likely to extreme. You will need to take into account the duration of the planet's rotation. For example, if takes sixty hours to rotate, then its surface might not have the time to cool down sufficiently to be a cold desert night. Also, the shape of its orbit will affect the amount of insolation. So if the orbit is highly elliptical, then its equivalent of winter could be very cold. While its summers could be infernos. While its orbit around its primary star was circular, there might be very little variation between or even effectively none. 

The simplest answer is the Wikipedia article on Robert Forward's Dragon's Egg which has this information culled from the novel. 

Source: Wikipedia entry on Doomsday device The only the major super-powers will capable of constructing such megadeath machines, on second thoughts, that should be gigadeath gizmos, so the building of doomsday machines will be effectively confined to the USA and the USSR during the Cold War era. This will effectively inhibit the proliferation of other nations building their doomsday machines. This is one arms race nobody wins.