These data motivate the stance that prepositions can freely take wh-clauses as complements, but not that-clauses. Of course the pertinent question is why this should be the case. I believe there is a solid syntactic explanation. This explanation resides with the analysis of that-clauses and wh-clauses (matrix vs. embedded). If one assumes that the head/root of a that-clause is the subordinator that and the head/root of an embedded wh-clause is the wh-element, then the explanation comes into view. The subordinator that does not have the status of of a nominal, whereas wh-elements do (because of their wh-feature). In other words, prepositions are subcategorizing for a nominal dependent; that-subordinators do not have nominal status, whereas wh-subordinators and wh-elements do have this status. This explanation relies crucially on the stance that the wh-element is the head/root of the embedded wh-clause. So for instance, in the following embedded wh-clause, the wh-element is the head/root of that clause: 

This sentence could mean that I am wearing blue today, or more likely, it means that I feel sad today. This ambiguity resides completely with the meaning of blue; it is therefore not in the syntactic structure, since both meanings have the same syntax; blue is an adjective in both cases. The disambiguation cue is present in the context of utterance. If I am standing in front of you wearing blue, then it is clear which meaning is intended. Syntax, however, has little to do with such cases. All that said, there are in fact certain cases in which two underlying syntactic structures are assumed for one and the same unambiguous phrase. This has been proposed for certain noun phrases, e.g. the old fish with stripes. Such noun phrases behave in a unique way with respect to diagnostics for constituent structure, and this has motivated some to propose that there are in fact two distinct underlying structures for such prases. In my view however, that sort of approach is a cop out. One might as well throw up one's hands and declare that one has no idea what is behind the confusing results delivered by the diagonostics. 

Since Tom, it, the laughing, and the first can appear as subjects, one might classify each as (containing) a nominal. In other words, since these expressions can appear in a position that is associated with stereotypical nominals, they are all candidates for nominal status. Note, however, that satisfying a necessary condition does not mean that the candidate is definitely a nominal. It just means that it is potentially viewed as a nominal. Thus one could argue that first in the fourth example is actually not a nominal, but rather it is an adjective that immediately introduces an elided noun (the first whatever). A sufficient condition for identifying nominals is the ability to take plural -s. Any item that forms its plural with -s is, I believe, going to be accepted by most as a nominal, e.g. 

The question is clear, and I think I can provide a simple answer: Sentences! The smallest chunks the application can acknowledge will be sentences. If the application tries to go smaller than sentences, say to clauses, it will crash when confronted with languages that have syntactic structures that are quite different from European languages. Let's take the example provided in the question. 

The question becomes clearer if a concrete example is given, e.g. (1) They laughed at me, which is why I left. Yes, the which here is a relative pronoun. The unique thing about it is that it takes the entire matrix clause as its antecedent -- most relative pronouns have just a noun as (part of) their antecedent. And yes, the wh-word why is an interrogatve adverb; in this case, it functions as a predicative expression, similar to how a predicative adjective or noun functions. Given these considerations, there is nothing particularly challenging about the formulation. The answer to the question is therefore that the expression ...which is why... is not a single unit, but rather it is compositional, made up of smaller parts that one can identify and combine productively. 

The question addresses an aspect of English syntax that is still somewhat in flux. The mechanism known as copular inversion should be part of the answer. The direct answer to the question(s) is that acceptability judgments exist on a cline. There is more than one principle that influences the choice of subject. When these principles conflict, acceptability is degraded to a greater or lesser degree. Consider the following datum from German: 

The Universal Stanford Dependencies (USD) parsing scheme subordinates auxiliary verbs to content verbs and prepositions to their complements: $URL$ USD is contrary to most work in theoretical syntax in this regard. In effect, USD is denying the existence of nonfinite verb phrases and prepositional phrases. Apparently, USD is being widely adopted in many computational circles. Given my background in theoretical syntax, it is difficult to understand how USD can be taken seriously concerning its analysis of hierarchical structures. I have the following questions in this regard: 

The first sentence, in which the modal adverb probably immediately follows the intonationally weak auxiliary verb should, is clearly preferred over the second sentence, in which the order of the two words is reversed. That intonational considerations are indeed the relevant factor is evident in the fact that acceptability judgements are not robust. The second sentence is marginal, but not impossible. The same phenomenon is observable with floating quantifiers, e.g. 

In my view, this is junk science. It sounds impressive, but it's nonsense. In order to buy into this view of syntactic structure, one has to take the leap of syntactic faith that I associate with much of Chomskyan syntax. I even think many Chomskyans would reject the understanding of syntax that is put forward in the book. The approach is, for example, contrary to basic notions of X-bar theory, in which complements (as well as many specifiers) are arguments. On the approach in the book, all complements are actually predicates. But to answer the actual question, my understanding of the final sentence in the passage is that the head-complement dependency associated with standard X-bar-type structures is actually present, but its presence is manifest as the dependency between the theta head, which is always an empty element!, and the predicate, which is represented by X in the complement position. The empty theta head θ takes a predicate X as its complement; a dependency exists between the two. But since the dependency is unlike the dependencies that are traditionally assumed, Rowlett calls it a "grammatical dependency", a nebulous term. Hence Rowlett appears to be stipulating two basic types of dependencies: 

In (a), the predicative NP a politician is a property that is predicated of Bill. In (b), the appositive NP a politician is again a property that is also predicated of Bill. In (c) in contrast, one cannot view a politician as being predicated of another part of the sentence. What seems to be occurring, rather, is that a politican in (c) is being predicated of a discourse entity, i.e. of someone in the discourse context. The predicate-calculus-style representations for these sentences might be as follows: 

Rowlett is thus pursuing an approach to syntax that takes specifiers to be the arguments of complements in a sense, as opposed to the arguments of head predicates, which is much more standard. I think such an approach is going to be difficult for many a syntactician to swallow.