Through VPN, you can access both your local network(corp/home) and remote network(devlopment net) simultaneously, whereas when you SSH to some server, you pretty much on remote network. VPN is one of the alternatives, when your development servers are on a separate network and there are no routes to access it from main/corp network. 

We are using SCCM to deploy Office 2010 and it has worked very well. Most of the customization is done using the 'setup.exe /admin'. We divide desktops, laptops and servers to different collections(similar to OU in AD) and then further division based on tiers of deployment like IT, Accounts, sales, Executives. If anyone is looking for Windows 7 deployment, then SCCM 2007/2012 is way to go. It has a little learning curve as some of things just don't work out of box and need to be worked over-and-over again. But the end result is worth the effort. I used this link as reference for packaging Office 2010 for SCCM. 

I am looking for a way to use USB key on a guest OS running on a 5.6 Xen Server environment. The catch is that I need to actually detect in the Guest OS (Win2003 Server) like an actual USB Key. Attaching it as a storage drive doesnt work (It is a key with special attributes that servers as a licensing mechanism). Just wondering if anyone has had a similar need and found a good solution? Thanks, Nate 

I gave both people who responded credit for this because the actual solution was a weird one. Despite showing no errors, I narrowed the problem down to one particular model of removable Hard Drive (Seagate Freeagent 300gb GO drive). When I disabled all these devices, the problem went away on all drives. Very Weird. Reaffirms my dislike of Seagate. Thanks to all. 

We used the network usb hub for a couple of VM scenarios. We also found that you can map the USB controller from the physical machine directly to the operating system (windows server 2003 in our cases). This requires figuring out exactly which hub controller is using what usb ports but it was a great workaround for software using a USB HASP key. 

Thanks for the great responses. Since I will end up using the existing insfrastructure, I am going to answer my own question. :) I am not sure if this is a valid method but I gave points for all possible solutions. In short: I will be using SCCM for deploying Windows OS and packages. MDT for managing and testing images. When a client PXE boots, it will have two options: Install Windows/Install RHEL. After the authentication, the OS installation is automated. SCCM is used for post deployment operations and for linux I am going to test puppet/bcfg2. Thanks again. 

To visualize and administer LDAP, there are many options, here are some. I personally use ldapsh to perform some quick ldap edits. It visualizes your ldap tree as directory structure which is easy to navigate and make edits using vim or your fav editor. 

This is every SysAdmin's nightmare of things to do. Basically we want to control who has access to which hosts. As simple it may sound, the problem is to find a scalable and low maintenance(mgmt. overhead) solution. We use bcfg2 for Config Mgmt much like Cfengine & puppet. Some ways: 

We have been experiencing a VERY odd error and I have no idea where to go from here. When users are logging in to a Standalone Windows 2008 R2 server in workgroup configuration, it causes the following error: Event Log: System Event Source: Disk Event ID: 11 Research Severity: Error Details: The driver detected a controller error on \Device\Harddisk2\DR(number of drive varies). There are multiple USB drives plugged in, and the drive that detects the error varies. I have tried 5 different drives, and 2 thumb drives, and all will throw this error periodically. It seems to be only 1 drive at a time that will throw this error. 1)THE DRIVES HAVE ALL BEEN VERIFIED CLEAN WITH MULTIPLE CHKDSKS 2)THE MOTHERBOARD ON THE SERVER HAS BEEN REPLACED TWICE 3)Switching ports does not affect the error. As I said, the MB was also replaced 3)The issue appears EXACTLY when a user logs in Has anyone out there seen ANYTHING similar? Thanks in advance! 

I went thru the same path recently where one of the top executives of my company wanted a home PC(not domain managed) to connect to office remotely and use his TWO computers(which has 3 monitors). Server side: We use Juniper's WebVPN and setup a user role to map the office PC to a local loopback address using secure applications manager. 

Over the past several days I have been trying to get the shadow to work with samba but haven’t been successful. Can someone check below config and let me know if I am missing something? We are using Equallogic SAN and iSCSI LUNS to mount volumes. I can cleanly access samba shares on Windows 7 clients but just not shadow copy. I have referred the official how-to but couldn’t get it to work. I see these messages in the logs. Any help is deeply appreciated. 

I have found one way of doing this but looks like it will only partially solve it. Number of conflicting users: 250 Number of hosts with homeDirs: 50 seed for script. 

I am having a very strange issue that I have been unable to nail down. When I send to a particular address with Outlook Web Access 2003, I get the NDR message shown below. When I email that same user the exact same email from Outlook 2007 through the same exchange server, I have no bounceback.The user's address is external to our mail server, completely different company. Reporting-MTA: dns;xxx.corp Final-Recipient: rfc822;gina@bxxx.com Action: failed Status: 5.7.1 Diagnostic-Code: smtp;554 5.7.1 The message from () with the subject of (Re: Wacom Tab/ Signature Pad) matches a profile the Internet community may consider spam. Please revise your message before resending. Does anyone have any idea what would make OWA2003 fail, yet the same message sent through the same server succeed? Thanks in Advance! -Nate 

The situation I am facing is that we were in the middle of moving mailboxes from an exchange 2010 sp3 environment over to a server running exchange 2013 and the exchange 2013 server had a raid error and we lost all data on the 2013 box immediately after the migration (completely dead array, all VM's gone of course :) I am able to see the mailboxes in "soft deleted" state on the 2010 Exchange box, I have tried running microsoft's recommended command to restore the soft deleted mailboxes the command errors out indicating that user's mailbox is on the 2013 server. Unsure how to proceed and would love any pointers anyone may have. 

Netgroups is very scalable but comes with a huge mgmt overhead. Maintaining hosts, group of hosts, user netgroups(separate from ldpa groups) seems like a very big burden, but is doable. ldap.conf (go to the post by jmozdzen on 1st July) and LDAp based access control. We could template the ldap.conf for each host and create a group with hostname and members as users. But the downside is you cannot specify ldap group(team of users) for access but only individually. sshd_config restriction. But that doesn't work if the users log in natively. Host attribute check. By un-commenting pam_check_host_attr in ldap.conf and add the hostname to each user works well, but automation is not easy. 

(the port number is the office extension and was available). Similarly for other PCs and users. Remote user side: The user working from home will log on to WebVPN and start the Java Application. Once started, he/she can open mstsc.exe /span (/multimon for windows 7) and connect to 127.0.10.11:8891. Windows XP users might have issue with spanning across multiple monitors, when you maximize a window it will stretch across all monitors. In that case, use SplitView. Recommendation: WebVPN is much better than RRAS or client-based solution. You can setup many applications to stream thru VPN without needing to install it locally. Manage Home PC over Internet:(If you have a situation like me) In order to manage the remote home PC over internet, we used a NetSupport with Gateway enabled feature. Configure Netsupport gateway on the DMZ server(preferably windows) and edit firewall rules to allow traffic over internet. On home PC setup the http communication to the public IP or DNS address. Then you can connect NetSuport console to the remote gateway and just connect to the PC over internet. It communicates over HTTPS. We looked at MS Intune for this, but it doesn't allow unattended RDP which we needed as the executive might just walk-in and say, please fix my home PC. :/ 

Ended up using Kernel for Exchange server from Nucleus Technologies to export all the soft deleted mailboxes out to PST. Given the time constraints we had to get mail flowing it was decided to hurry up a scheduled google apps migration. While I was less than impressed with Google's import tools all in all the switch went well. Not exactly a pretty scenario but all is well in the end. 

I have roaming profiles set up with additional folder redirection deployed by GPO in a 2008 R2 RDS farm environment. They are working well, but files added to folder locations in the profile (such as saving a file to the desktop) only replicate to the redirected location at logout. Is there any way I can set this up so files are immediatley saved to the network location while the user is working prior to logout? My concern is that in the event of a server crash a user could lose hours of working data. Thanks in advance, any relevant info one way or the other will get a vote. 

I did similar project 2 years ago and I was in similar position not knowing where to start and how to tie the ends together. Step1: Figure out what you want to accomplish and write it down. Step2: See if the requirements are realistic and can be accomplished altogether. If not, what items are you willing to sacrifice. (This is where it takes a long time). step3: Choose a platform for LDAP. in your case, you already have an existing one. step4: Documenting & Testing. step5: The cut over plan is most critical as it doesn't matter if you accomplish all you wanted to but also to make sure there is a smooth transition. In my case, we had to do in a phased manner. From reading you comments above looks like you already have Openldap in production. Your requirements look like: a) Allowing users to use same password policy on AD. b) User accounts to propagate to LDAP automatically. Answer to a) You can setup a PAM pass-through module in LDAP to delegate password authentication to a DC via kerberos. In this way you will not have the headache of maintaining password in two places. I did on 389-DS LDAP, and the documentation link should be sufficient. When a user authenticates, the PAM module checks if user account exists in LDAP and if so, passes the passwd to PAM stack with krb5.so to authenticate. Check 389-DS documentation which should apply here too. Answer to b) I hit all the cylinders to figure out a way to use a ready solution but nothing came close. This is because you have to massage the schema for accounts and groups. So I with the help of a colleague wrote a script in perl to sync the users & groups from AD to LDAP. A snippe to f code is here.