That is, he claims we need “a rapprochement between logic and epistemology which will become not two subjects but one only”. From Toulmin’s perspective the answer to your question whether epistemology is the same as logic is Yes. 

Social issues should be associated with agency. After all, if they are social there are human agents involved. However, one may not be able to find the human agents. Calling someone a conspiracy theorist may be a form of ad hominem fallacy assuming there is a logical argument involved. To see a possible logical argument consider the following argument: Joe claims X is true. Joe is a conspiracy theorist. Therefore, X is not true. A better way to approach Joe's position is to provide an argument countering Joe's claims not to characterize what Joe says as a conspiracy theory. Joe, the supposed conspiracy theorist, likely does not have a logical fallacy in his argument. He could easily fix any such fallacy and present a stronger theory. What he often lacks, however, is enough evidence to make his premises believable. Those who find his premises believable would not think his position to be a conspiracy theory. 

There are two questions: (1) Do we learn how to love? No. Moral Foundation Theory, the chemistry of sexual attraction and the presence of belief in children show that what we need to love in various contexts (morality, sexuality and spirituality) we have from birth prior to any cultural influence. We do not learn how to love although culture may successfully try to influence how we express love naturally. These are controversial positions. Those in the opposition view humanity as “rational”. They view gender as “socially constructed”. They view childhood belief as “parental indoctrination”. If you step back from the controversies about whether love comes from nature or nurture and observe that people from all cultures seem to be able to love although they do it somewhat differently, it makes sense that culture plays a secondary role when it comes to love. We are born with a moral foundation. We are born male and female with specific sexual preferences. We are born believers. We are born lovers. (2) Is the way we love deterministic? No. Ironically two of these explanations from nature rather than nurture, Moral Foundation Theory and the chemistry of sexual attraction, set up situations where we are forced to make choices between competing values. There are at least five inconsistent moral foundations in Moral Foundation Theory. Some of them favor individual rights. Some of them favor rejecting those very individual rights to support group loyalty. The moral challenge for the individual is to balance these conflicting foundations, that is, choose what the right thing is to do in current circumstances. In the chemistry between us there are two opposing situations as well. There is pleasure encouraging us to engage in sexual activity with multiple partners. There is also the pain of breaking the pair-bond with a single partner. This again leaves individuals in situations where they must make choices. From the perspective of determinism, these explanations are problematic on two counts. First, they are not complete explanations of what human beings will do. There is plenty of room for individual choice. Second, they force the individual to make choices. If our free will, or our ability to make a choice, is a delusion, as some determinists believe, it cannot be simply a cultural delusion. It would have to be a delusion at the level of our species, if such a concept of delusion is even meaningful. What is more likely is the belief in determinism is itself a cultural delusion. 

When something is defined we are giving it an explanation. We explain what the thing is. We imagine seeing that unknown thing in a class containing other things similar to it that we know something about. That we know something about those things in general guides our expectations about how we can expect to relate to the specific thing at hand. Knowing what something is can be very useful information. Giving someone a definition, or a what it is explanation, provides someone with a formal cause. A formal cause is one of Aristotle’s four causes, or explanations. The other causes Aristotle came up with are the material cause (what it is made out of), the efficient cause (how it got here) and the final cause (what is it for). Although Aristotle’s model of explanation is old, it is still relevant today. Seeking a formal explanation or cause is valuable even to us today. Most of us want to know what something is to help us relate to it. When we provide someone with a formal cause or we state what that something is, we don’t completely explain what the thing is. It would take too long to do so even if we knew what the complete explanation was. Besides no one needs nor wants a complete explanation. A complete explanation would put the specific thing into a general class of only one specific object. So all of our explanations are incomplete. Now let’s consider the bicycle example. Suppose I am presented with a gift wrapped in a box. My first question would be “What is it?” I want the formal cause or explanation. Suppose the person giving me the present said, “It is a bicycle.” That person has given me a definition or a formal cause explaining what is in the box, but it is an incomplete explanation as are all explanations. However, I have an idea of how I might be able to relate to that specific bicycle in the box because I know what bicycles are in general. I might start wondering next, perhaps, what brand of bicycle? I want a more detailed formal cause or explanation. Suppose the giver at last tells me, “Yes, it is a bicycle, but don't get your hopes up. It is really a bicycle bolted to a picture frame.” I now have more detailed information, a better formal cause of what is inside the box than I originally had. I might be disappointed but I could still consider it a “bicycle” or I could switch the class the object belongs to thinking of it more like an "art object". With that preliminary, I will try to answer the question: 

Edit: There is a psi phenomenon I am particularly interested in. In Dean Radin's "Selected Psi Research Publications" there is one he co-authored called "Consciousness and the double-slit interference pattern: Six experiments". Human subjects, but not computers, were able through their intentionality to affect a double slit experiment. How would one formulate that task as an algorithm to run on an AI machine? If that can be formulated it looks like it would serve as a modified Turing test without involving human judges to determine if the simulation convinced them. If that can't be formulated, then strong AI does not explain human mental behavior. A video of a talk by Radin, "New Experiments Show Consciousness Affects Matter", summaries the above and similar results. 

The following description of the dichotomy between abstract and concrete may be useful to decide if "my death" is abstract or concrete: 

Alex D answers his own question in the negative with the example he provided of an act that is both selfless and selfish when seen from the perspectives of two different groups. So, they are not mutually exclusive. Using his idea one might speculate that for any act that an individual performs there exists a group that perceives the action as selfless and another group that perceives it as selfish. This suggests that neither selfishness nor selflessness exists in an absolute sense. We need to identify the group as well when considering such concepts. There are many groups that might be interested in a particular individual’s action. Let G be a group that is interested in an individual’s action. Then we can make the following functional definitions: Selfishness(G): The action benefits the individual, but not G. Selflessness(G): The action benefits G, but not the individual. WinWin(G): The action benefits both the individual and G. LoseLose(G): The action benefits neither the individual nor G. David Sloan Wilson in “Does Altruism Exist?” noted that altruism (selflessness) was not a traditional idea, but was first used by Auguste Comte in 1851. A traditional perspective on doing good would involve a win-win for both the individual and the group. 

See Stephen E. Toulmin’s The Uses of Argument. He claims that the standards for valid arguments are field specific and arguments in some fields need not be reduced to analytic arguments to have validity. In particular he writes (page 235): 

Balaguer claims that neuroscience “leaves open the possibility of indeterminism”. (FW 94) However we are "nowhere near ready" (FW 122) to say that we have this kind of free will or not. Balaguer provides a definition of free will that fits it into a materialist perspective distinguishing it from the "determinism, randomness and determinism-randomness hybrid" mentioned in the OP. He leaves it open for future neuroscience to decide if we have free will or not. His perspective is not a religious or spiritual one. Robert Kane, whom Chelonian mentioned in his answer, (see “Free Will: New Foundations for an Ancient Problem” in Free Will (Hackett Readings in Philosophy)) uses "self-forming actions" to construct an "event-causal libertarian view of free will" that may offer something similar. 

Turing wanted to eliminate any human ESP abilities from affecting the test. This ability could make it more difficult for the computer to fool the human or raise doubts about the validity of the test. He proposed a “telepathy-proof room” to cover this possibility. He was not promoting ESP. He considered it “disturbing”. By mentioning ESP he unintentionally did the following. (1) He gave credibility to the existence of ESP by claiming the evidence for telepathy in particular was “overwhelming”. Indeed, the evidence for what is called psi today is overwhelming. See Dean Radin’s “Selected Psi Research Publications”. (2) His concern for ESP pointed out human abilities that he did not expect computers to be able to simulate. This put in doubt a computational theory of the human mind even if it turned out that some future machine could be conscious in some way.