Mises’s great insight was that economic reasoning has its foundation in just this understanding of action; and that the status of economics as a sort of applied logic derives from the status of the action-axiom as an a priori-true synthetic proposition. The laws of exchange, the law of diminishing marginal utility, the Ricardian law of association, the law of price controls, and the quantity theory of money—all the examples of economic propositions which I have mentioned—can be logically derived from this axiom. And this is why it strikes one as ridiculous to think of such propositions as being of the same epistemological type as those of the natural sciences. To think that they are, and accordingly to require testing for their validation, is like supposing that we had to engage in some fact-finding process without knowing the possible outcome in order to establish the fact that one is indeed an actor. In a word: It is absurd. — Hans Hermann Hoppe 

Small Business Owner: Yes. Freelance Writer: Yes. Subsistence Farmer: No. Capitalism is the use to the private sector to grow the economy. This means that the private sector has to be producing a good or service that can be sold in the marketplace to benefit society. Let us take a look at your examples. A small business owner is, by definition, owning a business that is producing some good or service for which there is a market. One example would be a barber shop or a "mom and pop" restaurant. It does not matter if the venture is making millions of dollars or just making ends meet. It does not even matter if they are the only employee. The business is making a good or service that is demanded, and they are fulfilling that demand. A freelance writer is also producing a good or service that is demanded by others. This could be written articles, books, essays, etc. or the service of taking notes and transcribing words. Again, it does not matter the payment received for this good or service or if the freelance writer is a loner. However, the subsistence farmer is different. By definition, a subsistence farmer is only producing enough food to keep themselves alive; they are not producing any food to sell to anyone else. The farmer (presumably) has no other source of income and is forced to produce all other items on their own. So, although they are innovative, the subsistence farmer is not a capitalist. 

Nash equilibrium is a pair of strategies. So your answer needs to give two strategies. The informal definition is "pair of strategies that are best responses to each other". So take an arbitrary strategy; let's say each player chooses 50. Can anyone gain by playing 51 or 49? No, so (50, 50) is a NE. Like your equation says, any two strategies that add up to 100 make up a PSNE. Because there can be no profitable deviation for any of the two player (the proof is trivial; show that playing less gives less, and that playing more, gives less for any pair of strategies adding up to 100) 

For a course in international trade, our professor touched on the idea of immiserizering growth. He emphasized that immiserizing growth was a theoretical outcome from specialization of trade and did not provide the class with examples on the global market. What are some real world examples of immizerizing growth? 

The applications of this benefit many individuals when used to show , but this is merely the result of a more broad result that has been proven. How are these proofs constructed? Through definitions. To prove the above result, we could not assume that ; instead, we needed to use the definition of a "ring" which, by definition, allows for line (1). Similarly, we needed to use the definition of a "ring" in order to know that we were allowed to use in line (2). Definitions in Economics Economics, however, does not use definitions in the same capacity. Here, definitions are used strictly for the "defining of terms" rather than the "relation of terms." In Economics, one cannot prove that, in the short-run, expanding the money supply (which causes inflation) will decrease unemployment. The definitions in economics are not set up to do that; even more so, they cannot do that. Part of the reason that the definitions in economics cannot do this is because of the definitions. Think of the terms "good," "market," and "demand." All of these terms have sloppy definitions. They do not really relate to anything else. On the other hand, we have terms such as "currency" and "GDP" that have extensive, precise definitions. These definitions have been chosen purposefully, and measurements of "currency" and "GDP" are precise because of this. Another part of why Economics has "poor" definitions is due to the study of economics itself. Economics relies heavily on the demand of individuals. This demand cannot be quantified nor is there any guarantee that it will remain the same from one moment to the next. Thus, no real way to construct a proof that will be true beyond any particular moment. Because of this, economics does not need rigorous definitions. In Mathematics, however, we can construct proofs regardless of the numbers we use and, thus, transcend the limitations up to a very broad context. In the proof above, we used instead of a number so that we did not have to rely on using that number and only that number. By using , we know that multiplying any number by will give us . Response to Edesess Edesess is mostly (probably 95%) correct. In truth, most of the definitions of economics are not "precisely defined" to the same level that mathematical definitions are required to be. In Mathematics, the definitions are carefully considered and decided upon by the Mathematical Community as a whole (not to say that Economic definitions aren't, but that's outside my knowledge). Also, by the nature of Economics, the use of the definitions cannot be used to prove anything. In response to Edesess, however, economics should not be treated as Mathematics because of the fundamental differences in how they make discoveries. Economics is advanced through polls, market data, supply and demand graphs; Mathematics is furthered by research, proofs, and theorems. 

To use an analogy; it is as if one wanted to establish the theorem of Pythagoras by actually measuring sides and angles of triangles. Just as anyone would have to comment on such an endeavor, mustn’t we say that to think economic propositions would have to be empirically tested is a sign of outright intellectual confusion? But Mises by no means merely notices this rather obvious difference between economics and the empirical sciences. He makes us understand the nature of this difference and explains how and why a unique discipline like economics, which teaches something about reality without requiring observations, can possibly exist. It is this achievement of Mises’s which can hardly be overrated. — Hans Hermann Hoppe 

Moreover, does it fulfill other criteria automatically, like Myerson's "Proper equilibrium" refinement? 

They're complementary to each other. With the development of Behavioral Game Theory, canonized in Camerer's 2003 textbook, the current paradigm of game theory 1 is converging towards making theories about how people play games, and test them, most often with experiments. Wither Game Theory, Fudenberg & Levine, 2016 

Now about MSNE. A good way to start thinking about it is to take an arbitrary strategy and play around with it. You will find no MSNE this way. The other way to look for them is to find a point where two strategies make players indifferent between their options and are also best responses. I could only find this in the symmetric case. There are some MSNE if you play strategies $( a_1, a_2 )$ where $a_1+a_2 = 100$ and your mixing probabilities are $P(a_1) = a_1/a_2$ (assuming $a_1 < a_2)$. Example here would be playing $(10, 90)$ with probabilities $(11.111, 88.888)$. This makes the opponent indifferent between $10$ and $90$, and as such he could play the mirror strategy, with both being indifferent to any mixing and both being a best response to each other. I did not find any other case of MSNE, even after some work. 

When the government causes inflation through printing money, the individuals who saved their money in the bank are poorer. Is there a way to determine how different inflation rates impact the welfare of the economy? I tried answering this question myself using the production function, and, though I was able to come up with some conjectures, I was unable to come to a definite conclusion. 

The concept is actually the other way around. Think of it in the same way as the Law of Demand. If you go to the grocery store and you see a food that you like selling for \$.25/lb, you would buy a whole lot of it before the price rises. Conversely, if you go to the grocery store and you see a food that you like selling for \$100/lb, you would probably wait to buy this item until it is cheaper or at least buy a small amount of it. In economics, the price drives the quantity demanded by the consumer. Now let us look at the Law of Supply. Imagine that you are the owner of a company. You go to the store, and you see that the item you are producing and the similar items produced by your competitors is selling for \$.25. You would not necessarily want to produce a lot of the product because the margin between the selling price and the production costs (profit) is small. Conversely, imaging going to the store and seeing that the item you are producing and the similar items produced by your competitors is selling for \$100. You would want to produce a lot of the product because the margin between the selling price and the production costs is (presumably) large. In this case, as in the other case, the price drives the quantity produced by the supplier. 

There is really on two kinds... The Nature of Economics It is well-known that Austrians disagree strongly with other schools of economic thought, such as the Keynesians, the Monetarists, the Public Choicers, Historicists, Institutionalists, and Marxists… The ultimate difference from which all disagreements at the levels of economic theory and economic policy stem… concerns the answer to the very first question that any economist must raise: What is the subject matter of economics, and what kind of propositions are economic theorems? Mises’s answer is that economics is the science of human action… It is this assessment of economics as an a priori science, a science whose propositions can be given a rigorous logical justification, which distinguishes Austrians, or more precisely Misesians, from all other current economic schools. All the others conceive of economics as an empirical science, as a science like physics, which develops hypotheses that require continual empirical testing. The views of Mises’s predecessors, Menger, Böhm-Bawerk, and Wieser, are the same: They, too, describe economics as a discipline whose propositions can in contrast to those of the natural sciences be given some ultimate justification. But Mises by no means merely notices this rather obvious difference between economics and the empirical sciences. He makes us understand the nature of this difference and explains how and why a unique discipline like economics, which teaches something about reality without requiring observations, can possibly exist. It is this achievement of Mises’s which can hardly be overrated. — Hans Hermann-Hoppe, ESAM. Now why is this school of thought (what used to be indistinguishable from the orthodox) no longer so mainstream? Why Academics Hate A priori University instruction in an a priori science presents special problems if we are to adhere to the principle that an instructor ought to be a researcher as well. In every field there are very few who can make actual contributions to its intellectual treasury. In the a posteriori sciences, however, pioneers and followers work together with the same told, and there exists no outward distinction between them. In his laboratory, every professor of chemistry can compare himself with the great pioneer. Although his contribution may be modest, his research methods are the same. Things are different in philosophy, in economics, and in a certain sense, in mathematics. If academic positions were contingent upon independent contributions to economics, barely a dozen professors could be found throughout the world. If positions are awarded only to those researchers who had made original contributions, care must be taken to take into account research done in related areas. In effect, this makes the appointment to academic positions dependent upon scholarly activity in other areas: the history of ideas and doctrine, history of economics, and especially the economic history of the most recent past, which is often erroneously labeled economic problems of the present. The fiction perpetrated in scholarly circles that all professors are equal does not permit professors of economics to be divided into two classes: those who work independently as theorists, and those whose work consists of economic history and description. The inferiority complex of these “empiricists” has led to a campaign against theory. — Ludwig von Mises, Memoirs 

In the real world, "price fixing" is very difficult to accomplish. In most industries, it would be very easy for a new seller to enter the market and offer their goods at the lower price, stealing the customers from the "price fixing" sellers. For these sectors of the economy, "price fixing" is not an option unless the "price fixing" sellers can convince/coerce any entering sellers to commit to the existing fixed price. Ordinarily, "price fixing" occurs in industries with either a monopoly or an oligopoly. In a monopoly, there is only one seller. So, they alone are able to dictate the price of the good or service. In an oligopoly, there are only a few sellers. These few sellers can easily conspire with each other to elevate the price. However, even then, there is always the danger that one of the sellers will eventually drop their prices and try to steal the consumers from the other sellers. 

One extremely function throughout economics is the Cobb-Douglas functional form (eg. $y = bx_1^a x_2^b$). This won't just show up in utility functions, but also production functions or growth functions (like in the Solow Swan model). Taking the log-log form here has a few implications. First, it drops $a$ and $b$ from exponents to linear coefficients, which gives you a form $lny = b+alnx_1+blnx_2$. This is important, because you can run a linear regression on this functional form, but not the original one. You can see an example of that in this paper. It also has applications in empirical microeconomics; you can test to see if a firm has increasing, decreasing or constant returns to scale if you find $a+b > or < 1$. This can have important implications; it can answer some questions like "should we break up these big companies?" Second it makes the math nicer in some cases. This can actually be useful in some cases; in Maximum likelihood estimation having a more mathematically friendly functional form can save you hours of computation time finding maxima. 

There are actually five different types of trading blocs: preferential trading areas, free trade areas, customs unions, common markets and economic (and monetary) unions [1]. A preferential trade area (PTA) is a trading bloc that reduces tariffs on particular goods between two countries but does not abolish them completely. There are no particularly well-known examples, but a list can be found here [2]. A free-trade area is the agreement among all member countries to eliminate tariffs, import quotas, and preferences on goods and services traded between each other (the free-trade as defined in the question) [3]. Probably the best known free-trade area is NAFTA; but others are listed here and here. Again, there are no well-known customs unions, but a list can be found here. A common market has free trade and free movement of the factors of production but other economic policies of the countries may be different (one of the differences between a common market and an economic union). You may also want to look at single market and unified market. There are no well-known common markets, but the previous link also contains a list. The best known economic union is the EU though more can be found here. An economic and monetary union has the same qualities of an economic union but each member nation also uses the same currency. One example would be the nations in the EU who also utilize the Euro.