In addition to redundantly agreeing with other answers that you absolutely should refuse to allow others into your account due to the personal information that is accessible through it, I also suggest the following dead-simple way to fix this problem: Get the special software registered under an account that doesn't belong to any person at your company. There can still be only ONE registration if that is what the company wants to do, but then, giving out the password to others doesn't expose your own personal information. If this is absolutely, completely, categorically impossible, then ask for a new personal user login, and get all your assets/accounts in the other systems at your company transferred to that login. Your old "personal login" is no longer your personal login and can only access that one system. If you were before, you can be or or or something else. There is no reason to do anything else. Demanding you use your personal account is akin to demanding that you share your salary details with everyone, while they need not share theirs with you. It's a violation of your privacy and something you have every right to politely, but inflexibly firmly, insist on. 

When you leave the company and haven't taken all the vacation you wanted, you don't get it now—try telling your company you're leaving in 2 months and wish your final 6 weeks to be all vacation time--but could you take it as a lump sum? If someone else plans badly or there's simply more work than a single person can do, so that through no fault of your own you don't have time to take vacation and meet certain unreasonable or unrealistic goals, this policy makes it your fault for taking vacation that you see as reasonable but one person in power doesn't think is reasonable. In retrospect. When you couldn't have known at the time. Because how much vacation is reasonable is subjective and can be reassessed after the fact, at any time, for any reason, at the whim of the employer. 

Focusing on who told whom what or that you knew you were going against him is not the path to success. Focus instead on the business value provided: big problematic bottleneck removed, only 2 hours spent, openness to the boss's opinion on the result and going forward. Your boss is an advisor. It's poor management practice to be giving these kinds of orders anyway. You were hired for your programming knowledge, and you used it. You're a valuable employee because of your keen mind. Don't let pointy-haired bosses get in the way of you using it to the best of your ability. If your boss makes a big deal out of it, then you know you're in the wrong company or certainly under the wrong boss, and in that case I would then confidently predict that this kind of thing will come up again and again with him, and will be a long-term problem. Find out NOW what kind of company you work at, and decide if you can live with it. It's also the better strategy to help your boss find out NOW what kind of employee you are, and decide if he can live with it. If you don't show initiative now and you do everything your boss orders you to do, even when it's stupid to obey, or even when it's low cost to find out more information, then your boss will expect this kind of compliance from you in the future and you'll be locked in forever. I'm not suggesting you just go on a rampage and be a wild west cowboy, ignoring your boss. But you have an opportunity here to create a different kind of relationship where he only orders you to do high-level things that are actually valuable to the company, and otherwise he functions in an advisory and facilitating capacity, leaving the rest of the important pieces (including how you spend your time, and your choices on implementation) up to you. If you meet deadlines and the company's objective needs, you should be free to work as you please. Regarding deception Deception is an attempt to cause someone to believe falsehood. Your boss knows what he told you. I think it unlikely that using my suggested approach will result in him believing falsehoods about the situation. You in fact don't know how strongly he feels about obeying his suggestions as orders, and this is how you find out. If he has no problem with what you did, you'll know, and if he has a problem, you'll know that too. If he does overlook his apparent command to you because you succeeded, this is valuable information. It is easier to get forgiveness than permission. By not asking for permission you showed you don't need him to be telling you what to do all the time. Constantly checking in with your boss for permission is a very clear meta-message that you don't trust yourself to make your own decisions. He didn’t order you not to do it. If your boss takes it personally I would say something like this, very calmly and rationally, looking him directly in the eye (but not in a challenging way), while projecting an attitude of compliance to his wishes, but acting as though he will simply agree with you, thus shaping the situation in a way favorable to your desired outcome: 

Inform the requester something along the lines of, "this task seems a bit unclear to me, and I don't think I have enough information/experience to do the job well. Would you like me to do my best anyway, or is there a way I can get some help with it?" Make the requester aware of the constraints on you and ask him to decide how to handle them (not the task, the constraints). This extends to basic job duties as well: if a new priority assignment will jeopardize past assignments, it's your responsibility to say, I can't do this new task T2 and get task T1 done by the due date. Could you help me understand the priorities between these two? Solving constraint problems is a legitimate managerial task. I am curious whether in this situation there was anyone else you could have known to seek help from besides the CEO? You do want to be seen in the eyes of management as an effective person to whom they can safely delegate tasks. But it's not impossible that you could further delegate, yourself, especially if someone else feels invested in the area. CEOs don't always make the right decision and you might not have been the best person for the job, anyway. One possible strategy is to intentionally "practice strategic incompetence". I'm not saying to sabotage anything or to not do your job, but if there is an area that is clearly outside the imaginable domain of your skills, coming up with a horrible option for the phone could have been a quick route to your boss realizing he had picked the wrong person for the job. Use this technique carefully. This could be combined with the previous suggestion. You go to the executive assistant and quickly describe the task, show him the list, then tell him that you are thinking of recommending a phone that is way overpriced and is missing some important feature. This could be all you need to get the executive assistant to take over for you! The important thing is to do this very early, and not give up responsibility for the task being done until you're sure someone else has officially done so. Perhaps best of all, bosses and CEOs are looking to see you do the best possible thing you can with the information you have. Even if you couldn't perform the entire task with the information you had, could you have excluded most of the phones and come up with a much shorter list? Could you have worked with the certainties you had, and done more research on the aspects you were uncertain of, so that when you went back to the CEO, instead of having nothing, you had already done the majority of the grunt work? Providing him with a list of four or five phones that you thought were suitable, their benefits, drawbacks, and prices, would probably have fit the bill perfectly for him, or at least irritated him less. Then he could perform his executive function again by quickly scanning the list and picking one. In the future you can't be criticized for making the wrong decision because your boss is actually the one who made it. But you did the heavy labor of studying out all the options and eliminating obviously unsuitable ones. You also can't be criticized for lacking initiative, like some people here have done to you, because you didn't let lack of knowledge stop you from doing the portion of the job that you had enough knowledge to do.