Unless there is a contract involved with your current employer, then you don't owe them anything. The fact that they might never build the next version can't be your concern. Though I admit the idea that they may purchase a API in the next few days while you are in limbo would cause me to have some regret. Don't tell them anything until you have accepted the offer. Because you will need to move, you have no idea when your last productive day in their office will be. Only tell them after you have finalized the schedule with the new company. A meeting discussing schedule can be bizarre, when only you know that you will not be there for the bulk of the project. Any company that starts a projects knows that there are risks. If you tell them it will take 90 days, and you quit 30 days into the project, they will be unlikely to meet the schedule, especially if they need to hire a new employee. People leaving is a risk that is in every project. If you are the only person with that skill set, that is a big risk they live with every day. Many times when you move to the new company you are unable to go back and help them. I have been able to help old projects when I transferred to another part of the same company, but never when switching companies. I mentioned contracts because sometimes you will owe them a certain amount of time if they helped pay for your degree, or sent you to a special training class, or helped pay your moving expenses when you joined them. They either want a specific number of years, or for you to pay them back if your don't stay the entire duration. 

Unless the leadership position is directly applicable to the job then there is no reason to mention membership in any external organizations. I would also be hesitant to mention any club that existed at a previous workplace, again unless the leadership position was relevant to the position. There is one reason why you have to mention the external organizations: a back ground investigation. Sometimes they are looking for a reference who sees you on a regular basis outside of work, but isn't your next door neighbor. Of course the paperwork for the investigation comes long after the initial reading of the resume, and after the interview process has been completed. 

Is there a way you can start the process of completing the 2nd undergraduate degree? If you take one class in the Fall, you can say that you are expected to complete it in Spring 2015. If they ask tell them that the advanced degree was done first because of the opportunity for the Masters wouldn't wait for you to finish the 2nd Bachelors. This allows you to mention your French studies, even though your university doesn't have the concept of a minor. It also doesn't give the impression that you are a quitter. 

The i9 form is not a tax form. It is use for Employment Eligibility Verification and it is used by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. 

3) Your role in this process. - If you are tasked with accountability, then spend time developing the mechanisms to not allow 30 days between check-ins without it being noticed. Make it possible for you to check-in equipment that is at the central location, thus knowing what items are on the floor. Spend time each day verifying the location of the equipment, or hire a lower paid employee to do it. - If you are not formally tasked with this role then drop it, or make a proposal to handle it formally. Show the daily and monthly labor requirements, and how it will save them money due to improved productivity, increased accountability, and less waste. Address all the hardware and software costs. You will have to design a system that works, and not one that you hope the employees will use. Management and your co-workers are telling you that they don't want to use the system. Ease of use means nothing if there is no real need for the system. Punishments in that environment are wrong. The randomness of the current system (not recognizing that nobody ever uses the system) makes it even more unfair. 

Unless you are trying to go from a hundred candidates to 10 there should be a followup email after the first two round within 24 hours. That way they know they have passed the early hurdles. Assume they are applying for several jobs, so periods without apparent progress will cause them to focus their energy elsewhere. 

Some people use unsolicited contact by recruiters as training for getting through the hiring process. For you the training seems to be related on how to maintain contact with potential employers, without letting everybody in the office know. 

One reason not to tell them would be that it weakens your bargaining position. If they know you have no income you will be less likely to demand a salary at the high end of the range. You wouldn't dare make a counter offer. Of course reasons number 1 & 2 may force you to tell them. 

They will also be looking at items they never asked you about. They may be looking for anything you are trying to hide. Often for the work related poly they will go over the questions before the instruments are on. During the test they only want yes or no answers. They go over the questions early so that you don't start a debate about the meaning of the word "is" during the middle of the exam. 

Yes it is normal. Meaning it is not unheard of. I have run across enough companies that do this that it doesn't seem worrisome. Sending by mail makes the most sense when the you were receiving a check each payday, and they were giving it to you in person. Now that you aren't in the office they need to send it to you. I always though that people getting direct deposit would just get a direct deposit for that last check. The last time I asked about this I was told that the checks were mailed because they needed to remove the time card from the normal workflow. Even if your situation was for a full pay period, that isn't always the case. They need to calculate your payout of Vacation/Sick. They have to make sure that if you have a negative balance in your PTO that is accounted for. They have to verify that you don't owe them any money for a travel advance, or if you have to re-pay them for classes you attended or for moving expenses. The last place I left gave me the option of mailing the check. This could be good if you are moving from the area and want it sent to your new address instead of a bank account you are closing. 

You will be graduating in just a few weeks. I hope that you have used all the resources available to you at the university including resume help, practice interviews, and job fairs. Recruiters come in two flavors: One that is a member of the staff of the company where the work will be done; and a 3rd party that finds employees for the prime company. With graduation approaching you should be looking at maximizing the use of resources that might lead to a job. While it is true that using a particular recruiter may not lead to a job, but it might. So pick one or two that seem to have leads that interest you, and that you qualify for, and start talking to them. I would focus on ones that are offering for permanent hire positions: they offer benefits; and no need to figure what you need to charge to be able to cover benefits. 

That implies that you were prepare to lie as part of the background investigation. That is both the quickest way to lose a job and the longest lasting way to lose a job. Manufacturing proof would be a big red flag to a potential employer. The lie is also long lasting because if years later they found out you faked the proof, they would have reason to consider you untrustworthy. The answer to you 3 other questions is simple. Tell the truth. You had a job, and you quit without having a new job. You will have to tell them the reason, otherwise your quitting seems rash. Of course being rash is not a job skill they are looking for. 

In general if you are hourly or non-exempt you will get paid for every hour you work. In fact they can expect time and a half for those extra hours. If you are exempt or salaried, you are unlikely to get paid those extra hours. I have worked for places that did allow "extended work weeks" for some situations. They were when customer requirements dictated that for a short period of time a salaried employee needed to put in extra hours. All this needed to be arranged in advance, and approved before the hours were worked. It generally only kicked in if the hours worked exceed 44 hours that week. The pay was not at time and a half for those extra hours. This was a corporate policy issue. Because we were were salaried, we could in many cases decide how to work our 40. In other cases we had a strict schedule because there was a requirement to have a position staffed x hours per day: imagine a restaurant requiring a manager on site at all times. this would be a corporate policy issue. The law in the US is designed to make sure that the hourly employees who have zero control over their work hours, are compensated for all their hours. Those who have control of their work hours aren't given the same protection. 

If you do this, put on your resume that you ran a week long camp and taught X kids how to program the Arduino. What you are proposing is a step-up from the students who will spend the summer flipping burgers or making pizza. You will be working with computers. You could also look for a local no-profit that will want a volunteer to help them with their computers. Or you could take a class in the summer so that you can graduate early. Also: most recruiters I know never follow the links on a resume, and most people that see the resume at a company will see it after it ha been turned into a text file. Yes they can check a link by cutting and pasting it, but they might not. The words you say on the resume will always be more valuable than the info on the far side of the link. 

The basic rule of thumb in the United States is that if your employer needs to contract you out, they had to charge their customer 2x the rate they pay you. This would cover the hours they pay you plus: sick, vacation, holiday, health insurance, disability insurance, unemployment insurance, their part of the taxes, 401k matching, overhead, business development... So if you need to replace all those benefits you need to charge 2x35 or $70 per hour. If you don't need all those benefits (insurance from a parent or spouse). Don't minimize the fact you will never work 40 hour every week, because of vacation, sick and holidays. If you think in terms of yearly income: if you make $xx,000 per year your boss has to charge $xx per hour. 

A CV/Resume is not the same as a background check form or application where they ask you to list all jobs or ask for details about why you left previous jobs. The CV/Resume is a product you use to advertise your skills as they relate to the job you are applying for. If the part time job didn't involve a skill that you want to advertise, then don't include it in the CV. It does get a little trickier if there will be holes in your work history if you were to only include the one or two jobs that directly relate to the job you are applying for. In that case including other less relevant jobs does show that you do have a long work history. But a part time job, when you already had a full time job doesn't fill holes, so if it doesn't help sell your experience then don't include it in the CV. 

In some cases employers don't want you to divulge who their customers are. In other cases they don't care. You have ask to find out. One place they generally don't want you to discuss the list of customers is when you are about to join a competitor. They don't want you to walk out the door armed with information that will help a rival company poach their customers. the second part of the question: