These will help you to align your technical and "hands on" perspective with their business perspective. If you can show that there are issues in the first 4 categories above, and set them out plainly, you'll be well on the way to moving your own problem - by showing them good reasons why it's their problem, and not your lack of competence. If you put a list like this together and it looks compelling, make a presentation, present it to them, and walk them through example issues - including specific code or data flow snippets that exemplify the point. Your presentation To make it effective, 

A lot depends if you can claim benefit from common employee rights. Some you get from day 1, some you need to be there for a period of time, or in a specific kind of role/relationship. I suspect this kind of harassment/conduct is something you get protection from, from day 1. Research it, but I think all's good there. Big picture of what I'd do Stage 1: 

Commenting and ensuring corporate memory is professional to the point that people should do it more often. The difference between your first and second versions - the first it emotive ("WAH! THEYBSHOULD DO THIS BUT WONT SO ITS ALL GONNA DIEEEEE!"). The second is more factual, the knowledge they need, that its ad hoc and liable to break, and what can technically be done, and that you want them to be aware for their own work. No prize which is better. Your question is confusing "opinion" and "emotionality". Opinion is fine, you're paid to have a view on professional areas: "Not ideal". ""The choice of an adhoc solution may cause problems, here is some info and how I would suggest tackling it". Or even "Not the best class code we've written, but time is short, this fix should be ripped out and the underlying problem dealt with when we can persuade someone to include it in the budget". These are all opinions. Even if strongly or tongue in cheek stated. Emotionality is pointless and adversarial: "Wanker of a boss demanded this for speed because he doesn't give a damn about the risk of data corruption". "Should have used library X but dumb shits in marketing want it rushed so it'll probably break, I've had to patch it constantly and my notes how to do it are in file Y in case someone else needs it". (OK, all exaggerated a lot!) In your examples the key phrase is "against my better judgement". Meaning (or likely to be read as) "WAH, WHAT IDIOTS!" That's what makes your 1st one emotive. A few other things too but that's the biggie. Adds nothing except "IM PISSED OFFFFFF AND WANT READER TO KNOW IT" See the difference? 

I think such an "infraction" is hardly cause for alarm or worry over the value your manager places on your vacation time. Think of it as taking one for the team. If it happens 2 -3 more times, you might put your foot down (see immediate 3 above before you do this). 

You wanted to evaluate all your options before entering another long term commitment (which isn't far from the truth) The truth, an offer was extended shortly after you left your position (which makes you look desirable) but the employer withheld vital information from you until the last minute and you had to pull back You wanted a break to catch your breath after X number of years with the last shop 

Depends on how long the break is. Typically employers only raise a brow if you were sacked from your last employment which isn't the case here (right?). So if anyone asks why the gap in your resume (which honestly a couple of weeks isn't terrible), you could give any number of valid reasons for the wait : 

Has your boss been known to put himself on the line for people or he's doing this just for you? I ask this so you're not unnecessarily guilted into a long term favour-repaying mission. The most solid way to repay confidence and faith placed in you is to vindicate and justify that input with solid output. And you're aware that there is a need for more hands on deck. It's safe to offer your time and effort to your boss (above and beyond the call of normal working hours) seeing as he's done the same in your favour. Try not to think of it as a favour while you're at it, more like justifying his input in your career. At the barest minimum, he'd appreciate the gesture (even if he declines) and know you're not just a taker and you also own a conscience. Should you choose to accept more responsibility however, be sure to not carry too much or more weight that you're sure you can safely handle. All your goodwill reserves will go down the tank if you end up botching your assignments because you've bitten more than you can chew. Few good deeds go unpunished! 

There's a lot to consider here. There are 3 of you + boss. The boss has shown little thought for you all, and is away for months, leaving you all with the business to run as normal - but no definitive contact or route to get directions from her if needed. Nobody is described as having powers delegated to let them act as a director in her absence, which could be a serious problem, or having clear knowledge about all aspects of the business, If just one of you three goes, the other 2 probably couldn't cope, and the scope for blame seems large if everything isn't perfect. For all we known, you and your 2 colleagues might see eye to eye and get on fine, or not work well together. And the pay is dire. I'm not usually one to advise drastic action, but as it stands this isn't sustainable. Too much can fall foul in a 6 month period. But equally, you and your colleagues may not want to leave as some answers suggest. What I'd be tempted to do instead depends on how likely it is that the 3 of you can get on and have a common viewpoint. Can the 3 of you talk safely and honestly with "cards on the table", without word getting back to the boss? If you are "on your own", you have fewer choices. But if the 3 of you can talk, then you have other options. Specifically, pregnancy leave doesn't wait for people, so your boss is over a barrel. If the 3 of you want to continue working, you are in a position to decide what you need, to make that safe and possible. Some things would be nice (extra pay?). Others could be essential (legal indemnity/insurance; agreement in writing of what is allowed/not allowed and that you can run the company as directors in her absence; her statement that you are allowed to follow your own best judgment if a decision is needed and she can't be contacted - get a lawyer to draft this, DO NOT try and do it yourself, and company to pay). The bottom line is, she needs you (3), and you (3) need to be safe and fairly treated and not at risk. Those 2 goals should be compatible - if you aren't safe then you can't reasonably be in legal control for that time, so you will almost certainly have to leave (all 3 of you) or take a risk that it'll all be okay "somehow" and cross fingers. Like anything in business if she wants it, she may have to pay for it. If the 3 of you find you can reach a common position, then maybe it's time to write her a formal letter signed by all 3 of you setting out that position, and summing up what you feel and will need in order to take on the role she blithely proposes. 

This might be a combination of not having anything in common with your acquaintances, hanging in the wrong circle or coming off as not being genuine enough. I meet someone and it seems (s)he's only hanging out with me for superficial reasons or for what he can get out of me, I bob and weave until we fall out of touch. Unless I need something from him too. "Let's be friends first" eh? Genuineness goes a long way with me. Just today I made a professional contact and after the first 15 minutes of conversation, the dude dropped a couple of colourful words and I was sure we'd connected there. I'm not saying you should go all Samuel L. Jackson on your contacts, but try to loosen up a bit, let them see a bit of the real you. 

While it may be a little unnerving to be put on the back burner for so long, I won't recommend you base your decision on the offer on this one incident. 

I'm always pro-team building. Can you put a price on your team's perception of you in the long run? It's hard enough being looked at as an outsider on a team because you're a consultant. Now, putting in the extra effort to distance yourself from an all-too-cheap bonding experience (not to mention the free grub) like a team picnic, to sit at work by yourself seems... I don't know, seems kinda unpleasant. They'll either think of you as money-loving or you don't care about bonding with them. Unless of course if that's not a priority. 

Depending on your relationship with your boss and your current track record, you should be able to directly approach your boss on the matter 

Two questions: What is your relationship with your current direct manager? Do you blindside him with your need to cross to another department? In my experience, raw skill won't get you the gig. You're in a (large) gathering of other human beings, so rest assured, there are other things being put into consideration during internal hiring process. This is the way things work. Bosses have favourites. People they're more comfortable working with. More aggression on your part chasing the new seat might just lead to hair greying. Be aware of the political climate of your organization to avoid undue frustration in your pursuit. If you're being repeatedly passed over for roles that you're confident you're ahead of the competition, you're either not as qualified as you believe you are OR you need to keep your manager better informed/seek his feedback after a failed attempt. He might have access to information you don't.