As Apologist to the Arts? Perhaps these questions could clarify the issue: Is omniscience relevant, or is this a question about valuation? If you create something you intend, say a painting, is it less valuable for your having done it as intended? What made it valuable in the first place? If you are omniscient (or think you are), how does that change the value of your output? How does it change the process of creation, or the experience of creating? Do any of these inform value (and to whom)? How is a painting different from a world? I think the short answer to your question is that, while the point of a creation (reason for being) may be, or seem to be, novelty (to someone), the point of the act of creation (reason for doing it or expected outcome) may not necessarily ever be novelty. Certainly we can imagine our artist feeling compelled by the artist's vision (known or unknown) to place each brushstroke exactly as it must be placed to fulfill the vision. The nature of the compulsion is not (necessarily) to make something whose future (or outcome) is uncertain (to surprise the artist), but simply to do the thing which comes next (even if the purpose of the outcome is to surprise someone else). You might contend that in the analogy, having a vision is the act of creation, and the act of painting is the deterministic process. In this case, still, the point of having a vision may not be to produce novelty, but simply to have (or want) it made manifest. Thus omniscience may be irrelevant to the point of creating. (Although perhaps it's absolutely necessary to be some kind of omniscient to create a deterministic world!) There are other concerns--(im)mortality (duration) comes to mind. But within the scope of your question as stated, I think all we need to do is identify another reason to make things (other than novelty), if having a reason gives creation the (relatable, implicit) value you require. Answer: the same as the point of creating for a non-omniscient being (if there is such a point). 

Popper's Falsifiability criterion is a formal and logical one, and as such has nothing to do with the practical possibility or impossibility of testing a given hypothesis. It goes as follows: Given that H is a hypothesis / theory, if and only if H is falsifiable then there exists a finite set of observation sentences Γ such that ¬ H is a logical consequence of Γ. i.e., according to the criterion there must exist, in principle (as opposed to in practice), a set of observation sentences that by being true make the hypothesis being tested false. In order to be falsifiable, the Theory of Relativity needs only to provide such observation sentences, not the availability of real life execution method of the associated experiments. Back in 1916, Einstein provided a hypothesis which could, by definition, be tested -- by its own definition, that is. On the contrary, the Grue theory, by definition -- by its own definition -- cannot provide such testability in respect to itself, at least not at present. The Popperian reason behind the falsifiablity criterion, is that the attempts at refutation are what potentially corroborates a theory, so if no refutation is logically possible, no potential valid corroboration could be made, and so it isn't scientific. In other words, General Relativity is testable per Popper because there isn't any logical contradiction between testing it and all the rest of background assumptions. In contrast, present testing of the Grue theory contradicts the fact that time travel is logically impossible, which I would guess to be found in its background assumptions. The Popperian answer to the Grue theory in question would be, I presume, that it will be scientific once it'll be falsifiable in principle. If the Grue theory suggests also that the adequate time travel is logically possible then I guess it passes the criterion, but it does depend on that. 

I disagree with this argument because it is guilty of a straw man. What is crucial to this logically valid argument is the premise that some chronology applies to God (which is apparent in the words "future" and "predict"). However, the common concept of God is, as mentioned, supernatural; God is outside of our physical realm, and since the early 20th century, we've known that our physical realm includes the fourth dimension of time. Therefore, this argument is unsound. An omniscient God would not be "predicting" somebody's "future" but simply knowing what exists as part of the four-dimensional space time. Imagine the universe as a 3D hologram film, and you'll understand that when you look at the whole thing and know it all, you're not predicting but rather you have simply seen everything there is. You don't see the film passing by, but its entire existence is in front of you (I find a mountain range image also helpful), and if you were an omniscient God, you would know everything that happens; there is no "future" or "past" but just the truth. A logical argument from these premises is: 

Not that I am aware of, but I'll be happy to learn new things. One reason I can think of for him to not directly address the Unity of Nature is the fact that perhaps no such articulation of it exists in the form of a falsifiable theory. In other words, Popper doesn't think this is of any special interest, as from his perspective, his program of the epistemology and methodology of science is perfectly consistent without it. You can suggest a general law of nature in the form of a hypothesis, have it stand in rigorous tests and as long as this situation holds the hypothesis is valid and tentatively true (which is, by principle, the best you can achieve under the Popperian doctrine). If, one day, new experiments show the hypothesis to fail a relevant test (even if it's "the same" test it had previously stood), then it is now refuted. It took some time but now it's there, along with all other refuted theories -- the cause for the "sudden" acceptance of the hypothesis as refuted is irrelevant; whether it's due to new testing technique or due to a change in "nature's mechanics" is beside the point of it being refuted. 

I remember this predicament! You might try looking at it a different way. Mathematics and philosophy have, I think, two fundamental Big Ideas in common: inquiry (aka problem solving?) and convention-based propagation of ideas (in such a way that any person in the know can follow the thought process of another—though whether we can assume this is possible or happening is another question :) ). You could think of these as the fundamental skillset. The study of philosophy is inevitably a study of its history, and, in particular for an English speaker, the history of Western philosophy. I agree wholeheartedly with a previous poster that the history of mathematics is revealing and essential (and undertaught). Following from inquiry (and informing communication of your ideas) is the skill of fostering a rich shared context through the study of history and contemporaneous thought. In addition to historical study—which my bones nevertheless will not quite let me call fundamental—I suggest looking for and questioning the fundamental assumptions of mathematics (you have probably already begun). Consider non-contradiction, induction, and the "existence" (or reification) of mathematical objects, for example (or Alexander S King's "central questions" above—great answer!)—or, crucially, whatever has driven you to your original inquiry—then try conveying your ideas. This would be engaging in the foundation skills of philosophy. Of course I'm implying that the "pleasant and organized" approach is suspect (as I think you might have been). If you're looking for the same kind of packaging, double major in Philosophy! You could examine a few university philosophy curricula and follow one on your own. Or, you could organize your study according to your own inquiry. Try deferring your frustration with the dendritic approach. See where it leads—you may get everywhere faster (or more thoroughly) with a "hierarchy" where you are the foundation. Yours is a good and important question. You may be looking for your own answer. My answer: the skills of 1) inquiry and 2) the use of conventions of logic and language. Secondarily (though no less importantly): 3) fostering a rich shared context by studying the history of philosophy (thereby also giving structure to the lexicon). (And, great fun: Shapiro's Oxford Handbook of Philosophy of Mathematics and Logic) (And, quick and dirty: History of Philosophy without any gaps) 

in an attempt to win the debate over the current state of affairs, as there is simply no need to give in to such historico-cultural matters in this context of knowledge. Claims such as The Incommensurability of Scientific Theories, whether formulated by Fayerabend or as it was plagiarized from Polanyi by Kuhn has long been given strong rebuttal themselves -- see Davidson in here for example. 

Conventionalism doesn't refer, at least in itself, to practical bearings. It is the view according to which there is no valid certain knowledge, no informational content about the world but only inter-subjective conventions. So it is essentially a claim regarding the nature of what we call knowledge; it is an epistemological stance. Pragmatism, on the other hand, is an all embracing approach for philosophical conduct. To relate to Conventionalism, one might inquire into the epistemological conclusions of Pragmatism: