The early versions of Nicaraguan Sign Language were more or less like that - these deaf-mute people would sign sentences like "I go house Pedro", "this road not good", "I want food now" and so on. As it evolved, newer speakers have added complexity onto it: agreement between verb and object, markers for time and mood, spatial references, and so on. 

Common knowledge of writing in a society can and does have an effect on the language structure, and it's been noted: There's this Israeli linguist (I've forgotten his name) who says so-called Modern Hebrew isn't really a Semitic language... he argues in one of his books how Chinese writing has had a profound effect in the language, by altering the way new words are created and how borrowings are adapted. I vaguely remember Saussure mentioning in a sentence in one of his books "I've been told people in Paris now pronounce the 't' in 'sept' ". I found that really odd, for I had been taught uttering "set" was THE correct way to pronounce 7 in French. So clearly Parisians of his time were adopting an artificial pronunciation based on spelling, which then was declared the standard. 

After a brief search, I couldn't find any examples of borrowed interrogative pronouns, but I'm sure there must be some out there. 

German has two future tenses (called 'Futur I and II' in popular grammars), and if they are used together, this comes close to what you're asking for: 

The Prioress only knew the kind of French taught in England (Stratford here) and not the kind of French spoken in Paris (seen as more desirable). This was at a time when text books for teaching French to the aristocracy came up. They now needed instruction in French because they didn't learn it at home any more. 

In computational linguistics, interesting questions might concern how parsers or taggers can be improved. If we compare their performance to that of humans, automatic parsers and taggers still have quite some way to go. But the way to improve them is probably not to reduce computational complexity because what computers currently lack and humans have is not more computational power, but real world knowledge. Take for example: 

I recall that in ancient Egyptian some hieroglyphs were used "markers" to resolve ambiguity or indicate a noun was a member of a special group, even though not meant to be pronounced. E.g. a beetle sign was placed after a group of signs denoting a bird's name to indicate such noun was meant to be read as a "flying entity" (i.e. really a bird's name) and not as a person's name. There were other characters used to emphasize a noun was a person's name, and names of gods and royalty were inscribed within special cartridges. Are these signs a kind of punctuation, or mere typographical conventions? Do they have a formal name? They do transmit information, furthermore, information that's not a merely a verbatim transcription of what the actual speech said but actually expands it. Similar to when some printed media add a small cross after a person's name to indicate they're dead. Emoticons play a similar role in modern electronic communications - they expand the written message, though in this way to compensate the loss of emotional information that in face-to-face communication is transmitted mostly via physical gestures, and to a lesser extent in verbal channels that are not written down: intonation, volume and pauses in the speech. 

I agree with P Elliott and his explanation that this is a question of markedness. His examples are from English, which has natural, but not grammatical gender. It might be interesting to see how this works in a language that has grammatical gender, and where grammatical gender usually trumps natural gender. In German, all nouns are marked for gender (= grammatical gender). Then noun die Katze (cat) is female, i.e. female is the unmarked gender for cats. There is also a male variant, der Kater. Female die Katze or the pronoun sie is used if 

I don't think whether a language has many bound morphemes or not (or whether it is synthetic or analytic) has much influence on how readily loanwords are accepted into the language. Empirically showing that this is true would be complicated due to the many other factors you mentioned that influence the number of loanwords. To provide some anecdotal evidence I'll give examples of recent or ad-hoc borrowings from two synthetic languages and how they are integrated into the complex morphology of these languages. These examples show that languages with many bound morphemes readily borrow words and add native morphemes to them. Polish I recently heard the word niezasejwowany in a Polish pop song. This is a past participle and ultimately borrowed from English to save. It appears to be so recent a loanword that it's not in the rather good dictionary I use. Analysing niezasejwowany gives nie-za-sejwowa-ny, un-PERF-save-PP-Sg.m. 

I once read there are a few other examples of sexual diglossia in the world, some other tribes in Africa and the Amazon, and they usually arise just like the Garifuna: when a bunch of men from one tribe/ethnic group pick up girls from a different one as wives, and for some reason neither group completely abandons their tongues. Some African tribes even added a 3rd language to the mix: the "warriors' language", used only by men in times of war to avoid an enemy's eavesdropper to understand a meeting on strategy or the discussions in mid-battle. 

As usual, Wikipedia has a great article regarding this. Late Medieval English used "they" in the singular when the number of possible nouns was unknown or left vague on purpose by the speaker. In most other situations, then native speakers would use "he" as generic - e.g. a dog's toy was "his toy" rather than "its", and such use was sometimes used also for subjects who could potentially be either male/female. Centuries later, when first the "Politically Correctness" movement came, and then some feminists started to deride what they deemed signs of sexism in the language, the need to get a real neuter-gender alternative to he/she resulted in expanding the use of singular they. You'll also occassionally find other words invented by some feminists ex-profeso to avoid the perceived implied otherness of the feminity, mostly in feminist literature (of course). In other languages, the most natural way to refer to a sex-less 3rd person would be to use the equivalent of "it", but in English the distinction "male/female" has become very weak over time, whereas the distinction "animate/inanimate" is still perceived in full force - so the only time "it" can be applied to humans is when they're babies or very very young children. So instead of "A young teenage almost never uses contraception when having its first sexually intimate relationship " you get "(...) their first sexual (...)", as grammatically contorted as it may seem. Some papers and writers have simply inverted the common usage of "he" as generic and instead take "she" as the generic unless maleness is needed/specified, so you get more grammatical sentences whilst avoiding perceived sexism. 

Q: I was wondering whether there is any evidence of developments in (written) language proficiency of, say, 18 year-olds, in post-WW2 industrial societies. Before WW2 and in pre-industrial societies I assume public education was still expanding and following from that there was an increase in literacy. So in the general population I suppose there will also have been an increase in language proficiency and writing skills. I chose 18 years as a baseline because I assume that is the general school-leaving age for upper secondary education, but it's just an approximation. I would be particularly interested in data on different languages (English, French, German, ...) and the general population, but college freshmen would also do. I suppose any or most available data will be on proficiency in (written) standard language, not non-standard dialects. Possible sources include standardised school-leaving exams like the US-American SAT. These can and are sometimes said to be subject to grade inflation - General improvement in scores might be due to more lenient grading or easier tasks. Are there other sources not/less subject to this criticism? Motivation for asking: In case this helps in answering the question, I am tired of listening to complaints about how children and young adults can't spell any more, our language is going to the dogs etc. The fact that such complaints are not new suggests that they are not based on facts. I would like to be able to point out that, in fact, language proficiency has remained stable or even improved for some time. If there is evidence to the contrary I'll do my best to hide... ehm I'll eat my words. 

A bit late, but may be useful. Several years ago, I read an interview in a celebrities' magazine to a Garifuna singer who was coming to Mexico. After the mandatory chat about his career, his success with his tour, last disc, etc. the interviewer complimented him about his near-perfect Spanish. To which he casually commented her "yeah, people always say we Garifuna are good for learning languages - I speak just as good English and French. I attribute it to the fact we're raised having to learn 2 languages". The reporter had never heard of the fact so pressed him to speak a bit more of it. I still recall some things of what he said, for that interview impacted me deeply: 

I was under the impression that all languages are considered isolates until it's demonstrated to a high degree of certainty that they're related to another language. Was I wrong on this? There've been various attempts at linking Korean to Japanese and Ainu, on one-hand, and to the Turkic-Mongolic languages on the other. Should the proponents of one of these efforts succeed, then Korean would stop being classified as an "isolate", which really means "not enough data to accurately say if it's related to something else or not". 

English word order is SVO. If you move the object to subject position and subject to object position the meaning of the sentence changes fundamentally. The dog bit the man is not the same as The man bit the dog. In German, however, you can reverse the order of these consituents without changing the (truth-conditional) meaning of the sentence: 

Mother is not the antonym of father. They are co-hyponyms because they are both a kind of parent - and parent is the hypernym of mother and father. Antonymy is the relation that holds between parent and child. So by extension the antonym of mother could be said to be child. EDIT: After reading hippietrail's answer, I somewhat changed my opinion. If one considers two words to be antonyms already if just one of their semantic features is replaced with the opposite then mother (female parent) and father (male parent) can be said to be antonyms. However, I feel that it might make sense to reserve antonymy for complete negation or oppositeness, and describe the relation between mother and father as hyponymy. 

This touches me on a personal level for I've tried hard my whole life to get rid of my accent, only to be told time and again I still have a strong Hispanic accent. I've learned a few interesting things on the road, though: 

Chinese dictionaries have arranged characters according to radicals for several centuries, then sorting on next level according to number of strokes. Works when you're looking for the meaning or pronunciation of a character you just saw. Some dictionaries and encyclopedias also attempted sorting by "theme": animals, plants, metals, etc. Of course, works only if you know a word and are looking for how it's written. The canonical list of radicals is taken to be that used in the Kangxi dictionary, presumed to be one of the most complete dictionaries ever made on Chinese logograms: $URL$ For Japanese I can attest the problem is solved via kana: when searching the kanji for a word you know, they're ordered according to the sorting of kana (aiueo, ka ki ku...) . When you look instead for a character's meaning or its pronunciation, though, they also use the radical + number of strokes method. As a foreign learner, you're in for some surprises for some characters' official stroke steps are not what you could intuitively think of :) 

TLDR: Personal pronouns (I, you), interrogative pronouns (who, what), quantifiers (all, many, one) , negative particles (not) and determiners (this, that) are less likely to change over time than most nouns, adjectives and verbs. 

In general, anything can be borrowed, given intensive and prolonged language contact (Thomason 2001: 63) Borrowed relative pronouns (sources didn't mention examples): 

Speaker verification is the task of estimating how likely it is that two speech recordings come from the same speaker, while speaker identification tries to match a speech recording with one of a greater number of candidates. Both are important forensic linguistics/phonetics tasks and crucial for law enforcement. Google and other sources told me that a range of phonetic features such as pitch range, long term formant frequencies, speech rate and articulation rate are used in these tasks. Unfortunately all sources I found were fairly general. My question is: Which of these (and other phonetic features) are considered most reliable and are most commonly used? If it's important for answering the question, I'm mostly (but not exclusively) interested in English here. Also, answers should ideally refer to (academic) sources.