It is a good question even if it seems to be inviting speculations rather than historical references. The obvious answer is that we cannot tell how Aristotle would proceed but there is a good exemple of what could be the central issue as it generated the s.c. linguitics wars. (and further a book with that title by Randy A. Harris, Oxf. 1995). In 1958 Emile Benveniste published Categories de pensee et categories de langue (Jstor), a remarkable analysis how Aristotle took the grammar of his native language to be of metaphysical significance. The mistake was not irreparable as people already in the middle ages (e.g. R.Bacon) understood that it was just an instance of a more general universal grammar. The idea has been reworked in early modern times and it became rather popular with Chomsky's work, who was the commander in chief of one of the warring parties. The other side was promoting generative semantics but at that time there was already a modern reworking of Aristotle by Joseph Greenberg in his Language Universals (1966). A less known contribution was made Polish linguists and Anna Wierzbicka, who emigrated to Australia, achieved some notoriety with her work on semantic primes or primitives. As the name suggest such entities cannot be defined in a non-circular way in language - but they are understood as they embody human experience. (The best known example seems to be "time" all attempts at whose definition turn out to be circular.) So what would be Aristotle's view depends essentially on what would be the conception that distinguishes syntax from semantics and the arguments with which it is implemented. 

Such scientific medievalism runs rampant today and speaks to the propaganda of vacuous authoritarian thinking. I find such statements not only unhelpful but utterly unscientific and ideological--the height of what I call the logics of domination. Scientific "truths" are always open to further inquiry and elaboration. As Alfred North Whitehead argued, "Our conscious experience involves a baffling mixture of certainty, ignorance, and probability" (Process and Reality, 205). Does it not seem more honest to argue that truth cannot shake loose the shimmers of belief and, therefore, does not have unilateral power as is often claimed by the prophets of scientism? Truth is meant to set us free, not enslave us! 

Pseudo-science has been used. Also, if you want to personalize it you can refer to an "intellectual swindler." I have also heard "ideology" used in this sense with a negative connotation. Surely, any good positivist believes there are false sciencees that parade around as the real thing! 

Quine argues for a naturalized epistemology over traditional kinds. The implications of this move lead to pure descriptions that relinquishes all normativity. Is Quine's method of science as a "paradigm of inquiry" and commitment to empiricism in the pragmatic sense--ontological relativity--a form of eliminativism? Is a recipe for aprescriptive or anormative meaning and value even possible as Quine seems to suggest? 

Therefore, Firstness, Secondness, and Thirdness may be analyzed in terms of quality, relation, and synthesis. The qualitative associated with the aesthetic provides a normative status and this is when Peirce is most pluralistic and finds affinities with Schelling’s System of Transcendental Idealism and philosophy of nature (contra Hegel). Relation involves any purposive activity, or action and reaction; what Peirce refers to as the “polar sense” as a re-working of St. Augustine’s notion of volition that Peirce viewed as narrow. Instead of the something like Descartes’ cogito or “cognitive faculty,” Peirce supplemented the enterprise of knowledge with “learning” or “acquisition” in a very similar vein as the Platonic Eros. Logic, unlike in Hegel, involves the norms of thinking or the task of realizing the ends for thinking. Where Hegel and Peirce find common ground, and this distinguishes him from other pragmatists, is that he does not find pluralism congenial. To this degree he agrees with the architectonic outlook of experience when he says, “life can have but one end.” 

The principle of inertia seems to be a good candidate for an "apriori truth": it is never verified and connot be verified positively, but explanations are adduced why a certain body does not continue its regular movement to infinity. The conservation of energy was also considered a good candidate and different kinds of energies have been introduced in order to save it. (Feynman has memorably written on this topic.) Recently people have started to argue that it does not apply for the universe as a whole; however, appealing to symmetry and eventually explaining why it is not observed still seems to be a kind of aprioristic stance. So, one might like to argue that principles are apriori ruths. 

Most people apparently appreciate that Hofstadter's books synthesize many ideas in a non-academic style. In his concept of the strange loop two main components are noted: self-reference and intransitivity. The best known variations of the first one are the liar's paradoxes and for the other one - the rock-paper-scissors games. Both have received extended treatments which can be easily transposed in the philosophy of mind The intransitivity (or game) has been explored most notably after Arrow's pardox gained popularity. As a material proof of existence Efron dice are a popular exemple. Actually a non-transitive relation can form a loop without being self contradictory, that is A>B and B>C are compatible with C>A, the sign '>' denoting an ordering. Usually this ordering is valued (eg. as 'better', 'prefers', etc) and at each step an illusory ascent is perceived. In the cyclic triad A>B>C>A>B>C... if the mediating element B is skipped, one gets the structure of a paradox 'the egg is before the hen which is before it'... A popular two terms form of the liar's paradox is 'Plato says: Aristotle speaks true. & Aristotle says: Plato lies'. It is not entirely certain that philosophy of mind does not view these problems mostly as a source for headaches. 

Upon study of G.W.F. Hegel's two volume work Lectures on Fine Art he presents a schema of the arts based on the external and internal relations of the Idea in its dialectic mode of expression. Of course, art is to be transcended by religion and eventually philosophy according to Hegel's philosophy of history. Art manifest truth moving in a process of exterior intuition to its internalization. I was struck by the concise neatness that this generated in ranking the arts according to the proportion of experience they serve in the development of human experience. Hegel would have had little sympathy for the avant garde of today much like he shared a disdain for the Romanticism in his own time. Hegel claims that the lowest form of Art is architecture as the purest material form of the Idea, which transforms to the second level--sculptor, the material becoming life-like, and third is painting where the truth is conceptualized onto the canvas. From Painting we move into the rhythms and harmonies of music or the unfolding of truth according duration and time. Through sound we move to the pinnacle of the arts which is poetry (tragedy, comedy, and drama); speech and conceptualization bring to fruition the "concrete, actuality" of the Idea as embodied in the individual characters. Thus, Hegel schematizes and ranks the arts from architecture, sculptor, painting, music, and poetry. If we disregard Hegel's triadic grand narrative of the history of Spirit (Idea), which this formulation aims to support, and his thesis about "the end of art" (that eventually works to the end of history!), does this way of categorizing the types and genres of art still matter? Or should we abandon any efforts to systematize the aesthetic in this fashion because it does not reasonate with a post-Warholian artworld? 

No, "the" scientific method does not really exist. Feyarabend has argued that historical case studies do not support the idea of a unique "scientific" method and, further, that such an idea is 'pernicious'. 

Sartre published his first works when he was over 30 and lived through turbulent times 40 more years. Of course his view changed but he was neither 'protean' nor 'sustained many radical transformations'. At the 1911 Philosophical World Congress Bergson had stated for every philosopher there is just one central and simple thing "which he cannot express without immediately feeling that he should correct this formulation" - and this is fits rather well Sartre. (Bergson also said this is the cause philosophers never stop talking.) Three major books Being and Nothingness (1943), Critique of Dialectical Reason (1960), * L'idiot de la famille* (1971) mark his trajectory from phenomenology through leftist-marxist ideology to existential psychoanalysis but the three are parts of unfinished projects. The last work, on Flaubert, is seen to be in continuity with the earlier Baudleire (1947), Saint Genet (1952) and the Freud scenario of 1960 (posthumous). The major overhaul in Sartre's thinking occurred when heard about phenomenology from Aron, who had been in Berlin in 1931-3, when he had not published any thing counting as 'oeuvre'. Otherwise Sartre just drifted to the left but became disillusioned; neither Marxism nor psychoanalysis caused any radical mutations in his philosophy. Interviews are hardly part of Sartre's ouevre except perhaps his staged conversation with Simone de Beauvoir (Ceremonie des adieux). To her Sartre declares that he expects his literary works to remain as true achievements while his philosophy is bound to be superseded So, this a non-answer: there are no overhauls (in plural) nor they are "discussed" in his "ouevre". 

In his philosophy, Rorty “turns” his reorientation in analytic philosophy and epistemology away from knowledge to a new focus on hope. He adopts the stance of fallibilism and the “liberal ironism,” which challenges the finality or authority of one’s “final vocabularies.” Instead of “theories” which ultimately lead to “forced descriptions,” philosophers should opt for an ongoing “edifying conversation” that develops new and constructive ways of speaking. However, scholars continue to overlook the fact that Rorty buys into a soft or honest “ethnocentrism,” which seems at best closed and parochial. What David L. Hall calls a “lonely provincialism” inherent in Rorty’s philosophical endeavors generates limitations toward access and interaction with wider horizons of meaning and modes of cultural comparison (see, Richard Rorty: Prophet and Poet of the New Pragmatism (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1994), ch. 5, for more details). Rorty essentially believes cultures and communities are at bottom like Leibniz’s monads—they are windowless, meant to be taken as complete or sufficient in themselves, and therefore, Rorty appears not to appreciate or even take seriously an honest “mutual engagement” amongst cultures, whether they come from the Western (developed) or less-developed world. Rorty appears, unlike Cornell West (his former student), to be in total dialogue with himself (or his people) to such an unhealthy degree, that he acts as if relations between others are statically locked-in and there is little room for growth and integration. The same unbridgeable divide between the analytic/continental traditions of professional philosophy that so irked Rorty may be at the heart of his social philosophy and his categories of cultural comparison. The disguise of this failure on behalf of Rorty’s projects stems from the egalitarian emphasis and the importance he places on the use of “neutral mediums.” A strong sense of conformity or even assimilation is the mandate for a serious equality. Many will find this ironic given Rorty's insistence on the essentialness of "persuasion" over the strong-arming of "coercion." Now Rorty's approach makes sense historically, when thinkers were forced to address the dominant authorities or intellectual fads of the day. The trends were setup well in advance and conditioned much of the discourse that was not only acceptable, but even deemed possible. Today this is less so and our ethnic, philosophical, or cultural alliances and loyalties are almost like a free-for-all. We are experiencing a unique time of philosophy and culture without borders, free to roam about in non-provincial ways. Despite its positive impact and resistance toward the balkanization of philosophical schools, does Rorty’s philosophy argue for an excessive self-narrowing by way of its ethnocentricism and "lonely provincialism"? 

Apparently Wittgenstein had not received any serious training in advanced mathematics and he never displayed any such knowledge nor some understanding about it. He demonstrates a sustained hostility against set theory without ever showing any grasp for its importance in analysis (for integrals, functions, convergence etc.). Nevertheless he claimed having done 'work' on 'foundation of mathematics'. When this work was made public, some 50 years ago, it was dismissed by people like Kreisel or Dummettt. Later, however, it was claimed that he has been misunderstood. One may suspect that philosophers just cannnot accept that their favorite thinker is incompetent and just wasted his (and their) time. There has been numerous attempts to explain what his 'philosophy of mathematics' is: constructivism, some kind of finitism, pragmatism etc. But the lack of consensus, obvious when one leafs through the literature, suggest that perhaps there never really was such a thing to be called "Wittgenstein's philosophy of mathematics". Is this the answer? 

A set of dice is nontransitive if the binary relation – X rolls a higher number than Y more than half the time – on its elements is not transitive. Different sets of such dice are known. 'Rolling higher' is a stochastic event and 'more than half of the time' an other one. Most often probabilty is presented as a kind of measure and in trivial cases such as coins or usual dice it is obviously connected to physical/spatial objective properties. For this particular case however it appears to be a kind of (cyclic) ordering. How would a Frequentist and a Bayesian explain away this fact? 

Philosophy has always been a powerful social institution, even before the Athenian “Golden Age” and its professionalization over the last few centuries. Still, many give a deflationary account of its cultural importance today and view it as a peripheral enterprise at best. Somehow we need to articulate polycentric approaches to philosophical questions and issues. Philosophy is about asking questions, for me, and I do not envision a world in which the desire to ask questions will be exhausted— even today you can get answers instantaneously with the new “Bible” of Google or whatever site you prefer without much effort, but I experience the urge to ask questions as more dire under such convenient conditions. That is why StackExchange is so great, but I am not shocked by how little feminism, Native American thought, or Critical Race Theory are brought up for discussion. We have to seriously consider the privilege and isolation associated with philosophical pursuits. The dominant interests of Western philosophy have been shaped by the limited perspectives and depluralized views of White men; the inclusiveness of women and other minorities in philosophy is a pressing concern! Too often philosophy becomes a display of testosterone gymnastics that undermines “outside” perspectives. It is good that philosophers want to be in dialogue with science, religion, and other cultural interests, but what can philosophers do to critically challenge the Eurocentric metanarratives which are continuing to stunt rather than spark its growth? Could it be there are many things within this cherished tradition that damaged philosophy—I am thinking of the notorious anti-Semitic hate in Heidegger’s Black Notebooks just published as a basic example—representing a “logics of domination” more than attempts at honest self-persuasion? If philosophy seeks self-examination in a repeatable process of self-surpassing, self-negation, and self-reconstitution then how might race and gender be deconstructed in light of a world in which others call on the philosophers to practice uncanny hospitality? A good, recent article on the situation: $URL$ 

J. Hintikka has written a classic paper on the problem, which he calls the Fregaean trichotomy: 'is' as predication, identity, existence. Hintikka J., "Is", Semantical Games, and Semantical Relativity, J. Philosophical Logic, Vol. 8, No. 1 (Jan., 1979), pp. 433-468 (Springer|Jstor) After discussing these aspects and adding more, he concludes: the trichotomy is probably wrong and notes that "Frege, Russell, Quine, Davidson, Chomsky, Lakoff all were mistaken". The topic defies surveying but the Ontology site has compiled a bibliography $URL$ 

One should note that Descartes had no qualms about admitting "degrees of reality" and, as most of his contemporaries, thought 'the real' to be somehow superior to 'the possible'. (Leibniz said that god gives reality to the best of possible worlds.) It was only after the discovery of non-Euclidean geometries that people came to accept 'the real' as a particular case of 'the possible'. Eschewing ontology early in the XX.c. was called "ifthenism" 

In 2006 Conway and Kochen proposed The Free Will Theorem and in 2009 offered an emended variant, details, ref and links are to be found in the wikipedia article. Ever Since there has been a lively debate - a few hundred citation of the seminal papers are given by Scholargoogle. A few days ago Kochen posted a new paper , and a year ago in St.Hist.Philosophy of Modern Physics appeared a paper On the notion of Free will in the Free Will Theorem by Landsman . In 2009 C&K wrote: