If you are in a world of SkyNet and Terminators, it could be technologically possible. The fastest ones in Greenland move 10 miles a year. A city under a glacier would be transported away at that speed in it's entirety except for the basements, it could be similar to searching for bullion from a ship in the deep ocean. SkyNet has large energy capabilities, and it could blast large access holes through 2km of ice, maintain them, and then mine for debri in the rock bed. if you use nuclear and TNT or major heat sources you can completely get through a glacier and divert it. They could literally just put in black substrate and lazer it using the sun. The gold would not move fast if it was protected by overlying material, and it would always tend to sink under other rocks. If you got there within a some years and you said that the vault was on a protected hillsidre or in a basement it would be ok. A glacier doesn't dig that fast vertically every year. 

Even us cosmologists and computer scientists involved in the field don’t understand exactly how this process happens, but let me see if I can give you an answer from the viewpoint of this cosmologist. First, you really need to understand how metals are produced, either from the Big Bang or cosmic rays to what is inside different types of stars, and how and how much or little is expelled when the star explodes. Even man-made metals/elements (Periodic Table below). When a star explodes it scatters all its heavy metals, gold, silver, copper, iron, lead, tin, zinc, etc. in 360 degrees. But not every star that explodes produces all the metals. Some stars produce only a few as this National Geographic article explains. 

Since there are all forms energy that your creature can take, it will have to be some kind of proton or charged particle. If your creature is pure light, then it does not have mass, and cannot be captured, so I will try to be as thorough as I can. A Magnetic Trap is used to trap neutral particles with magnetic moments on the atomic level. Here is a research paper (PDF) that goes into all kinds of details and formulas. A similar way is used to trap anti-matter, where the magnetic box suspends them. At CERN they use such a device but can only store very small quantities. Documentaries about using this as a form of propulsion show building a large one in space to capture any or store what they manufacture in space. Here is a peer-reviewed paper (PDF) authored by CERN from the Proceedings of EPAC 2002, Paris, France titled "Photoelectron Trapping In Electric and Magnetic Field" If you are looking at capturing charged particles, a Penning Trap would be the best option. Also, here is a webpage on the Penning Trap from the Max Planck Institute. Photo of the device is in this page. For Ions, there is a Ion Trap that uses a combination of electric or magnetic fields. I did give some thought as to what if your creature takes the form of pure light. There may be two ways that I know of that you can capture such a creature, but you would need to do this in two steps. The first step is that you need to slow it down to a stop or slow enough to attempt a capture. If the creature is in the form of pure light, then it can move at that speed. A while back some scientists were able to use a crystal to slow down light. I found the article, it was in the Daily Mail titled: "Scientists stop light completely for a record-breaking MINUTE by trapping it inside a crystal" The other was more recent and I saw it in a TV documentary where a scientist slowed the speed of light using gases. All I was able to find were articles written in 1999 and 2003. However, I came across this peer-review paper on arXiv published Feb 2017 entitled "Optical cooling and trapping of highly magnetic atoms: The benefits of a spontaneous spin polarization" which may give you some other idea. The field of capturing energy, whether real science or SyFi is a very large field. I hope this points you in the direction you seek. EDITED: After reading B. Lorenz's answer (I voted his answer up), it would depend on how far in the future we are talking about. The question is kind of vague, so I stuck with what we have today. However, It has been alleged that CERN has already created mini black holes in its Hadron Collider. Since the question does not state how far in the future this will occur, if it is 500, 800 or 1,000+ more years from now, we might have the technology to build a Ghostbusters-like device that sucks in entities that are not only light, but other forms of light energy particles and atoms as well. This trap will not keep the entity alive like the other solutions I propose. This will kill everything that enters it. The one thing we need to worry about is the Hawking Radiation and Gamma Rays that may shoot out the open end if the black hole fills up, or if it spins and creates an event horizon, the device could explode, and kill every living creature on the planet. But 1,000 years from now we'll have a process in place to maybe use the device once and shoot it at the Sun. Since the black hole will kill it, there should be no risk of it coming back after the device burns up in the Sun. Below are some photos of some of the traps I discussed here, and I will do more research as there should be some peer-review papers on this topic that I can add to this answer, if this doesn't answer your question. 

A much shorter answer that the rest, but a good point I think: Theocracy is a form of government with a god as its ruler. Logically, a world where gods are powerful and apparent would lead to there being few atheists, but that doesn't mean gods must rule (every) society. On the contrary, if the gods desire worship, I think those worshiping sincerely and not under compulsion of law would be more pleasing to (at least some of) them. Some more egotistical gods may, of course, establish a nation for themselves, but only because it gives them glory among mortals. They already have power, which is what rulers and tyrants typically seek when establishing kingdoms. 

Now, some of these things are very low-level, subconscious functionality of the brain. While I always feel emotions and am usually conscious of them, I might not always be conscious of my own motives or intentions. Even if I am self-conscious enough to be aware of them, can I really articulate them, even to myself? Sometimes it takes weeks or months of introspection before one really understands some part of themselves. I personally think it would be unlikely for others to be able to sense those deep things "at a glance," as they aren't really feelings. I might have strong emotional feelings for someone, but may have no intention of starting a relationship. Does the intent transfer, or just my warm fuzzies for them? Because unless I mentally articulate the intention, it could be a source of miscommunication, if not really a lie. Memory - now this is a fun one! Memories might consist of thoughts and feelings, but in reality they are neither. Do others have access to only what I am remembering at the moment, or does everyone within telepathic range share a collective memory? But I'm digressing from the question of lying. Based on what you describe, no, I don't think it's possible to intentionally deceive someone, which is usually via misinformation. Moreover, the social dynamic would be extremely different from ours. I don't think there would be cause for intentional communication - if everyone knows X, you can't articulate X any better to them. It would be redundant. I doubt there would be language or words - just a flow of abstract concepts. I don't think this society could even be aware of the concept of lying or deception, which makes an extremely interesting premise in itself. 

Even cows and goats aren't peaceful animals. peace is a human imaginary ideal. Peace from uniformity, on earth is due to herd structures like bees and ants, and this would have to keep huge intelligence structures available to organize the society. similarity can be due to lack of partiality in the brain, so perceived facial equality, wether emotional or monotonous, actual physical equality, by miosis or genetic engineering, clades of workers and nurses and things. An evolutionary logical adaption towards equal beings, is unlikely, because survival requires change and flexibility and improvement, so equality reduces survival and flexibility. superintelligent beings coudl have just a chip in their head that overrides their antisocial instincts. 

It's not possible to make a pure fusion bomb because the weight of the equipment to achieve fusion temperatures, and the electric power station to put in that energy, would be a lot more than the weight of the biggest planes. If you were to concede the Pure constraint to using a dense energy input, it still wouldn't detract from us needing to use fission as an energy input. That already exists, and the result is that, whereas previously you could destroy the world, now you can destroy the world... even more? Same as you being dead multiple times. logical? The power of the explosives is already high enough and practical enough, the only difficulty in practical warfare is interception, surprise and large numbers. 

If you are willing to sacrifice those types of orbits and the habitable zone, consider a world like this: Jupiter's moon Io is the most volcanically active body in the solar system, making its surface uncharacteristically hot for where it is. The tidal forces that Jupiter and Europa enact on it cause the activity. Although Io is a harsh and toxic environment (with all the sulfur and volcanoes and whatnot), you could entertain a scenario with milder heating, making it warm enough to be have liquid water. Given the lack of sunlight, perhaps the creatures on the planet evolved to use chemosynthesis, like some of the animals that live near sulfur vents on the ocean floor? Who says that the "habitable zone" is the only place that can support life? This is where the fiction in Science Fiction comes in, and where it gets fun :) 

You can check out simple radio electronics, and design one using nanotechnology... So, Graphene is used for the antenna, it's a tiny long graphene ribbon implanted somewhere rigid, because it has to be as long as a radio wave, i'd say an endoscopic implant in the top of the head. The capacitor would be a few microns, made of a futuristic ceramic perhaps, and the diode would be a few microns of germanium. describe a radio circuit in nanotechnology and connect it to the ear/the brain. Radio-Waves travel far, because they interact very little with matter. If there was a radio wave signal on earth that helped survival, for example weather forecast or food that transmitted radio waves, I believe animals could have evolved to hear them, but it would be as complex as ocular apparatus. 

I am working on a story where ballistic weapons are completely banned across the entire planet in favor of smell, sound, and drug-weapons. For example, the police are equipped with somnambulizers and hilaritazers, depending on the situation... somnambulizers make someone sleep instantly, and hilaritazers have a LSD related substance, which makes people laugh and forget where they are. A huge metropolis in Texas has become rebellious and has 3D printed guns and ballistic weapons and has walled off the city, and the big brother has to make everyone flee from the city safely, using only smell, sound, and drug based weapons, so they can attend citizen-responsibility classes to read the little red book. What kinds of sensory and drug based tactics can the government use, from rotten fish, tranquilizers, LSD, fluffy toys that sing, to make the city completely docile and make people flee from it, without killing anybody? 

I would imagine that your water-bound creatures would have the type of airships that are used in the Iron Man and Captain American and S.H.I.E.L.D. Movies. They only show an aircraft carrier, but instead of the atmosphere inside being a gas, it would be a liquid. A sub as a simple cigar shape that is reminiscent of all the USO's (Unidentified Sea Objects) that people report either entering the ocean from the air or vise versa. Your describe your world Earth-like, so it will have a gaseous atmosphere. That means for your submarine to fly, it will need wings. So it may look like a passenger aircraft, but it holds in water. With WWII technology though, you don't have jet engines or fans big enough to move what would be a very heavy object around. Take your German WWII submarine. It weights 871 tons. Let's say the interior space measures 250-feet long by 25-feet wide. The volume of a cylinder in cubic feet for a 250 by 25 foot submarine is 917,995.46 Your submarine will have to be small if your world has 1G like Earth. 1 cubic foot of water equal about 30 quarts. And 30 quarts of water weights about 63 lbs. Besides the 871 tons that the sub weighs empty, add to it another 29 tons of water weight (used this to calculate volume) and if you keep to the size of a German U-Boat, it would weigh 900 tons. A lot of weight to get off the ground, never mind keeping it airborne. I concentrated on airborne solution because any land-based craft with the added weight of water still, like a car or tanker, has to navigate the hazards of a battlefield, filled with craters, uneven terrain, and the energy required just to get something that heavy moving would probably be Saturn-V like in nature. The mini subs of Japan that held two people and even the "Turtle" during the Revolutionary War will make more sense. You see, if the year was 2525, then anti-gravity may have been perfected and size and weight not an issue. But with WWII technology, your mermen and women will have to operate smaller vehicles with the current world you descibed. And I like the name Turtles. Even if they are small, just the weight of the water will make them move as fast as turtles.