This idea has been explored before. One example is David Weber's Safehold series, which is based around a society established on another world as a refuge against aliens which have destroyed the remainder of humanity. The feasibility depends on the presence or absence of a useful FTL drive. Without one, humanity would have to have already started sending out sleeper or generation ships, with one, it may be possible to send out a secret mission to start a new colony under the alien's noses (Figuratively, of course, they may not even have noses). Edit If an alien species advanced enough to travel between the stars arrives and decides to wipe us out, it is unlikely that we'll be able to escape anywhere in our own solar system, and it is also a little unlikely that simply having skipped off to the next remotely habitable planet will work either - the aliens may have thought of that already. To work, a strategy like this would require a redoubt a long way away, not just a few light years. We're not up to doing anything like this yet. 

The closest thing to FTL communication is communication via a wormhole. This wormhole need not be large enough for anything but a photon to be able to pass through, but if the mouths of the wormhole were separated, the photon would enter one mouth and exit the other in less time than it would take to travel the real-space distance between the mouths. It would be necessary to generate a wormhole, and then to carry one mouth of the wormhole to the intended destination of the communication. This could take some time. This answer presupposes that it is scientifically plausible to generate and maintain a wormhole. 

This might be a valid evolutionary trait for several reasons. Some plants and animals already use combustion or other energetic chemical reactions for defence or to distribute their seeds. Taking this to extremes, in a life form whose continued survival is not of evolutionary importance, for example a infertile soldier-caste member of a colony, or a life form which dies in the act of reproduction, an explosion might have evolutionary advantages. In the example of an infertile soldier, if it contained a biological bomb, it could detonate this if it was killed or incapacitated in close-quarters combat, and the resultant explosion might well eliminate one or more enemies, thus benefiting the colony as a whole with its spectacular demise - much the way that a worker bee stinging an enemy benefits its hive - regardless of the fact that the action is fatal to the worker bee. In the case of a life form using a chemical reaction to disperse the next generation, if it dies afterwards (as do many species of plant and animal), then if by having a more violent chemical reaction the offspring are distributed more widely and have a better chance of survival and growth away from competition, then such a life form may well evolve to disperse its offspring via an explosion. It is a short step from there to suppose that such a being may evolve to explode in order to drive sarcophagic offspring into the bodies of nearby creatures of other species at high velocities, at once killing its enemies and providing its offspring with a source of nutrients. An independent creature could only evolve to explode as a matter of survival if by exploding it distributed fragments of itself sufficiently widely that one or more would escape a predator and survive to grow into new creature(s). This necessitates that at least some of the fragments of the creature survive the explosion. The threat posed by predation would have to be such that succumbing to the predator would result in a total failure to reproduce - probably because the entire creature is destroyed by the predator's digestive system. An explosion in such circumstances could also have an altruistic benefit that it injures or kills the predator, thus preventing it from harming other members of the exploding species. 

Anything is possible. That said, I doubt that any plausible human society would ever get to the point of building spaceships without also having built some more advanced weapons, since humans are a pretty belligerent species. However, if we had a species that was competitive without being combative amongst themselves, any weapons they may use could be only that required to discourage opportunistic predators that might like to eat them. Their competitiveness could lead them to develop new forms of technology, to go further, higher, faster, yet despite all this competitiveness, it would have to be friendly. Such a species could well be much more herd-oriented, perhaps with an individual's status within the herd based on personal achievments and/or corporate achievements and the individual's contribution to them. It can be argued that by the time you have a spaceship, you must have some very powerful weapons, but a weapon is defined as such by the purpose for which it is intended by its makers, and if they never intended their technology to maim or kill - despite its potential to actually do so, then it is not a weapon. It is one thing for a species to say "This effect is dangerous, how can we weaponize it?" (the human approach), another for a species to say "This effect is dangerous, we must be careful that when we use it, no-one gets hurt". Even the fact that an effect can be harmful and may even have caused fatalities is not the same as saying that it is a weapon. Take the laser as an example. When sufficiently powerful, they can blind or burn humans. Dangerous? Certainly. How many humans have been directly killed by exposure to a laser beam since they were invented? I am not aware of any. Are they weapons? No. However, lasers can potentially enable better weapons, even though they are not weapons themselves. However, someone must make the choice to do that, and our hypothetical alien species may simply just not think of any weapon more advanced than that needed to survive their own environment. Just because this species does not maintain weapons more advanced than it needs, does not mean that they could not repurpose items of their technology into weapons should the need arise - such as an encounter with a belligerent alien species. To use an example from literature, in one of Larry Niven's known space books, humans have become pacifistic explorers, and their ships do not carry weapons. A human photon-drive ship encounters a kzin ship (kzin are warlike carnivores) that can outmaneuver the humans, and the kzin decide to kill the humans after a kzin telepath determines that the humans are not carrying weapons (According to the kzin, anyone who goes about unarmed deserves to die). The kzin weapon is somewhat like a microwave gun and begins heating the human spaceship, intending to roast the humans in their ship. The humans, realizing that they have no weapons to defend themselves with, realize that they must improvise something, and turn their photon drive - which is essentially a giant laser - onto the kzin ship, destroying it. 

While it is not strictly "antigravity" in that it does not reduce the effects of gravity, the EmDrive is an apparently plausible reactionless thruster that relies solely upon electrical input. Should this device be increased in size and efficiency, ganged up with computer control to compensate for external forces such as wind and turbulence, and provided with a sufficiently large power source (quite possibly atomic), there is no reason why it could not be used to counter the acceleration of gravity, thus providing a craft of thousands of tons mass with the appearance of floating. 

Assuming that by magical means that you (assuming that "you" are human) suffer all the deleterious effects of radiation exposure aside from total-organism death, that something reverses or prevents just enough damage to keep you alive, then the effects of radiation exposure would - in the short-term - be nausea, lethargy, hair loss, and burns. In the middle term, there could be blindness, deafness and/or loss of other senses. There may be skin bleaching, and the skin and bones would be likely to become fragile and muscles would weaken. Healing would be slowed. A related effect would be weight loss due to loss of appetite and vomiting. In the longer term, I would expect cancers and abnormal growths, and if the agency responsible for preventing death prevents these from being fatal too, they could still be quite disfiguring and/or crippling. In short, quite a miserable existence. I'm not sure that death wouldn't be preferable. Either the miners are being paid fantastic sums for this ore that makes it worth sacrificing their health in return for the benefit it could provide their families, or they are prisoners or slaves, in which case someone obviously thinks that their profits make the sacrifice of these unfortunate miners' health worth-while, or that criminals have done things that justify this horrendous punishment..