IS and post mount calipers are cross-compatible and can be seen on both MTBs and road bikes. Flat mount clipers, on the other hand, are a new thing that was designed specifically for road-type usage, with very limited presence on MTB frames (some small builders and Cannondale bikes). You can put a post mount caliper on a flat mount frame/fork using an adapter, similar to IS-to-post-mount. 

The Rotor product you've linked to is supposed to be used with integrated 24mm cranksets, mostly Shimano Hollowtech ones, so that option won't suit for mentioned cranksets. As far as I know, tourney requires square taper bottom bracket and you already said that Claris needs an Octalink bb. You can use a BB30 to BSA interface adapter like SRAM PressFit 30 to BSA Adaptor Kit. With it in place, it's possible to install any suitable english threaded bottom bracket, be it square taper or Octalink. If you don't have a BB yet, you'll have to get one. 

I got front & rear Phil Wood hubs for a touring setup back in Oct of 2011. I'd been using them for commuting to work -- averaging 20 KM a day. Except I'd been off the bike for the month of January, started again in Feb. A week ago, things felt weird. Discussed with a fellow cyclist at work, who said it sounded like the hub was going. The following day, there was a loud crunch from the rear and the chain felt like it was slipping. I took the wheel into the LBS who built the wheel for me. They told me one of the four palls had an issue, and a spring was bent, so they corrected. I picked up the wheel today, and got 10 KM before things started again - crunching noise from the rear, and a slip. So I dropped the wheel with the LBS, who said they'll look for a rebuilt kit. What is a pawl? Is it part of the freehub? Is a rebuilt kit enough, or should I be pressing for the LBS to RMA the hub? Edit: In case anyone's interested, Phil Wood said they're aware of quality problems and wouldn't expect a rebuild kit to do much. RMA time... 

Yes, you can, but a 2mm spacer might be need. 10 speed Shimano MTB cassettes require same freehub body width as 11 speed. Meanwhile, Shimano road-specific cassettes are ~2mm wider. To be sure, I'd measure freehub body width (36.75 on that pic). If it's about 37mm, that means rear hub can accomodate wider 11 speed road cassettes and you will need a spacer for sure. Otherwise, you can put a 10 speed cassette as is. On a side note, Novatec (Joytech) produces a wide variety of hubs, same models can have both XD, 10 and 11 freehub body options. 

"XOR" stands for nothing, it's a typo in "XCR". Here's a review of this bike where you can read the model clearly on photos and the XCR aggregate page on Suntour's website. 

It depends. Rear derailleur lever geometry, shifter cable pull and clicks amount control rear derailleur lateral movement amount. Let's assume that there are 11 cogs with distance of 10mm between each other and derailler moves 10mm every click. 11 speed cassette might have the same width, which means 10% lesser distance between cogs, so it's 9mm. When otherwise 10 speed configuration would shift over such an 11 speed cassette, some gears are going to shift kinda successfully because 10% over one step might not introduce much of positioning error. But over ten shifts the error would be equals to one whole speed, so issues are bound to happen somewhere. I've used non-real-life values for example purpose. These differ between manufacturers and individual part models. The said above also means that it might be possible to find components combination that allow you to use rear derailleur and cassette designed for different amount of speeds. Some real life examples: 

I've been running a non-brand name full carbon saddle for less than a year. It lasted through a couple of crashes and 'cross season. But when my usual ride stopped for coffee, I found out both rails failed. When in alignment, the saddle held enough to get me home. The break was right at the point where the Thomson Masterpiece clamp mechanism starts, not far behind the nose of the saddle. Is there anything to be aware of about where the rails broke? The seatpost is offset - does this mean I should be running a seatpost without an offset? I expected the failure at some point, just want to be sure there isn't anything I'm missing before shopping for a replacement. 

Does anyone know if any of the popular iPhone ANT+ bicycling apps have the ability to import a GPS track? I'd like to start exploring some of the local trails/routes a bit - I've got .gpx tracks for some, but don't know of any iPhone apps that will both allow the import of the file AND feature any sort of ANT+ tie-in. I normally use digifit with speed/cadence and HRM sensors... I've got a GPS track of where I AM, but really wish there were some sort of approximate "turn by turn" for following some of the trails/routes, especially the urban ones that are not clearly marked. 

Grind a bit of headset lower cup so the fork clears. It's aluminium and hanging part that rubs the fork serves no structural purpose, at least that's what I think. Use a shim between lower cup and a bearing. See the CAD drawing for details. I reckon the support of cup from top (45deg surface) and outside (54mm inner diameter) should be enough, after all it's the same mechanism that keeps the bearing in place. But to my surprise, I failed to find such a product! 

Use a special barb that threads into the hose and has a hole to attach the thread to. The "RockShox Reverb Stealth Barb Connector" can be found on eBay for 10USD. There are other similar products too. Source about two meters of ~5mm 2:1 heat shrink tube and connect it to the old housing before pulling back. You can cover the open end of hose with a piece of plastic bag, the heat shrink should hold it tight enough. Repeat in reverse when routing the new hose. I did this with shifting housing and see no reason why this approach wouldn't work with a hydraulic hose. 

It all depends on the horses' temperament. Some are OK, some like cars but not bicycles... Generally, horses with kids/teenagers riding them on the road will be pretty laid back. The horses that are being led by someone are much more suspect. Competent equestrian owners/staff know that any horse [that will be taken or ridden on roads] needs to be exposed very carefully (for the safety of the horse, the rider, and the general public). They have to accept that the horse may never be comfortable in that setting. But anything could spook the most experienced horse - you never know 100%. If possible, send a single person ahead to talk to who has control of the horse while watching how the horse reacts. 

Say the current setup uses a zero offset seatpost, and a 100mm stem. If the seatpost were replaced another seatpost that has a 20mm offset, should offset be subtracted from the stem length? My current situation is for a road/cross frame, dunno how important that is to the topic vs mountain/etc frames. 

Your steps are all correct, I suppose the main issue is how not to spill brake fluid everywhere and how to route housing internally without any frustration. I've been through the same recently and know how annoying the job can be. Apart from draining the system, you have several options: 

Looks like you have a set of Hayes HFX Max G1, you can use these pads. Surprisingly, a lot of other people experience the same issue as you. 

Except for existing parts compatibility I see no reason why anything might cause trouble. I'd be concerned about geometry though, drop bar will increase the reach significally, you might want a shorter stem. 

This is exactly the case where Wikipedia comes in handy, here are some quotes from the article on 3D printing with metals: 

Any half-decent fork requires maintenance, the air variety of XCR not being an exception. True, Suntour does not seem to publish XCR-specific docs compared to other higher priced forks like Auron or Axon, but there's a general fork manual available. Some relevant quotes from it: 

There's too little information to say much about your diet, and it's not the sort of thing anyone can definitively recommend without having seen you in person and having more detail. Your doctor would be a good place to start, there are numerous diet strategies you can research. 

I'm looking at a Ti frame with a 135mm rear end, disc brake. And I have invested in wheels for my commuter, which is disc brake... but a 130 mm spacing. Is 5 mm enough of a concern -- impact to the frame, the disc brake setup -- that I should look for a frame with a 132.5 mm spacing if I want to be able to use wheels off my commuter? 

I'd suggest a cyclocross (CX) frame over a mountain bike. CX frames have wider stays to take wider tires, and most have fender/pannier mounts. A CX frame can be lighter than a mountain frame, and most are made to be packed on the shoulder if necessary. Disc brakes on CX frames are a lot more common now - mechanical for the most part, more hydraulic options within a year or so (and frames are typically setup to handle either). Road forks are unsuspended, and it's easy to find disc forks -- chromoly are available, cheap, and heavy. If corrosion is a big concern, titanium makes the ultimate winter bike. No corrosion concerns, strong as steel and comparable weight aluminum (if not better). I don't see an issue with lights -- most seem to use o-rings to attach, so they can be taken off easily if need be. 

I've switched to a CF seatpost since then, same problem occured, but hair spray come to rescue again. No slipping for months. 

If you want to put 2.2" tires in place of current 2.25" tires, then yes, you can do that. That's less than a 2mm difference, given that tires conform to marketed width at all (which they tend not to). Generally, any smaller tire size (of compatible beat seat diameter) won't cause any issues, unless there's a huge mismatch between rim and tire width (i.e. 40mm internal width rims and 25mm wide tires aren't a good idea, same goes for 10cm fat tires and 18mm rims, but that's not your case). I advise to consult this page on a topic of tires sizing. 

I'd advise to contact the venue you bought the bike from and even SR Suntour itself for further details. 

I found a frame I'm interested in building up, but it doesn't include a fork. So I've been looking for carbon 700cc forks... with disc tabs. I've found a few, but ran into a new dilemma - curved vs straight? The frames I'm looking at are cyclocross/touring. I wouldn't think 29ers are into rigid front ends. Any reason to choose one over the other - brake chatter, bump suppression? 

Does an SPD/SPD-SL pedal exist? No, the cleat and retention is mutually exclusive. SPD is a two screw setup, while SPD-SL is a three screw setup... Does an SPD/SPD-SL shoe exist? Yes - these exist. The Shimano SH-R087G, for example. You'll find these lean towards road rather than offroad -- a more rigid sole, and small rubber spots to minimize the sound and harshness of walking in them. But the cleat is not recessed, so you can't walk normally. Offroad/casual shoes are SPD only, comfortable to walk in because the sole is more flexible and the cleat is recessed... It's pricey, but the Speedplay Zero system might be worth considering. Totally different cleat from the other systems mentioned (uses the old Time, four screw setup), there are Speedplay specific shoes so the cleat is more shallow than SPD-SL. 

RaceFace makes cinch spindles in various lengths. I assume you have a version for 68/73mm bottom brackets. There's also a 100mm bottom bracket spindle option. It will certainly fit, but Q-factor might become too wide for your liking. Theoretically, you can also order a custom length spindle and spacers from some CNC manufacturer. 

Get a new rear wheel or hub that supports 11 speed road cassettes. Get a replacement 11 speed freehub body if there are any (most likely not). Get a Campy freehub body and Campy 11 speed cassette instead of 5800. Get this Token cassette. It's an 11 speed road cassette that fits 10s freehub body. 

Obviously, an 11-speed cassette is required. For a road bike: you should check if your freehub body has a spacer, if it does then the hub can accept any Shimano/SRAM 11 speed cassette. If there's no spacer, you can get a Shimano CS-HG800 (works with narrow freehub bodies). If freehub is Campy-spec, then any Campy 11-speed cassette will fit. Another option is to source a wider, aftermarket freehub body if such an option is available. For MTB: get any 11-speed cassette compatible with your freehub (which is most likely a regular Shimano HG). You will need 11-speed shifter(s), compatible with your new RD. A cheaper solution might be to get a friction shifter or only a rear shifter and leave the old front shifter as is. You did not say what RD you already have, but I hope it's a not an MTB-specific one, otherwise you'd have "fun" looking for a compatible shifter option (there are some). Any 11 speed chain. Make sure your new RD can clear the biggest cog on the new cassette. Usually, this info can be found in product manual. Make sure the RD can handle the chain growth capacity. I'm not sure road 11 speed system work with a triple up front, you did not specify what the current groupset is.