There are lots of religions that was inspired by others. Roman mythology is in fact almost fully taken from the Greeks. There are some differences, like gods' names and heroes (Ulysses vs Oddyseus), and the main difference is the legend of foundation of Rome (Romulus, Remus and she-wolf). In the Acts of Apostles chapter 17 there is a story about St. Paul in Athens where he finds an altar "to the unknown god" and he uses this to introduce Christian God to people. This altar was made because there where many cultures (Persian, Egyptian etc.) having their own gods, which were not treated as wrong by the Greeks, but some kind of supplement to their pantheon. I think many foreign gods became also Olympian gods, for example there was always a god responsible for some territory or terrain feature (like gods of rivers, forests etc.). They were accepted while visiting new countries. And of course the idea of one god (God) is an Israeli development, which was then taken (or improved) by Christianity and then by Islam. Combination of many religions led in later times to creation new ones, like eg. Voodoo. However, answering to your question. Some religions state, that they were revealed by god(s). In fact, the latest sources of the religions are holy books of themselves and there is no written moment "ok, for now we were atheists and we begin to believe that the truth is out there". We can only imagine what is the reason of "creation" of gods, of course if they had not existed forever. The natural forces which were not to be explained by small brain, were inspiration of gods. There are lots of natural forces that have (good or devastating) impact on the environment (like rain, thunderbolt, grow of flora, large animals, astronomical events etc.), or on the human himself (like fire that is hot, death of old age). I think that primitive man seeing these random events must have thought that there is some kind of supernatural control in this. I don't know when this happened, but I think this is the answer to your question: the oldest religion of man is the Nature itself. Because it is much stronger than human, not controllable, not explainable and sometimes acting like it was pleased or angry, this can be considered by the oldest god. In every (I think) religion gods can control the Nature, like an archer controls his arrow, spearman controls his spear, a farmer controls his corn, a shepherd controls his flock. This control seems to be such obvious, that nothing in the world should have not been left without control. The feeling that everything has its controller fulfils one of human basic needs: the need of security. 

I'm not sure if you agree with this, as this is a military example, but "generals are prepared to the previous wars" so I think this is worth mentioning. In his works (finalized with the "Achtung Panzer!") Heinz Guderian laid grounds for effective use of tank weapon. When WW 1 ended, everyone expected that massive forts will be better. Guderian opted for mobile warfare for entire inter-war period. 

Was Nicholas II the real king of Poland, or was he king of Poland the same way as Henry VIII was King of France? If Regency council passed all power to Józef Piłsudski, and the 2nd Polish Republic was created on basis of German-Austrian Kingdom of Poland, was in some way Nicholas overthrown? (The Kingdom of Poland was created from conquered Russian lands) Who should be considered as the last king of Poland: Stanisław August Poniatowski, Nicholas II Romanov or sede vacante, represented by Regency Council? 

I think however it is not as long as in ancient galleys. The RMS Titanic did not have a ram, as she was a civilian ship: 

Nicholas II Romanov, the last Emperor of All-Russia, used also (among many others) titles: Grand Prince of Lithuania, and King of Poland. The Wikipedia states he was "a titular" King of Poland. In the reference it is written: 

This invention of controlling machine using punched elements (having gaps or knobs) is older and was used in many cases like for workers' cards used to note their time of work, music boxes etc. This invention could be made at first in Jacquard loom to control order of threads in different colours to make a pattern. I'm sure I read also about other common use of this type (with gaps or knobs) of control machine, that was somewhat important in the industrial era, this could not be a steam engine, but I can't remember. What was other use of punched card (or a cylinder maybe) in industry? (It was not what Wikipedia says: 

This moment (with few years tolerance) can be said as the start of the "real socialism". The real socialism was better socialism than communism and this what was after it. It was now "real", so it ended or fantastic (ie. dream-like) visions. It was redesigned to fulfill modern requirements. This was a form of co-operation between the party and the people (in Poland Edward Gierek asked on a meeting with workers "comrades, you will help me, won't you?" - this was a very direct addressing). I don't know how it looked in other Soviet Bloc countries, but economy success seemed to back-up the new era. This was the time when Western culture was re-introduced (like rock-and-roll, TV, cars etc.). In Poland this was paid by taking loans, but was good to explain initial successes of this politics. Although again in the beginning of 1980s this led to another riots, the reasoning was kept: the system is good, but it was incorrectly introduced. The real socialism is such kind of socialism that takes into account true life, it is not only a vision. This is a practice, not a theory. The term "real socialism" is still in use (and with the same context, so it is good, but poorly introduced). On a socialist page there is an essay "What is the real socialism?", so how the socialism should change to meet the current era requirements. 

Indeed, such pictures are very hard to find (excluding modern movies). I've found this picture (unknown date) showing "Marco Polo presenting pepper to a King" (story here), however I don't know who the king is (Venice was a republic). You may try to contact the blog author to get more information. On this picture Vasco da Gama presents gifts to the king of Portugal (this is 7 years after the discovery of America). 

After the Hundred Years War (or "wars") the English had been wiped off France, but English monarchs kept using their official title "King of France". As I understand, this was to legalize their claims to the French throne and show they are still valid. This Wikipedia page shows the English/Scottish rulers that used the title "King of France". The mentioned article says also: 

Even if its authorship is disputed, it in my opinion does not affect the answer. Then several authors added their parts, forming the Old Testament. Then, about 1st century AD the process of writing was finished. Also, some other authors tried to include new things, however it was not commonly accepted. It looks there will be no official sequel to the Bible, as the Bible itself says: 

But in 19th century and early 20th the ships bow was again looking like the one of the trireme, but more C-shaped, having keel longer than the deck: 

Exemplary answer Somebody who will provide similar answer, with dated primary sources, will receive additional bounty. This drawing from Wikipedia shows two British soldiers (an officer and a sergeant) in 1848. Please note he's saluting with the left hand. 

In The Green Mile movie (1999) the main character is a guardian in jail and performs death penalty executions. One can see that on such executions some external people come to watch (as "external" I mean common people other than guardians, priest, and all the stuff). The action takes place in 1930s. - if I remember correctly - Louisiana. Are there any memoirs, press articles, explaining why people did attend such shows? In medieval times or even up to 1800s. it was some sort of entertainment or just curiosity ("Something is happening on the town square, I'll better go and check out"). The depicted events happen in the jail, so it is necessary to come there (make some effort). Was it just to ensure myself that the Good always wins or the law system operates correctly? Maybe was it some sort of public pressure to enjoy this? Was it considered to be a citizen's duty? 

(The war was eventually won by Poland, but Masovia managed to stay independent). Of course I understand that such a type of war was common those days, and there could have been many different casi belli, but the question is whether a king (or other ruler) could demand a homage from anybody? The Wikipedia article about vassals is very brief, so is Britannica article, but also other sources do not say it was obligatory to have a senior (lord) and the system is shown as some sort of a contract. (Please do not include examples where a ruler became a vassal because of a lost war). 

You might want to take a look at A Concise History of the Caribbean or The Caribbean: A History of the Region and Its Peoples. These do not of course cover Pacific, Africa, East Asia etc. 

Maybe it was because everyone was in hurry, and Wilhelm was visiting the General Staff. The idea might be backed by the webpage of the Versailles palace: 

(Flag colours, white and red, are directly taken from the coat of arms colours). As rules of heraldry say, there is no white colour, but silver is represented as white: Source 1: 

It seems that "Augustus" means Octavian August and it would mean that this was quite widespread before Christianity, if it became a danger to state economy. Do we have some sources confirming it was a widespread practice? How many slaves yearly were freed? (the text from Wikipedia does not cite any sources) PS. I understand that there were many types of work, and they who worked in mines, galleys etc. were freed less frequently than those who were writers, baby-sitters etc. 

So some garrisons were separated from allied forces, but I'm not sure if Allies should not expect some mobile forces, from Vichy France too, as the other Allied assault, Operation Dragoon, which took place at the similar time as Overlord, was performed nearby Marseilles, so the central France, (cities like Toulouse, Clermont-Ferrand, Orleans), could have also been a good place to start a counter-offensive. Did the Allies secure the central France or maybe they did not fear any danger? Why then? 

Some years ago I read somewhere that there are two exceptions for the rule that white is silver (argent), the one is the Polish eagle and the other is... I forgot. I'm only sure this was some important country. 

If we look at Old Towns of European cities, we can see that there are many churches in them. Of course, it is reasonable as religion was very important in lives of the medieval people. However, comparing to old towns size, there are lots of them, sometimes one neighbouring another. I prepared a map on Google $URL$ (I hope it works, in case not, try this link) showing churches in Old Town of Cracow. 

These pointed by me are the most popular in culture. Are there any less known, but in which the weaker side should be honored for its bravery? 

Just an addition (or an extended comment) to other answers. I wouldn't say that people being conservative could not change time units quickly. They use time measurements everyday, it is more often than eg. measuring distances, however, people use money everyday also very often. Most money reforms (the largest are converting to euro in EU countries) takes at most two-five years. So it is not a big endeavor. And the time switch would also not be (if related to brains only, the financial effort would be large), but it should allow to use two units of time in parallel (eg. "old hours" and "new hours", or maybe "hour" and "dour" - "decimal hour"). The calendar switches were performed and nothing bad happened. What is most important here, is that in fact no-one can force anybody to abandon the old unit. A government can make you use new money by removing the old ones from the market. Of course, it can punish for using "hours" instead of "dours", but it wouldn't be accepted by people in democracies. The time reform would also be difficult, as it should be performed worldwide, probably in the very same moment. This is difficult and requires lots of effort. There are many things that are time-dependent, in today's era software, which 1. has to be modified, 2. has to be verified and tested, 3. has to be introduced at once, 4. should understand older time, 5. should be rapairable (support for all devices would require lots of people, and this is sure that software would have bugs). Also, there are devices that use time not to count your worktime, but which guard and control power plants, trains, planes, nuclear weapon etc. Do you remember the "Year 2K problem"? Even if all the measurements taken were not necessary, you can remember the effort that was taken. The option why people are conservative is in fact the life experience "if it works relatively good, why should I change it?". Everyone knows that any small modification of a system is a risk of big collapse. The only problem with 24 hours a day (not 10 or 100) is when you need to calculate some time difference - how long did something last? But it's quite easy to convert parts of an hour to minutes, as someone mentioned, 60 is very good number for division, it has many dividers (2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 12, 15, 20, 30), having 2, 5, 10, 20 - all the necessary that one use most often (take a look to your wallet and see, what bills / bank notes you have). Would it be easy to divide an hour on three parts if it had 100 minutes? The main problem with time is then only when calculating time differences - how often do you perform it daily? How many times have you a problem to calculate "it started 4:45, ended 7:08, how long did it last?" Damn, that's easy: there are eight minutes between 7:00 and 7:08, fifteen minutes between 4:45 and 5:00, so together 8+15=23, there are three hours between 4 and 7, so 3 hours minus 60-37=23 minutes is 2 hours and 37 minutes. Is this really harder than subtracting from 100? How often do you need to solve "how much time are 157 minutes?" And - how often you need to know exact difference? Most people would say "about two and half hours". This revolution could have been made before, for example 200 years ago, or even in Renaissance - not now. Would it be possible for the United Kingdom to switch from the left-side-driving? There are so many cars to be changed, so many traffic signs... (IIRC Sweden did it in the beginning of 1960s. as the last country). But is it necessary for the UK to do this swap? Who would benefit? How would this change pay back? When? So the reason is that it in fact is not necessary. People do not have problems with this. Only those who count time, and software engineers who code software for them. I suppose this is a minority in each population. 

(I decided to leave all "citation needed" references) I remember I read a book about Stalin written by some Soviet dissident and he claimed it was true that he killed her. I perfectly remember that it was done so, that he was working by the table, sitting back to a door. He heard something and without facing pulled his gun and shot, fearing of danger. This was his wife who wanted to bring him a tea or something. Unfortunately, I read this book 20 years ago and I don't remember both the author and the title. I'm 100% sure it was not by Solzhenitsyn nor sources referenced as . I put the story here, maybe someone could also have read this and recall it. 

When watching movies that were made in first half of the 20th century, one can see many people are smoking (cigarettes), but it is not they smoke all time long. I refer to the movies, because they show the era's fashion and habits. Cigarettes are shown, because they were part of lives, but they are not much common, that everybody smokes every time. They play important role eg. no-one could imagine Humphrey Bogart or James Bond without it in some scenes, but they are not existing the entire movie. In "Mad Men" series, which was made a few years ago, but action takes place in 1950s., the people smoke everywhere. We see a pregnant woman smoking, even a gynecologist smoking by his patient. I understand that people did not know everything about health problems caused by smoking, but I am not sure if this is not exaggerated, as compared to movies from that time. I've spoken to some older people and they say it was not true, but it could have been in the USA. From remembrances they say, yes everybody did smoke, it was common to smoke at home by children, at office, but it was not allowable (both by law or habits) in other public places hospital, cinema etc. Do "Mad Men" show truth about people habits and are intended to shock the viewer how common it was? The movies from the era could have been somehow censored or directors did not show cigarettes because it didn't add anything to action or they had theater habits, where it was forbidden to smoke on stage because of fire-security reasons. Or maybe the authors of "Mad Men" wanted to show something shocking, but unfortunately they exaggerated it? PS. A loosely related blog post