I do not have access to NKVD files, whatever they say, but the story is well documented in the literature, including the Russian literature (memoirs of Russian soldiers). One especially good source is memoirs of Lev Kopelev, a Russian author, who tried to protest and was imprisoned for his protests (see Wikipedia). There are many other memoirs of Russian soldiers. NKVD did try to fight this, at least on some later stage, and certain number of Soviet soldiers were tried and punished for rape, violence, robbery and murders. However the number trials was too small in comparison with the enormous scale of rape and violence that actually occurred. The victims of rape were not only Germans but also foreigners of all nations, people displaced by war for various reasons, including camp inmates. Same happened not only on the enemy territory but also on the territory of the allies, like Yugoslavia. On Yugoslavia, the best source is the memoirs of Milovan Djilas (Memoir of a Revolutionary, 1973, see Wikipedia) who was a top communist Yugoslav politician at that time. Unfortunately, all references that I now have are in Russian, including Djilas. But there exist also many German ones, including two German movies, based on published accounts of the victims, that I have seen. This Wikipedia artile gives a survey of the subject and some English references: $URL$ You also ask about Soviet leadership. There is no doubt that leadership knew what is going on. It also tried to restrict violence but too late and too little. All memoirs agree in that the violence was strongest in the beginning of occupation of Germany, that some high commanders considered it normal and justified it, and official media encouraged it (I. Ehrenburg's articles in central newspapers, for example). At a later stage they tried to restrict it, probably out of concern about discipline of their army. 

The reason why it is so called is that this was the first battle between the armored steamships. For this reason it is famous everywhere in the world not only among historians of the American Civil war. 

If you mean electromagnetic generator, it was first designed by Faraday (see Wikipedia, "Electric generator") and it is called the Faraday disk. But strictly speaking, you can "mechanically generate electricity" in another way: by rubbing a piece of glass or another substance. This is known since antiquity. A machine with wheels, called friction generator was invented by Otto von Guericke in 1663. See Wikipedia "Electrostatic generator". 

Since the amnesties after Stalin death the only method of "deliberate killing" was execution by a court decision. The numbers of executed were kept secret but it was probably less than 1000 per year (by most estimates): $URL$ $URL$ At the time of Stalin death there were millions of people in the camps, and certainly many of them died before the amnesties. But I suppose that after 1960 there were no "deliberate killings" except those executed by court decisions. Perhaps I should mention that certain crimes punishable by death in Soviet Union are not considered capital crimes nowadays, for example "currency speculation", and that some sentences were made by secret courts (in the cases of high treason). EDIT. There were several occasional atrocities, like Novocherkassk massacre, or abuse of psychiatry which can be qualified as deliberate killings, but there was nothing on the scale comparable with Stalin's times. 

First of all, this is not true that "practically all Asian nations were colonized by the Europeans". China and Russia were never colonized and this is a very large part of Asia in territory and population. Middle Asia was colonized by Russia, not by West Europe. European colonizers mostly were successful in those territories close to the ocean. And of these, Japanese example is indeed unique. Europeans "discovered" Japan in XVI century, and started to penetrate it, setting the trade posts and converting the locals to Christianity. I do not know whether this should be called "colonization" but probably it would lead to colonization, as it lead elsewhere. However Japanese rulers early recognized the danger, and started effective resistance. They used drastic measures (killed all those converted to Christianity, for example, banned firearms, prohibited overseas travel, etc.) This way they managed to isolate the country almost completely until the middle of 19-th century. One important point was probably the unity of Japan. In other places, Europeans were able to colonize a country by taking sides in local conflicts, or to enlist some people opposing to the rulers (Mexico is an example). In the 19-th century it was penetrated again. And again the Japanese managed to do the thing nobody else could. They quickly (VERY quickly) modernized their country themselves, in less than 1/2 of a century, I think this feat has no parallel in history, and by the beginning of 20-th century they were a "world power" that nobody would easily colonize. I repeat that I do not know any similar examples. Hawaii also modernized very quickly, in few years! And for about a century after they remained independent. But they could not prevent Americans from settling there, and as a result a century later they had to become a US territory. 

British and American POW's were treated as POW's. Soviet Jewish POW's were usually treated as Jews, if their national origin could be determined. The justification was that Soviet Union did not sign the international convention about POW's. Of course, this was the official point of view, but actual treatment depended on commanders in the field. Official point of view was reflected in the so-called Commissar's Order issued before the invasion of Soviet Union. This order prescribed to select Commissars, Communists and Jews from POW's shoot them on the spot. But not all commanders obeyed this order. Some high standing German commanders refused to pass this order to the troops. As a result, Jewish POWS were treated variously on Soviet theater. Soviet citizens, except peasants carried the so-called "internal passport", where everyone was assigned a "nationality", which could Russian, Ukrainian, Jew etc. Military personnel did not carry this passport. So to determine that someone "is a Jew" was possible only from the words of other POW's. Corrections and references. The Commissar order is cited in this Wikiedia article: $URL$ I do not know whether this citation is complete but it does not explicitly mentioned Jews. In some documents they were disguised under the name "politically undesirable", like in this original document: $URL$ which mentions "politically undesirable nationalities and racial groups". What happened in reality is described in this Wikipedia article: $URL$ 

In the end of the XIX century most Jews were concentrated in the Russian empire. (Modern Poland, Ukraine, Belorussia). Until 1917 Jews in the Russian empire were discriminated (Pale of settlement, restrictions on education, discrimination in the army etc.). There were pogroms, people were killed, their property destroyed. With the start of WW I, conditions for many Jews became intolerable. So many of them wanted to emigrate. US was a principal destination for several reasons. The main reasons were: a) religious tolerance, b) immigration policy which made large scale immigration possible. After all, this is a "country of immigrants", c) the reputation of US as "a land of opportunities". In any case, the immigrants find it easier in the US than in other countries to completely integrate into the society. Palestine was also a destination for Jewish immigrants, but on a much smaller scale; a Jewish state in Palestine was only a dream, and neither the Turks before WW I, not the British after it welcomed immigration. And the local (Arab) population never welcomed immigrants... The second largest Jewish population was in Austro-Hungary. Conditions in Austro-Hungary were much better than in the Russian empire, but only until 1914. After WW I, (and Hungarian revolution) the empire collapsed in several national states, each with strong nationalist feeling, and nationalist policies. Many Austro-Hungarian Jews also wanted to emigrate, and US was also a prime destination. Several other peoples which felt oppression or lack of opportunity at home had very large immigration to the US at the same time (Irish, Italians). Finally, I add that a very large Jewish population still existed in Poland/Ukraine/Belorussia between WW I and WW II. Perhaps more than in the US. And you know what happened to these people... Most of those who survived, eventually moved to Israel or USA. Some numbers. Jewish population of Russian empire (including Poland) according to 1897 census: 5,189,400. This was slightly more that 1/2 of the total number of Jews in the world. Jewish population of Soviet Union before WW II was aproximately 2,500,000 (not including the part of Poland annexed in 1939). An estimate of the number of Jews who emigrated to the US in 1880-1928: 1.7 million. Number of Jews in Russia now: 194,000. An estimate of the number of those who emigrated to Israel (after the creation of Israel) - 1 million. Etc. Sources: $URL$ $URL$ EDIT. Exact statistics of immigration to the US is not available because the US authorities do not ask you about your religion. Which confirms the point a) above. To address the interesting question in the comment of Andrew Grimm: 34 million people in the US claim Irish descent (12% of population of the US). Population of Ireland is 6.4 millions. Source: Wikipedia. 

The reason is simple: nobody wants an uncontrolled explosive device floating around. You yourself, or someone else, other then your enemy may later accidentally hit it. For the same reasons all anti-aircraft shells explode at the end of their trajectory: who knows what they may hit on the ground. 

It is indeed difficult to find the numbers for 19 or early 20s century, and it very much depends on the country. Here are some modern data: $URL$ Please notice the RATE of decline! $URL$ 

The simple answer: they did not. I personally know many Soviet refugees. The only cases when they had to undergo any security screening were the cases when they applied for sensitive jobs, like in CIA or NSA. 

The reason is that it was too large to be governed effectively. Already Genghis Khan understood this when he split it to uluses and assigned them to his sons. It was supposed that the Great Khan in Karakorum will perform the general governance. The system was not effective. When Mongol armies broke to Poland and Hungary, they had to interrupt their conquest because the great khan died, and the leaders had to attend the kurultai. (Which normally took years). It was Khubilai Khan who in a similar situation decided to continue his conquest of China rather than go to the kurultai. So he created a dynasty in China which ruled almost a century. Another big piece of the empire, the Golden Horde, existed till 16th century. 

Probably there was no such sufficiently long period. If you are looking worldwide, you can always find some war going on somewhere. If you restrict to Europe, it is generally accepted that the period after the defeat of Napoleon was peaceful. Indeed in the period from the defeat of Napoleon in 1815 and Crimean war in 1853 European powers did not fight each other. But there was the Greek war of Independence, and almost continuous Russian-Turkish wars. (I do not count revolutions). If you take North America, there was no wars since 1920 (Mexican revolution). Of course during this period, US and Canada participated in wars abroad. So there were long periods of peace (several generations) in large parts of the globe. There was a long period of peace in the Roman Empire (from Nerva to Marcus Aurelius, 82 years). As Gibbon said, never before or again such a large population lived in peace and prosperity. But one has to discount the wars on the periphery of the Empire which were almost continuous. In general, war is a favorite occupation of humans, whether we like it or not. EDIT. In Wikipedia, there is a "List of wars" by years. You can see from it that there was no year without a war somewhere.