If I'm feeling particularly despotic I can tell my daughter to go pick me up an apple in the dining room. A couple of seconds later and I am greeted with the thunk of an apple dropping on my lap. Somehow, my daughter understood that my request attached to a real thing in the world, namely an apple from the dining room. She understood that she was to bring the apple to another thing in the world, namely, her father. She also understood that I was referring to another thing in the world which could carry out this task, namely, her. She understood that I wanted her to 'bring' me the apple, rather than throw me the apple, or run away with the apple. All these words conveyed to my daughter not only meaningful discourse, but specific instruction to engage herself in the world in a specific way. How does pragmatism, which has famously (and with great care) attacked the representative function of language, account for this aspect of language? How does the pragmatist account for the fact that our words attach to reality? 

Interesting premise you've established. The question is deep, but so too is essentially every question posed on these forums. I've by no means fully articulated my thoughts on the matter, but I'll take a shot at it. Lives are valuable insofar as there are other lives around to symbiotically benefit. This is self-evident from an evolutionary perspective, though metaphysically the same concept applies. The original life that propagated had no inherent value, though this depends on what you refer to as "value." But as soon as that second amalgamation of genetic material came about, there served a purpose for the cooperation between the two (from an evolutionary perspective.) If we extrapolate that understanding onto metaphysics, we find that as long as human satisfaction is contingent on the prevalence of others, there too exists a value in having more than one of us around. Obviously there is some axiomatic logic with the case I make, namely: 

Pragmatism is strongly associated with anti-realism, the view that words are meaningful not because they represent a reality independent of the word itself but because of how they are used in a given environment. As to the question of how words have specific meaning, pragmatists typically refer to the normativity of word usage, which in turn is determined by society's use of the word. So the individual adapts a behavior that is prevalent in a society. There is some normative use of a word by other people under different conditions and the individual by some relation to these people and the conditions of word usage in the society come to use words in a like manner. If the pragmatist is to hold on to the anti-realist view however, it seems that they must answer in what sense they distinguish between word, individual and society and how these predications are not contradictory to the anti-realism thesis that words do not represent or refer to a reality existent beyond them. If we should understand how words come to have meaning by the environment in which they are used and the people who use them, it is difficult to see how this answer is not in some way referential to things that are taken to be existent independent of words (i.e, individuals and environments). 

Exsistence is axiomatic and just exsists.Truth is not a strong word and can be manipulated with (post hoc - add hoc) alernatives. How dose logic define true and false from mazy of out-of-context-facts? Created stories that seem valid but are not. Truth can be manipulated. Honesty is personal hard work. A person must work hard to be objective and honest. Honest logic dose not accept the false to live by. Individualy we must use honest knowledge attained. To live with self esteem logic must be used with honesty to attain the truth or the fallacy of the origination of the percept. Honesty is the logic knowledge that sets the proper part of truth and false into exsistence. The missing link is honesty. 

There can be good problems. I just won the lottery $360.00000.000 I have a problem what can I do with all this money? I just got out of the casino I lost all of my money my car and my house I have a bad problem what can I do? One problem caused by luck. One problem caused by addiction. To solve any problem we need to use explicit conscious effort to understand the context involved. Its hard to be honest with our self sometimes. Honesty to understand the issue is paramount to solving any problem. 

That existential value is consistent with human conceptions of joy That human conceptions of joy are indiscriminately linked to the existence of other people 

Perhaps, but not necessarily. I'm sure you've contemplated AI before (as we all have.) This intelligence would evidently not be biological in nature, so it more than likely would not have the five senses we commonly refer to, at least not as we conceptualize them. Yet, this machine would still be colloquially understood as conscious. We then might argue that this machine is not as "aware" as we are. Definitively conscious, but less aware. I hold the idea that consciousness operates on a spectrum- a spectrum of awareness. Consciousness then is merely a point by which we differentiate the "awake" from the less awake. Minor digression here: Often times people fall prey to the false doctrine of binary thinking. Take for example, the classification of psychopaths and non-psychopaths. Let's say that one percent of the population displays all the requisite traits that would constitute psychopathy (approximation here, though I've read the number is something close.) Lack of respective traits in the rest of the population does not follow as a corollary. That is rudimentary thinking. The same concept likely applies to consciousness. And while a machine can conceivably become conscious, the case will always remain that its perception is significantly different than that of our own. But all of this is purely speculation. 

There is universal axioms of logic. I will call this . @ Universal is X @ Axiom is A @ Logic is L. Hence XA=L. Existentialism = E @ Unrealistic = U @ Realality = R Hence UR=E. Basicly if universal logics are accepted natural reality's. Existensialism is mind created unnatural postulated reality's and should be cancelled out by universal axioms of logic. HENCE XA= L+ UR=E- HENCE L+ CANCELS OUT E- Scientology the mystical route to freedom and happyness; via clearing hangups and engrams.Jargon and claimed benifits. Existentialism is irrationality that promotes stupidness. Existentialism releaves the mind of responsibility to identify and integrate reality.Universal axiomatic logics are actions not based on opinions of author or anyone else. The same moral actions exsist for all locations cultures and ages @ universal. 

German policy in 1940 would not allow Ham radios. If you owned a radio of this type people had to hide them in their attic or hidden sheds. Easy to control people without realistic knowledge. The use of propaganda by radio and flyers and mail was used to control the masses. Today is entirely different. We have complete communication this is now is available to everyone. But still we are fooled by non sequiturs in radio and TV and journalism. The statements do not follow the realistic truth. Hence the term "Politically Correct". Can we create a homogeneous society? I believe that the days of external authority are on there way out and a world homogeneous society is eminent for our survival. The desire for external guidance is a remnant of our past and a unknown entity that can be used for gain by people that understand how to use it. We are all being used by this. 

The two are colloquially interchangeable. But one could view the terms in various contexts and differentiate them accordingly. One potential way to categorize them, listed above, is by university department. I tend to believe that political philosophy more commonly refers to the underlying moral and ethical grounding behind political theory, whereas political theory comprises of both political philosophy and contemporary application where one has to take into account pragmatics. 

Philosophy is not a science; rather, science is a philosophy. More specifically, science is applied logical positivism, structuralized for us to better understand our universe. Philosophy is not a science, but it is a starting point for us to build upon science. It's the initial foundation with which we can build upon. It is however an academic discipline in its own right, just as the other humanities are generally known to be.