Eyes that constantly emanates light, either just the iris and pupil (resembling a tapetum lucidum reflection, but visible from any angle) or the whole eyeball. Could a person still see or would they get blind? Or would they evolve and get more resistant photoreceptors? Or they wouldn't see anything because of the eyes' light? 

I mean, would it be possible to a single world to have different historical time periods depending on the location? Like a village/kingdom that have a middle-age-like knowledge and technology, but a city far from there having a modern or futuristic technology, but both in the same time period? Or does if a world advances to another age every place throughout it also advances, with no exceptions? 

We can use one of the many asteroid impact simulators around to estimate the damage for single impactors. I've used the one from Imperial Collage London We can enter different values here for the size of the incoming asteroids. As an example I picked a 500m object with a density of 10000 kg/m3 (higher than iron as you said they are heavier elements) impacting at 11.00 km/s (slow) at 45 Degrees to the ground (the average impact angle) and had it hit crystalline rock. The full result can be seen here: $URL$ The headline is a final crater diameter of 9.27 km from an impact energy of 3.93 x 10^19 Joules. 9.40 x 10^3MegaTons I would suggest playing with the numbers and seeing what kind of effects you get. It gives you different things at different distances from the target so have a play around with that setting. Multiple impacts will be required to deliver the amount of material you are suggesting unfortunately I couldn't find any thing on the dissipation rates of dust from the atmosphere which would be the limiting factor between impact events if you don't want to kill every one. Have fun with Armageddon 

Suppose that a person has the ability to kill any living being it touches (literally). That happens due to the fact that when this person touches using such ability, the target's spot being touched starts to become necrosis/gangrene and spreads to the whole body in seconds, and finally causing the death of the touched one. This person's hand has no visible anomalies and the necrosis on touch only happens voluntarily, i.e., touching normally or someone touching this person has no effect. With that, what would be the possible implications? What would be necessary so that this necrosis/gangrene results in death, and so fast, and allowing to control when it functions or not? 

Now pick-up the longest path. Hold it up so that the two safety pins on each end are level. Shake out the mesh then take the lowest hanging loop and pick it up and hold it up so the pins on both ends are level with the pins from the first loop. Repeat this operation until you have the minimum number of strings left. Unhook the strings you are holding above the line from the mesh. This was a bit tricky keeping them all untangled. You should now be left with a single line of safety pins linking each town. 

The trouble here would be dealing with more complex components. There are two main types of electrical components. Active and Passive components. Passive components tend to be simpler, your resisters, capacitors, transformers and so forth. These it should be possible for our engineer to work out given his multi-meter and some basic knowledge. Does it measure as having any resistance? (Resistor) Does it allow an AC current to pass? (Capacitor) Is it made of a lump of ferrous metal wrapped in two sets of wires? (Transformer) Though our engineer will probably still destroy quite a few components working this out. Active components on the other hand are an entirely different kettle of fish. Most active components look like a blob of plastic with some metal sticking out and some markings to tell what they are. Think every thing from the classic transistor to the CPU inside your computer. Almost every engineer when faced with a component he doesn't know will stick the code printed on it into Google to find the datasheet. Our poor engineer doesn't have this option. (Language being the big barrier here) Many many human components are encased in very similar packages, this makes standardisation of machines to produce things easier so I would expect the aliens have probably done some thing similar. 

1 By "nothing strange", I mean there are no errors in the replication of the chromosomes, and nothing along the lines of having 3 chromosomes of the same type, such as the case of Triple X syndrome, or anything else I haven't thought to list here. 2 If you're wondering why I don't count when you passed set A on to your first child, it's because there are actually 2^23 different set A's that are possible, so the math cancels out. This is based off the assumption that there is already some set A you passed on to your first child. 

The Earth would probably spin apart. Normally, standing on the equator, you're moving at the relatively slow pace of 1 earth circumference per 24 hours. Your momentum would carry you straight off into space, tangent to the surface of the Earth, except gravity keeps pulling you down. It does this far more strongly than you need to stay on the surface. Using a web site to let me calculate the orbital velocity around the Earth, with a height of 0m, I calculated that a trip around the Earth would take 84.48154038573982 minutes. This means that if Earth spun that fast, you would have just enough gravitational attraction to keep you on the surface. You're asking about MUCH faster. Even if the Earth slows down afterward (which I think you're suggesting with 'decelerate'), the speed at which that rotation occurred would fling huge pieces of the Earth into space. I don't have any hard numbers (maybe try the Physics SE for that), but I have no doubt that the centripetal force required to keep the planet intact would far exceed the force of gravity and the chemical bonds between parts of the Earth. You might see a few large chunks of tectonic plates stick together as they fly off into space, but I suspect even those wouldn't fare well. Given this, one has to ask what exactly is causing this speedup. If it's some massive adamantium rod running through the planet, being turned by some being of godlike power, the rod would probably just rip through the Earth. Dealing with forces that powerful, the Earth's crust would have about as much chance of holding together as water or air. If the planet is just magically sped up, every single molecule, it will fly apart. Now, just for argument's sake, you did mention 'decelerate', so maybe the same unbelievably powerful force spinning the Earth is also holding it together while spinning it, until it stops and lets it go back to normal. Then it's a question of how that force was applied. If it somehow made all of the planet, but no man-made buildings, move, then they'd have no chance at holding on. Most buildings would have the ground yanked out from under them so quickly they'd stay mostly intact, like glasses on a tablecloth that's pulled out, until something at a slightly high elevation spins into them. That mountain over there? It just went through your house. "Now", you may say, "I built my house on top of Mount Everest just in case that happened!" Well, I hope for your sake that whatever is 12 hours rotation around the Earth from there is the same height, because now that the Earth has stopped below you, your house is falling for whatever the difference is. In short, anything that isn't magically accelerated and held together with the Earth is debris. 

I was going to post this as a comment on @Zibbobz's answer, however it kind of grew to being its own answer. If there was some local fauna which was kind of like kelp. With pockets of hydrogen gas to help hold it's self up. The plant would have evolved this to help them scatter their seeds or pollen over a very large area. When the dragon wants to go hunting it grabs hold of lots of these. Cuts them free of the ground and floats up, up and away. These plants will have evolved to have very stretchy gas sacks so they can reach higher altitudes. (a normal weather balloon can stretch four times its size during flight1) During the early phase of the flight the dragon takes many deep breaths to oxygenate its blood and then holds its breath once it passes out of the range where it can breath. Whales can hold their breath for up to 90 minutes. Once the dragon is high enough or the balloon/kelp pops it drops down in a very stream lined shape with its wings folded back. It is still holding its breath. Here it will break the sound barrier. The pray it is falling on will not see or hear it coming. The pray is going to have to give it a huge amount of energy. This has to feed a dragon after all. As the dragon needs to slow down it first goes from noes down to nose level then slowly expands its wings. Hopefully managing to glide out of the fall before it splatters its self into the ground. The highly flammable plants may be a problem with this plan. Maybe need to explain that the plants seeds can be activated by fire and thus why they are around fire breathing dragons. We are trying to deal with big dragons, some amount of hand waving is required to deal with the square/cubed law. 

In light of the answers from other people, I'd like to offer some basic math for how likely this is to occur. The scenario I'm considering is as follows: You, an ordinary human, have two children. Those children have a child together (yes, I know incest is bad - this is purely hypothetical). You, as an ordinary human, possess 46 chromosomes in 23 pairs. When you have a child, they receive one of each of these pairs from you (assuming nothing strange1 happens). As a side note, barring any medical breakthroughs that I'm not aware of, you would have to be genetically male (XY) so that your two offspring would be able to have children with each other. For simplicity, I'll call the set of chromosomes that your first child got from you 'set A' and those that your second child got from you 'set B'. In order for your grandchild to be an exact genetic duplicate of you, set B must contain all the chromosomes not found in set A, and then both children must pass on those specific chromosomes to their child. (This assumes that you do not have any chromosome pairs where both chromosomes are identical, which you probably don't unless you're the result of inbreeding). Now that we have established the scenario, let's talk about the probabilities: Let's assume the chance of someone's child receiving one specific chromosome from a pair is 1/2, as there are two possible outcomes. With 23 pairs, the likelihood of passing on any one combination is 1/(2^23) (roughly one in 8 million). In our scenario, we see this happening 3 times: you passed on set B to your second child, your first child passed on set A to your grandchild, and your second child passed on set B to your grandchild. 2 So, the likelihood that your grandchild would be a genetic duplicate of you is 1/(2^69), or roughly one in 590 quintillion. 

Joining the ranks of the EMP crowd I'd go with Explosively pumped Flux compression bombs. These work by generating and compressing a magnetic field using a power supply, a coil and some explosives. See the the wikipedia entry for a full description and description of how they work. The magic trick with most of these emp type weapons is the power supply but given we are talking 200 years into the future it is not unreasonable to assume that power storage (batteries) have got a lot better. Look how far we have come in the last 100 years and extrapolate forward. An explosively pumped flux generator is actually quite simple to build given a power supply and explosives. However it is single shot, quite small, and usable like a Molotov. The hardest bit to get hold of is probably the explosives to blow the coil. These would be used in a riot to disable the police vehicles and any electronic equipment on them. Cameras, Radios, movement assist devices. This might even completely immobilise them depending on how their armour works.