The King is a bit... eccentric - a sort of Calligula type, but in his employ is the most powerful wizard in the land. He is continuously ordering the wizard to perform humiliating, monotonous and pointless tasks. What is to stop the more sensible wizard from getting sick of this, and just refusing to carry out the King's orders, or quitting his post, or doing something to the King? The story is set in a kind of medieval-with-magic type of world, and the wizard's power is such that he could easily hold off the King's guards, certainly for long enough to escape if the King turned on him. Edit Just to explain the magic is like high-level D&D (not the same but this is just to give an idea). The wizard is not a slave of the King, he's a high ranking member of staff, a bit like Merlin, who is loyal but not to the point of putting up with this continuous abuse. The idea is that a King who didn't have a powerful wizard working for him would be highly vulnerable. 

Commonly useful magic is free, it's the custom jobs that cost money. Much like real world software, magic that everyone would find useful is available for free because sooner or later someone will do it pro bono. As for operating systems, so for Cure Light Wounds. But if you are a businessman, and you need something done that is rather specific and/or unusual, the magic script you need may not exist. So you contact the magic shop, explain your needs, pay for it, then they do the work and email you the magic script you need. In this case, the magic is inherently safe from piracy because only the paying customer wants it. 

The Greenhouse Effect There is little chance of modern society turning Earths atmosphere into something like Venus. However, a powerful alien entity would probably be able to do this. The main ingredient in the Venusian atmosphere is carbon dioxide, not the mere 0.04% concentration that climate change scientists seem so worried about, but 96.5%. The Venusian atmosphere is much heavier too, being 93 times the mass of Earths atmosphere on a slightly smaller planet. Our strategy is simple. Pick a greenhouse gas, or a combination of greenhouse gasses, and release enormous quantities on Earth. The amount of solar energy hitting Earth is 174 PW, enough to heat the entire mass of the planet by 1 degree Kelvin in a year or two. So once we set up the correct atmospheric conditions, we can expect the appropriate surface temperature in a reasonable period of time. Of course, this will heat up the crust but not the core or mantle, as they are already hotter than the temperature you are likely to achieve. Another issue is that you may as well just enjoy Venus, which already resembles what this would do to Earth, and is not far away. 

You are right that it's difficult to tell one star from another (while looking at just that star), and while a 2-D star map is great for here on Earth, obviously it's going to look completely different in space. However, since we know the distances to each of the stars, we can create a 3-D star map of the known area of the galaxy. Then, using A.I., we can figure out our position based on the 2-D (or 3-D even better if possible) star map we can currently see, i.e. the computer figure out where we have to be to make the stars' positions look like this. 

Regarding the evolutionary path of these creatures (since that was part of the question), it could be that they evolved in watery regions with many small rocky islands. The water itself may be filled with predators, which would encourage creatures to jump from rock to rock (or at least minimise the time in the water) rather than swim or wade. Being able to make yourself lighter by first filling yourself with small gas bags (giving yourself a little bit of levity) would give an advantage to doing this - that would promote the beginning of the gas-filled creatures, and of course the more they evolved, the more efficient the gas bags became until they were eventually able to float entirely. The creature probably uses electrolysis to get hydrogen from water. Ascending and descending could be a light muscular system which allows the creature to compress the gasbags, ironically making it more work to descend than to ascend. The only problem is punctures (and the inflammability of hydrogen). 

With computers, the date will never be too long. So what if the year is 654,546,534,120,296,145? A computer can easily store and communicate numbers like that. And that far into the future, we could have computers implanted in our brains so we can do complicated arithmetic in our heads, remember everything and communicate as quickly as a wireless data transfer. Whatever problems exist in that year won't include the size of the number. 

I wondered about this while playing Morrowind, where Levitation is a very easy spell to acquire yet there are still forts and castles. Then I realized that defenders could cast Dispel at any invaders that tried flying over the walls, which would likely lead to them plummeting to their deaths. So with good anti-magic the walls are still useful. Against dragons, I suspect the tried and true movie favorite, the ballista, is the answer. But it would benefit from a few improvements. The main issue is that if the dragon attacks the crew they have nowhere to hide and they typically die. I would put a bunker of sorts within a few yards of each ballista. I would also make a point of having many ballista, so while one crew is hiding, other crews can be lining up their shots. Another way to deal with dragons is for a wizard to cast Paralyze. 

In a Dystopian world where rape is common-place and laws against it either don't exist or are not enforced, someone might do this as a deterrent to potential rapists. (Although you said it is not easily spread, it might still be spread through sexual contact) Or you said it has "nasty symptoms" - one of the symptoms may be numbness/loss of feeling in a particular part of your body - could be considered "nasty" by a healthy person, but to someone with chronic pain, this would be a pain killer. 

Maybe one particular outspoken visionary starts warning everyone in a pub or a local square about the coming disaster. Most people think he is mad, but one influential person has heard this same story just yesterday from another seemingly crazy person (or had the same vision themselves) and so begins to investigate. It might take several days to gather enough of the visionaries together to form a believable story. Each of them has a clue to a different piece of real-life evidence that they could not otherwise have known about, and are able to recount the same story despite never haven spoken to each other before. You could set up in the back-story that this person has had dealings with magic before although never before come out of the closet, so to speak. Maybe they have heard of a legend of a city that was destroyed by a similar disaster, making it all the more believable to this person. It all may seem like a contrived coincidence, especially in such a massive city with just a tiny subset - though you don't say how tiny - of people having the visions (and a subset of them who would speak out loud in public), but stories are often built on coincidences. (Maybe even whoever's sending the visions chose these people on purpose, knowing this would happen.) 

Boats Not inherently conspicuous in themselves, can be fitted with outboard motors to achieve reasonable speeds and are a good source of income too. With radar you can avoid other ships so no-one sees you unless they have radar themselves. One downside is that the authorities will take some interest in what you are doing, as they do today, but not so much interest that hiding the outboard motor is implausible. There is also the option of hiding it outright like a smuggler. A boat with a computer and radar could hang around a few miles from shore unmanned, stay well clear of other boats and could be called to shore when the coast was clear. The main advantage of this is that it does not have to look like a medieval boat, it can be a lightweight fibreglass thing with very little drag and a nice big motor 

Most of the Royal Navy gets destroyed by a massive storm. This famously happened to not one but two Mongol invasion fleets sent to invade Japan. The Romans also managed to lose their fleets to storms several times. It was less likely to happen to the Royal Navy due to the fact that they had radios and weather forecasts, but they didn't have satellites or computers so it is still plausible that they could be blindsided by a storm. A storm could also hit the UK itself and destroy planes and infrastructure, gifting an easy victory to Hitler, should he be ready to seize the opportunity. Of course Hitler would still need a lot of ships, but he might be able to scrounge together civilian vessels and Japanese/Italian vessels to make it happen.