I'll answer only for the United States, the country I know best, but the answer is yes. That is, the Civil War shaped the two party system as it exists today. Prior to the Civil War, there as a "crazy quilt" of parties. A 36 year period from 1824-1860 began with the ruling party as the "Democratic-Republican" Party. The main opposition party morphed from the Federalist party to the Whig Party. A third party, the Free Soil Party, arose with only a handful of Congressional seats, but held the balance of power between the two larger parties, which were initially closely matched. When the Whig Party collapsed, the Democratic-Republican party split into "Democrats" and "Republicans," with the remaining Whigs, and Free Soilers joining the newer "Republican" party. This "confusion" helped bring about the Civil War. The American Civil War changed all that by dividing the country North and South. It also created a two party system, with the Republicans controlling the more populous northern states, and the Democrats dominant in the South. From 1860-1932, the Republicans dominated Presidential politics. Basically, the only Democrat that had a chance to win during that time was the governor of New York State. That's because if you added the "tri-state" area of New York,the most populous state, (plus New Jersey and Connecticut), to the old Confederacy and border states, they had more electoral votes than the old Union MINUS these. Democrat Grover Cleveland won two (split) Presidential terms this way, and Democrat Samuel Tilden lost by one electoral vote, getting most of the Confederacy PLUS New York, but MINUS Mississippi, South Carolina and Florida. (Democrat Woodrow Wilson (Governor of New Jersey) was initially elected President because of the split of the Republican party between Teddy Roosevelt and W H Taft.) It is noteworthy that Franklin Delano Roosevelt had been governor of New York, although he won a bunch of former Union, and newly created western, states, because of the Depression. It was only after FDR that both the Democrats and Republicans realigned, by which time memories of the Civil War had faded. 

Short answer: India was an original signatory of the Atlantic Charter, which was was unveiled in a "Declaration of United Nations" on January 1, 1942. This was an eclectic group of some 26 countries that included the following: 1) the Big 4, U.S., U.K., the Soviet Union, and China; 2) a number of small Latin American countries in Central America and the Caribbean close to the U.S.; 3) a number of "captive" nations under German rule with governments in exile, such as the "Benelux" countries, and several countries of eastern and northern Europe and 4) several British Commonwealth countries: Australia, New Zealand, Canada, India, and South Africa. One can argue that India was a "captive" nation (of Great Britain) but it was one of the signatories of the declaration. These signatories later formed the core of the United Nations. 

India didn't "officially" join the Soviet bloc in the sense of being a signatory to the Warsaw Pact in Eastern Europe. India DID unofficially "align" with the Soviet Union in Asia. This was to create a counterweight to the Chinese-Pakistani "understanding" that originated in 1962 over the Kashmir (China invaded India on Pakistan's behalf). The need for some sort of "understanding" with the Soviet Union grew further as a result of the U.S. rapprochements with Pakistan, and with China, in 1972. India was "socialist" and therefore somewhat ideologically compatible with the Soviet Union. But mainly it was a case of "the enemy of my enemy is my friend." They actually had few interests in common to be truly "allied." 

Sardar Patel got off to a "bad start" with Gandhi. "Upon hearing of Mohandas Gandhi, he joked to Mavlankar that Gandhi would "ask you if you know how to sift pebbles from wheat. And that is supposed to bring independence." $URL$ It's true, per one of the comments that they took a liking to each other later, and that Patel became one of Gandi's closest adherents. But Patel may have clashed with Gandhi again later. "Criticism arose from Bose's supporters, socialists and other Congressmen that Patel himself was acting in an authoritarian manner in his defence of Gandhi's authority." These (and other factors) may have caused Patel to lose a "horse race" with Nehru for Gandhi's endorsement. Even a small amount of "friction" may cause a leader to (dis)favor one supporter relative to another. 

The idea that "Strange things come out of Africa" originated in the Greco-Roman world. Even then, Africa was considered a little "different" because of the strange animals such as elephants, camels and lions. These, and the Sahara desert, had no counterparts in Europe. But Africa was not viewed as a "dark" continent. Dark-skinned Mediterraneans were more inclined to see Africans as darker versions of themselves than say, a northern European might. And no one in Europe had the idea of Africa as a continent, with jungles that they would not imagine. For all they knew, Africa might have been one or several islands like Madagascar. The difference of Africa was seen in terms of geography, not people, in ancient times. As far as Carthage was concerned, it was seen as the current home of a group of people formerly from the Hellenic world, which helped to limit the perception of "differentness" to geography. 

Russia today is the largest country in the world (by a fairly wide margin). That is true after the other 15 or so "Socialist Republics" left and went their separate ways in 1991, leaving Russia with a bit more than three quarters of the former Soviet land area. If physical size were the main determinant of power, Russia would not have lost all that much. Another measure of Russia's lost power is the decline of population. Here, the loss was more serious, because Russia was left with only about half of the population of the former Soviet Union. And today's Russia seems to be a shadow of its "former" (Soviet) self. So is one fourth (based on land) or one half (based on population) a better (rough_ guess of the decline in Russian power when the Soviet Union broke up? Are there any other other measures of power (e.g. GDP, nuclear warheads, troop strength, Nobel Prize winners, or any other relevant power source) that might provide a better estimate of Russia's loss? 

My understanding is that women sailed on sail powered ships (caravels) such as the Mayflower. On the other hand, I have read few accounts of women sailing on earlier, oar-driven ships such as triremes or galleys. (OK, Cleopatra did at the Battle of Actium, but she was Cleopatra.) When did women start sailing as passengers on ships in meaningful numbers? Was it when wind-driven ships meant that it was no longer necessary for everyone to row their own weight, or was there an earlier dividing line? This question relates to ocean-going vessels, and not ships on rivers or near the shore. (In the game, "Civilization," a trireme (rowed boat) has a 50-50 chance of sinking if not adjacent to the shore. Admittedly, this is a game, but it illustrates a point that rowed vessels might not be considered safe enough for women on oceans.) 

Moors were more advanced than Europe during the Dark Ages (a period that represented a low point in European civilization). Moors had knowledge of algebra, geometry, and other forms of mathematics several hundred years ahead of the Europeans. As such, they also had more advanced trade practices, as well as access to more trade goods such as silks and spices via the Middle East. Moors occupied and made their mark particularly in Spain. Their knowledge (including navigation) seeped out into that country (and Portugal) giving those countries a lead in the race to the New World. Until the Spanish persecution, Moors also handled much of the trade of Spain, which is why that country prospered in the 15th century (relative to the rest of Europe), but lagged behind in the 16th century (after the Moors were driven out). 

The reason that the upper class was able to preserve itself was because only a handful of the descendants obtained most of the property of the founders. For instance, Genghis Khan was prolific in his production of children, to the point where perhaps 0.5% of the world's people are descended from him from him, or at least have his DNA. In a world of 7 billion people, that would be 35 million people. On the other hand, only four descendants through his wife Bortei inherited the Mongolian Empire after he died. (It was split into four pieces.) And those pieces were later (mostly) recaptured by China, Iran, Russia, and Kazakhstan. Unless you were a descendant who "made a deal" with one of those four countries (or Mongolia) to keep an even smaller chunk. 

The Panic of 1837 proved that the "cure was worse than the disease." Thus, it set the U.S. on the road to the passage of the 16th Amendment, and the establishment of the Federal Reserve some 76 years later, in 1913. The "disease" that Jackson fought was a centralized national bank along the lines of the Bank of England, advocated by banker Nicholas Biddle. The Jacksonian "cure" for America's banking woes was a number of small, decentralized, and undercapitalized banks, many of which collapsed in the Panic of 1837, leading to a depression. This experience convinced many Americans that they needed a central, or at least a very large, bank. Around the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries J.P.Morgan created a large bank that bore his name (until the merger with Chase) that the Europeans considered the "unofficial" central bank of the United States. But the Crash of 1907 convinced the country that it needed an even stronger central bank, leading to the 16th Amendment to the Constitution providing for a central currency, the Federal Reserve, and the income tax. 

The U.S. had to "play not lose" with at least the first one or two measures listed above. It may not have been necessary to invade Europe. But it made for a "cleaner" post-war order. 

The German role in World War I was "bad enough," even without being further tarnished by World War II. German atrocities in World War I included 1) the occupation of Belgium, 2) unrestricted submarine warfare, and 3) poison gas. As another poster pointed out, the Germans not only occupied Poland, but had plans to "depopulate" the country for German settlement. With the notable exception of poison gas, all of these actions had echoes in World War II. The remaining three actions targeted civilians (although tales of rape in Belgium are largely false, the Germans rounded up and shot thousands of Belgian "hostages." Targets of submarine warfare included passenger liners such as the Lusitania. And beginning in 1915, Germany despoiled Poland of its harvests. Perhaps World War II represented an "Aha" moment for some people who had earlier suspected that the Germans were the bad guys, and now felt "sure." One could say that the the German posture in World War I was a "precursor" to that of World War II. 

It's probably fair to say that Nobunaga was the founder of the three line formation in Japan. That is, it's quite possible that he discovered it independently of European commanders. That's more plausible than to believe that the information "traveled" from Europe to Japan or vice versa, (given the communications of the time). By 1575, arquebuses had been used in Europe for nearly a century, and sophisticated tactics had been developed half a century or more earlier. 

In 1996, the North Vietnamese defense minister published an article in the Wall St. Journal about the moment when he felt that North Vietnam had won the war. It was when "Hanoi" Jane Fonda went to the North Vietnamese capital in 1972 to express her "solidarity" with them, returned home, and wasn't severely punished. Then the North Vietnamese felt that she basically spoke for the American people (who didn't want war). After the Americans finished pulling out later that year, the North Vietnamese redoubled their efforts (against the South Vietnamese only), and won.