Given the efforts Aristotle made to support his argument for an eternal universe, it would appear that he was quite certain of the belief. He establishes multiple principles and arguments in making his case for an eternal universe (many of which creationists have gone to some lengths to either reconcile with creationism, or refute). Thus, many of those who read his works in medieval times did take the writings with a proverbial grain of salt, often deferring judgment on Aristotle to religious authorities (either people or texts). I'll try to outline Aristotle's arguments below (thanks to Joseph for that link) to show that he indeed must have been quite certain of his belief. I'll also give some examples of responses from creationist philosophers, hopefully to indicate that most of them do not try to argue about Aristotle's own beliefs, but rather how they can be reconciled or dismissed to allow for creationism. Consequently, I answer that the common belief (supported by the contemporary SEP) is that Aristotle did hold his own views to be well establish. Argument from Matter In his Physics, Aristotle discusses his view of matter extensively. As a part of this discussion, he makes an argument in support of eternal matter. Aristotle asserts that all things must come into existence from an underlying "substratum", which is a sort of essence of being. Then he argues that matter itself (the Aristotelian concept of matter) is the substratum of all things, so it must have either created itself, or been eternal. Obviously, Aristotle argues, a substratum cannot create itself; therefore, matter must be eternal. Argument from motion To Aristotle, the process of coming into existence is a sort of motion, and motion is a very important concept to Aristotelian philosophy. Aristotle's argument is that if a beginning to motion (i.e. existence) is to be assumed, one of the following must be true: 

I think your evaluation of the problem is accurate: depending on the theory being used, "the oldest man in the world" can or cannot die. The descriptive theory says in short that meaning of a name is effectively identical to the descriptions people associate with them. For example, "the person typing out this answer" and "the person looking at this monitor" (assuming "this answer" and "this monitor" are properly defined) both refer to me, so long as I am that person. When I'm done using this computer the second descriptor will no longer refer to me (and it may not refer validly to anyone if there is nobody at my computer). In this theory "the oldest man in the world" always refers to someone who is alive, because if a man were dead that description could not apply to him. Thus, "the oldest man in the world" cannot "die," strictly speaking. When, the man who was oldest in the world dies (note that by using the past tense, I'm maintaining reference to the same person within the descriptive theory), then someone else will be the oldest, so "the oldest man in the world" would never have died. On the other hand, the causal theory says that basically, we assign a name to a thing, and within the causal realm of influence of that naming action, the name always refers to that thing. For example, we named the closest planet to the Sun "Mercury" and henceforth since the name causally spread through communication, anywhere in our civilization (within the proper context - e.g. not ancient mythology), "Mercury" refers to that planet. Likewise, we name the oldest man alive at a certain time "the oldest man in the world," and in the causal theory this name always refers to that person until we reassign it. Then, "the oldest man in the world" can and will die, at which point we will call someone else (the person who is now the oldest man alive) the oldest. There's some room for tricks, though. For example we could in the causal theory say "the name 'the oldest man in the world' refers to the man to whom the description 'the oldest man in the world' applies." In this case, we've basically made a descriptive name within a causal theory by proxy, and "the oldest man in the world" cannot die. 

The problem, of course, is that "I am Bill" is a proposition (and, in the related literature I mentioned in my comment, is treated as such), and should have been included up in premise 1. Why is it not? The speaker glosses over that completely and takes it for granted, then seems to pull some sort of sleight of hand, arguing (vaguely) "because these two people responded differently to the same propositional knowledge, they must have some non-propositional knowledge. Here it is!" That itself begs another question: why must two people have non-propositional knowledge, if they act differently in response to propositional knowledge? They may have different temperaments, beliefs, et cetera. My answer to your title question is thus that "I am Bill" is a proposition - one which indicates that two senses ("I" and "Bill") point to the same referent (the individual named Bill). The transcript you've linked simply asserts that it's not a proposition, without arguing for that position. 

I agree with your interpretation of the line, and I'll offer an example: in the absence of experience or consciousness, would a rock fall? Surely this is a physical process. I think that the statement itself can be interpreted two ways: 

I have misunderstood something in the text/taken it out of context, leading me to this conclusion; Nietzsche is indeed a democrat; What just occurred to me, that the quotation marks around "free spirit" indicate that the speaker himself is not really a free spirit, but only thinks that he is. 

The rest of his argument is similar in style, his point being that happiness can actually drive one away from their duty of doing justice. Guardians that are too happy will be distracted from being guardians and tempted into gratifying themselves. Likewise, all who have the duty to be just must avoid being distracted by happiness. I think this affirms your question of whether any philosophies are similar to your personal philosophy—Plato makes it pretty apparent that he believes people have a duty to do what is right (what is just, which is equivalent to him) even if it means they won't be very happy, although he does assert that the overall happiness of a city (and by his analogy, the soul) is best when it is just. This does not mean that the just person is always happy. As a matter of fact, he considers the path to justice very difficult, but sort of a happy ending story. Nietzsche Another philosopher who occurred to me is Nietzsche. His views are similar to yours, but only marginally so because he differs in terms of what one has a duty to. A big theme in Nietzsche is the "will to power" and the "free spirit." He considers the best men to have a free spirit and exert their will to power as a demonstration of their superiority. As a philosopher, Nietzsche values knowledge and truth, although what he means by those terms, some argue, may be a little different from the common interpretation. Regarding truth itself, Nietzsche says the following in section 39 of Beyond Good and Evil (Part Two, The Free Spirit): 

You can trace Western skepticism about our perception at least all the way back to Parmenides of Elea, who posited that motion is impossible and that therefore our senses are illusory. There's a whole network of metaphysical reasoning invoked to argue for and support this claim, and it's been quite influential in the grand scheme of history of philosophy. Parmenides then fostered the thought of Zeno of Elea, who is infamous for his paradoxes, and things have somewhat snowballed from there. 

But this second formulation is patently false - if people cause people to die [using guns] (which they do), then the guns they use cause people to die via bullets, which cause people to die via massive brain damage/haemorrhaging/etc. The only way we can claim that people cause other people to die without granting that guns cause other people to die is by rejecting transitivity of causation: that "A causes B" and "B causes C" does not imply "A causes C." Certainly there are some philosophers (especially within the free will debate, e.g. Carolina Sartorio) who reject transitivity, but definitely not within this context. Here, the only way the second statement can be true is if "PEOPLE cause GUNS" and "GUNS cause BULLETS" and "BULLETS cause DEATH" (some details left out, obviously), and from this we conclude "PEOPLE cause DEATH" but not "GUNS cause DEATH." This is a very strange thing to do - the only way we could conclude that people cause death is if we trace the process of causation through guns. Then we'd be forced to agree that guns, too, cause death. The only way out of this is some extremely arbitrary rule somehow excluding guns from being a cause of death while still being used to prove that humans cause death. Note that it is not a valid response to leave guns out of the causal chain altogether - it is undeniable that guns cause bullets to fly into living bodies and turn them into corpses. Thus we must return to the first interpretation, one of responsibility or agency. Simply, the argument is that guns don't kill people because they are not agents which can be held responsible for their actions. One does not charge a pistol with murder; one charges the human who used it to commit the homicide. This is a fair enough claim, but as Chris points out it is fallacious in being used to arrive at any sort of conclusion. It indeed constructs a strawman which claims those in favour of gun control somehow hold guns responsible for murder. Of course this is not in general true - if one uses firearms murder statistics as evidence in favour of gun control, they are roughly making the claim that the humans responsible for murder have access to weapons that can easily cause death. Then, by the only reasonable reading, "guns don't kill people, people kill people" is technically true but wholly irrelevant to the argument being made by gun control advocates.