When your bike is twitchy under whatever circumstances it is a good idea to check the front. A slightly lose headset will cause excessive twitchiness. check headset you may find more information in the context of the question: How often should the headset be tightened? A brief rundown: 

Other answers already explained that both repairs are necessary. This answer suggests a few ways you might get help to fix it all yourself. At many places in the world are bicycle cooperatives or similar forms of volunteer bike shops. Basic repairs, especially those concerned with bike safety, can be done with the help of other community members. Parts are often available as second-hand spares or at discounted prices. To locate one, have a look at a list of community bicycle organizations, contact your country's cycling organisation, or post your location in comments/as a new question. You might find repair cafes, or hacker spaces that could help you. Lastly, most cycling enthusiast are more than happy to help other cyclists. Do you know any cafés or pubs where cyclists meet after their weekend runs? Go there and ask if they know community initiatives that can help you. (Hearing your plight, some might help you themselves right away.) 

I supported the frame well on wooden blocks and used a mallet to hit the spindle. This had no effect whatsoever. I used a clever arrangements of a vise and wooden blocks to push the spindle. I removed the outer part of the mounting ring, which serves as dust cover, with a woodworking chisel. I removed more PA material to form a 45 degree face until the outer edge of the cartridge shell was accessible. I selected a deep socket with the same outside diameter as the cartridge. A short length of any pipe would do. I placed it over the cartridge and tried above two methods. I repeated the same on the other side. I drenched all gaps with penetrating oil, let it stand overnight, warmed everything with a heat gun, and tried approach 3. from both sides. 

Place a safety reflector (dutch Kattenoog) between the spokes next to the valve. It may prevent you from locking it there, or at least remind you of the valve. 

When considering only serious life changing or threatening injuries it is not possible to compare any of these sports. The risks are overall so low and depend so much on skill and situational risk that you cannot find meaningful sample sizes. Since risk is a purely probabilistic quantity it becomes meaningless. You might consider the risk of an accident on the way to sports and of slipping in the bathroom. Both are significant when you consider risk in such a fine grained manner. Speaking of health risks or benefits would be more worthwhile, eg repetitive brain injury from American football, knee injury from football. 

It is a BMX bike frame. BMX bikes are typically used for tricks and acrobatics. See also $URL$ The very narrow parallelogram shape of the frame and the small wheel diametres are typical for BMX bikes. The short reach and peculiar shape of the stem also points to BMX. @RoboKaren already added a BMX tag and mentioned it in the comments. 

Have a look at Sheldon Brown's handlebar reference. It lists typical clamp and outer bar diameters. Unfortunately it does not contain oversized mountain bike handlebars, like your 31.8 mm riser bar. I suspect that the typical diameter for mountain bike bars at the handles at the grips is still 22.2 mm. You may see in the table that while the clamp diameter changed often, the outer diameter stayed constant at 22.2 mm and 23.8, respectively, for mountain bikes and road bikes. 

None of above attempts moved the BB a bit. I removed the dust covers from the cartridge, removed the bearing balls, and took out the spindle. This left me with the empty cartridge shell, held by the remnants of the PA mounting rings, stuck in my frame's BB shell. 

The rubber hose may degrade. This typically leads to the tire leaking. That it sticks to the hole is conceivable. Tire repair kits often have these little hoses included. In a pinch they allow for quite a lot of improvisation. Otherwise they ought to be replaced with the new type. It is conceivable that the rubber hose is very tight and that you have to blow it up like a balloon first. However, that is just a wild guess. I have thrown these valves right away when I found one in an old bike. New Type A small rubber or metal ball inside a ferrule is pushed by the internal pressure up against the valves opening. A very common type of valve in parts of Europe. This type of valve is often called a Blitzventil in German speaking countries. 

This valve is somewhat susceptible to dirt, and ought to be used with its cap only. Usually dirt will prevent proper seal such that the valve leaks a little. Oil, grease, or harsh detergents may foul valves with a small rubber ball. It is conceivable that it gets sticky and clings to the opening. Some of these valves tend to become slightly harder to open when they were pumped to a high pressure before. In that case the rubber ball is wedge very hard against the valves opening, and it takes more force to push it inside. Since one has also to work against the pressure in the inner tube, it may be significantly harder to pump it up. In my experience, this is not much of an obstacle it just takes one tough pump stroke, and its free. However, your valves might be worse in that regard. If cleaning doesn't help, consider replacing the valves with other Dunlop valves. They cost about 0.5 Euro a piece. 

In an answer to a similar question industrial degreaser is explained. Moreover, a recipe for home made industrial degreaser may be found there as well. In a nutshell it is a combination of an alkaline booster (eg. sodium bicarbonate), a polar and a non-polar solvent (eg water and alcohol), and a surfactant (eg dish washing soap). 

A recent trend toward wider tires (cf Heine, "Performance of Tires") also led to wider rims and a closer match of rim and tire widths. In the past it was considered that tires need to be considerably wider than their rims. For example, Sheldon Brown requires at least 40 mm nominal width in a 23 mm rim (measure between inner flanges). ISO 4210 (cf Mavic) requires at least a 37 mm tire on the same rim. As a recent example, my new bike (2017 Merida CX 600) came with a 700x23C rim and 32-622 tires. Suggesting that is nonetheless a safe combination. The rim lacks hooks though (see below), which might make it comparable to a narrower specification. New developments, such as tubeless, hook-less rims, and perhaps in tires beads might change this into a more complex question. Perhaps it even allows closer matched widths to be used safely. What is the smallest width of a tire for a given rim width? (It might be convenient to consider different cases and technologies in separate answers.) 

Note that the compound words may also be hyphenated: eg Crossrad is the same as Cross-Rad, and even Cross Rad (which is incorrect but not infrequent). Regional or Colloquial Terms for Fahrrad are Velo (Switzerland), Radl (Bavaria and Austria), Rad (otherwise). The somewhat out fashioned colloquial expressions Drahtesel and Stahlross might still be used, typically for sturdy old bikes. Names of Components and Features 

In addition, modern calipers have quite weak springs compared to old ones. This reduces the force needed for braking quite a bit. However, the long caliper arms reduce the force pushing the pads on the rim for a given torque. One cannot get as high braking forces with a long reach caliper as with a mid (up to 55 mm) or short (<45 mm) caliper. To compensate for this I used much recommended (salmon coloured) brake pads. And I shall keep my rims meticulously clean. 

Many Shimano brake calipers for road bikes are designed for 140 mm rotors. Two different types of mounting adaptors, fore and aft, may be used to mount larger rotors. The rear adapter (eg SMMAR160DDA) is an aluminium bracket that adds 10 mm to the mount height through its own thickness and by moving the caliper a little forward. The forward adaptor (eg SMMAR160DDA) places the brake mount further up on the fork. 

I tried to saw through the shell of the cartridge by inserting a saw blade and mounting it in a hacksaw. 

check front hub Put the bike in a stand or turn it over. Hold the front wheel and move it sideways. There should be no play in this direction. Try this at diferent positions with regard to the wheel and the fork. There may be many different reasons for an unstable bike, however, this is one of the first checks you ought to do as a lose headset is a safety concern. 

There are two types of Dunlop (or English) valves. I shall come back to these below. All valves have commonalities. First of all, one has to overcome the pressure in the tire before air flows into it. Unlike the valves on a car, the valves on bicycles are check valves that are held close by a higher pressure on the inside. When you pump, you will sense that the pressure builds up in the pump, its hose, etc, until suddenly the valve opens and the air streaming in may be heard. Any valve may also have dirt or other objects in side, check if your valves are clean. You can remove Dunlop valves and wash them in water with a small amount of dish-washing soap. Old Type The higher pressure in the tire pushes as rubber hose against a hole in the valves stem, sealing it. This type of valve is now uncommon in most of Europe, but may still be found on older bikes or, for instance, in China. 

After wasting two mediocre quality saw blades and lots of toil I gave up. The races of the BB bearings are directly in the shell of the cartridge. The steel around it is hardened through. It is not just surface hardening. I did not want to invest into a diamond coated saw blade. Nor did I have any means to grind through the shell (which would be more than tedious without a power tool that could access the narrow apertures. Don't let the deep cut in the picture mislead you, the cut is only deep where the steel was not hardened. success What finally led to success was the following approach: I chiselled off all of the PA 6 material down to the edge of the cartridge. I applied plenty of penetrating oil in a widened gap that worked as a funnel. Then I heated the cartridge shell with an excellent heat gun and a small propane torch. I used the socket (see 3) as piston and a wood working clamp to press out the cartridge, changing sided repeatedly. After a few iterations this led to the plastic of the mouting rings to move out a little. I chiselled that off again. And repeated the procedure. Within about 20 minutes I was able to remove all of the cartridge. 

Turbo trainers are notorious for quickly wearing out tires. Trainer tires are therefore made of a hard wearing compound. However, this compound may not provide enough traction for safe cycling. Traction is immensely important as it is usually the limiting factor to the maximum speed in curves. If one's rear wheel slides away while cornering recovery is usually not possible. See also the related question: What kind of tire should I purchase for use on a bike trainer? 

No, mounting different tyres will not affect the frame or bike lifetime. Schwalbe Marathon Plus are very common tyres on this type of bike. Focus sells the commuter version of the Mares AX even with such tyres (Conti Touring Plus). However you will experience a different ride. For instance grip, comfort, and rolling resistance suffer a little with tyres with such good puncture protection. The weight is only a minor factor. Reduced suppleness due to the protection layers is the main reason for this. Still, Marathon Plus are excellent tyres and will serve you very well for the described use cases. For equal puncture protection and a faster ride you would have to pay twice as much. For good roads you might consider a good all-round road tyre in 28-622. You may check the touring tyres section at $URL$ for additional info, and an article by Jan Heine for further information on the matter. 

Of course you may use moist wipes. Although, it certainly is not faster than very quick and rough techniques, for example, simply pouring water over it. Using wipes is certainly less effective than pouring water over the bike, flogging it dry with an old rag and wiping of the drive train with another one. A thorough cleaning may be done in three-and-a-half minutes. Finally, there is the amazing panacea to all our muck related problems, the jet wash! 

I posted a related question where I tried to abstract the problem to make it more generally useful: What is the smallest width of a tire for a given rim width? 

Since I asked my question some time has passed and I did upgrade my bike. The Shimano calipers would not fit, thus I went for Tektro. I summarized my experience for future reference: Modern brake levers and calipers are indeed a great improvement over my old brakes. The front brake is more than strong enough for me to brake from the hoods. 

Disc brake rotors with the six bolt design are attached with M5 fasteners. To shear off the head of a new M5 bolt requires a considerable torque. The design torque for medium resistance bolt is typically 5 Nm. It ought to take at least twice that torque before it fails so abruptly. A torque of 10 Nm is roughly equivalent to the weight force of 10 kg applied at a 10 cm lever. This would require quite considerable effort when using a common hand tool (eg a L-shaped X25 hexalobular-key). Since this happened at used bolts I should rather suspect a different reason for failure. For example, Stress corrosion cracking (SCC) or corrosion fatigue (CF). 

A good investment for someone new to cycling who starts with such a sporty bike is to get a good bike fit. Based on the findings of the fit a part that maybe has to be replaced, is the stem. As these come at different lengths but are not adjustable. You need to get pedals as well. You may choose between flat pedals, clip-less road pedals and clip-less mountain bike pedals. Each have their advantages as well as disadvantages on a cyclo-cross bike. For the clip-less pedals compatible shoes are needed. Criggie mentioned in a comment useful tools and accessories that you might need depending on your intended use. But first of all, get accustomed to the bike and find out what you like to use it for, as this changes everything. For instance, if you use it to practice CX on a lawn, five minutes walk from your home, you will not need spare tubes and tools on your bike. Conversely, if you ride long remote gravel roads, a days march from the next settlement, you will need to be very well equipped for all kinds of field repairs. In addition, each use case requires a distinctly different bike fit. 

Without a rear derailleur one cannot switch gear on the front chainring. The length of the chain would differ between chain rings. The derailleur compensates this by running the chain a longer path that may be shortened by moving the derailleur arm. It also tensions the chain due to its spring, which hold the chain on the chainring. 

Q: "[W]ould a competent welder be able to fix that crack[?]" No, that frame is done for. By attempting to weld such a crack, a welder would prove their incompetence. Even if you fix that crack you might find another crack on the right hand side, mirroring this crack. What is more the crack will go considerably deeper. I had a crack at the same spot and we asked the manufacturer (Corratec). According to their frame builder welding would warp the head tube too much to seat the head set properly. Q: "[Why] can a crack develop at that point[?]" Aluminium is susceptible to fatigue under light dynamic loads. The upper bearing of the headset is pressed into the headtube at this point. The position of the crack suggests it is caused by a force pushing the upper bearing forward. Due to the great mechanical advantage of the fork/headset system forces pushing the wheel backward require the upper support to bear a force pointing forward. This strains the upper support. (The lower support is compressed). When you pull a ring from the inside it will typically break at the same points your tube cracked. (If I remember correctly from undergrad engineering ±2/3π from the direction of the force.) (Try it for example with a bagel.) If your headtube showed cracks at any other place it would suggest machining tolerances not met. A too tight head tube cracked when the upper bearing race was pressed in. These cracks would then grow, for example, due to stress corrosion cracking. Q: New frame? Have you tried to ask Ghost? Corratec have given me a new frame when their teen year old frame failed in the same mode. PS: Do not ride your cracked bike! Not even a single metre: it might fail catastrophically without warning.