In the world cup the group structure is such that there are 4 teams each in 8 groups. The top two teams from each group advance. The way that the bracket is structured after this advancement is such that it is impossible for two teams in the same group to play each other any earlier than the final. To do this they structure the bracket so that the top team from one group plays the second team from another group and teams in the same bracket are on opposite sides. for instance, here is the 2014 full tournament bracket. Using Group A as an example, the winner (Brazil) played the second place team from group B (Chile), and the second place team in group A (Mexico) played the first place team from group B (Netherlands). This sets up a scenario where if both teams advance, they then play an opponent from groups C or D, and then an opponent from groups E,F, G or H to play for the final against an opponent from any of the other groups (including, possibly, their own). For the 2014 world cup this was documented in this document, specifically on page 52-53, section 42-45. The document lists the matchups for each round providing letter or number codes to each and then using those in the subsequent section to describe the matchups. It's hard to quote here, but suffice to say the laws there describe the bracket listed above. In a more general sense, FIFA's laws of the game is silent on how to organize a tournament, so it is up to each tournament how to schedule elimination rounds, however, in a round robin scenario with the top two advancing, if there are an even number of groups (especially when it's a power of 2), it is generally not hard to design the tournament such that teams in the same group do not play. It's worth noting (as was pointed out in the comments), that this is something unique to the era of a 32 team field. Prior to this era, teams from the same group could play each other prior to the finals as several 3rd place teams would be included in the final 16. 

A lot of the reason has to do with tradition. Football has always been a once a week event sport, and hockey, baseball and basketball have always been every night grind type sports. There isn't really a reason that football games couldn't be played twice a week, these guys are supposed to be world class athletes. Yes the game would change, and yes the quality of play would diminish, but only until the league and the athletes in the league adjusted. But the NFL and college games have built up as a once a week event and as such they have developed their revenue model around it being a once a week sporting event (baseball, basketball and hockey teams don't build 70-100k fan arenas anymore because they can't fill them every night, football teams do because they can fill them once a week). I don't feel like there is a physical reason that the NFL could not play games more regularly, rather, the way they have built up their brand, and their infrastructure, they need to maintain the relative scarcity of their games. It is no coincidence that the once a week, 16 game schedule league has every single game broadcast on TV, not by home team announcers, but by national, professional broadcasters. It's no coincidence that many of the teams in the NFL can rather easily fill a 70,000 seat arena. They have built their brands around the once a week event, and adding any more games (especially a second game a week) would only serve to dilute the brand and infrastructure that they have built. In contrast, MLB, the NBA and the NHL have managed to do quite well with more local coverage of their teams, with more games, and with infrastructure that accommodates their more protracted schedules (In fact infrastructure and broadcasting contracts is a major reason that the NBA is not considering permanently shortening their schedule to the 62 game season that they played this past year). The fact is that all of these sports would have a potentially better products if they played fewer games. Imagine if your local baseball team played every 5 days and your ace got to throw every game. Imagine if basketball teams got to have fresh legs for every game of the season. Imagine if your local hockey club was able to shorten their lines to only 2 shifts, because they only played once or twice a week. (the argument against doing this would come strongly from baseball and basketball in that both are arguably rhythm sports where if you don't practice regularly you could potentially lose your hitting or shooting touch) In conclusion, Football plays 16 games because of history. That history has led them to develop their brand and infrastructure (both physical, and contractual) around a scarce product(16 game season), rather than a plentiful one (162 game season). 

Floating, and getting control of floating isn't very hard, but it can take a lot of practice. If you don't have much body fat, you're already predisposed to sink, but managing your position well, and your breathing will help you overcome low body fat. If you already have high or normal body fat, learning how to control your position will allow you to float even better. Some things you can do to control your posture in the water: 

These are the plays that negate the entire home run if the force is a third out. Any other play will only negate the following runners if it's the third out. 

Specifically, if say it's a force play, and the second baseman drops the ball, but still has a play at first, if the runner picks up the ball, then the other runner would be out. 7.9(e) also has something to say about this: 

This mostly applies to starting pitchers. When a reliever enters the game usually they throw fewer pitches (some great ones only have a single pitch, see Mariano Rivera with the cut fastball), and they will likely not have as well developed of a gameplan with their catcher. This is where having a veteran catcher who knows a pitcher very well is really important. He potentially knows the hitters better than the pitcher does and is the guide for the reliever to get outs.