According to FIFA's Laws of the game PDF The size of the goalpost is 7.32 m (8 yds) x 2.44 m (8 ft). 

So bowling a ball underarm is not legal. It is considered a no ball unless special agreement before the match 1. However, at that time bowling an underarm ball was legal but it was against the spirit of cricket. And it was deliberately bowled just to prevent New Zealand hitting a six on the last ball. That's why whole cricketing world was upset for that decision. For more see a Wikipedia article regarding that incident. 

Firstly, D/L method is not a tie breaker. It is a method to calculate the target for the team batting second in the rain/weather affected matches. There are some ODI matches which were tied after the D/L method was applied. The match between Ireland v Pakistan is another example of a tied match using D/L method. Here is the list of tied ODI matches. You can search other matches yourself where D/L method was applied. Regarding T20I matches there is no match which was tied after D/L method was applied*. You can see the list of tied T20I matches here. * As on 2014-02-10 

Net run rate is counted by total runs scored by the team. This also includes additional runs (123-120 = 3) as well. Have a look at the point table of Asia Cup 2012. Here it shows total runs scored by Bangladesh is 746 in 136.3 overs. Note if point table includes only groups matches. Bangladesh's final score of all three group matches is 241 + 293 + 212 = 746 runs. Which includes 3 additional runs (293-290) scored against India when the target was 290. 

but not bowling properly (i.e. still throwing the ball), then if umpires catch such action during the match (that is totally up to them) they can call it a no-ball immediately. However, even if they don't catch such illegal bowling actions, the report for the illegal bowling actions is generated by match officials. If any illegal action found they submit the report the the relevant team manager. And process further. You can check the full procedure on Illegal Bowling Actions PDF. 

I emailed to www.lords.org regarding this question since I couldn't find any law regarding this. The reply I got from them is: 

T20 cricket match is more about entertainment than a genuine cricket. Cricket fans want to see more runs (mostly in form of boundaries) rather than fine cricketing shots. And Free Hit allows the batsman to hit the ball without any fear of being out. So they can hit more and long boundaries if the bowler make mistake. The Test cricket is the oldest form of cricket. Which has a different taste of cricket from it's starting. Where cricket fans want to see pure cricketing techniques rather than hitting freely. So Free hit is not suitable in the Test cricket. Also ICC does not change rules of Test cricket as much as possible. That's why free hit is not implemented in the Test Cricket. Also, ICC implemented the Free Hit concept in the ODI cricket because it is another form of limited overs cricket where fans want to see pure cricketing techniques + more runs. 

So the above rules were for that particular tournament. Take a look at another example: In the ICC Champions Trophy, 2013 the rules for berth in semi-finals were as follow: 

The rules regarding berth in the semi-finals/finals in case of equal points are defined for particular tournament. E.g. in the West Indies Tri-Nation Series, 2013 (Between West Indies, India and Sri Lanka) the rules regarding berth in the finals in case of equal points were as follow: 

As per Wikipedia the first ever T20 match was played on 13th June, 2003 between Durham and Nottinghamshire at Chester-le-Street. The first international T20 match was played on 17th February, 2005 between Australia and New Zealand at Eden Park, Auckland. 

Not sure about ODI matches but in T20I match it is allowed to use nicknames. Here is a photo of a T20I match between Australia and India played at Melbourne on 1st Feb. 2008. In this match, IIRC all Aussie players used their nicknames instead of surnames e.g. Brett Lee used Binga instead of Lee, Michael Clarke used Pup instead of Clarke. 

As per Law 23.1 in the T20 playing conditionsPDF it should have been called a dead ball but the umpires didn't give it. We can't say why the umpires didn't declare it a dead ball. Reading the commentary from ESPNCricinfo: 

So only six legal balls are allowed to bowl in an over and no exception is given there. And why should he given extra ball to bowl? I can't see any logic here. Note: There is no any law for Hat-trick in Cricket laws. 

Yes a team can use the same player for both bowling and batting in a super over. See APPENDIX 7 PDF for one over eliminator. There is no such rule that a team can't use the same player for both bowling and batting. This even happened in the T20I match between West Indies and New Zealand in the T20I world cup 2012. Where Marlon Samuels bowled the super over then batted with Chris Gayle. 

There is always a reserved umpire in any match. So if any umpire get injured the reserved umpire is called for umpiring. Mostly host nation's umpires are used as reserved umpires. See in a Test match between New Zealand and West Indies Gregory Brathwaite is a reserved umpire. 

No. Brad Hogg is not a leg spinner. He is a chinaman(or Left are unorthodox spin) bowler as I have already described. 

Cricket is a game played by two teams of 11 players each with bat and ball. Here, the scores are defined by runs. In the game, each team get a chance to bat and bowl which is called as innings. In the first innings the batting team try to score as much as possible while bowling team try to restrict their score as lower as possible. In the second innings the batting team try to chase/trail that score to win/lead the match. In bowling side bowlers bowl balls to the batsmen. Each bowler can bowl maximum six legal balls in a row. This set of six legal balls is called as over. Bowling team try to take wickets of the batting team. The innings ends as soon as 10 wickets are fallen. There are main two types of cricket match: limited overs cricket and unlimited overs cricket. In limited overs cricket there are two form of cricket ODI and T20I. In ODI each team can bat for maximum 50 overs. While in T20I each team has 20 overs (as name suggests) to bat. Unlimited overs cricket(international) is called as Test cricket. The test match is played for maximum 5 days. In test, each team get a chance to bat twice (two innings for each team). They can play for unlimited overs. For more detailed information about cricket refer this source by Wikipedia. 

As per Wikipedia the powerplay rule was introduces in ODI in 1980 in Australia. Looking at the series archives in 1980s, only ODI series in Australia was World Series Cricket. 

Run rate is calculated for how many runs are scored in an over i.e. how many runs per six balls. So you just need to convert completed overs in balls. Then calculate the run rate with respect to six balls. So in the above example completed balls is 43 X 6 = 258 + 5 balls. So total completed balls is 263. So now calculate with respect to six balls. So if 223 runs in 263 balls then how many runs in 6 balls? So 223 X 6 / 263 = 5.087 runs per over. 

The decision of keeping the match tie or go for tie breaker like Super Over depends on a particular series. Mostly, tie breaker is used in the series between more than two countries like any ICC world events, continent tournaments like Asia cup etc. Regarding your other question (which is already answered by @Sports Fan): The decision of which type of tie breaker (Bowl out or Super over etc.) should be taken also depends on the series. 

In Test matches, this happened in the controversial series between England and Pakistan in which Mohammad Amir (Pakistan) and IJL Trott (England) were declared joint Man of the Series. 

What is MVP award in IPL? How is it calculated? I see the list of award leaders from here. But I can't understand how is it calculated? 

List A matches means limited overs cricket match (and not Twenty20) played in one day. This includes ODI as well. 

Other than this, it enhances the spectator experience during the match not only for the spectator at the match but also those watching in broadcast. 

In order for an affiliate member to be considered for becoming to an associate member the national governing body must demonstrate that it has met the criteria for associate membership and must have also met the following playing standards within the last three years: 

India has the most international cricket grounds. It's 49! And that is more than double than the second highest(23)! Here is the list of numbers of international cricket grounds of Test playing country: 

As umpire's decision is considered as the last decision, players can not appeal for the dead ball but they may ask for clarifications. 

Since there are different rules for different tournaments we can't say which team will progress to the final in the above case. Also you can see such rules for the current tournament from www.espncricinfo.com. Just go to the series page -> open Point Table. Such rules are available in the Point Table page. E.g. Champions League Twenty20, 2013/14 -> the Point Table page. 

I really can't understand this question. Such matches (First-class and List A) are constantly played in domestic and international level. For e.g. Ranji Trophy is a First-class matches trophy. Which is played every year since 1934. Or Vijay Hazare Trophy is a domestic matches trophy which is also played every year. 

There it no laws for the twelfth player in laws of cricket regarding nomination of the 12th or substitute player. But in ICC's match playing conditions PDF, a captain shall nominate 4 substitutes along with playing XI. There is no specification of 12th man. 

Basically it is used for a delivery which is too good, almost unplayable and completely beats the batsman. Earlier it was used by Australian cricket. Then it became popular in whole cricketing world. It is same as Jaffa which is mostly called by English cricket. 

The law/meaning of the bouncer is the ball bounces above shoulder height irrespective of a batsman hits it or not. So it is considered a bouncer even if a batsman hits it and gets runs or out. 

Again this may be allowed only in bilateral series and not in big tournaments like World T20. Edit: In ODIs too it is allowed to use nicknames on jersey. Parvez Rasool in his debut match against Bangladesh used "Parry" on his jersey. And some comments regarding this was posted on Cricinfo: 

Bowling rules do not change by bowling type. So a bowler is allowed to bowl two bouncers in an over(in Test and ODI) and one in T20I in an over irrespective of bowling type. That means if a bowler bowls more than allowed bouncers in an over, it will be called a no ball. 

So in the given situation once the ball is bowled (here either no ball or free hit), it is in play irrespective of the ball touches the bat until the umpire declares it a dead 1. So if the batsman hit the ball after he gets bowled, he is actually obstructing the field because fielders (mostly the bowler himself in such situations) rush to the ball to take it to prevent batsmen taking runs. So the batsman who is hitting the ball is out Obstructing the field. 

First three batsmen out, as you described, without facing a ball. While the next ball is going to be faced by the next batsman, the batsman attempting to steal a run during the bowlers run up. The umpire intervene and awards 5 runs penalty to fielding side for this unfair act. (here the ball is considered a dead ball - Law 42.16). Still the first delivery is to be bowled. The next batsman is Stumped out in wide ball so the wicket is fallen and still remain 6 balls to bowl and at least 1 run to win. Then next six batsmen is out as below: 

I couldn't find any official source where it is mentioned that Under-19 Cricket's stats count or not towards his international career. But from any player's career statistics we can easily find that Under-19 Cricket's stats do not count in international matches. For example: Have a look at Cheteshwar Pujara's Career page. He was the captain of Under-19 world cup team for 2006. But looking at his career statistics after his debut in ODI vs Zimbabwe it is clear that Under-19 Cricket's stats don't count in international matches. Another example is Unmukt Chand. He was the captain of the winning team of Under-19 WC 2012. Looking at his career page before his ODI debut there is no record for his ODI career. 

We should refer the official site $URL$ However if we do not want to wait for every Monday to get updated ranking, this site calculates ranking daily: $URL$ 

1. Normally the ball becomes dead after it is thrown to the keeper and batsmen are into the crease or a batsman is out 

In the final league match of IPL 2014 between Mumbai Indians and Rajasthan Royals, Mumbai needed to win the match in 14.3 overs (87 balls). However, after 14.3 overs Mumbai could managed to tie the score but they couldn't chase it. So it looked like Mumbai is out of the tournament. But after a while there was a long discussions between umpires, fielders and batsmen then commentators said if Mumbai manages to hit the boundary in the next ball, they can qualify for the playoffs (the next round). When they had to chase the target in 14.3 overs why did they get extra delivery to win with better run rate? 

The third umpire review system debuted in Test cricket in November 1992 at Kingsmead, Durban for the South Africa vs. India series. Additional trivia: Sachin Tendulkar became the first batsman to be dismissed (run out) by using television replays. Source: ESPNCricinfo, Wikipedia 

First three batsmen out, as you described, without facing a ball. The next batsman is Stumped out in wide ball so the wicket is fallen and still remain 6 balls to bowl and at least 1 run to win. Then next six batsmen is out as below: 

This is the latest innovation in cricket which is invented by Bronte EcKermann. These high-tech stumps are called as Zings. The entire set-up during a match costs US$ 40,000. The main purpose of the LED stumps is to help the third umpire for decisions of stump outs and run outs. From this article: 

Retired not out If a batsman retires during his innings because of injury, illness or any other unavoidable reasons, and doesn't resume his innings, he is considered as retired not out. He can resume his innings after the wicket is fallen or other batsmen is retired. Retired not out is considered as not out. Retired out If a batsman retires during his innings for any reason other than injury, illness or any unavoidable reasons, and doesn't resume his innings, he is considered as retired out. He can resume his innings only with the consent of the opposing captain. Retired out is considered as out. Reference: Law 2.9 (Batsman retiring) 

The main reason for placing fielders in slips is that they can catch an edged ball which is beyond the wicket-keeper's reach. The gap between two fielders in slip position is minor enough that one slip fielder can catch other's fielder's catch chance. But they don't do that. But for wicket-keepers have to (and used to) dive to catch the ball which is in their reach. So if the first slip fielder is standing in the same line as wicket-keeper they may bump each other. That's why they place either behind the other fielders or (sometimes) ahead of them which is up to the bowler.