Improve safety by preventing accidents Improve safety by painting oneself blue Instruct other robots about this goal. 

Make them individuals ...like you already do for human characters. The heir of the orc warlord above may not care as much for the pink-skins, while an elf priest goes around inciting hatred of humans in the valley. Keep in mind that the ones that don't fit the stereotype of their local race or tribe are the most likely to leave and live elsewhere. So put them in unexpected places where kill-on-sight is not an obvious choice. The innkeeper's buxom daughter is a half-orc, the nightwatchman at the city gate is an old, graying goblin (with great nightvision) and of course the tax collector is an elf because she is the only one around that speaks common, dwarf, goblin and ogre tongues. I haven't mentioned the evil humans much, since there are plenty existing examples, but they also make for a good backdrop for an adventure assisting some peaceful/civilized/lesser-evil goblinoid society from the big bad evil. When your party after many adventures ends up back in the society that has no laws against killing greenskins, will they still kill and loot orcs of the same tribe they fought alongside, or goblins whose relatives guided them through the mountain tunnels? 

Yes, it is possible, in a world of abundance When humans, elephants, bats and dolphins have all evolved from some lemur-like proto-mammal, it seems that there are nearly unlimited possibilities with the same starting DNA. The problem is whether the species survive in the long run. Survival of the Fittest On our planet, the plants and animals most optimized to their environment are the most successful. A plant may grow flowers and fruits, but only big and energy-rich enough to be just a little more attractive than its neighbors to the insects or animals it uses to spread its seeds. A plant that puts all its energy into huge fruits would likely lose out to a plant that puts more energy into strong/healthy seeds or reserves for bad seasons. For animals, it is the same. Using up too much energy on non-essential features makes an animal vulnerable to competition from more efficient species, especially when conditions turn bad for a while and there are resource shortages. Survival of the Coolest Many of the fantastical features (giant growth, winged humanoid, etc) you ask about are essentially inefficient or sub-optimal in our environments on Earth, which is likely why we don't see them. If the planet/ecology was much richer in resources, and rarely affected by droughts/freezes/plagues, efficiency would not be as strong a factor in the evolution of species, since more varieties can survive and thrive. Instead, species could be selectively breeding according to their own criteria, be they height, pointy ears or ability to glide from tree to tree (fairies). The ideal environment would probably be a (sub)tropical paradise, seeing how rainforests on Earth also house the widest varieties of species. Maintaining the Balance However, there would need to be one more factor that is not present on Earth: Some process or entity that prevents single species from crowding out all the rest. The most likely candidate would be a sapient species that's maintaining the balance (very unlike what humans are doing). Another way could be that the "have few offspring, invest a lot in each of them" strategy has been universally adopted for some reason. Finally, some kind of endemic virus common to all species may be fairly benign, even helpful, but turn deadly if a critical mass of creatures is reached in one location. This would weed out rapidly breeding creatures, but also prevent the formation of cities until the species finds a way to prevent triggering the virus's deadly reaction. 

For your entire ecosystem to float in the air, you obviously need a mechanism that keeps all the necessary components up there. Since the complex molecules that make up life are more dense than the gases making up "air" and most biological processes need liquid water which also is a lot more dense, those components tend to fall down to the ground or wherever gravity pulls them. The most plausible way for living beings bigger than a cell to maintain buoyancy would be to feature blisters or balloons of Hydrogen. Helium is unlikely to work since it's inert and would need to be captured directly from the surrounding air. If there is enough Helium in the air mix to capture it easily, it's buoyant effect will be much smaller. Hydrogen can be extracted from water present in a much denser air with electrolysis or some other fairly simply chemical process. So, anything living can stay afloat, but if it's damaged or dead, it will fall down. New generations would hitch a ride on the parent until they achieve their own buoyancy, so that is not an issue. The major problem to solve is how to get back all of the heavy molecules that fall down, out of the ecosystem. There are two sources of heavy molecules that I can see: 

With all the production work mostly done by robots, very little time would need to be invested per person to produce enough food and keep it all running. People could earn their basic needs (housing, food and medical care) and a little bit of purchasing power through a "civic duty" of maybe one day per week or one shift per week. Any additional money needs to be earned by finding other work, but a person may just as well go for volunteer activities or community stuff. Since on your world A.I. research has stalled somehow ("technology allowing robots to fill these jobs is millennia away"), there will be plenty of work in the healthcare, education and other people-focused sectors. 

Did not get involved in any accidents Did not get involved in any accidents that were not caused by failing 1. Other robots are blue also. 

All flights on Mars will depend on expending lots of fuel, making them extremely expensive. Government leaders and billionaires will fly SpaceX. Scientists will take Elon Musk's Hyperloop instead. Even winged aircraft will need to take off and land using rockets for lift, as there is no safe way touch the ground at Mach 1, which is the point at which the wings would generate enough lift for stable flight (as mentioned in the question). Take off could be made more efficient by means of magnetic catapults, but landing an airplane of any significant mass will require vertical thrust from rockets. Mars' thin atmosphere and geological stability makes rail transport, whether enclosed (the Hyperloop) or simply a raised metal track, a much cheaper solution in the long run. The investment for construction may be higher than that for a rocket fuel refinery, but operating costs should be much lower. 

The mountains slide on thin layer of superheated water. Leaving aside anti-gravity tech, this seems to me the most feasible option, though it will still require fusion reactors. The mountain collects rain falling on their sides, extracting the deuterium for fusion and storing the rest for when it needs to move. When it wakes up, the fusion reactor generates streams of plasma that on their way to nozzles at the edges and bottom of the cone pass through heat exchange pipes and heat the water to very high temperatures, probably several thousands degrees Celsius. Because of the insane pressure at the flat bottom of the mountain the water remains liquid at those temperatures. The water is ejected out of the bottom of the mountain much like a steam iron does, where it essentially lubricates the entire bottom surface. Half of the plasma is fired forward from the slightly raised front edge of the mountain where it vaporizes any terrain features that might obstruct the mountain. The other half is injected into the water under the rear of the mountain, where it heats the water beyond the boiling point, generating just enough upward pressure to push the mountain forward. Note that forward only refers to the current direction of travel. The nozzles would be placed all around so that redirecting the plasma streams will change the direction of travel without having to turn the mountain around. The major limitation is that this system could not handle more than a tiny upward gradient by itself, as the mountain would simply slide backwards on its own water cushion. However, a more classical solution of giant gear-like wheels (think 100m+ diameter with "teeth" digging 15-20m into the ground )may allow the mountain to push itself forward even uphill. In retrospect, these ancient devices may be a little less impressive if you think of them as humongous hybrid of steamboat and clothes iron... Fortunately, there's a more awesome solution: Increase the power of the fusion reactors and just vaporize the earth under the machine directly to make it float on a cushion of plasma, leaving a trail of lava behind it!