[ə] and [ʌ] are allophones of a single phoneme. Schwa appears in an unstressed syllable and wedge appears in a stressed syllable. Because of this complementarity, it is not possible to find minimal pairs distinguishing the vowel. However, the analysis has to be performed on phonetic transcriptions and not an assumed phonemic reduction of the phonetics, thus the pair [ˌsʌbˈvɹ̩ʒn̩] (sub-version) and [səbˈvɹ̩ʒn̩] (subversion) is not a minimal pair, because the initial syllables differ in stress. An alternative would be to claim that stress is phonetically predictable, but is sensitive to whether or not the vowel in question is schwa (schwa cannot be stressed). Minimal pairs like the noun / verb contrast "pervert" [ˈpɹ̩vɹ̩t] / [pɹ̩ˈvɹ̩t] establish that stress is not phonetically predictable in English (a point that is well-known). The logic of phonemic analysis alone does not dictate that schwa and wedge must be reduced to a single phoneme, it says that they may. This is a classic problem of phonemic analysis discussed in the classic paper "The non-uniqueness of phonemic solutions of phonetic systems" by Y.R. Chao. If you add to the theory an Occam's Razor compulsion to minimize the size of the phonemic inventory (which was also done), then you must reduce these two phones to one phoneme. Since in phonemic analysis, phonemes are classifications of diverse sets of phones, it is a category error to think that phonemes have phonetic properties. It is however reasonable to wonder what would be a convenient way to write that phoneme: I personally like schwa, but there is nothing wrong with wedge as a letter. More languages use schwa as an official letter that use wedge, if that matters. Your logic chart does replicate the flow of thought used in popular accounts of the concept phoneme. Phoneme choice does not "change meaning" (if you think about what "change" means, that should be clear), and failure to "change meaning" does not mean that the sounds are in free variation. The minimal pair test is an absolute test for phonemic status: if [a] and [b] appear in the same phonetic substitution frame ([bɪp] "horse" vs [bɪb] "arrow") then the sounds are instantly proven to be distinct phonemes. If there are no such pairs, it is still possible that they can be reduced to a single underlying phoneme. The crucial question is whether some set of rules can be posited to derive the phonetic outputs: if not, then the two sounds cannot be distinguished purely by rule, and there must be two phonemes. Free variation, on the other hand, refers to the situation where the same word can be pronounced in two different ways, and there is no linguistic distinction between the pronunciations (one may find social distinctions, such as whether the pronunciation [ð] is in a more informal register compared to [d] (in Palauan). The key is that free variation is defined in terms of "same word", not "changing meaning". Different words, of course, often have different meanings, but not always (sofa, couch). 

Suggestion 1 is to pick one language as your "wedge" into Athabaskan, either Navaho (very many resources) or Slave (one very good one). Alternatively, for snippets across Athabaskan, you could try Fernald & Platero 2000 The Athabaskan languages. 

One aspect of how people think is what they focus on and don't downplay. An example would be whether you have direct versus indirect knowledge of a fact; or certain relationships between speech events and events that we talk about (I'm referring to tense and aspect). These are properties that are overtly encoded in some languages so that "personal knowledge" or "completed" may be something that you have to include in your communication in one language, though could express in any language. The problem is that nobody has devised a way of testing "how we think", which is a fairly unscientific albeit intuitive notion. Therefore, we can't actually test how a speaker of Quechua thinks, as opposed to how a speaker of Spanish thinks. If we could, then we might be able to see if Quechua-Spanish bilinguals "think" differently that Quechua monolinguals or Spanish monolinguals. It has been a long-standing observation that culture significantly shapes how people think (to the extent that "how one thinks" means anything), and language is obviously embedded in a culture. So it would actually be impossible in principle to test whether a difference in thought was because of language vs. culture. Quechua-Spanish monolinguals have a somewhat different culture from Quechua monolinguals -- how do you think they got to be bilingual? 

This could get too complicated to pursue in comments. I've seen a seat of the pants number of 10 per variable: you might read this. When you've sorted out the logical structure of the question, you should talk to a statistical consultant. The goal would be to have enough talkers that you won't have accidentally omitted some important group. I am betting that you cannot include a good-sized sample of children age 3-6 or 6-12, which means that you're missing an important chunk of the population, unless they are actually not important for your ultimate purpose. For voice recognition systems, you may be able to make the simplifying assumption that you won't have to distinguish male vs. female for 5 year olds. You may also be able to make the simplifying assumption that you don't need to identify the sex of talkers who are Chinese or Vietnamese first-language speakers, or African first-language speakers. Or not. Even if you don't plan on collecting complex demographic data and doing convoluted tests of significance, you should still plan as though you were going to. If your talkers are all undergraduate students, you may have a problem meeting the goal of doing as good as humans, since undergraduate students are not a representative random sample of humans. Thus I would be more concerned with the diversity of the sample, as opposed to the number of talkers. 

The term sandhi comes from Sanskrit, and means "putting together". It refers to sound changes that result from combining morphemes (including words). Most rules of Sanskrit sandhi do not refer to specific morphemes or categories, but some do. For example, the regular vowel sandhi rules do not apply to the vowels [ī ū e] in dual endings. Other Sanskrit sandhi rules apply in specific contexts (not just being blocked). More generally, if you look at the linguistic literature using the term "sandhi", it generally refers to any sound changes resulting from combining words (and "internal sandhi" is thus a rare usage). In the case of h-initial words, there is dialect variation in whether underlying /h/ is still there when the a/an rule applies, in case /h/ is at the beginning of an unstressed syllable. This would pose an analytic problem if you believe that optional rules must all follow morphologically conditioned ones -- such a belief was held for a while in Lexical Phonology, via a bifurcation of postlexical phonology into P1 and P2, but that theory has been disproven anyhow, and has been replaced with the theory that there is an autonomous phonetic implementation component which operates continuously and below the level of the segment. If you can establish that /h/ is not actually fully deleted, just reduced in magnitude, then that would be a prime candidate for a rule of phonetic implementation -- and it would be a real problem to have n-deletion apply after this gesture-reduction process. So far, nobody has provided any evidence that h-deletion is other than a regular old categorial phonological rule. 

You may find this ultrasound study useful, since it discusses the inconsistent claims about Russian (concluding that there is both uvularization and velarization and not pharyngealization, depending on the consonant). However, note that her framework (Esling's) makes some definitional assumptions about larynx raising and pharyngealization. Not that I dispute that position, it's just not "the usual". Secondary pharyngealization ("emphasis") in Arabic has sometimes been called "velarization". You can't expect much precision without fancy instrumental studies, plus some clear evidence that there can be distinct categories (e.g. the realization that there are really two lower back places, pharyngeal and epiglottal). See this paper for a study showing that Chechen (abstract) "pharyngealization" involves pharyngealization, uvularization and epiglottalization, determined by what specific consonant is involved. Shahin "Acoustics of pharyngealization vs. uvularization harmony" (Perspectives on Arabic Linguistics X) argues that there are two types of retraction harmony, but again this is governed by choice of consonant (tˁ vs ʕ) and is not contrastive. As far as I know, pharyngealization and velarization do not contrast. Both properties are uncommon, so you would not expect to find both contrasting in one language. Both cause significant lowering of F2 and a bit of raising of F1 (I think what makes them different is a lowering of F3 with pharyngeals). 

Electrical circuits are well-enough understood that you can talk about them in terms of equations. If speech is sufficiently like circuitry, speech can be described as an equation, and quantification is the holy grail of science. 

but at any rate, they reduce "macaroon" and "macaroni" to the same source (and don't even list "macaron" separately). 

The common rule for Swati and all of the Nguni languages rule for proper nouns is that you capitalize the initial letter of the "root", not the word. Sentence-initial capitalization on the other hand affects the first letter in the sentence. I put root in quotes because proper names can be formed from inflected verbs, which have subject prefixes, but those inflected verbs are treated as though they are autonomous roots. For example, uSibadle from /si-ba-dle/ "we will eat them". The initial vowel is called the "augment" in Bantu, and it is a feature of the noun class system, found in u-m-fana "boy", ba-fana or e-ba-fana "boys". In the case of eSwatini, this is a locative, formed by adding e- to the un-augmented noun and suffixing -ini, so indvodza "man", endvodzeni. The suffix part is lexically omittable, e.g. ebusika "in winter", and is commonly left off of place names (eMbabane (the capital)), but not always eZulwini "the heavens"). As far as the history of spelling is concerned, Swati was more recently recognized as different from Zulu, and inherited writing practices from Zulu. Zulu has been written for longer: I don't know anything about the very earliest missionary works, and there are grammars from the mid 19th century. In Bryant's 1848 article "The Zulu language", citation names are given as e.g. Umpandi, Unyokhana, and Grout 1849 "The Zulu and other dialects of southern Africa" likewise gives Untaba, Ubalekhile. This may reflect author idiosyncracy, but today's idiosynracy is tomorrow's policy. In other words, there is some reason to think that the proper name rule is a more recent development, but when exactly is beyond me. The history of this convention is expertly discussed here. 

In fact, it is, if you adopt the linguist's distinction between "syllabic" and "non-syllabic" segment to replace the less-clear notion of "vowel" versus "consonant". Y per se is not considered a vowel, but that's because when /y/ functions as a vowel, it is transcribed as [i] – likewise w which is transcribed as [u] when it functions like a vowel. Otherwise, /m n l r/ and so on can all function "as vowels", that is, as syllable peaks, and are transcribed as [m̩ n̩ l̩ r̩]. To confuse things just a bit more, there is also an optional special symbol [ɚ] used to notate syllabic ɹ in English. There are relatively few languages which present syllabicity contrasts in sonorants -- classical examples are Serbo-Croatian and Swahili. In (American) English, you can transcribe "button" with syllabic n or with [ən], where the latter reflects the phonological status of syllabic sonorants and the former reflects the lack of an actual vowel segment in the phonetic output. There is actually phonological evidence in favor of the syllabic n transcription, in light of the reduction of /t/ to [ʔ] which takes place before n but not [ə] (e.g. [bʌɾɹ̩] "butter" vs. [bʌʔn̩] "button"). The syllabic status of the liquid in "tire", "pail" in American English is notoriously uncertain, with linguists asserting with great moral certainty at a 50-50 rate that these words are 1 syllable / 2 syllable. Nobody seems to claim that "pain", "coin", "time" are two syllables, so there seems to be something special about l, r when preceded by a so-called diphthong (i.e. yl, yr). 

You need to be able to divide samples into some kind of rows and columns, like "word class" vs. "register". You compute the percentage of examples in the data for each row and each column, and multiply. Read here for a quick summary. 

The standard way of disseminating knowledge in the academic community is to write an article making whatever the claim is, and submitting it to a peer-reviewed journal. If you are simply interested in having people be aware of your claim without the critical review, you can do that with Facebook, Twitter, and a blog. I will disregard book chapters as probably inapplicable, since they involve a scholar inviting you to write a chapter and I presume you don't have the cred necessary for that. Suppose you want to claim that the English word "chicken" derives historically from the Arabic word دجاج. You would write an article providing your argument, and would submit it to an appropriate journal. Before doing so, you should check what the journal is actually about, so for example, Linguistic Inquiry, Phonology, and Journal of Linguistics would not be appropriate, nor would Oceanic Linguistics. Having discovered the correct venue e.g. the fictitious Journal of Indo-Semitic Linguistics, you submit your article. The article might be quickly rejected by the editor as unsuitable, either in terms of topic or in terms of elementary academic standards (the latter is rare but not unknown), and otherwise, a few dozen weeks after submission, you will receive a decision, which usually includes two or three reviews on the merit of your argument, written by anonymous specialists who usually have publications in the relevant area, plus a cover letter by the editor summarizing the reason for his/her decision. Interpreting and coping with the editorial decision and the individual reviews is itself an arcane political art. It is not unusual to receive a trivial half-page review, an in-depth 5-10 page negative review, and a 3 page or so positive review. That is where you need to pay special attention to the editor's phrasing in the cover letter. The job of the reviewers is to use their professional judgment to ascertain that you have used the appropriate research standards for supporting your claim, and that the claim is appropriate for / of interest to readers of the particular journal. The chicken-etymology claim would be rejected as off-topic for most journals, even those that do etymologies for East Asian or Austronesian languages. If the claim is internal to the history of English (e.g. the history of the term "politically correct" then there are English-centered journals for which the claim could be appropriate. 

"Pitch" is the perceptual correlate of fundamental frequency which is the rate of vibration of the vocal folds (in speech). "Intensity" is the perceptual correlate of... I'll say RMS amplitude. There are a lot of things that determine amplitude, such as the openness of the vocal tract. In vowels, Fundamental Frequency (F0) does often correlate with amplitude, but this is often offset by intrinsic amplitude properties of vowels ([a] tends to have higher amplitude, [i u] tend to have lower amplitude). Amplitude is generally not a linguistically-controlled feature at the level of the segment or syllable, but it can be controlled paralinguistically over short periods by talking softly. Pitch, on the other hand, is one of the major physical realizations of tone. 

You need to bear in mind that logic textbooks do not purport to provide translations of natural language into logical symbolism. Instead, they provide conventialized translations of standard logical symbols and expressions of English. It is pretty standard that in Philosophy 150, about half the time students screw up the exercise of matching natural language sentences to logical formalism, because they don't heed the strict conventions in the discipline of logic regarding the meaning of "and" (for example). Philosophy.stackexchange.com is a good venue for asking questions about the conduct of logic as a discipline. IMO, questions about the conventions of philosophers and logicians is off topic here, and you would be better served focusing, here, on questions about natural language use. Do you want to know about the meaning of "unless"? Then skip the distractor of quirky usage in logic textbooks. 

which means "make the copy of term 2 have the features of voicing, nasality, lateralism... that input term one had" 

One might think not since we haven't deciphered Minoan (and other languages). It depends on what you mean by "text". If the alien knew nothing about life on Earth and if all that was available was a collection of letters (i.e. no pictures or anything else to give context to the string or ) then, no. But if you know what a text is about, and if you have enough texts, it would be possible. Though you might have to contend with cognitive impediments by the alien, e.g. if they are stymied by the inconsistency of how "dwelling" is represented (house, maison, casa, дом, talo, بيت, guriga, nyumba,σπίτι), because they don't know that humans can speak more than one language).