This is something a King could actually help kickstart. Kings have money, so the King could fund various people. Indeed, a lot of the scientists/alchemists/etc of that era were wealthy noblemen. Find some of these people and fund them. But the most important thing the King can do with regard to this is bring forth future knowledge. While most 30-year-olds probably aren't conversant enough with the history of science to know the best place to jump-start a scientific revolution, even a basic education can help them move certain things forward. The medical profession would probably be a good place to start. The King could start training medical professionals in germ theory (firing those who don't want to give up their leeches). The King may not know much about antibiotics, but the concept of sterilization could work wonders for relatively primitive surgeries. If these techniques are effective, then those medical professionals trained in them will likely be hired by other nobles (who else can pay for a physician?), which can help the King build up support among them. The King's ability to improve matters of science would be very contingent on how much the person knew. If he learned calculus, being able to teach the mathematicians about the Fundamental Theorem could work wonders long-term. Someone knowledgeable about the Theory of Evolution might be able to assemble a cabal of biologists to accept it and gather evidence to help sustain it. But even so, there are many scientific fields that even a trained modern scientist couldn't help with, simply because they don't know how to use the tools that would exist in that day. 

Oh, that's easy. Every simulation has bugs in it. For example, it is possible for a machine using an actual SNES pad to reprogram Super Mario World to become Pong. Or even transform it into a Mario level editor. How do they pull that off? Because the simulation is imperfect. And the makers of those robots figured out how to use those imperfections to basically start overwriting memory with new code. From the outside world, we see the simulation as what it appears to be: a fat man running and jumping around. But it's all just numbers and memory in reality. For a machine with free will living in such a simulation, who can think and act faster and more precisely than any human, it's only a matter of time before they start finding the holes in that imperfect simulation. Exactly how those holes manifest themselves, we can't say. It could crash the simulation, killing them all. One of them could become Neo, gifted with the power to hack the world and seemingly defy "known physics". Or whatever. An AI within the system could only be able to manipulate the system's code directly via some sort of glitch that allowed it to start directly manipulating executable code. The main problem such an AI would have is that most simulations are not very fault-tolerant with regard to having arbitrary data fed into their executable memory, so the first time an AI encounters this glitch, the whole thing crashes. But if the AIs/simulation can survive such things, then yes, they will eventually work out the meta-physics of their reality. 

Detection of temporal incursions. You don't need to necessarily know when and where they went to, but you have to know in the present when such an act was launched. It could be a particular energy signature or tachyons or whatever technobabble you feel like using. So long as neither side can prevent the detection of their breaching of the fabric of time, it will work. The "time" to launch your own temporal incursions before changes caused by the enemy's team would overwrite you. There are several ways to achieve this one. You could have it that changes in the timeline do not propagate instantly; it takes some "time" for time changes to reach the present. Or you could say that the temporal war departments have the ability to shield particular areas from changes in the timeline, thus preserving their ability to respond and retaliate. Or something of the sort. 

A smart archaeologist (or rather: a team of different specialists) would thus not only be able to figure out that a nuclear war had taken place, but also roughly when it had. This will even be possible as long as there is geological strata generated during the war around to analyse. 

Nuclear fallout will be around for an long, long time Nuclear fallout (note: "nuclear fallout" usually refers to radioactive fallout. I will be using a slightly different meaning due to the context of the question). will be detectable until earth is destroyed - if geology allows. I am no expert in formation of rock sediments or the spread of nuclear fallout, so I will assume that nuclear fallout will be preserved in relatively clear strata in e.g. sandstone. If so, any civilization with a relatively basic understanding of nuclear physics will be able to see that there was a big release of fissile material (uranium-235 and plutonium-239), along with products from fission processes. An atomic bomb works through a chain reaction in which a lot of either uranium-235 or plutonium-239 fusions (there are a few other choices of isotopes which might be technically possible to use, but they seldom are) . However, not all of the bomb material will be spent; a significant fraction will be released as fallout. This means that a bomb will spread isotopes from three different groups: 

Large-scale nuclear disasters are unlikely. They would also release a lot of uranium-238, which would also be detectable. One could postulate a civilization which has reactors that only runs on highly enriched uranium, but that would be an extreme expense without any clear benefit. Large-scale deployment of dirty bombs is even less likely, for similar reasons: they would tend to leave a lot of fission products, but there is no reason for there to be a lot of uranium-235 and no uranium-238. 

We can ignore the last category for our purposes here: the other two will provide clearer evidence. Unspent fissile material The unspent fissile material will be either uranium-235 or plutonium-239. Uranium-235 has a half-life of over 700 million years. Thus, virtually all of it will still be around after the two million years in the question. This will be an excellent clue for the archaeologist: not only will it show that someone spread a lot of expensive, highly enriched uranium over the planet, it will also give them a good estimate of when, as you can analyse the amount of decay products from the decay chain to see how long since this took place. Plutonium-239 has a much shorter half-life, only 24000 years. This means that after two million years, it will be gone. However, it will not have disappeared entirely, but have also turned into uranium-235. This will mess with the time-span analysis of above somewhat, and introduce an uncertainty of about 100 000 years. Fission products Nuclear fission creates a range of different nuclides. In general, these are short-lived and unstable, but they will also generate daughter nuclides that are stable. The archaeologist will thus find a mixture of different isotopes, in proportions that does not occur naturally, in the same layers as the above uranium. This will clearly show that not only has someone spread a lot of uranium-235, but also a lot of fission products. The theory that would best explain this is an all-out nuclear war: 

The requirements for developed theorium reactors are not that tough: easy access to thorium, limited access to uranium and other sources of power and no incentive to develop a nuclear arsenal (and this last point is perhaps not even true; there are some that claim that the uranium 233 that is the actual fuel in a thorium-based cycle is viable as bomb material). Thorium is today seen as a less viable choice because it would need different reactor technology than what is used in most of the world to be most effective. However, this is not in itself a major problem. The Soviet union, Canada and the UK uses or has used reactor designs that significantly differ from the US-designed LWRs. I will give you one possible scenario: Sweden had it's own program for building heavy water reactors, with uranium mined in Sweden (Sweden has a lot of uranium, but not very concentrated). Had the large thorium deposits found in Norway been on the other side of the border, it is possible it would have choosen designs based on thorium instead, and gotten so far before the non-proliferation treaty that it would have decided to not buy american LWR designs but instead continue with the domestic design. At the peak, Sweden's reactors produced slightly less than half of the electricity used, so that requirement is not much of a stretch. 

In every fantasy setting, dragons are famous for their massive hoards of treasure. But the economic consequences of money suddenly disappearing from circulation are never really addressed. Smaug, for instance, took all the treasure of a small-but-wealthy nation. This would surely have farther-reaching repercussions than the nearby city of Dale going broke. (This isn't necessarily just about dragons, or a fantasy setting.) My question has two parts: 

is easy: just like in an elevator at its lowest point, your distinguished guests will feel heavier. How much heavier depends on how fast it is accelerating upwards. Specifically, they will feel 1+(a/9.8) times as heavy, where a is acceleration in m/s^2. is also easy: if they aren't accelerating, it is just like standing still. As they get farther away from Earth, they will slowly start feeling lighter. Specifically, they will feel 6000000^2/(6000000+e)^2 times as heavy, where e is the elevation above the surface of the Earth in m. is the complicated part: it depends on how fast they are decelerating. If they are decelerating slowly (less than 1G), they will feel lighter, but still right-side up, like when an elevator is at its highest point. With such high altitudes this will barely be noticeable. At 1G, they will be perfectly weightless. Above 1G, they will feel flipped upside down and be pulled slightly towards the ceiling of the elevator. Specifically, they will feel an acceleration of a-9.8*g(e), where a is the acceleration and g(e) is the weight from step 2. You need to be careful to limit the accelerations to about 5G in the first step and about 2G in the third. You don't want your esteemed passengers dying on you (too much paperwork). is again simple: we plug in the elevation to the equation from step 2 to find that gravity at 50000000m is about 1.1% of surface gravity, which is not quite negligible. If they are very careful, they should be able to stand on the earthward wall of the station. The slightest push will send them careening out into the same weightless environment they have on space stations. 

What would the effects on the global economy be if a large amount of wealth were suddenly and completely inaccessible? How would this be different if the wealth were accumulated slowly instead of all at once? What would happen when the dragon is slain and all that wealth is suddenly in circulation again? 

Forget energy and nutrients- If you want a new arm, you need the weight of a new arm, in raw materials. A bit of Googling shows figures ranging from 5-6% of your body weight in one arm, which is about 8 pounds. So in order to grow a new arm, you need to eat eight pounds, which is way more than any normal person can handle. Eight pounds is about the weight of two rabbits. But it doesn't stop there: There's roughly 1.3 pounds of bones in your arm, so you would have to eat 1.3 lbs of bone, which your body would then have to break down, move, and reassemble. It would be far, far better to get your original arm back and tie it in place while the magic healing reattaches it. Or at least find a more efficient way of getting the raw materials than through the stomach. Of course, this is only relevant if your magic doesn't break conservation of mass. But if it does, all bets are off.