There is no specific weight that you "should" be doing, it all depends on what you are able to handle. Obviously, the closer to you get to your capacity in any combination of X weight, lifted for Y reps is going to stress and work your body. If you're new or just getting back into it, stay away from getting close to your maximum capability until you've done a few workouts, and your body is used to the activity, otherwise you'll be so sore that you won't be able to exercise for a long time, plus it will be unpleasant and de-motivating. Also, what are your goals? If you are overweight and are interested in improving your stamina and fitness levels, then working lighter weights for higher reps per set will help develop more endurance. Less reps, higher weight, more strength or explosiveness. Since it sounds like you are just getting back into it, and aren't sure about how much weight you can or should be doing, either start pretty light, or make sure you have a spotter. You are setting yourself up for a dangerous situation if you don't. Both, actually, would be best, but if you can't get a spotter, don't push too close to your limits. 

Technically, we don't, but for some people, that works better for them or is more enjoyable. With so many different kinds of weights and ways to employ them, if it is your desire to isolate and overload specific muscle groups, that will be much easier with weights than natural body movements which tend to incorporate more of the body. 

There are a lot of activities you can do. You can do activities where the flexibility is a by-product, and important to the activity, but not the main goal, itself - dance, yoga, martial arts are a few obvious candidates. If you want to improve your flexibility, at all, stretching once a week won't cut it. If you want to drastically improve it, daily is more like it. Maybe you could see some decent improvements with every other day, but much less than that probably won't do much of anything for you. If you are exercising with other activities more active or "ballistic," movements as part of the warmup are okay. Traditional static stretching before a workout is pretty useless and actually increases the likelihood of injury. That kind of stretching is much more beneficial as part of your post-activity warm-down. My daughter is flexible to the contortionist level. She says she spends about 45 minutes every evening exclusively doing stretching/flexibility work. 

I was skinny enough in my early adolescence that my biology teacher singled me out as someone who might fill out, but would never be muscular (talking about genetics). She was actually wrong about that, but that's besides the point. I added a lot of muscle when I changed my resistance training routine to one more focused on breaking down the muscles vs general fitness. Instead of doing one muscle group on a rotating basis per day, break it down so you cover them all in two sessions, then you'll be working each of the muscle groups more frequently than up to 1.75 times per week (if you work out every day and never miss). I did torso (chest, back, shoulders/neck) on one day, extremities (legs, arms) on the others. Depending on how much time you have, you should do a program that adds weight training in a way that will allow you to isolate and overload muscle groups. If you use free weights, there will be a self-consciousness hurdle to overcome as more experienced people will be moving bigger weights and will seem to know what they are doing. Don't worry about that. Most people who notice how much weight someone is moving will be inclined to respect that someone is trying to do it, more than worry about how much weight someone else is moving. Generally, heavier weights with lower reps are going to develop more muscle mass. Lighter weights at higher reps will improve strength, but will develop more performance over time (endurance), and that doesn't add as much mass. You don't have to go full-on body-builder, but check a body-building book out from the library and take note of some of the specific exercises, then adapt the sets and reps to fit what you want. Also, if you want to try out swimming, that heavily develops torso, arms and core because you're propelling yourself almost exclusively with the upper body, which is the opposite of how we normally get from point A to B. It will fill out your chest, shoulders, back (especially) and triceps. Learn proper technique, and then do interval training (shorter swims on specific time cycles) vs. just swimming continuously for a long period of time. Even as you get more fit and lose fat, when you swim, you tend to put on muscle mass. And regular, hard swims will make you hungry. Best of luck to you. In terms of general fitness exercises, make sure you do a pretty steady routine of warming up before lifting weights or doing resistance exercising, and static stretching afterwards. Maintaining flexibility is very important, for life in general. It's much easier to get earlier, or to maintain, than to try and get back if you lose it. 

The problem is there will be a certain amount of trade-off, initially, when you start getting back into a workout routine. Over the years, you have not only added fat, but your muscles have had a certain amount of atrophy due to not being as used as vigorously or frequently. As you are getting back into a workout routine, while you are losing fat, you are also adding muscle, and this will continue for a while. Keep in mind that muscle tissue is more dense/heavier than fat tissue. What will eventually happen is that your muscle mass will stabilize as it reaches a level where it has adapted to the stress you are putting on it, and then it won't add as much new tissue, and you'll see more of the weight loss as there isn't the offsetting gain as you continue to lose fat. How do you look in the mirror? Leaner? Tighter? More defined? This is a much better gauge for how you are doing than the scale. Or maybe get your body fat percentage measured as you go to help you assess progress.