Typically you quote gear sizes in gear inches, very basically this is the drive wheel diameter multiplied by the ratio between the two gear cogs, traditionally quoted in inches. Also sometimes mentioned is development which is the amount of distance travelled by one revolution of the cranks (the astute will notice that is going to be proportional to gear inches and possibly a more meaningful quantity). The more complex alternative, but one which is an absolute number, rather than measured in distance is Sheldon Brown's gain ratio which tries to include the crank length in the equation to get some sort of appreciation for the extra work for the smaller cranks found on, e.g., road bikes in comparison to ATBs. So for every unit travelled by the pedal on its circular journey, the bike will travel x units along the ground. Hubs will still have an absolute number of sprockets, even if it is just an equivalence to a real cog so can still contribute to these equations. 

All the answers referring to safe stopping are exactly right, but then there is another consideration - your equipment. @moz uses m/s and this gives a real feeling for the amount of distance you can cover in the time it will require to observe, decide and then act. Add to that your equipment. I remember a friend once discussing their recent Alpine trip and his first major experience of serious mountains. He'd been doing a lot of climbing training in the lead up and knew every decent ascent within 30-40 miles of home, but the biggest thing that you couldn't train for without the same conditions were the descents. When gravity and the road is making you go faster than you are comfortable with - and when the friction of your brake blocks heat the rims so much your tubes explode and then the blocks melt and solidify against whatever they touch. A maximum safe speed is basically how fast can the rider stop given the ambient conditions and their equipment. There's never going to be one answer for all situations, but the faster you go, the better you're going to need to be - and the better your kit will need to be, too. 

I'm in the market for a new cassette for my road bike and I frequently see cassettes listed as mountain bike or road bike. Since they're usually interchangeable and can be used on either type of bike, what makes manufacturers designate them as one type or the other? 

Cateye uses proprietary sensors, so I'm afraid that generic ANT+ sensors won't work. Although it's possible someone has made a copycat sensor that works with Cateye, I doubt it. 

I therefore conclude that Garmin and the other half-dozen fitness apps/gizmos I've tried all grossly exaggerate calorie usage. Why? Because looking at your expensive gizmo and seeing a huge number of calories burned makes you happy and sells more product. So, based on my admittedly casual and anecdotal observations, I would recommend subtracting 50-75% from whatever Garmin says for a reasonably accurate estimate of calorie burn. 

It's exactly the right way to deal with it. If people passing you is dangerous for anyone, then you need to make it extremely inconvenient, and even illegal, for them to do so. Once you're beyond the complex road that makes it necessary for you to take the lane, be a good fellow and get to the side of the road and let them by. I've only very rarely encountered hostile reactions from drivers when I take a lane. The vast majority realize why you're doing it and actually appreciate it. "Oh, look! A predictable cyclist obeying the rules of the road! What do you make of that, dear?" "I don't know, never saw such a thing. But at least I know what he's going to do next." 

In fact, using a cloth to wipe clean the bike dirt are quite eco-friendly. You might use less water if doing it properly. It also reduce the risk of splashing water into bearing,etc. For heavy dirt like mud, first use gardening spray lightly spray to wet up dirt in order to remove them. Just be careful when dumping the waste water, toilet bowl is a good idea compare to bathtub drain. For greasy part, spray grease removal/solvent and use paper towel instead of cloth. Don't feel bad about "saving the tree" on the paper towel. Though cloth are "reusable" ,you will waste water and pouring those greasy dirt into your drainage, which is more harmful to the environment. 

Since you mentioned fast and comfort, it seems a mid-drive motor pedelec ebike fit you requirements. It also help you to train and maintain your cadence. 

Stationary stand on the pedal to lighten a bump is a different story. While standing to pedal yourself up to the hill is a bad idea. Sheldon brown has write something about Standing while Cycling and how to fix it or avoid it. Putting too much pressure on the knee is how people getting sport injuries from bicycling. I just want to add one more point : knee injuries are difficult to heal. The knee Meniscus are not renewable. You need to checkout explicit instruction to train to use the muscle and tendon around the knee. 

I noticed the same thing when I first got a B17. I fiddled with various angles and so forth, but in the end I found it's mainly just a matter of getting used to the smoother feel of leather as compared to the plastic you're used to. You slide over leather more easily, especially if you wear typical bike shorts, and this gives you the sensation that you're going to slide forward since you're not used to a smooth surface. But you won't. Your position in the saddle is maintained by your arms and core no matter what sort of saddle you have, not the saddle itself. The smoothness of a leather saddle is actually a benefit, not a drawback, and you'll come to appreciate it if you give it time. Yes, breaking in helps a bit but it's not necessary. Just getting used to the new feel is all that's necessary. After a lot of trial and error, I ended up setting my saddle perfectly level just as I had with my plastic saddles. The temptation to tilt the nose upward just because the material is smooth should be resisted, as you've already discovered. 

I'm in the market for a used cyclocross bike to use as a winter bike, and so I've been browsing craigslist. I generally ride a 56-58 cm road bike frame, so I turned down an otherwise good deal because it was a 52 cm frame. The seller told me that a 52 cm cyclocross frame was comparable to a 54 cm road frame. Is that statement true? And if it is true, how is that so? 

Too much padding doesn't mean comfortable as mentioned by Sheldon Brown, as the padding will press against your seat bone. People start long distance cycling tour recommended to use "hard" leather saddle such as Brooks flyer, where the leather slowly break in to follow the sitting shape. 

Sensor just too complicated and not cost effective. Rear view mirror is sufficient to let you notice the failure at night, human eye is sufficient to detect the red light patch on the road at night. If you can't see the red patch, it is either fail or the light angle are wrong : you are not suppose to beam the light to the driver level. As a backup , - attach a battery operated LED light on the seat tube, facing left or right. There is one hacks beside the mirror : lay a cheapo optical fibre cable at one point pointing right on the rear LED light, another point tie on your stem. So you will see the red light in front of your stem end when your turn on the LED. If anyone insist some home product DIY fiber optics, checkout this youtube video use a transluscent silicon cable as fiber optics cable 

About the "metal deteriorate issues" - A proper maintain steel frame will not rust. Lube and oil them, you will never see the oxidisation - Alluminium "rust" will stop when oxidation form on the outer layer. In addition, steel frame WILL NOT rust, if you maintain it properly. 

Domestique is only really a term found in (professional) team cycling and in that context it isn't really pejorative, it's descriptive of the role performed in the team by those riders without aspirations to overall honours, but who are there to support their team leaders and specialists. While it stemmed from the French for 'servant' the term has evolved and softened. On some stages roles might be reversed, perhaps on a rolling hilly stage the star sprinter without a chance of a stage win that day would turn to playing the domestique, e.g. in last year's Tour de France, the then reigning World Champion, Mark Cavendish, was seen at the team car stuffing bidons up his jersey and ferrying them back, often this will result in the description super-domestique, recognising the role change. Where it might be pejorative is use away from the pro peloton. If you're on a club run or a ride with friends and someone asked you to do something that you didn't want to do, "what am I, your domestique?" would be about right. 

In addition to watching, there are lots of things to read, for instance the great autobiographies like Laurent Fignon's We Were Young and Carefree ("Nous étions jeunes et insouciants"), Bobet's Tommorow We Ride and David Millar's Riding Through The Dark - all of these have large sections devoted to races, racing and reacting to events. The Rider by Tim Krabbe is fiction, but not really, giving wonderfully evocative descriptions of being a racing cyclist. There are also some good bloggers, e.g. In The Saddle and Rouleur Magazine (which has some great articles if you can find it in your locale). And then go to YouTube and search for Sunday in Hell. Probably the best movie ever made about cycling, not all about the strategies, but definitely a lot about how to race. 

If the components really are the same (and I think you'll find that's unusual if there is a large price difference) then odds are the cheaper bike is probably a better value. The more expensive bike may have other qualities that are superior, but those differences probably won't be big enough to overcome the price differential. I'd say that for the average cyclist it rarely makes sense to buy the more expensive name brand if a bike with nearly identical components can be had for less. But there's the rub -- they rarely are nearly identical unless they're also fairly close in price. 

Today I encountered a puncture. I pulled the tube, ran my fingers around the inside and outside of the tire carefully looking for the offending object, found nothing, so concluded it was probably a pinch flat (I had just hit a pothole). I installed a new tube, being careful to seat it properly to avoid pinches, and re-inflated. Within seconds the second tube was flat. That being my only spare tube and my only CO2 cartridge and it being dark and a very long walk home, I called the sag wagon (aka my wife). Back home, I removed the tire from the rim, turned it inside out, inspected carefully, and found nothing. Ditto with the rim and rim tape. And, I should add, these are virtually new tires and rims with barely a hundred kilometers on them. When I looked at the second tube that failed, I found this: 

In most cases it's a matter of common sense and good judgement. If the pavement between the road and the bike racks is quiet and you're not going to impede anyone, cycle it. Same for the bike path not directly accessed from the road. Your 3rd point, though is the crux of many discussions and we should be careful in how to answer it here. My perspective, although it's not clear whether this is the (UK) legal situation, but just how I 'morally' feel, is that if you approach the junction on a bike you shouldn't confuse the situation by morphing into a pedestrian and pushing your bike through the junction, then remounting your bike. While this might seem expedient it is reinforcing the view of other road users that you're somehow less than a proper road user, if you can use other facilities, then you should all the time, says that argument. Certainly there are some intersections where it might be safer to do so, but the law (and cyclists' reputations) are often contrary to safety. It's a tricky question and common sense is often not to the fore in confrontations. I try to avoid any use of the pavement unless it is explicitly marked as shared use, but where it's not clear, to try to not do things that would blatantly and needlessly annoy others. After all, cyclists in many locales have a bad reputation for selfish behaviour, I'd rather not add to it. 

(update) You can checkout some design under wikipedia bicycle parking rack page. the easiest way is google "buy bicycle parking rack". Depends on region, there may not be "ready made" for mass bicycle parking near your local bicycle shop. You need to find workshop that fabricate those rack/stand/pole/etc. 

Compare to a torque wrench, Bicycle torque sensing are quite tricky. Checkout wikipedia torque sensor Torque sensor need good material QC, electrical measurement component and good sensor, AKA : expensive. And it is difficult to make a DIY kit to install it properly. But the benefit is a direct feed to your motor, increase output when torque feedback are high = smooth pedal assist, save power when low torque sensed. Pedelec that use torque sensor will also use speed sensor to cut off the motor when it reach the "legal limit". OTH, speed/cadence sensing is much easier, you just need a simple feed : use a magnet or reflector to measure the gap and timing. So it works reverse : power always on, power cut off when the speed goes above the limit. "Power assistant output level" is pretty important here to save the energy. 

Material fatique does happens, it is not caused by time, but due to excessive stress on usage, and/or manufacturing process and/or design fault. If all done under optimal condition, no over stress(e.g. a 120kg person ride it without suspension and under inflate tyre), a aluminium bicycle may last forever. A bang, a fall, can generate impact that stress the frame weak point. If you are not using it for long time, then the stress is little to none, discounting the stress from introduced from bolts/screw/welding joints/mounting temperature contraction/expansion. If you search around stackexchange on the same topics, there is advice that you don't put your bike under the snow : i.e. a concern about welding material contraction different than the frame. But this shouldn't be an issue as long as you didn't move the bike from very cold place to very warm place (i.e., temperature different ~ 20 degree Celsius). Consumer association with loaded funds, such as the German Stifftung Warentest, does indeed test consumer bicycle from time to time, especially for Ebike, due to ebikes are more susceptible to weight stress (the additional motor and battery weight). As some report I read, in 2013, series of ebikes are not satisfied due to the stress test. However, in 2016, many pass the stress test, with exceptional of one bike that with a cracked aluminium seatpost. So it is all about how the manufacture learn to build the bike better. In addition, it is a myth that titanium will fair better when put on stress : it is all about manufacturing process and design.