I lift, but most of my friends don't. What should I have them do when they (finally!) decide to try coming to the gym with me? My friends are not fit, but also not obese or possessing gross injury. Let's assume this composite "ideal friend" will actually do the workouts for at least a month, and that their goal is health and general fitness. They cannot perform a pull-up but are generally capable of running a mile or two and deadlifting at least seventy five pounds with excellent form. My goal is not injuring them and showing them a path to consistent results. Feel free to specify exactly what equipment they need to acquire, whether it be a gym membership, barbell, kettlebell, set of dumbbells, TRX gear, pull-up bar, or enormously elaborate Rube Goldberg system of pulleys attached to farm animals which one lifts in a prescribed order. 

Expect Less You're detrained. That's to be expected. Don't try to get back where you were all at once. Jim Wendler poses it this way: 

Yes. So are barbells, dumbbells, kettlebells, bands, and any other form of resistance. That does not mean they are equally effective. 

The article jumps around a bit, but the end result is clear: economics and the vagaries of culture and history have much more effect on when the majority of people people eat meals. 

The standard progression I've seen is to add weight once you can do fifteen or twenty unweighted. One then does three or more sets with added weight. One should be able to do at least five and no more than twelve reps--as long as the weight is within those bounds, it's the right weight. This keeps both volume and strength up. If you can't do five, reduce the weight. If you can do ten or twelve each set, add five pounds. All numbers assume dead-hang, full range of motion, no kip, chin over the bar and hopefully chest touching the bar. 

The amount of rest that your muscles (in general or one specifically) need to rest after a workout depends on your eating and sleeping habits during the recovery period, level of training ability, as well as the intensity of the workout. That is to say, there is no answer to your query, or more precisely, there are many answers and all of them are correct in different circumstances. If you're new to lifting and you lift heavy, one or two days of rest is a fine approach. If you're very new and using moderate weights, you might be able to get away with no rest between lifting days, but this is tough to keep going for a substantial period of time. Experienced lifters are also sometimes able to train every day, using careful modulation of training load and diligent recovery efforts. Some lifters split the body into components, so that they can work their upper body on one day and their lower body the next, each one resting while the other half works. As you see, there is no simple answer. 

In Ultimate and other disc sports, the forehand "flick" throw is one of the most common movements. Like a forehand in tennis, the movement starts with the arm to the side and slightly behind the player. The arm is then whipped foreward in the horizontal plane. I've anecdotally seen a number of shoulder and elbow injuries that seem to be caused by this movement. A player throws hard and throws often and finds that the movement produces pain. I'm not particularly interested in specific diagnoses and treatments. What I'd like to know is how we can prevent injury by using prehab exercises that strengthen and mobilize the arm for the forehand disc throw. I know that getting the arm stronger and more mobile in general will help, but what are the specific needs of this movement? 

Squat 3 sets of 20, one minute rest between sets, 95 pounds 3 rounds of: max reps pull-ups, max reps dips, rest 30 seconds 

In my limited personal experience, so-called hardgainers who get their diet, digestion, stress and heavy lifting in order tend to gain weight. Yes, not lifting, eating poorly, not sleeping, and digestive issues can derail that method. Yes, our bodies have a tendency to stay as they are. But I think many so-called "hardgainers" would find substantial success from dedicated eating and lifting. 

So those 60% and 80% sets may be developing bar speed or simply assisting your development by increasing your training volume. My Method I don't worry as much about specific percentages on the way up, preferring to use readily available jumps in plates. So if your weight set is stocked, as many are, with 25s and 45s, I recommend using those instead of spending time in the weight room doing arithmetic. So for the 250 pound squat singles I did the other day, I warmed up with: 

Any kind of training can produce increases in muscle mass. Aerobic training simply stops doing so very quickly, since it doesn't require much strength to perform. Aerobic training requires a small degree of strength repeated over a relatively long period of time. The body is more stressed by the requirements of repeating the exercise over a period of time than by the strength required for executing it, therefore recovery is focused on improving the body's ability to perform over a period of time rather than muscle gain. One gets good at things by demanding the body do them. Gaining strength and muscle mass means demanding the body perform at or near maximal strength and muscular exertion. Gaining greater cardiovascular ability means demanding the body perform low-level exertions repeatedly. The Specific Adaptation to Imposed Demand (SAID) principle governs the body's development in the face of these stimuli. 

The amount of work you're doing right now is pretty small. Add some more heavy lifting and hard conditioning and you'll be more in line with your goals. 

It is a fallacy that health is best obtained solely through long, slow cardiovascular exercise. Jogging does not hold a patent on health. Strength training gives you health by way of: 

You'll be squatting, lifting things from the floor (akin to deadlifting), pulling on things (akin to chin-ups), and pushing on things (akin to a bench or overhead press). Sounds like you need a general strength program. Buy Starting Strength and follow its advice. It includes these exercises in an efficient program with excellent descriptions. You'll get strong all over, which just happens to be the same strength you need for the situations you describe. Modifying the SS program to add farmer's walks or weekly conditioning work such as sprints or 20-rep squats might be a good idea. 

Fifty pounds of volume across three sets that aren't close to your work weight are nothing to worry about. The things that you should worry about is too much volume too close to your work sets. For example, a set of 5 at 190 might be too much for that work weight of 205. So might five sets of 135. But adding five pounds to each warm-up set? You'll be able to handle it. 

-Proust Adhering to proper form means picking a form to hew to. Picking a form requires you to choose: 

If body image is the underlying goal, it may help to take consistent progress pictures every, say, six weeks (using the same lighting and clothes every time) while otherwise ignoring how your body looks. This frees you up to focus on getting your deadlift up, or biking to the next town and back, or not missing a workout. Picking a goal weight is difficult if you choose to strength train, since muscle gain can make the scale seem to say you're not losing fat. 

You want exrx.net. For example, this exercise, this training advice, and this directory of exercises. 

For the stretching, pick up Tom Kurz' Scientific Stretching. It addresses your questions. Three times a day may or may not be excessive; it depends on how you do it. You might get more mileage out of doing yoga a few times a week and developing a home routine. Running is not strength training unless it is sprints. 800 meters is way too long for strength work; if you want strength do deadlifts and squats and pull-ups and dips. I find Romanian deadlifts quite useful for simultaneously strengthening and stretching the hamstrings, for instance. Make sure you do plenty of counter-movements to the BJJ work: opening the hips and shoulders to reverse the curled-up posture common for most groundwork. This article is a good overview: