I think comparing your time to the less experienced person's (LEP) isn't as imporant as the time you can save on the project. There will be some aspects of the project the LEP will never be able to do that you will no matter how much time he spends on it. It is possible there will be others on the team who can provide answers, but now the project has used up the time of 2 people. If it takes more time/iterations to fix the code, you have testors that are waiting around and/or duplicating efforts. Will you be available to other's that have questions? You may provide answers twice as fast, but it takes you 10x longer to get to it. My suggestion, would be to put you in charge of a particular piece of the application and show what you can do unless you can show your performance on previous projects. 

This recruiter has really made too many mistakes to expect any compensation. It's a border-line scam. 

You have a few things you need to fix. Clear the air - obviously your team leader was offended and is acting out against you. If you are sincere about not doing it again, find out what made him so mad. Future Disagreements - This may be more obvious after you find out what he's really made about. Maybe you disagreed in front of others? Was it bad timing? No one wants a debate when a deadline is near. Some people just can't tollerate a subordinate who disagrees. You may end up just being a "yes" man. Team Leader's Unprofessional Behavior - Eventually, he needs to get over it and stop criticizing you in front of the others. Depending on where you live, this could be considered creating a hostile work environment. You may have to go over his head, but do your best to work it out. Talk to other members of your group. They may have some insight and really are the people you want to make sure you get along with. Chances are if you're willing to be confrontational with the team leader, you do it with everyone as well. Some company cultures just look at these things differently. 

You didn't come right out and say she could get fired, but most people would think this person is having serous trouble at work. Be more discrete with what you say. If you are supervising someone, just let others know what you want them to do when interacting with this person. Whether that is sending errors, complaints, additional work to you, it doesn't matter. No one needs to know the reason behind your decision. You're not giving orders but merely asking others out of professional courtesy to comply. I hope your boss doesn't go around telling people about what a poor job you did in this instance. 

I don't think you should. At a minimum, you could ask if there is anything you should be concerned about from other potential candidates without getting too specific. An obvious example would be if someone claimed they are the best candidate for the job and specifically mentioned you as being incompetent. Hopefully, if there were any indications of a serious problem, someone else would be looking into it. If they have no intentions of coming up with a remedy for the problem, I doubt they would share anything with you of any value. Start from a clean slate and give everyone a chance to prove themselves and hopefully they'll do the same for you. 

Of course you're calling to ask for a job. There's a big difference between saying, "Give me a job right now!" and acknowledging how much you want to work there. At some point you should get an indication on whether or not your friend made a mistake by giving you the number. Apologize if the Google person is upset. If all goes well, get a name to send a CV. Ask how long the hiring process would take and what form the interviews are. 

Since you're not forced to use the key, put it in your desk so you don't lose it. This way, you don't have to confront anyone. Most companies just pay the cost out of their own pocket. There may be some precedence at your company where a lot of people kept losing their key. To encourage people to work on off-hours, they should reconsider this policy. You could mention that with or without returning the key. 

A small company should take a little more pride in using a personal touch in business matters. They also tend to fill fewer positions. At the bare minimum, any size company can put together a form letter or email to all job candidates who did not get the position. If you have candidates that are working, they probably gave permission to call them at home in off-hours, so not having enough time is just a poor excuse. Not contacting candidates back in and of itself is not going to attract a higher quality employee, but just shows the company cares enough to pay attention to details and do what is right. 

So how many years has the sr. dev. been doing this type of grunt work with the promise they'll "soon" hire another jr. devs to take on this type of work? Doesn't make it right, but it would explain it. I don't agree with misleading you during the hiring process, but you could be dealing with people who have been doing what you're doing for a much longer period of time and see this as sort of a vacation and the new guy has to pay his dues. You shouldn't go over the sr. dev's head just yet. Acknowledge that you're not doing the type of work you thought you would be doing and try to find out how long this will go on. See if you can speak to clients about the tasks they may be paying a developer to do and see if it is a communication and/or training issue. Unfortunately, they type of work you're doing means you're easily replaceable due to no fault of your own. If you feel there is no chance to change this or the time-table is exceeded, you may need to go to a higher-up. Please try to leave this job in a better place than you found it, but it is understandable if you have to move on. 

For this apparently obvious requirement for the job, your manager is unscrupulous for not mentioning it during the hiring process. There's a reason he failed to mention it because he knows it is a deal killer for many people. You have several issues: car/money and time. Renegotiate for all of these. Fixing the car situation is either going to cost money or you taking a big risk every time you drive it outside the city. Your time restrictions may require either asking for a lot of favors to help manage the family care or you have to hire someone. I don't know the hiring/firing practices of where you live. Hopefully, the manager will come to his senses and realize he tried to take advantage of you and it failed. Start doing the math and come up with a money figure you're going to need to make this work and get ready to negotiate everything: trip length, travel compensation and other costs (the nature of the costs are none of his business.). If you don't ask for things, don't expect to get them. Sorry you were put in such a bad situation by a worse boss.