I would say morality can be understood to serve as a standard against which the rest of human endeavors are judged. If we "need" anything, we need morality; what would it even mean to "need" anything, if it's just as well not to have it as to have it? What would it mean for logic to say that some statement is true rather than false, if we don't place any particular value in truth over falsehood? When people argue that morality isn't needed, I think they're referring to a very narrow understanding of morality that has to do with some school or other's own pet philosophies. Broadly speaking, you might take morality as the source of the basic distinction between opposites which makes it possible for variety to exist in the first place. The is/ought distinction seems like a related, if not the same, notion: without morality, things are; with morality, things ought to be. 

From a purely mathematical-logic point of view, if we take for granted that "not X" is true, then any implication of the form "if Y, then not X" is also true, regardless of what Y is - or whether Y is true or false. So, if we take for granted that wheeled animals don't exist, then any argument will suffice to demonstrate the fact, and the argument will be valid. If the question is, instead, about arguments leading to the conclusion that the existence of something is impossible... the situation becomes much more difficult. It's not at all clear that wheeled animals are an impossibility, for one thing. In fact, it seems hard to even relate such a question as the one you propose to this interpretation: the original argument assumed that the existence of wheeled animals was possible. If it isn't possible, there is no basis for the other argument. Now, you may object to taking false Y as reasons for X, a known truth. This could be justified by a broader understanding of "reason", which requires that the reason be sufficient and necessary. In that case, any true Y will suffice, since Y iff X holds for true X in exactly the case that Y is also true. To summarize, I guess what I'm getting at in a roundabout sort of way is that if we take for granted some claim, there's no difference between a reason, an explanation and a description. Only as long as the possibility exists that not X can there be reasons given supporting the likelihood, or even necessity, of X. 

I think the answer to the question, as asked, is much simpler than it appears. The existence of lots of arguments for mutually exclusive positions has no bearing on the defensibility of some other proposition mutually exclusive with the first two. If you have a balance with a napkin over it, and one side is lower than another, good arguments might be made that the lower side has one egg on it, or no eggs. People may use lots of convincing arguments. However, the position that the napkin precludes any knowledge of why the balance is in the observed configuration is a position which can be defended. It doesn't mean it's correct, but defensibility is not the same as correctness. 

So, it's quite simple, really. In short, Naturalism is a system of thought which holds that everything can be explained by nature, where as Materialism simply believes that everything in existence is material. 

Yes and no. This question yearns for the comparison between two views: Moral Absolutism and Consequentialism. Moral Absolutism: 

Is anyone under the influence of anything that may alter one's perceptions allowing for errors? (e.g. drugs) Is a magician affecting anyone's perception of the object? Are the properties of the given item common/normal? Is anyone mentally ill? Is this anything that is out of the ordinary? 

As to answer your question, I would like to first clearly define perception (stated clearly in the SEP) : 

Therefore, every single thing in our world, even science is based on common perceptions. For example, in chemistry, the states/properties/smell/etc.. of substances are universally agreed upon based on common perceptions. Examining the Problem of Perception This is how the SEP describes the problem of perception: 

The second choice instantly becomes obsolete; the existence of such a magician must first be proved creating an unreasonable burden of proof. Does the apple possess any properties that defy the laws of logic and physics (known to man so far)? For example, is it floating? If none of the conditions are met, then most likely, everyone will agree with you, because what you perceive is most likely not an error. Therefore, it will be agreed amongst all of you that you are perceiving a bright, red apple. Therefore, the problem of perception can (to some extent) be prevented. Comparing Phenomenology to the Cartesian method The Cartesian method is described by Wikipedia as: 

These two contrasting views dictate what you may and may not do. While Moral Absolutism is only with respect to the barebones of one's actions (and cares about nothing else), consequentialism takes into account the final objective/result that one strives to achieve. Let me give you an analogy: Imagine you have committed a crime, and thus, you are now on trial. You are given a drink that forces you to only tell the truth when prompted. Scenario A (Moral Absolutism): The judge asks you whether you committed murder. You respond by saying, "yes". The judge then immediately sentences you to 25 years in prison. The judge does not know (and does not care) that you were abducted, kidnapped, and tortured, and that the only way to escape was to kill your captor while he was distracted, take the keys from his pocket, and unshackle yourself and escape. Scenario B (Consequentialism): The judge asks you whether you committed murder. You respond by saying, "yes". The judge further asks questions to find out why you committed the crime. He finds out what the true reasoning the murder was and thus, merely sends you to a rehabilitation center to prepare you to re-enter society. Hopefully, these analogies gave you an idea of each view. Each view has its pros and cons. Of course, scenario A was fairly unjust (no pun/oxymoron intended) because the basis of the deeds was not taken into account. But on the other hand, consequentialism can also be twisted to reflect Machiavelli's "The ends justify the means" and be taken advantage of. Many questions come on the borderline and are difficult to answer such as killing one innocent person to save a thousand. The ultimate answer to your question lies with your decision of which view you believe to be the most suitable for the situation.