I believe that your assertion that, if you look in the Pali Cannon that you do not find the phrase, "life is suffering," is absolutely correct. I am not a renown scholar or monk, but in my own studies and readings, I have also never once come across that phrase, so if it is merely a personal failure to discover it, it is both of ours, at the least! To my understanding, what was taught was the noble truth of dukkha, which is, in its essence, that all phenomena are conditioned by dukkha. Translating that in a way that is packaged neatly for a western audience, a way which lends itself to easy digestion by the western view... this is, in my estimation, the most likely culprit for that bumper sticker variation, fast food for thought, but this is admittedly mere speculation. 

Any time you feed into a blind habitual pattern of grasping for a sense pleasure, you feed into and increase your capacity for suffering. The so called single individual who is seeking after a prostitute must already have enough clinging and grasping attachment to have fostered the intention to seek a prostitute, and is feeding into that attachment, creating volitional formation even as he or she acts on that intention and merely seeks. Even before the act itself this is unwholesome. While there is no wife and family or significant other to offend by breaking a vow of monogamy, there are other considerations as well. The most important thing to consider is that by eliciting the services of a prostitute, that you are supporting the lifestyle and industries of prostitution and human trafficking. Is prostitution right livelihood? What do you think? I promise you, there is no such thing as a happy, content prostitute. That is to say, if there were other options open to them, they would choose another path in life. The fact of the matter is that the vast, sweeping majority (if not all) of prostitutes are victims of human trafficking, they are modern day slaves that are subject to control and coercion via physical violence, threats against themselves and their loved ones, drug addiction, and brain washing. Many do not know any other way of life because they have been someone else's business property for so long, and they are afraid to leave. They are insecure and abused, and end up clinging to their traffickers. There is no way around this. If you go to a prostitute you are feeding into you own suffering, but more importantly you are supporting the suffering and degradation of another human being, and ultimately supporting modern day slavery. 

I think we can show that the Noble Truths talk about both craving and attachment. We don't have to read them as craving "instead of" attachment. First note that the Noble Truths (DN 22) describe the origination of stress as particular kind of craving, and this kind is 

I meditate for the purpose described by the Dalai Lama (in his book The Heart of Meditation: Discovering Innermost Awareness): 

--What the Buddha Taught. What else do people who have realized Nirvāṇa do besides become teachers? Can you cite examples? 

What did the Buddha mean by 'development of the body' versus 'development of the mind'? Then, how does one develop the body? 

The first draft of this question was partly motivated by the question, "is compassion real?", however, from reading One Dharma: The Emerging Western Buddhism (Joseph Goldstein), my understanding is now that compassion is relative (not intrinsically real), i.e. as Joseph Goldstein puts it: 

Where in MN 36 do we find this reasoning? Is there general agreement in Buddhism that this is indeed why the Buddha decided to give up asceticism? 

Is it be more accurate to say that the self as a feeling that there is a subject of experience "cannot be found" or "is not there in the first place."? Since, when an object is known, how do you deny there being someone who has done the knowing of the object? 

This question follows from a discussion on the materialist, scientific reductionist understanding of no self, and was posted in a comment: 

From experience, the Buddhist path is a very effective and useful tool for helping to alleviate all forms fixation, obsession, or addiction with the specific knowledge that fixation is the cause of suffering. Addiction is suffering. It is dukkha with the volume turned up. You may be interested in Noah Levine's Refuge Recovery. I also recommend looking into teachings on shenpa as taught by Pema Chodron, I have found them beneficial. You may also be interested in the Buddhist Recovery sub-reddit forum, where there is a lot of information about how the Buddhist path relates to recovery. Please do go check it out. 

Respect should first be given to the truth of suffering, to the truth of the cause of suffering, and the capacity of the dhamma to free you from that. Why? Because if you have no respect for the capacity of the fire to burn you, or the balm to sooth you, then you will only continue to burn. Respect should be given to the Buddha, as a practitioner who accomplished something very profound and difficult, something noble and worthwhile, and then chose to share the wisdom of how he accomplished that with us all. He should be respected as someone who can teach us valuable lessons. When we see a statue or an image of the Buddha, we respect what it represents, the accomplishment and nobility of what was conquered. Respect should be given to those serious practitioners who have set themselves out to follow the path laid out by the Buddha, to take it upon themselves to accomplish what amount of that great work that they can. It is hard work, arduous work that requires diligence, and is worthy of respect. If we respect these good qualities, we will be likely to emanate them. If we do that, we may become free of our suffering. It is good to do so. This is why. 

Here the Buddha makes a clear distinction here between 'development of the body' and 'development of the mind', and from MN 119 

The Second Noble Truth (DN 22), identifies non-attachment ("letting go") as the condition for the cessation of stress. 

If the way to awakening was to simply to quit all desires (water, food, sleep, breath, chanda, etc) "cold turkey", then why would the Noble Truths tell us that "letting go" leads to cessation stress, rather than to say simply "quit food, water, breath, etc." So I'm almost in agreement with your second question, since the condition for cessation of stress is non-attachment. 

What AN 10.92 says specifically about the condition for suffering is a lot of things but begins with ignorance 

As I understand the Third Noble Truth, the cessation of dukkha is brought about by ending craving. I can see how, for example, practicing renunciation, or seeing no self, assist us in achieving this, but how do ethics and compassion practices like lovingkindness lead us to achieving the end of craving? 

Is it wholesome to set expectations for one's own practice (e.g. to have a mind free of all Five Hindrances, or to have all Seven Factors of Awakening present)? To firmly commit to the path of enlightenment, against all worldly distractions, how can this be done without setting goals or expectations? If there are conditions for the presence/absence of the Five Hindrances, Seven Factors of Awakening to arise and to pass, are these not impermanent? If one clings to the impermanent, does this not lead to dukkha? 

Depending on how you answer the above, you may find great similarities, but it may require a fair bit of inference. 

Identity views cause pain since this self is something that can come under attack and hence becomes a source of worry and regret (see #3) and conflict (see #2). Further, suffering continues because experience becomes filtered and emotionally laden because of how it's seen to relate to this "self" (see #3). Then there's the fact that desires are in reference to a "self" -- when you seek desires, you seek to feed this "self". So the goal is to suspend belief in a self. This doesn't mean claiming it doesn't exist -- but rather, letting all beliefs about it go. That's the only way the apparently contradictory claims of the Sutras (and the various view fetters) make sense to me. You suspend these beliefs by inquiring into the nature of this self. Be mindful and present to your experience, especially when confronted with 1-4, and inquire deeply into this "self" that seems to present itself. During meditation (or in quieter times) try to focus on this sense of "I" and go through the Skhandas to see if you can find any self there. You can even look at it logically; if the self is "you", the thing behind your consciousness (not that I'm claiming it is), then how can you be aware of it, as to be aware of anything means its an object of consciousness and not the subject? As for Western approaches to the self, I think the most systematic treatment is Derek Parfitt. After that, there's David Hume. Here's a PDF outlining his identity views. And here's a passage from Hume (from here) about his views on a self. This may make a good object for meditation, and the relationship to Skhandas is clear: 

from MN 36 Maha-Saccaka Sutta translated by Thanissaro. Pleasant feeling (vedanā) is not limited to five senses, but can also be experienced by the mind. To understand the sutta, it seems important to understand what exactly is meant by development of the body. 

Are Buddhist monks allowed to have prescriptions, or would that be considered an attachment? Did the Buddha say anything of medicine? 

If there is no self, no "mind" or "I" that can be found, then what does Buddhism call that faculty which exercises personal responsibility? 

Is it a truth in Buddhism that all beings have past lives? How does Buddhism explain new life? For example, would the increasing amount of population be explained by some us having shared past lives? 

Furhermore, Buddhism asserts that the body is constituted by way of material elements, and that a person is made up of the five aggregates. And similarly, a materialist, scientific reductionist understanding posits (quote): 

When the terms unconditioned, absolute, and ultimate are used, as in the above and below quotes, do they not mean the same as intrinsically real? Does un-conditioned not mean "independent of conditions" and hence self-existing? 

Similarities Both Buddhist and materialist/scientific-reductionist schools refute the notion of a self, an atman, an eternal, unchanging soul. Both schools understand the most obvious meaning of anatta: 

What enters the mind of a Buddha when left idle? Suppose a Buddha were confined to a hospital bed or prison cell. One cannot remain within the conditioned states of jhana indefinitely. If one is unconditionally content, even in states of pain, it would seem there is no need to reflect or contemplate anything. Can you cite specific examples from the Buddha's life? 

My advice is to use your life to practice dharma; after all, dharma can be practiced in any circumstances and its fruits are available now. The challenges you face become fuel for practice. Your actions become the expression of practice. Life's annoyances and pains (such as dealing with others) are a chance to explore self and attachment. Your interactions are a chance to practice path elements such as mindfulness and especially right speech and compassion. One need not be a monk to practice and benefit from Dharma. Further, wanting to be a monk can be an attachment and thus a source of dukkha. Now, in addition to the usual challenges of the lay life, there's also the dukkha that comes from one more case of wanting things to be other than they are (e.g.: wanting to be a monk). Dukkha doesn't change because the cause is "spiritual". Also, monks have their own challenges. Not all monks are spiritual or care about the Dharma. Often, monks at the monastery are there for ulterior motives, and hence have no interest in dharma. Further, being a monk, it's all too easy to hide behind the orange robes and begging bowl; is one really practicing then? Sure one is isolated, but what challenges is one facing? Challenges are the fuel for practice. Just because you are not a monk doesn't mean you're living a worldly life. What makes your life worldly is how you live in the world. There are many worldly monks and many spiritual laypeople. Those who practice Dharma for a better rebirth as a monk (or anything else) are not fully practicing dharma because implicit in the practice is their clinging to monk-hood (or anything else) and a holding back, a belief that they really cannot reap the full fruits now. Such practice strikes me as half-hearted. Practice should be done with the intent of liberation in the circumstances one is in. If one practices whole-heartedly and the rebirth doctrine is true, one enjoys a better life now and a better rebirth will occur. If the rebirth doctrine is false, one still enjoys a better life now.