I'm a forward caste dude. And outside what I eat, and who I'd eventually potentially marry, it has no affect on the real world. I'm a semi practicing bramin. I'm pretty sure there's folks who're probably closer to their own dharma, or a better bramin than me by faith, not birth, and there's a few folks who give us a bad name, and don't even do the basics. Its nothing more than a label in most aspects of life, and a faded one to boot. And well your issues have nothing to do with the caste system. Its plain old corruption and nepotism. Your workplace is toxic and these people use this as an excuse. 

The CV's meant to get your foot in the door. Personally I put the month of award once its completed (and leave out the dates when it was in progress) , but you could always put May 2010 - June 2014 (Awarded Aug 2014). When the exact details matter, you probably will already be interviewing, and can clear minor stuff like that easily. No one's going to bother if you're a little off, especially where such delays are standard 

"Other people break the rules!" is not a valid excuse for breaking the rules, unfair as it seems. Just get in the queue. And get in there early, so you never have to worry about not fitting in the bus. Oh, and you probably should report the incident, as well as make a request that the company do something about the fact that the bus does not have enough capacity for everyone. 

Ok, I would suggest you get to know and trust these 11 very well. Once you do that, ask them what they would like to see changed about their workplace, their responsibilities, etc. Ask them for feedback on your performance as manager as well. I firmly believe that "management is not your friend" but managers and employees have a symbiotic relationship and should be motivated to help each other out. Earning your subordinates' trust will help you reach that goal. Once you are doing that with your immediate subordinates, you'll probably be able to get them to do that with theirs, and so on down the chain of command. It'll take time, but it's your absolute best bet for addressing the problem of demotivation over time. Hell, just feeling like management cares about you is a motivator for lots of people. 

I had a resume out while I was studying - what I did was simply leave the finishing date open ended. I've been there. I've gone into an exam needing a 30% score to pass... and got 29%. The marker (who was elsewhere) disagreed with my answer's content, and well, yeah. I retook that module. Its not the end of the world (I got a pretty good score when I retook it!). So, what to say? "I'm currently finishing up my degree and I'm one module away from finishing". Focus on the wins, and what you have to offer to an employer. I'd also add that depending on the job market, its going to take time to find a job, and getting your resume out there pre-graduation is a sensible thing to do. 

If you have some creative skills which enable you to produce new and valuable things, you have a wonderful opportunity to list them on your resume/CV, or even display them. It is much easier to prove you have creative skills than to say you are generally creative. Whether a recruiter or hiring manager thinks you are have general creative ability is up to how much they read into your presentation of your creative skills. jmac's example of Chris Spurlock's resume is a perfect example of how you can prove you have creative skills. If your creative skills are in the scope of or symbiotic with the type of work you are seeking, then you absolutely should use your resume/CV as an opportunity to prove this. Spurlock's resume proved his ability to create attractive graphical material, as well as competency with the web; both of these were directly related to his desired work. Using myself as any example: I am by no means an artist (I am a software developer by trade), but I feel that I have an eye for good graphical presentation, and I can use some Adobe products, such as InDesign, with competency. Thus, I made my resume in InDesign and included some (basic) graphics to guide the eyes to the main sections of my resume. The atypical layout I used has caught some eyes which I really hoped would notice my resume; plus, when I list Photoshop and InDesign as supplementary skills, I have already provided some evidence of that. Whether or not a recruiter reads into the relative uniqueness of my resume as indicating that I am "creative" is moot, since it really does depend on the person reading the resume. 

Its undo pressure that keeps you from doing your job. Treat it exactly as someone who would do it for a brother, cousin or child. If you can do it, do it anyway. If you have a superior who actually values the work you do, let him know this is happening 

Is this the only reason? Is seniority in play? Are there other factors? Any workplace where promotion is not by merit is a little toxic, and politics in most places tends to be more interpercial. To close - the caste system is a relic of a long time ago, and used and abused by politicians and others for their own ends. Its the cause of many social ills and well, not always how you think it is. How bad it is really depends on the state, and unless you want to go into politics, its going to be a hard slog. There's nothing stopping you from creatively using these elements for good. At the end of the day though, if its one man swimming against a tide of filth, it might be a better idea to consider getting a transfer to a more enlightened state. This sounds like one of the worse places to be. 

The new things you are learning in the intern position may end up helping you and your new company in ways you don’t currently know. Learning new things is often fun and can keep a less challenging job albeit well-paying job more interesting as you try to find ways to help / improve based on the new things you’re learning, as well as helping you keep from getting burned out if the job is to mundane. I've noticed a lot of people that once they get a full time job getting into a technology rut, where their knowledge becomes stagnate because the company is using X technology and will be for several years. Keeping the intern position can allow you to stay current and have a broader variety of knowledge to choose from when mission critical issues arise at the new job. Lastly you could look at / use the internship as continuing education allowing you to get real world experience outside of your current employer without having to pay the exorbitant fees of your local colleges. 

This is setting off alarms in my head. Should I respond? What should I say? I realize that I am likely blacklisted, but if my response could determine whether or not that would be the case, I'd like to avoid it, obviously; even then, I'd like to be as kind and professional as possible. 

It's your boss' call what you do on company time. If she views socializing with coworkers as something you are not employed to do, then you should not do it during work hours. Like, seriously, don't go behind your boss' back. Even if there's some sort of official policy that permits you to chat with coworkers during the day on topics not specifically relevant to your job (which I doubt any company would codify), your boss still views that behavior negatively and there's no reason to get on your boss' bad side if you want to stay employed. I would suggest that you seek to move to a different team. It sounds like you hate your current workplace because you can't relate to the people there. It's causing you anxiety and loneliness. It's harmful to your mental health and to your performance at work. I don't know what prompted your original move, but don't fall for the sunk cost fallacy. Transfer out, to a place where people share your values and interests, and you can relate to them. edit: I am not trying to say that a good boss micromanages your time. I am saying that if you have a boss that does that, your best bet is to be pragmatic and instead of trying to change your boss' behavior, you should change who your boss is.