I was reading a magazine article about a thirty-something actress who never played tennis before, took a tennis clinic, and in the course of a three day weekend, rose to "high intermediate" level (a 4.0 or 4.5). My understanding is that tennis players are rated from 1.0 (rank beginner) to 7.0 (world class). Your (local) tennis pro or instructor is likely to be about 6.0 on this scale. Seeing the woman's strong showing, are the tennis instructors likely to think, we have a "natural" here who's likely to be "pro" caliber (6.0 or better)? Or is there more likely to be a natural ceiling of, say, 5.0 with her having reached "most" (80-90 percent) of her potential at the clinic itself? Put another way, are the tennis ratings "exponential" (like the Richter scale for earthquakes)? That is, could it be ten times harder to reach 6.0 than 5.0, and 100 times harder to reach 7.0 than 5.0? Meaning that if some who exited a tennis clinic with a 4.5 rating could (with practice) bump it up to 5.0, that would be three times better, and 5.5 would be a tenfold improvement? 

Yesterday, watching the Pirates-Mets game, I saw the Pirates' Andrew McCutchen called out on a third strike. The pitched ball was clearly over the plate, but "low." IMHO, it should, or at least could, have been called a ball. In addition to being over the plate, the pitched ball must fall between the players' shoulders and knees. It was the "knees" part that confused me. I was taught that "at the knees" meant at the level of kneeCAPS. Is that too high; that is, is there a definition of "knees" that is lower than the kneecaps? Is it true that umpires have been informally expanding the strike zone, so that almost anything that is "over the plate" is called a strike as long as it is not in the dirt, even though it's technically "below the knees" (basically at the shin, as opposed to ankle, level)? Could camera angles have caused a difference of opinion? That is, I saw a "flat" pitch "below the knees" through a TV camera, while an umpire, standing behind the plate, saw a "sinker," part of which was "barely" at knee level? 

Also, as a bit of a soapbox rant, the term "spread" is really a media invented term used to describe and communicate about a style of offense where the primary goal of the base offensive plays is creating options between a QB/RB and a single defender "in the box" in order for a QB to make a single read and determine, in the middle of the play, what he should do with the ball. This specific concept is really no different than the option offenses that have been run throughout the history of football. The only thing that makes it interesting now is that the initial alignments in formations resemble what a passing oriented pro style passing offenses look like and that the plays are designed such that interior blockers are engaged in a lateral leverage style of (zone) blocking as opposed to straight ahead power blocking or over reliance on angle and trap blocking. The intention being to get the defense moving in one lateral direction away from where the QB can be potentially isolated against a defender responsible for containment in the opposite direction of where the defense is moving. The Broncos of the late 90s, Falcons of the early 00s, and the present day Texans, utilized these concepts too and with great success, except they do it under a center and with pre-snap/predetermined reads with stretch zone running plays and QB bootleg action. If you really want to see a fun evolution of this, watch these videos at $URL$ where Alex Gibbs, the run game guru from the Broncos and Falcons during the 90s and 00s, consults with the University of Florida staff on improving their running game. 

If a team is using a three man line, the man in the middle is called a "nose guard", and the two men on either side of him are still called ends. The idea is to free up an extra man to play linebacker. In essence, the nose guard, typically a very big man, has to do the job of almost two tackles in holding back the offensive line. He'll have a hard time doing this, so the ends have to operate closer to the center of the line to support him, taking over some of the space normally occupied by the tackles. On the other hand, they should worry less about their flanks, which are protected (theoretically at least), by the extra linebacker. 

Commenting the Alabama-Clemson game, a commentator noted that Clemson would run many "side" plays and try to wear down the Alabama defense. Apparently that didn't work, given the result. How would a team wear down the other team (without similarly wearing itself down)? Does it "fake" several plays and run one, so several sets of defenders are exhausted on each play? Another reason this might not work is because players are freely substitutable in football (unlike e.g. baseball, where it is once per person per game). Or is the whole idea to force the other team to use "second-string" (and presumably inferior) players? I guess if one team's players were a lot bigger/stronger than the other's, they could wear down the other in trials of strength such as those occasioned by draw plays and "off tackles". But that didn't appear to be the case in last night's game. 

A very easy, and direct way to rank the NBA teams, is by their record. So a team that has won for example 50 games in the season, and lost 32 (a total of 82 games in the season), would have a 50-32 record, as they call it. This team, even if in a difference conference, would be better than a team with let's say, a 40-42 record. Firstly, however, the above method only takes into account the regular season, and doesn't mention anything about the post season (i.e, the playoffs). Therefore, if for example both the 50-32 and the 40-42 teams do make it to the playoffs, and the latter beats the former, then obviously the 40-42 should be ranked higher than the 50-32, even if they had a lower winning percentage than them during the regular season. Another thing to keep in mind is that there is a difference, albeit slight, between the two conferences (the East and West), especially this year. The West, based on winning percentages of the teams, was considerably stronger than the East for this season's NBA. Therefore, it might be something to take into account because Eastern conference teams play each other more often than they play Western division teams for example. Some might say then that the Indiana Pacers or Miami Heat for example, who ranked 1 and 2 respectively in the regular season, might have had an "easier schedule" than the San Antonio Spurs who finished first in the Western conference, even as they had a better winning percentage. All in all, winning percentages (i.e a teams' record) usually is what determines a teams rank overall in the NBA, but something that might be taken account, as mentioned, is how far a team advances into the playoffs, or which conference it stands in. 

First, my understanding is that they use professional labor arbitrators, not people with a strong specific knowledge of baseball. So "old" metrics, hits, runs, RBIs and ERAs count for more than on base percentages (OBPs) or FIPs (field independent pitching statistics). Second, my further understanding is that first, second and third year "arb" players tend to get about 40, 60 and 80 percent of what a free agent would get "on average," although their is a wide variation in individual cases. That is, in some cases, the arbitrators would value players rather differently than the managers who sign free agents. Third, my last understanding is that the arbitrator has to choose either the player's or team's salary proposal. He cannot "split the difference" or go outside the ranges. Why does baseball use a system like this? Is three (limited discretion) a factor of one (limited baseball experience)? And why has it worked as well as it has for a long time, despite obvious flaws? 

Last year, the Oakland A's traded Grant Green to the Los Angeles As for Alberto Collaspo. Both had similar statistics (as of 2013), and both can play second base. (Collaspo has since been moved to first, where he is a "light hitter" for his position with a batting average below .250.) Oakland's general manager, Billy Beane has been known for (generally) getting the better of such trades. In Collaspo's case, he has a "feature" that the As prize; he strikes out at a lower rate (something like once per eleven innings) than anyone else in the majors. In "Moneyball," Michael Lewis pointed out that the strikeout was the "worst" possible way to get an out (with the possible exception of the double play). So not striking out appears to be worth something. What exactly are the advantages of having low strikeouts, compared to other ways of making an out? To what extent would Callaspo's lower strikout/higher contact rate than others make up for his low batting average? 

The answer posted above is good for the scorecard. There is also another scorecard that is a of the current score, plus other information, in a current game. Very quickly, balls, strikes and outs are self explanatory. The image you see under the box "field" suggests the runners currently on the bases (in yellow). In the picture for example, there are runners currently on first and second base (first, second and third bases are counter clockwise in that order). Finally, you have the runs scored per inning (up to 9 innings) unless there are extra innings in which it will go on to 10+ innings. Runs is the current score. Hits is the amount of hits each team has gotten, and err is the amount of errors the fielding team has committed. In baseball games though, the runs, hits, and error category is usually abbreviated by R, H, E respectively. 

This is taken from various websites, so anyone is free to correct me if I'm wrong. Charles Barkley: $1 million/year and has been with TNT for 13 years and his contract is due to expire in 2018. Kenny Smith: $1 million/year Ernie Johnson (host): $2.7 million/year Shaquille O'Neal: $1 million/year Sources: Charles Barkley, Contracts, Extention 

The time on ice for a player per game really determines on the player's level. Just like in any sport, the more a player is skilled, the more time he plays. In hockey, the issue is no different. Usually, out of the 60 minutes, average players get around 22-24 minuets per game while the best usually go for 28-30 minutes. In fact, the minutes per ice per game leader of the 13/14 regular season, Ryan Suter, went for just under 30 minutes per game. Source. 

This is more of a supplemental answer since this accepted anser answer did not touch on the characteristics/attributes of other positions outside of the QB position. Offensive Lineman It's more advantageous for linemen in this offense to be quicker, especially in lateral movement, even at the detrement of being better pass blockers or power blockers due to less of an emphasis on traditional dropback pass plays and downhill running plays. Many spread running plays are all predicated on a stretch zone blocking scheme where the lineman all attempt to block laterally and gain outside leverage on the defender that is threatening the gap to the side they are blocking. The lineman must be athletic enough to be a threat to do this, otherwise there is very little reason for the defense to flow as hard to the side the lineman are blocking to. It's the threat of the lineman getting outside leverage that even allows the QB to option off of a backside defender when choosing what to do. TEs and FBs There is more emphasis on both being a good blocker and favoring more quickness... in their case it's so they are able to perform blocks such as arc blocks correctly (see $URL$ QBs Athletic and durable enough to be a ball carrier but must still be a threat to be a weapon throwing the ball. Must be able to quickly make reads of defenders in the box during running plays. RBs Nothing extra noteable. WRs Required to be better blockers than typical and also better at running routes against man coverage, as opposed to being great at running option routes or finding holes in zones, since the majority of coverages seen will be man coverage with a single high safety. Speed is more of a premium here. 

The drafts actually depend on the sport. I'll explain how the draft process works for Basketball, American Football and Baseball. In basketball, there are 30 teams in the "first division" (the second division would be called the D-League, but as you mentioned, teams don't get relegated). Of those 30 teams, 16 make it to the playoffs. That leaves 14 teams that don't compete in the post season, and as a result, they go into a random draw that determines their order to draft a college player, known as the "lottery pick". Basically, the worse the record the team had in the regular season, the better the chance it has to pick first. However, this does not mean that the team with the worst record picks first. It simply means their percentage is higher. Once the order for the first 3 picks has been decided, the rest of the teams are ordered depending on their win-loss record from the previous season. One point to note, there are teams that have tendencies to lose on purpose (or so we think) to increase their chances of getting a first overall pick in the draft (this is known as "tanking"). However, regardless of the team a college player goes to, it is always an honor and best for them to shoot for a higher pick in the draft (even though they can go to a "worse" team in theory). They can subsequently get much higher contracts in that case. Unlike basketball, the NFL's draft system is directly based on a team's win-loss record from the previous season. As a result, the worse the team's record, the higher the pick in the draft they have. In baseball, the draft is much like the NFL draft, in which the worst team gets to pick first in the draft. However, there is an additional point in which a team who has lost free agent (i.e a player who is eligible to sign with any club or franchise who isn't under any contract) can get "compensatory" picks.