Some forward-thinking cities have an "Urban growth boundary" that limits development outside the city. This creates a denser more usable inner city. Some cities without this boundary have problems with the wealthy abandoning the city and commuting in, causing the city to become much less livable. (Just today I heard a similar argument against driverless cars on NPR) Perhaps the terrorists are strong believers in this theory--Maybe they see the wealthy as fleeing the earth to the new planets. Examples of the difference are Portland, OR (fairly strong Urban Growth Boundary) and Chicago IL (Significant movement of wealth to the suburbs)--although I admit there are so many other factors at play that this might not even be playing a role, it still makes for a good narrative. 

Overpowered EMPs might be so easy to generate and target that the only way for any complex computer to survive in combat is to lock down before the first enemy comes within range. I'm imagining a scenario like the EMP from The Matrix but able to fire repeatedly leaving the two sides to slug it out in low tech. Since you couldn't predict when an enemy might generate a pulse, you'd have to turn off all electricity supplying advanced circuitry and physically grounding hundreds of points on ever circuit board so no runs are long enough to induct a charge. Combat would be down to humans and extremely simple electronics. 

Yes, they would, when they want to. Each animal has different modes of movement available to it, ranging from a slow, quiet sneak to full-blown sprint. Each mode has its own advantages and is used as appropriate. A sufficiently large animal that at the moment does not care about moving quietly can certainly cause the ground to shake, depending on how heavy it is, how fast it's moving, and the type of ground it's moving on. For example, an African Elephant can move at top speeds of 40 km/h (25 mph), which is about the same as the fastest humans, but of course they are also among the heaviest animals on land. 

With 1970's to current space technology, the station would remain largely unexplored for thousands of years even with continuous, dedicated efforts to explore it. Our moon has a radius of ~1700km. Assuming a "smaller" artifical moon had a radius of 1000km, it had a volume of ~4 million km³. Further assuming an average room/corridor height of 4 meters, accounting for high ceiling halls, outer walls etc., you had to explore an inner surface area of roughly 1 million km², equivalent to the surface area of Egypt. In addition to the average 4m height of rooms and corridors, further assume an average width of 5m of corridors, where a room is defined as a broad corridor. That would require the exploration of 200,000 km of corridors. Since we are talking about rooms and corridors for the most part, you will only ever see as far as the farthest wall, so whatever area you want to survey, you will have to physically get there. No tool more sophisticated than rangefinder binoculars will aid in the exploration in terms of covering raw area. Human walking speed is 6 km/h; assuming 8 hour work shifts plus breaks, a human could cover ~50 km/day. That would mean 4,000 person-days, or 11 person-years to explore the whole station by foot under ideal circumstances. In practice, this is based on a number of unrealistic assumptions: 

All the in plain site answers have the same problem--once they spot YOU, you are done for--they will follow you via satellite, video & aircraft and if they want you bad enough, your lair will be found. I'd say the ONLY safe place might be underwater--if you could make it to the sea I don't think it would be as easy to follow you. Anti-sonar tech might make you amazingly hard to find if you are deep enough, the ocean is too big to scour every inch. The only other place I could see is if you had enough money and had a legitimate front you might be able to buy a section of land from one of the many governments around the world. I'm a little surprised nobody has done that yet--just buy a small city-state. You could contract with that government for military defense as well which might be enough deterrent to keep other governments from wiping you out. 

There are a couple quantum theories of interest.... The first is that all information is preserved which means that you could at least calculate any previous state of the universe from any future state, so you could figure out pretty much where everything was including every atom in a person's body... However, another aspect is quantum state: Matter has various qualities that are un-measurable.. This does not mean it's difficult to measure, it means that the information does not exist in our universe. One example of this is how long it takes for a radioactive atom to decay--which is why decay is stated as an approximated half-life instead of a specific amount of time. So these two pieces of data lead me to believe that you could reproduce an approximate physical state, possibly even down to the molecule or maybe atom, but could not reproduce the exact quantum state. This last bit is more important than you'd think--every time a neuron decides to fire or not in your brain it is adding a little bit of this quantum state into the decision. It's like a super-computer built with each CPU operation adding in a little completely random factor so that even if you re-created the computer, program and data bit-for-bit the output of your program would still deviate every time. Because of this I don't think it would be possible to get the exact same behavior even if you could reproduce the physical state exactly--at least not from within our current universe/reality/dimension/??. 

There are different branches of the reptile family tree. Crocodilians have semi-erect posture and a four-chamber heart because they belong to the same branch of the reptile family tree as dinosaurs and birds, which shared these features (and were warm-blooded, crocodilians appear to have later lost this trait). There are other branches, with the main existing branches being the lizards (including snakes) and (maybe) the turtles (which may actually be a sub-branch of snakes and lizards, their origins are a bit murky). There are also smaller branches like the tuatara, but they are rare enough that they could still exist without violating your scenario. So the easiest way to have most reptiles be like crocodilians is to have the lizards and turtles never evolve to begin with, or die out early in their history due to some freak extinction event. If the rest of history went exactly the same way, the (non-bird) dinosaurs would have died out, as would have most of the members of other groups like tuataras, leaving the only cold-blooded land animals being crocodilians. They would then radiate after the dinosaurs died out to fill various niches currently filled by lizards and snakes (since legless lizards have evolved several times) and turtles (since there are extinct armored crocidilians and close relatives). In the past crocodilians have had a much wider variety of forms than the underwater ambush predators that exist today, so we know this sort of radiation is possible for the group. 

It simply depends on access to recorded information. Without books a small group of people would probably "Forget" nearly everything immediately. If you took 6 random people into a power plant without any specific information and said "Get this working" there is a pretty low chance of lasting success. If the plant is damaged the chance trends to zero quickly unless one of your people happened to start with applicable knowledge. If you took a batch of children today and "raised" them without access to information or "Training" of any sort you'd have nothing but cave-men. They would probably survive on instinct, but they would have to re-create speech, writing and... well it would be a complete reset. Without books (by this I mean recorded information) any group would be lost. With enough time, motivation and books (and the ability to read them), any group could solve any problem. Our entire civilization is based on the ability to record & access information. Take that away (alone, no further disaster required) and our technology will quickly become unsustainable. 

If they developed a "Distributed" storage system they would probably be able to preserve and pass down memories so why would they record them... In fact the entire concepts of mortality and individuality may not occur to them since everything an individual ever did is completely preserved and shared. This leads to some really interesting possibilities... You could probably spend a lifetime just delving through memories instead of creating your own. Maybe this is why we didn't evolve this way :) If a good deal of your race was wiped out or a group separated by enough space they would probably start to lose random memories which would be a really weird concept to a race that has every memory available at any time. 

Yes, a planetary magnetosphere can be induced without a core being involved: $URL$ The paper's abstract reads: 

Find an accessible industrial freezer room, gain access to it with lots of money (don't hold back, humans typically have little use for money after bubblification) and/or pretext of a sexual fetish, have it set to the lowest possible temperature, close the door so no air currents can enter. Set up a large tent to guard against air currents generated by the freezer room. Set up a kiddie pool inside the tent, with a little bit of water in it, just enough to wet your soles. Just before the Bubbling, strip out of all your clothes so the weight of your clothes or friction from the ground doesn't instantly pop you. Squat in the pool so the mechanical stress on the bubble surface of going from human-shaped to spherical and possible friction from the ground you're standing on are less likely to pop you instantly. You will be freezing within seconds once you bubblify, preserving you until the power to the room fails and the room heats back up above freezing. Although you're a soap bubble now and have no concept of time or anything, it should keep you in bubble form for the longest time among all bubbles. Reference for freezing bubbles and popping at air currents: $URL$ Going around the world with such a setup, minimized and put into a large plane on autopilot might be possible, but probably not with only 24 hours to prepare. 

If there is little or no crime (and the police aren't stopping any), people must be pretty happy in general--the other option is fear and if your people were in fear, the police wouldn't be an issue, they would have to be active to cause the fear and lawfulness. So they are pretty happy, perhaps there isn't enough work to keep everyone busy and one of the things the government does as a "works" program is rotate citizens through the police force (Kind of like our military reserves). This would give them a large, strong police force with a reason that people would empathize with and support them. 

Magnetic dart gun. Use magnetic rings to pull the dart to speed. No other barrel exists except the magnets so that air pressure can't build up anywhere. The dart is probably more like a long thin bullet. Since the pressures on the "Bullet" are less jarring and better distributed than a gunpowder accelerated round, the bullet could more easily be made to deform/shatter on impact so that it wouldn't just slide through the body cleanly. The bullet could be any length--from a sewing needle up to the length of a knitting needle--with tiny dart-like fins at the back to keep it pointed in the right direction (they could also impart spin). As long as it shattered on impact and had some weight it would be terribly deadly. If a slower speed (Subsonic) were desired, it could have active guidance allowing it to be fired on an arc. A long thin slow sharp bullet could penetrate the body and shatter or even explode inside using the body's mass as a muffler...