Freelance jobs are a great way to break into software development. You can show that you have done real-world work in the field, you can discuss the work that you have done, and you can discuss the challenges of developing software. If the quantity is too high, then there is a risk of looking like you're not doing quality work, which you should be able to address by discussing the technical work that you did and the challenges that you faced in each of your freelance projects. As such, I wonder if your resume, portfolio, or communication style is such that you're not getting anywhere. If you haven't yet, get someone to review your resume. You might have the wrong level of detail on your resume, or miss important skills that are highly relevant, or poor formatting. Make sure that your resume and cover letter are tailored to the position that you're applying for; if you're not applying for a specific position, then your resume and cover letter need to specify why you'd be an awesome fit for their company (and that has to be more than just "I think your company is awesome"). If you have an online portfolio of your work, get that reviewed as well to ensure that it highlights the work that you have done. If you're getting phone interviews but not in-person interviews, consider practicing your interview technique so that you're more comfortable with the phone screen and giving answers that help potential employers understand your experience and get you to the next round of interviews. If you're targeting startups, make sure that you spend time getting involved in the communities where the startups who you find interesting spend time. The best way to get in the door with a company, including a startup, is to meet someone who actually works there and have a conversation with them. Events like meetups and conferences can be a great way for you to make these personal contacts. Likewise, if you have friends who are at startups, they might be willing to share your resume. There are recruiters who specialize in recruiting for startups too; getting your resume in their hands might help you achieve your goal. 

There are many different options, and which one(s) might work is highly dependent on the situation, the information needed, and the people involved. For the purposes of this answer, I'm going to refer to your colleague who hasn't responded yet as Jamie. If you're located in the same place as Jamie, a quick hallway conversation is a potential method to address this. When you run into Jamie in the hallway (and this can include manufacturing a way to run into Jamie in the hallway; I've found inobtrusive ways to hang around somewhere where I knew I would eventually find Jamie), you can just ask your question again. When I do this, I generally don't reference the prior email at all (although I will acknowledge that I sent them an email if they mention it), I just ask my question. The less-casual version of this is stopping by Jamie's office/cube/desk/whatever. If you're not located in the same place as Jamie, then try other non-email contacts to see if they work: phone, instant message, etc. I'll admit that I dislike the phone and so very very rarely call someone if I need information from them. If you don't know Jamie very well, you could ask trusted colleagues if they know of a good way to get a response from Jamie. You might learn that Jamie just is not very good at responding to email but is highly responsive if you send an instant message. Or you might learn that Jamie is usually awesome about responding to mail, but tends to go silent on email when they're in the middle of a big thorny problem, so you'll need to resend your mail when that big thorny problem has resolved itself. You might also learn that someone else can answer your question, which resolves the actual issue (that is, getting the information you need). If you're stuck with email for one reason or another, then you could respond to your original email to Jamie. When I do this, I tend to say, "Jamie, have you had a chance to answer this yet?" If it's blocking me on completing another task, or if I've asked because my manager has asked me this question, I'll add something to that effect: "I need this so that I can be prepared for the meeting on Tuesday." You can also ask Jamie if there is someone else who might be able to answer your question instead. If you just need the information, and if your company is one where meetings are part of the corporate culture, you could schedule a quick 30m meeting with Jamie to get the information that you need. This is especially useful if the information that you need is detailed or nuanced. If I do this, I take notes during the meeting, and I send them to Jamie afterwards to ensure that I've captured everything that we needed. Also, if appropriate, I post my notes somewhere internal, so that anyone else who needs this information can find it without having to resort to scheduling a meeting with the one person who knows. If you've tried to get this information from Jamie multiple times, and if Jamie really is the only person who knows this information, then I'd respond to my email chain again, this time CCing my manager. Depending on the organization, CCing a manager is an excellent way to get a response. If your organization is one where doing this will get a response, use this carefully and sparingly -- Jamie could perceive that you're trying to get them in trouble, and that's never good for building relationships and getting information in the future. 

Your first step should be to talk to your manager. You have many valid concerns about your interactions with your manager and your team. If you feel unhappy, or like you're not able to be effective, then it's in your manager's best interests to try to help you address that. It might be trying something else within your team to address the issues that you've brought up, likely a combination of changes in behavior for you and changes in behavior for your team. It might be working on a project with local colleagues. It might be having a mentor who is also working remotely from their primary team. It might be travel between your site and the other location so that you can build a relationship with the rest of the team. It might be some combination therein. I definitely would not talk with your manager's manager, or with HR. You should give your manager an opportunity to address the problem, and you should be willing to work with your manager to try out solutions that might not be the solution that you have in mind. You should assume that your manager is on your side and has your best interests at heart. After all, if you're unhappy, you're more likely to look for another job. Losing you so quickly will probably look bad for your manager, and there is the obvious loss of the training that you have that they will have to invest in your replacement, not to mention the time and cost involved with finding someone else to do your job. Give your manager a chance. When discussing this, you should be careful in how you discuss it. Focus your discussion on a few things: 

No, the software development company should not play music in the development room. It is difficult to account for different tastes in music, and unwanted music is an intrusion that can negatively impact the concentration of the developers. You say that half of the developers have headphones on, which you assume to mean that they are listening to music. That means that half of them are choosing not to listen to music. For developers, I don't worry about time that is wasted on something as trivial as selecting music to listen to. Development is an activity which requires a lot of thinking and analysis. The brain needs the opportunity to rest and not actively think about a problem, which makes it able to better and more quickly solve problems. The time that a developer is selecting music, unless it is extremely excessive, is an activity that lets the brain rest. If your bandwidth is limited, and if usage of online music services is high, then that can be handled via a new policy that is communicated to the employees, and the online music service is then blocked by your servers. This is trivial to implement. Alternately, you could simply get better bandwidth. If an employee is breaking the law by pirating music, then that is a matter to discuss with them (and, as above, block the site), and to consider whether to involve management, Human Relations, or someone else official to deal with the problem. I'm unsure what you mean by "hearing power". If you mean that the employee won't overhear other conversations, then this might be exactly what the employee is trying to accomplish. They want to focus on their work, and conversations from others interrupt their concentration, so they wear headphones (which might or might not actually have music playing). If you are unable to get someone's attention when you need it, this can be alleviated by using other methods to get their attention, such as waving a hand in their field of vision. If you are concerned with your employees' hearing, that's really their concern and not yours. Most importantly, consider the impact of such a change on your developers. If you are going to force them to stop wearing headphones while they are working, what impact will that have on their morale? What is your goal in forcing employees to remove their headphones? If you want more control over how they are spending their time, you need to consider whether you are actually having issues with their output or whether you simply think that they could do more if they weren't wearing headphones. You should also consider why the employees are wearing headphones. If the work environment is distracting, headphones might be the employees' way of ensuring that they can focus. 

One of the things that someone in a new position has to do is to build trust with their new team. When the new person is in the position of replacing someone, this is all the more difficult. Behave with the utmost professionalism. Be open and friendly. If possible, let negative comments slide by. If someone is more confrontational about it, your friend can gently remind them that she doesn't know her predecessor and isn't responsible for what happened to that person. She should also look for people who aren't so negative and use that as a starting point for building relationships. All the while, she has to focus on delivering results that prove she is qualified for the position. As part of the ongoing dialog between an employee and their manager, your friend should discuss what is going well and what she is finding challenging. Her manager might be able to provide her with some additional advice that is specific to her situation and her working environment. Talking to a manager doesn't necessarily mean that the manager is the one who takes action, or that it will have negative repercussions for those around her. It's a sticky situation, and your friend will have to be very careful. 

I think that you should first check to see if any of the other individuals on your team share your perception. Your example developer might be a good person to start with. If others view that there's a cultural issue, then you have allies in trying to shift the culture. Remember that making a cultural shift is something that takes a very long time, and it's going to take a lot of time and effort on the part of you and your allies to make this change. If your team grows, that's an excellent opportunity for you to help that cultural shift along: when you interview candidates, you can work to understand their interaction style with their fellow developers and whether their interaction style fits into the culture that you are trying to engender. If no-one else views that there's a cultural issue, then you need to decide whether this is a culture that you want to be a part of. It's totally valid for you to choose to not be a part of a culture that you find toxic, and learning about this kind of thing is great for you to understand. When you're looking for future positions, you can try to learn about the interaction style of the development team has the type of respectful culture that you're looking for. 

Being new to a team puts you in a position of having to build trust. In this case, building trust is made more difficult by the knowledge that you're there doing the work that someone else was doing yesterday. You need to spend extra time building relationships to compensate for the situation. Take a look at the situation from the other person's perspective. They were working on something, and (possibly without warning) their project was given to someone who was just hired. They probably feel a fair amount of resentment, or have concerns about their career prospects as a result. These feelings are understandable, and keeping their perspective in mind can help you as you're working on your new project. The first step towards building relationships and trust is to be as professional as possible about the existing project and your predecessor on it. Don't say anything negative about the existing project, and certainly don't say anything negative about your predecessor. Be empathetic towards them and understanding of their situation. After all, it doesn't seem like great management to try to make a secretary into a webmaster without providing sufficient training for such a role. Gently remind them that you're in an uncomfortable position of wanting to do a good job and that you don't want them to be angry at you. You want them to realize on their own that their feelings might be directed at you because you're a convenient target, but you're not actually the correct target for them. You might also get some traction if you can use it as a mentoring experience for you and your predecessor. They can teach you about the company and the project, and you can teach them something about the project so that they are better equipped to handle a project like this in the future. If this is something that they're interested in learning, you have an opportunity to help them meet their career goals as well as improving your own skills in mentoring and coaching. Being polite and professional helps others around you see that you are trying to do the right thing, both for the project and for your predecessor. Once they get past their initial reaction about the change, you have an opportunity to turn them into an ally. If they're unable to get past their initial reaction, you still have the opportunity for others to see you acting professionally and thus not see you in a negative light.