You seem to be confused about what it means to "precede" something. I changed the "quote" to one from the SEP, which substitutes some terms. You should check out that entry: 

I suppose that already answers your question. It's no opinion the author has, it's an obvious truth that the metaphysical systems of rationalists like Spinoza can't ever be proven to be true and that therefore they're highly speculative. There can be no method of proving that "everything is in God" - you can't prove it because you're inside the system you're making that claim about, there is no outside perspective. You can always (?) refute the premises of the speculative theory, or you can try to show that it's logically inconsistent, but you can neither prove nor disprove its contents. Kant is no rationalist metaphysician, but his theoretical thinking is speculative in the same way (he calls it speculative philosophy himself). As a counterexample, consider Marx - everything he said about the development of history could be disproved post hoc (or maybe not, because you can always claim that this particular event did not conclude the development, I am not sure if this is such a good argument after all...). Some parts of language philosophy might be refuted by cognitive sciences; the "old" natural philosophy has long been proven to be false by physics. 

Yes, "not all are American" would still be true if we found out the one we assumed was actually wasn't. As Sindikat already pointed out: 

If you're asking about the moral aspects of forcing them into society, there are different approaches you could look at: In general, social contract theories assume that the act of joining society has to be 1) voluntarily 2) out of self-interest 3) based on strict reciprocity. As society makes demands on you, your rights and your behaviour, it seems plausible that you should have to agree to that in advance. We would then conclude that they do have the right to remain outside the society. You can find that thought expressed in the three major social contract theories, namely the Leviathan, Locke's Treatises and Rousseau's Social Contract. A different example is Kant, who claimed that there's a moral obligation to leave the state of nature and that one may use force to make others join a legal state. There must be a legal relation between all human beings who could interact with one another or have influence on others (which, today, is pretty much everyone). According to Kant, they would not have a right to remain the way they are then, and in fact, I think that's plausible: They demand property and to be left alone. These claims are dealt with legally, and as soon as they are legal persons, they are part of society. Of course the native tribe (e.g.) is a society in itself. The "problem" is that Kant claims that the same applies to communities/states. They, too, need a legal relation to deal with differing interests. You can find some details here or in the first part of Metaphysics of Morals. On the relation between states, have a look at The Perpetual Peace, a very interesting short book. This are just two examples how your question could be answered, I bet there are other approaches I didn't think of. I wish to add that, whether we agree with these approaches or not, I find them much more satisfying than an answer that is based purely on rational considerations. 

To answer your question in the headline, ignoring the text body: The Perpetual Peace introduces what Kant calls a "touchstone" for laws. The government or the monarch is to ask, whether the people, not as individuals but as rational beings (just as virmaior explained), could or would agree to the law. Because this is so, there is no need to ask them. I'm not sure it's right to ask how to ascertain whether a law is ethical, because the connection of right and morals is not as obvious as one might think. I don't need the categorical imperative to find out whether my actions are rightful, because to be rightful my actions don't need to be grounded in respect or understanding of moral necessity or anything, they just have to be compatible with everybody's freedom. That is why right [Recht] can't make people act morally right, for then its laws would have to act upon their motives, and that's impossible. All positive laws can do is to give people an incentive not to constrain other's legal freedom. It's also not shown yet that positive laws have to be ethical, for it is possible that they rule in a "space" of morally irrelevant actions. Plus, there is readings of Kant that suggest that there is a good reason why the Rechtslehre (Doctrine of Right) comes prior to the ethical part of the Metaphysics of Morals, and that we cannot understand what it is for a law to be ethical before understanding what makes a law lawful. I can't give you any references more specific than the Perpetual Peace as a whole, which isn't very long anyway, and the introduction plus first paragraphs of the Metaphysics of Morals 

Isn't there at least the possibility that even when we make analytical or deductive judgements, we're mistaken for we're not granted the natural light of the God? Am I missing something? Or is Descartes plainly abandoning his method of "geometrical deduction" and anticipating the proof of God's existence to deduce it? 

I am currently reading Korsgaard's Self-Constitution in the Ethics of Plato and Kant (which you can find here). I was wondering if the argumentative step from an injustice in the perfectly arranged polis to an injustice in a contemporary democracy is justified somewhere. I will try to explain what I mean. Korsgaard writes (p.7): 

I suppose that prior to answering that question of yours, you'll have to figure out what you think your system is and how you feel about that. Should you think that what you live in is actually a democracy, not an ochlocracy where people are potential voters and idiots (as I tried to narrow down in the comments to krue.ron.taiepa's answer, idiot as used in ancient times, see here), then the mainstream party seems to have hit a nerve and to be actually what most people can agree on. However, the probability that people in your system (as well as in mine and every other system) choose what is best for their own pockets and mainly in their own interest is high, and it is possible that another party has a far more rational election manifesto. Fortunately or not, it is for you to decide that. Should you come to the conclusion that whatever you vote for is not good enough or that the system is hopeless, than you still have option 3, which is to vote void. Your vote gets counted, and maybe interpreted as the voice of somebody who's malcontent with all the options, but unfortunately there is no way of discerning whether you voted void on purpose or because you don't know how to do it right. In Germany, the percentage of votes that don't count normally don't show up in statistics. So what do we do? I guess if you find your system deficient, it's up to you as to anybody to improve it. Not voting is, as I see it, at least as bad as voting blindly. If we want the fruit of democracy, we should cultivate it. Yes, your vote doesn't really count. But there are other ways to participate, and we all know that, we just tend to forget it. Don't just throw your vote in some box every once in a while. If you think you know better than most or many or some, then go and convince somebody (and I mean in the good way of "convince", make them see it instead of forcing your opinion on them). The chance that the majority of a people is right is, as I see it, not very high. Hegel wrote on the common sense (Encyclopedia ยง 63), and he wasn't praising it, and if the majority votes in its own favour, how can we expect them to be voting for the good of the community? I suppose from here you go right to criticism of liberal theories. Maybe there's a point to ancient suffrage, maybe as long as we have to work to keep up our standards and as long not everybody who's allowed to vote can vote, there's only choosing between bad and worse. 

I am currently studying some aspects of Spinoza's philosophy, mainly in contrast to Kant. It seems to me that Spinoza is just the kind of "dogmatic metaphysician" Kant criticises. I know that Kant tried to "proof" God's existence in his pre-critical phase, but later changed his mind (I refrain from going into details). I therefore wanted to have a look at Spinoza's "proofs". The first one says: 

In a book on Aristotle's metaphysics I read a passage on the differences between his and Kant's categories. It says that the concept of categories, in both Aristotle's and Kant's case, wasn't conceived by observation of the outside world but is a reflexive concept. Then follows this sentence (my translation): 

As leancz said, there isn't one answer to this. An argument I heard from extreme vegans: The difference in your example is that bees are often harmed when collecting honey, and also you "steal" the basis of their habitation as well as for new offspring, while relying on their pollination 1) is indispensable and 2) doesn't harm them but, on the contrary, it's essential to their survival (while the crop of the pollenised plant isn't). Edit: I hereby present a somewhat suspicious link to Why honey is not vegan. Please don't hold me liable. 

You can find Nietzsche's thoughts on altruism in 'human, all too human'. For Aquinas' perspective, cf. Summa Theologica II:II. As you suspected, Aquinas does not say that there is no gain in acting altruistic: 

The thing is that Kant (I don't know enough about Fichte to be arguing his case) would not agree with your third premise, i.e. that "violating the law is just if and only if the law is unjust". Justice, as a term of rights [Recht] is established by the implementation of a legal situation. As not having one is worse that having a bad one, revolution is prohibited. There is simply no justice in the state of nature. There is no way to guarantee "Mine and Thine" - thus to get into a legal situation, even coercion is allowed. To leave the state of nature has such a high priority for Kant, that to overthrow the legal system is simply not an option. If leaving the state of nature is a must, then returning to it must be prohibited. His answer to the problem of unjust laws is reform. As Jonathan Basile pointed out in the comment above that leaves, as only possibility, public criticism. While revolution is not justifiable in terms of rights, there is a positive side to it. I will quote the SEP on this: 

I really can't help with the mindspace problem, and I'm not sure I understand your representations, but I do know where to look for Kant's explanation, so here comes. The place you'll have to look is the third chapter of the Critique of Pure Reason, Of the Ground of the Division of all Objects into Phenomena. Although I might tell you right away that you won't find a lot there, which is why people have been discussing this issue ever since. Check out Stanford Encyclopedia on the two-objects interpretations and the two-aspects interpretation. A contemporary advocate for the first interpretation is Guyer, check out Kant and the Claims of Knowledge. The two-aspects reading is advocated by Allison, e.g. in Idealism and Freedom: Essays on Kant's Theoretical and Practical Philosophy. 

Is there any newer literature that you can recommend? Does anybody know of any passage in any of Marx's texts that, more or less literally, speaks of the absorption of surplus value being unjust? Is there any literature on Marx as Egalitarian? 

The concepts thus seem to be interwoven. The Wiktionary on obligation and duty provided me with information on the etymology of the words. 

I disagree with krue's answer. That's not what the categorical imperative does, though the conclusion may be right. The categorical imperative does not give licenses to others, it doesn't concern others, it's about verifying that your act is contradiction-free. Stealing that cent is not generalisable because that act, among other problems (e.g. stealing, see NotThatGuy's answer), reduces to absurdity the concept of a bank where you put your money, which is rightfully yours, to keep it safe. By definition an act that is not generalisable is, according to Kant, unethical.