Link to point in video When I do a search for sections of this quote it worries me both that there aren't many results, and that Twitter usually comes up among the first results. Also, she says Theodore Herzl was an atheist when I've discovered he most likely was not. She says that the Balfour Declaration was issued by a small group of British Lords, whereas when I look it up I read that it was issued by the British government. Many things considered together make me suspicious of her prejudice. Also it has an ominous soundtrack playing in the background. I don't think I can take this person seriously, but I may be wrong. 

There were actually multiple scientific studies done on the fish ingot which led to the design being changed to maximize dietary iron. However, some of the studies were published in predatory journals and the peer review on these is dubious. Here are the more reliable publications: Iron-deficiency anaemia in rural Cambodia: community trial of a novel iron supplementation technique 

However, at roughly the same time that he was given this phone number, he at random wrote the number 67 in another letter and became convinced that this, too, was somehow meaningful. 

Here is a video of Tyson making this claim. Sorry about the disputatious annotations made by the poster, but this was the first result I got for "Tyson al-Ghazali". Is there any evidence that al-Ghazali said something like manipulating numbers or math is the work of the devil, or maybe sinful, or immoral? And as corollary to that, did he damage the spirit of scientific inquiry in the Islamic world? Here is a quote written from one of the versions, found in video link 2 below: 

It also lacks any explanation of how the alleged radiation could have caused these deaths. The usual statement has to be made about all such allegations:"correlation is not causation". The Canadian article is just a rant with no information. It doesn't even state whether the infant death rate went up before or after the Fukushima tragedy (which took place halfway through the period that article claims to have figures for). Against this is the truth that the amounts of radiation which reached the US (and Canada) were absolutely trivial. Here is an article giving some information: initial readings are "about a billion times beneath levels that would be health threatening." People who don't understand radiation often assume that "any radiation causes disease", forgetting that we are all subjected to much more radiation than reached North America from Japan just from natural sources. 

There is no citation for this, nothing that looks like a citation anywhere near it, and no date for the supposed removal of rights, and I find the entire content of this book quite dubious. Apparently more information about this can be found in Shahida Lateef's Muslim women in India: political & private realities, 1890s-1980s (1990). Lateef is quoted in another book as saying that "the difference was a matter of region, class and caste, more than religion." Lateef's book is at a library I can access, but I think this is probably enough information to put considerable doubt on the claim. 

Links to other occasions he's said this before, here are two: video 1 video 2 Edit: OK, I'm pretty sure I know what happened. Steven Weinberg is a physics Nobel laureate and acquaintance of Neil Tyson. Steven Weinberg is critical of religion, and has written: 

The astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson has said that during the Islamic Golden Age, especially in Baghdad, science and discovery flourished for a few centuries. Then an Islamic scholar named al-Ghazali became prominent, whose ideas took root. Among these was something along the lines that mathematics was, to use Tyson's words "the work of the devil". I've listened to many of Tyson's talks, and he's mentioned this many times. Today I came across the Wikipedia article for al-Ghazali and thought I'd spend some time reading about him. He was a rather influential Islamic scholar in many ways, but specific to the claim that his philosophy led to the decline of science within the Islamic world, I only found the following: 

A similar type of unexpected large sound, the Seneca Guns or Barisal Guns, has been recorded for centuries. While there is no firm explanation, they are believed to be the result of the atmosphere unexpectedly magnifying loud sounds, such as thunder, ship cannons, or, yes, heavy machinery. While it is not clear how this hypothesis could be tested, most other worldly explanations -- earthquakes, continental shelf movements -- have been ruled out. It is especially notable that these sounds most often happen in summer, and rarely if ever happen in winter. Sources: 

In order to answer this question, I don't see any reason to restrict ourselves to comparison between states. The variation in gun laws between states are quite small, and the ease of crossing state boundaries make it easy for crime to flow across those borders. Instead lets look at comparison between countries, where there is marked different in gun laws and less likelihood of cross-border crime. Fortunately there is a study by Mark Reid, a machine learning researcher at Australian National University that does exactly that. 

The BBC, for their part, claims that antisemitism has not increased, and that this is a fabrication by Putin. Their main source for this is an oligarch who seized control of the Ukrainian Jewish community in 2010. 

edit: I don't know why DavePhD deleted his answer, but he provided a similar anecdote from the New York Times Magazine in 1992: 

Jun-ju-an (Sōngshùshān, 松樹山) was the name of a battery at Port Arthur. The linked thread additionally contains heavy documentation that there were indeed one-on-one duels between Russians and Japanese. It has a newspaper account of a Japanese defeating a Russian. The forum posters are inconclusive on whether or not Saičić really dueled a Japanese, due to lack of documentation other than his obituary. However, somewhere down the line the alleged duel has morphed into a tall tale: