I have just repaired my second flat in two days, on a bike that has hardly been used since its last servicing. I did not find the reason for the first flat, but for the second I did find a small piece of metal in the tire. So I am pretty sure the hole comes from the way the guy worked on the bike. Not on purpose but still..... 

I would call it muscle pain, or myalgia from using muscles you did not train before. It is normal that it disappears when you are using the muscles as this kind of pain is one that will 'go away when you do more'. If it is a light aching, I would just ignore it and go on with your current training schedule. If it is painfull enough to keep you awake or keep your attention while doing things, slow down on the cycling and do not do as much or take more time in between sessions. 

Motorcyclists use full face helmets because the 'happy biker with bugs on his teeth' experience. The speed most motorcyclists go makes that they get bugs and other things in their faces at quite high forces. As they have to wear helmets, (in most countries compulsory,) they might as well add the face protection part. At the speed they go, there is enough cooling from the air. Most cyclist go at much lower speeds, the bugs are not that much of a danger, although at every speed they can be a nuicance. The cooling factor of speed is much lower. Those cyclist that mostly wear helmets have a very awkward head position, anything that makes it harder to look up will endanger the cyclist rather than protect. On top of that, for many cyclists helmets are more precieved safety, not real life, the current helmets are enough to believe in the fairytale, nothing else is needed. I have seen enough proof to not believe in that story and would not don any helmet, even less one that fully encloses my head. One of the good things of cycling is the fresh clean air around my head, no way I will put a plastic case around it. A pair of glasses (and a shawl in front of my mouth in case of very nasty bugs) is all protection I need. 

For me the pedals need to be well in front of me, about seat high and above or in front of the front wheel. I prefer to ride a recumbent bike. On my sit-up bike I prefer the pedals to be just before the seat, easy to use when sitting. Standing up on that bike is not as easy but I have a bike to sit on, not to stand. In other words, it is totally your own preference and maybe your personal build. 

Add width to your profile, adding it to your bike permanently will make it easy not to forget it. I ride a recumbent trike as well as a recumbent bike. The trike is a bit lower down than the bike, has a less bright frame colour and neither has a flag at the moment but it the trike has had one but at that time the friend I mostly cycled with had a flag as well, one that is more visible than mine. The trike always gets a wide berth of cars and the bike, both mine and that of my friend, are more often getting 'last moment adjustment' reactions of cars indicating they had not been seen early. I live in the Netherlands where most of my riding is on bike paths, bike lanes and low traffic roads. But I have been riding in the UK, most notably through London and the trike did get respect from cars that ignored upright bikes to the point of almost forcing them off the street. In Germany they sell an item that makes a bike seem wider, a lollipop style reflector that is mounted so it is to the side of the bike, making the bike seem twice as wide. 

I use a ring lock that is attached to the frame to lock the rear wheel to the frame. As it is a relatively cheap second hand bike (€200 4 years back) that is how it is locked unless left for a long time or in a dangerous place. When I lock properly, the long cable lock will go through the front wheel, through a smallish hole or loop of a fixed object and either around the bar of the middle of the bike or through any of the 'loops' that the frame of the bike has. As I expect bike thieves to be mostly opportunists (where and when I park) I expect two locks to be enough in most or all occasions. My friend, who owns a much more expensive 'bent bike, uses a better lock but basically uses the same method. The hard lock is on the bike itself, it is the expensive cable that holds the bike in place. In places where I would not trust that kind of locking, I would not leave my bike. All locks only slow the thieves, never stop them. Ratings should give 'minutes' or even 'seconds' delay. And then, even the best locks can be dealt with in seconds if the 'right' tools are used. If I had to lock my bike with an U shaped lock, I would try to get the front of the bike to the fixed object, so the lock goes about the bar between front and back as well as around the fixed point. Locking the trike is even less a problem but more of an annoyance. As I had an insurance on it, I had to use a heavy chain, other approved locks did not fit the trike. With that chain I can fix one of the 'loops' of the frame, one rear wheel and a fixed spot. I still have a cable lock for the trike, which I can use to lock both rear wheels to the frame and to a fixed point, or I can use it for the front of the trike. But the frame of the trike has all kinds of 'loops' that make locking it easier. Bike Batavus Relaxx: $URL$ Trike looks very much like a Sun EZ3USX: $URL$ I am living in the Netherlands where bike thieves are almost as common as bikes but most thefts are done to get to places on the 'borrowed' bike. Having an uncommon bike is a help there, thieves will not know how to ride it and it will stand out. 

First of all, you should go with what is law in your country. In my country we all learn to ride as in picture one, and all drivers learn to pass with enough space and not to pass when there is not enough space. In the Netherlands cycling on the sidewalk is illegal for anybody over 12 years of age, and does get fined. I must admit that I do take the lane on those roads where cars do tend to pass while there is not enough space. But in my area those are mostly single lane roads. When I do take the lane I do get out of the way and let cars to past as soon as that is safe to do. When there are cars parked you of course go round them with enough space not to get doored. 

I think it is the difference in stretch, a slight different of angle in 'give' will make a huge difference in how they fit you. It is often but not always that the more expensive saddle is the better one. I have had a very cheap (4 $US or less) that I used without problems for all its (rather long) life. People who use saddles with a gap will often tell that those work very well for them, but not for all people. So I am afraid it will be a case of try and change if it does not work out. If, as you have, you find one that fits you, try to get one for each (new) bike.