The right thing to do is what maximizes the amount of intrinsic moral goodness in the universe. The only thing which is of intrinsic moral goodness is happiness. 

At its core, what the Gettier problem shows is that knowledge can’t just be a justified true belief because it is possible that I could have a justified belief that only happens to be true by accident. (Think of the fake barn case.) Therefore, what a solution to the problem must do is show a connection between justification and truth that rules out these happy accidents. That’s just what Nozick’s two conditions do. If I believe there is a barn and that belief is only true by accident, then one of the conditions isn’t fulfilled. 

Your question trades on a mistake. Truth and falsity are properties of sentences. The law of the excluded middle therefore is a rule about sentences. An undefined operation isn't a sentence hence it is neither true or false, but this doesn't imply that it has some kind of third truth value. It simply lacks a truth value all together. My toaster also lacks a truth value, in just the same sense. This is why in logic, we don't regard formula with free variables as sentences. To see why, think of, "I gave the ball to . . . " This is not a sentence---and so neither true or false---until we fill in the dots with something to be the direct object of the verb. A function that is undefined over some range is like that incomplete sentence. The function isn't taking the values in that range and spitting out "Undefined". The function isn't taking values from that range at all. (We program our calculators and software to spit out "undefined" to warn us that we can't input that value to that function.) 

You need to know absolutely no logic, philosophy of language or mathematics to understand Heidegger, Derrida, Foucault, or most of the other "famous" continental philosophers. It would be hard to read the early Husserl without some logic, however. But why shut yourself off from reading non-continental philosophy? The logic required to read most papers contemporary analytic isn't hard, although it requires some effort and discipline to learn. (Some specialist areas in metaphysics, philosophy of language and formal epistemology will require more advanced logical knowledge.) 

I like parts of Cort Ammon's answer, but I want to give a slightly different perspective. I want to answer as if what the OP really wants is a roadmap of things to do to get his or her idea to be taken up by the academic community, that is, have the idea discussed, argued about, taught in university courses and seminars, and have other people to write and think about. I'll preface my advice by saying that I have a PhD in philosophy, several publications in good journals, and worked for several years as a philosophy professor (first as a graduate student, then as a postdoc) before leaving academia. In other words, I'm exactly the kind of audience someone with a great new idea should be trying to persuade. I'll illustrate with two cases. First, the case of a genuine amateur who made important contributions to Astronomy, H. W. M. Olbers, of Olbers' Paradox. On the other hand, I'll also explain why Ayn Rand isn't a brilliant thinker unjustly overlooked by uncomprehending ivory tower intellectuals, but rather just a regular, run-of-the-mill crank, just like the quacks who invent "perpetual motion machines", cranks who "disprove" Godel's incompleteness theorems, trisect the angle, and so on. Ok, so let's say you've had a brilliant, earth-shattering discovery, that upends huge parts of our standing theories and everyday commonsense about the world. Let's call you idea p. Let's reverse engineer what it would take to get somebody like me to accept p as at least a serious theory, deserving study. 

A good place to start with the philosophical aspects of logic for beginners/intermediates is Susan Haack, Philosophy of Logics, 1978. After that, I would start with the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy articles on the particular topics of interest, as others have said. 

I feel like I'm missing something in the question. I think you're asking: "Is it possible for a sentence to be true, even if nobody believes it?" If that's not right, let me know and I'll try again. There are a variety of theories of truth, and they would offer different answers to the question you've posed. Let me mention just three such views: 

Russell's history is a classic, but it's dated. Especially don't take anything he says about medieval philosophy that seriously. He was not only personally unsympathetic to the figures, the state of scholarly research on medieval philosophy at the time was atrocious. If you want a somewhat better history of the medieval period, I recommend the book by Armand Maurer (2nd ed 1982). I think Russell is at his best talking about Spinoza actually. 

I'm given this problem and I know exactly what the situation is. I understand just what the author is asking me to do--give an answer which is a time. So I suppose that Chicago is position 0, and New York is position 800. Further, I know that the position of train A along the route is given by 80(t) where t is the time in hours elapsed since 12pm EST. Likewise I know the position of train B is 800-100t. To find the time t where the two trains meet I simply need to express mathematically the idea that the positions of the two trains are equal, i.e. 80t = 800 - 100t, rearranging gives me t = 800/180 = 4.44 hrs. That is to say the trains will meet 4.44 hours after 12pm EST. I suspect the answer is correct, because it gives the right kind of answer, i.e. an answer in terms of hours. The philosophical point is that I can know that I've given the appropriate mathematical interpretation to the physical situation simply by performing the experiment and observing the train from New York go past just before 4:30pm EST. There are more complicated issues that arise in the philosophy of science in which any given data won't uniquely determine whether your mathematical interpretation of the physical phenomena are actually correct or not, but that's a more advanced topic. 

Descartes himself considers the question how we can have false beliefs, given our having been created by a perfect God in the Fourth Meditation. The ultimate answer, Descartes thinks, is because God has given us a power to know the true from the false, but that power is limited, not infinite. Therefore, when we use our intellects to think about things beyond the scope God designed them to work for, we fall into error. In other words, it isn't God's fault we have false beliefs. It is our fault for using our minds improperly. 

Yes there is. The first thing to note is that there are four "figures" of syllogism which are defined by where the major, minor and middle terms fall in the syllogism. Then what you do is memorize a variety of ways in which various valid syllogisms can be "reduced" to one of these four valid figures. These rules are codified in a little Latin song made of nonsense names "Barbara, Celarent, etc". For details see Paul Vincent Spade *Thoughts, Words, and Things", p. 20-25. $URL$ 

No. Or at least, I couldn't see how an argument from the falsity of the fact/value distinction to the denial of qualia would go. 

The implied answer of the question is: "They can't." Nobody who believes in qualia should count as a physicalist, but rejecting physicalism is not the same thing as rejecting the causal closure of the physical world. Rejecting closure isn't just rejecting physicalism, it's opening the door back up to straightforward substance dualism where my mental properties cause physical events by pushing my pineal gland around or something. But, hey, maybe the entire scholarly community has gotten Chalmers and company wrong. Maybe Chalmers has simply been slighted by careless, slapdash slanders by wild eyed physicalists who cannot stand to hear their theories contradicted. So, let's look and see what Chalmers himself says about whether qualia have causal powers. 

Because effects that are less immediate are less likely. I'm trying to calculate expected utility, but that calculation gets more and more uncertain the farther out I try to forecast, so if A and B both, hypothetically would produce ten utils of pleasure, but if those good consequences are an immediate consequence of A, but only a remote consequence of B, then I should prefer A to B, because all other things being equal, i'm more likely to actually get those 10 utils with A. 

This is a huge question actually and one of considerable current research. I would recommend you start with the Stanford Encyclopedia article: $URL$ Another excellent place to start researching the issue if you'd like to delve deeper is the work of a very philosophically sophisticated biologist named Ernst Mayr. I'd particularly recommend his essay The Idea of Teleology in the Journal of the History of Ideas, 53(1), 1992. Another place to look if you want to delve deeper is the work of William Bechtel, who does contemporary philosophy of biology/neuroscience. His work is on the notion of function in biology. I think function is the key--if you want a scientific description of functional systems like living organisms and their parts, then you have to give such a description in functional terms, which means you have to have teleology. e.g. "the kidneys are for filtering the blood". You can see a slideshow of his with some interesting info about teleology and functional explanation in contemporary biology here My view, which according to the author of the SEP article, is widely shared among contemporary philosophers of biology is that: "Many contemporary biologists and philosophers of biology believe that teleological notions are a distinctive and ineliminable feature of biological explanations but that it is possible to provide a naturalistic account of their role." And I think Bechtel is right to say that functional analysis is the way to offer a naturalistically acceptable way of getting function talk going. Speaking historically, I think this functional systems approach to teleology is actually probably a lot closer to Aristotle's original conception that some of his contemporary critics recognize. The debates about evolution and design of the 19th century were conducted in terms that assimilated the Aristotelian idea of teleology to divine providence and God's guiding events towards his purposes, but I don't see any of that kind of view at work in Aristotle himself. 

Again, technological possibility is a subset of physical possibility. Faster than light transportation is not technologically possible (at the present) but perhaps it isn't physically possible. The important point is that what is physically possible (what is compatible with the laws of nature) or what is humanly (compatible with human abilities) or technologically (compatible with current technology) possible is always a subset of logical possibility. Take for instance, the question of God's omnipotence. God can do anything. "But God can't make round squares!" you say, "Therefore he can't really be omnipotent after all." Well no. It isn't a limitation of God's power not to be able to make a round square because there is simply nothing that a round square could be. There isn't something such that God fails to be able to create it. A round square is just an absurdity created by our power to combine words that look meaningful even if there isn't anything they could possibly refer to. 

A rule being simple is no reason to think it is incorrect. Likewise, a rule being "sophisticated," whatever one takes that to mean, is no reason to think it is correct. Moral philosophers disagree about what exactly they are doing. Are they trying to expresses the ordinary moral beliefs that normal people have in a more precise way and offered arguments that these beliefs are correct? Or are they trying instead to reform the moral beliefs of ordinary people through argument. Probably every moral philosopher is doing at least a little bit of both. At any rate, there is no broad philosophical consensus that the golden rule ("Do unto others, as you would have them do to you.") is a bad moral rule. 

Hubert Dreyfus and John Haugeland have written on issues in philosophy of mind/AI stuff from a Heideggarian point of view. John McDowell and Robert Brandom are both into Hegel. Dan Zahavi and Shaun Gallagher are both contemporary phenomenologists who also actually know something about cognitive science and are in dialogue with more mainstream philosophy of mind. John Richardson writes analytic-y things about Nietzsche. 

Short answer: Yes, most people would take the 'situated' dimension of cognition to lead to a kind of relativism. However most philosophers (in the US at least) would deny our thoughts are situated in this way. Here's one reason why: the only theories of mental content that seem to make the historical circumstances of a person's acquiring a thought relevant to its content are holist theories. The arguments for such theories aren't very good---and the view is decidedly implausible on its face. Was Euclid not doing Geometry? Was Shakespeare not writing plays? Was Thucydides not writing history? According to this "situatationalist" view it looks like the answer to each of those questions is no, but this simply beggars belief.