I've been working as a contractor in the US for few years. I can give you my perspective on things here, which may assist you, and in particular US readers who wonder about your question. Typically employers here are willing to pay about 30% more for contractors. The reason is that they win back vacations, benefits, unemployment insurance etc. and get added flexibility. So I have a simple rule of thumb that I use to figure the equivalent and translate from perm to contract. I will take my hourly rate as a contractor and multiply that by 1500 to get the equivalent rate I would charge annually as an employee. So for example if I was making $30ph contract I would be looking for a perm. salary of $45,000pa. Or if I want to make $80ph contract-equivalent, I would be looking for a perm. salary of $120,000pa. Then I'll try to quantify and add in anything that's a bit unusual about the job I'm considering, for example travel time, if its particularly close or far, or new skills I might acquire and what value they may bring. Also if I will have to spend time away from family, how much of a premium do I want for that. If I have to relocate, what's the cost of living difference, etc. 

So four years of posting questions on Stack Overflow? My advice is put integrity first. Just being honest will take you further than anything you can write on a resume. Edit added: In comments, you have provided more information about another StackOverflow account (other than the one this is linked to) which seems to have credibility and significant reputation. If true, I suggest you can claim ample experience training or mentoring others via StackOverflow, and I would sell to that strength that while also working to fill the gap by actually building a demonstrable and substantial project. Someone with your skills should find it easy to put a project together in short time. Then when asked, you can say you are young and you are working on something amazing - it's in the works! Good luck. 

No... part of being professional is competence in getting the job done. You are being mocked because your colleagues are bullies, not because of anything you are doing wrong. 

I can't believe people consider disclosing current salary. Never do this! Don't tell recruiters. Don't tell potential new employers. All you have to say is, "I'd prefer not to disclose my current salary". The only people that have any right to that information are your spouse and the IRS. You could be about to be offered double your current salary! Why would you shoot yourself in the foot?! Wait for their offer, then (unless it blows you away) say hmm, you were hoping for more and ask for a few days to think about it. Where you go from there depends on your analysis of the whole offer. 

When faced with a foolish statement, I often prefer quips and sound bites to well reasoned arguments as most people are neither prepared nor interested in a well reasoned argument when they make a foolish statement. Here are a few to try. "Those who can do. Those who can't teach. Those who can do neither study." "So basically you're out of ideas and pounding the table?" "Well, if that's what they do at then perhaps you should return to ." Throw out a fictional institute of higher learning. Google for names. "You would never have made it at Faber College." Faber College was in "Animal House". If you want a quip that is rooted in a well reasoned argument try, "Argumentum ad verecundiam". It means "Argument from authority", and it is one of many logical fallacies. $URL$ 

What you say next depends upon what you want to do. Do you want to continue doing the freelance work, but perhaps at a different pace or fewer hours spent on the work each week? Do you want to abandon the freelance work altogether, which has the potential of eliminating any future freelance work. One of the unknowns, or at least not stated in your post, is how long do you expect the freelance work to continue. A few more weeks, a few more months, a few more years, something else. If you don't know, ask. Maybe there is light at the end of the tunnel, and the work he needs you to do will be ending soon. 

I'm not aware of a legal requirement to give two weeks notice anywhere, unless you signed a contract to that end. Over my 26 years in IT (Helpdesk, Application Developer, now DBA), I've experienced my fair share of bad fits. There have been times when I wanted to walk out the door without so much as a by your leave, but I never did. That said, if it were a sufficiently bad fit, and if I had something better in hand, I might well consider it. If you can at all give two weeks notice, then do so. If you have already established a start date with the new company, then this may not be possible (e.g. you said you'd start on December 28). Any time there is rapid turnover or a short stint on a resume, yes it will sometimes raise red flags to a future potential employer. They don't want you to walk out the door on them. With that said, I've left places on good terms knowing that I would never be welcomed back there because of a corporate culture of loyalty where you're with us or against us and if you leave then you are dead to us. There is no pleasing some people, even if you are there for a short time and you do good work for them. A lot of my experience gained over the years likely would not have been possible had I not been assertive in my pursuit of opportunities. This assertiveness has led to me work for 14 different places in 26 years, and yes at times they've asked me whether I was a job hopper. Most of the time, when asked in interviews, I was able to make an effective case that either I wasn't being challenged with the work, the organization didn't have a real future, that it was a short term contract I knew about going in, or something similar. If the situation is as bad as you say--and unlike the rest of us you're there on the ground so you'll know best--then you should leave and take the job offer with the new employer, regardless of whether you are able to give two weeks notice to your current employer. In terms of what you should say in the future, or even when telling your current employer that you are leaving, always remember that the glass is always half full, at least. Even in the darkest of times, present things in a positive light. When you are asked a question, any question, the person asking you the question generally does not want you to give a full and complete answer. A question such as, "Why did you leave Company X after working there for only a few weeks?" might take 10 minutes to give a full and complete answer and the answer has five components--three of which are considered positive, one is considered neutral, and one is considered negative. If asked that question, start with one of the positive components and segue into another of the positive components, then stop talking. You will have answered for 30 seconds to a minute, answered with a positive answer, and because you stopped talking they will assume you have answered the question. 

Why not? I'm skeptical of that assertion unless there's an unusual time crunch. Using reference material only takes seconds. 

First, if a recruiter says you can get 30k, then you can get 40k. (Edit for clarification: this means if they are talking about 30k in the market generally -- not if they are discussing only one particular job) Second, the best way to negotiate is to have other options. The people who get the best pay raises go into their pay negotiation with another job already lined up. You can be polite for sure, but this isn't going to come across as "polite" no matter which way you ask for a raise. Even if you are very polite, it will still feel tricky. To some extent your goals of keeping your boss comfortable and asking for a significant pay raise are conflicting. 

Relax. Just let the distractions happen like water off a duck's back. Handle it professionally, just as you would handle interruptions on the job. Consider it part of the background noise unless someone is speaking, and then take that opportunity to pay attention and respond if you're spoken to, in a way that demonstrates your people skills vs. your technical skills. I.e. consider it an opportunity to show your warmth as well as your competence. 

The implication made by "You're the first one to complain", is a logical fallacy. That's how you counter it objectively. The implication is that you're weird, or different, or making unusual requests, or making unreasonable requests, because naturally everyone else is for the most part, reasonable, right? It's a version of Argumentum Ad Populum (appeal to crowd fallacy): Argumentum ad populum Management is trying to make the case that your argument is invalid because otherwise, others would be making the same case. That's like saying when you claim 2+2=4, you are wrong, because no-one else is coming to management saying 2+2=4. Clearly that's a fallacy. You can be right on the merits of your argument alone, regardless of what anyone else is doing. Now, whether or not you should ACTUALLY counter management's argument objectively is the more important question. My advice is, it's rarely advisable to get into an argument, especially with management, unless this is something you are willing to risk your security of employment for. Better to be a gentle persuader, and show them why treating their employees better is better for THEM, not YOU. Everyone listens to WII FM (what's in it for me). 

Nosy questions aren't a problem in themselves, only if you let them rattle you. Remember, you don't owe anyone an explanation for anything that's not work related. Some questions aren't even worthy of a response, but before you take that tack it may be worth probing to make sure you understood the motivation behind the question: Them: Shouldn't you be at home taking care of the baby? You: Why do you ask? I would suggest you don't aim to change the way people perceive you and simply gently challenge nosy questions like this. When they come up with some weak justification, just say something like, "I have got everything under control, like a super-mom!" ;) 

In the United States, the issue of exempt versus non-exempt is determined by the Fair Labor Standards Act and is administered by the US Department of Labor. To complicate the issue further, some states have wage and hour laws, which may add more requirements than the FLSA. Non-exempt employees are entitled to overtime pay whereas exempt employees are not. Whether a non-exempt employee is paid an hourly rate or an annual salary rate, if they work overtime there will still be a calculation to determine their hourly overtime rate. Under some contractual obligations, there can be conditions where even exempt employees are paid an overtime rate (e.g. working a Holiday). There are any number of what ifs as to why a company would salary a non-exempt employee. A negotiated contract may stipulate that everyone is salaried, which could make payroll easier if they are paid say twice a month rather than every two weeks. Being an IT guy, I'll throw out a what if that I've lived with more than once. It's entirely possible the company has an ancient, 30+ year old, ramshackle, Mainframe COBOL, "ERP Solution" (and I use that term loosely) which requires an annual salary to be entered for EVERYONE, exempt or non-exempt. 

It is said there are lies, damned lies, and statistics. Most of us have probably heard this cliché, but I cite it because I think it's important to the conversation. If one got extremely meta, then probably everyone has lied during an interview. If one were asked during an interview, "Why do you want to leave your current position?", the full and completely honest answer might cover five points and take six to eight minutes to answer. Three of the points are considered positive, one is considered neutral, and one is considered negative. You start talking about positive point number one, segue into positive point two, then stop talking. If they press for more info, you raise positive point three. You stop talking, and the interviewer is happy. Because you failed to raise the neutral and the negative point, did you lie? In my view, no. You answered the question to the interviewer's satisfaction, which is what most people want. Most people, sitting on either side of an interview, do not hold Fifth Level Black Belts in Grammarian Jiu Jitsu. Also, most people don't want to hear someone drone on for six to eight minutes answering a question. Now, let's say the interviewer pressed you with a follow up question of, "Thank you for your answer. It's been my experience that no one leaves a job, of their own accord, unless there are some negative aspects to that job. Please talk about the negative reasons why you want to leave your current position." I have at times been asked more probing questions such as, "I feel like there may be other reasons why you're wanting to leave your current position." Coworkers over the years have also had these experiences. At that point, they are asking to hear the neutral and negative reasons, so if you don't share those then you are lying. You said something that caught my attention. You said, "I think he is a level below the required knowledge". There are many adjectives in the English language for levels of expertise. In purely alphabetic order, some of these include: Advanced, Beginner, Experienced, Expert, Intermediate, Newbie, Novice, Proficient, Rookie, Seasoned, Senior, Skilled, Skillful, Talented If a person called herself an Expert, but your definition of Expert is different from hers, then the two of you have a different definition of Expert. However, I would not say that the person lied. If a person said they had five years of experience in a particular technology, but in adding up the months and years they worked with the particular technology, it was really only four years and ten months, did they lie? Technically yes, but how far from the truth were they when they were estimating in their head and concluded they had five years of experience? Conversely, if it was really one year and ten months, then their estimation skills might not be to blame and they were in fact lying. You have to analyze and assess each individual situation and determine what was the real harm or foul. I do not believe it's as simple as you caught them in a lie so terminate them.