Seigniorage Governments make a profit on producing money. If government expenditures are small relative to the overall economy, it would be possible for this to be a significant source of funding. Wealth taxes Tax bank deposits and other forms of wealth. Property taxes A specific form of wealth tax with a historical basis. Tax the land that people own. Collect labor Rather than collect money that you use to buy labor, collect taxes in the form of labor. Note that we currently do this in the form of military service and jury duty. Expand this out to other roles. If the government needs two hundred hours of labor per person on average, mandate that people provide that much labor per year. If some jobs are more desirable than others, require that people give more hours in the desirable jobs than the undesirable jobs. So fifty hours of garbage collection might equal five hundred hours of jury duty. 

This also seems unlikely. The most expensive part of the internet is not the connection to your house but the fact that a connection has to be run to your area. Local connections are actually pretty cheap. 

Shifts How the laws would be affected would depend on the politics, but truck drivers and airplane pilots often have restrictions on how long a shift they can have. Such shift level rules would not be necessary for the Awakened. The law might change to reflect that. Of course, the law also might not change. There would be a lot of pressure for the Awakened to live by the same rules as everyone else. Otherwise, the Awakened would end up with all the jobs where long shifts are desirable: driving, piloting, nursing, etc. The Unawakened would be at a disadvantage. Driving: shifts are limited because people lose attention when they work past ten hours. But many trips are longer than that. So truck drivers sleep in their trucks or hotels. The Awakened could drive straight there and back and then have their days off together. Piloting: pilots can only fly for so long in a flight and so much time in a twenty-four hour period. So pilots end up sleeping in hotels for a day or two frequently. The Awakened could just work through and then fly back home. Again, they get a bundle of time off afterward. Say two days on for forty hours and then five days off. Similar rules may apply to other flight staff. Nursing: nurses have twelve hour shifts because switching frequently leads to mistakes, but they can't practically be there for twenty-four hours. The Awakened could work forty hours and then go home for five days. Or longer than that with more time off. Note that surgical nurses have different conditions, so the Unawakened may fit better there. There are doubtless other professions with similar advantages to long shifts. Perhaps the Awakened will be allowed to use that. Per week I don't see why weekly limits would change. If an Awakened wanted to work eighty hours a week, she or he could do it the same way that people do now -- a second job. Eleven hours of sleep a day is rather long, and that still leaves ninety-one waking hours a week. The forty hours we can work before overtime is less than half of that. It might become easier to turn a weekly limit into a monthly limit. So an Awakened might do four weeks of work in one week and then take the rest of the month off. 

Possibly the real plague and the fake plague are the same thing. Just there's a hundred percent cure that they only apply at all in the one location. Because there's a hundred percent cure, they never eat sick people. They cure them first, after updating them as dead in the computer system. Because they are at a hospital, the aliens can give their androids bulky suits and move around at night. Insomniac patient? Sedative injection and a place on the dinner menu. The plague can be spread by fake (android) mosquitoes or similar. So outbreaks can be scheduled and targeted. Everyone will know that something is happening, but there is an easy explanation there. They will never look the extra step beyond the obvious explanation. Except perhaps for the occasional Fox Mulder type. 

Tradition What determined traditional gender roles? Males are taller with more upper body strength. Females have wombs and breasts. The latter is more important. Women have the more labor-intensive portion of reproduction. While a man spends just a short time initiating the pregnancy, the woman is tied down for about nine months. From a reproductive perspective, we have a tremendous surplus of men relative to women. If we had ten women for every man, we could produce just as many babies (about one every ten months at most). Men tend to be given the more dangerous work because they are expendable. Lose a few men and some of the surviving men can take extra wives. Women tend to be given work that can be done even while pregnant. Safe and close to home. They have to feed infants initially (men don't produce milk). It was natural for them to wean the children by feeding them other food. What changed? We have seen a change in traditional gender roles. Why? Because lower infant mortality and birth control mean that large families are much less important. Women don't spend their twenties and thirties popping out kid after kid to be sure that enough survive. So women have more time to do things other than be pregnant. Answering To get back to the actual question, I'm not sure that gender selection would change much. Women would still have a greater role in reproduction. Men would still be stronger with more upper body strength. The roles might stay the same while their importance would be more balanced. If food is plentiful, having more female babies will eventually lead to a larger population. If food is more limited, having more male babies could eventually lead to more hunters to get more food. When agriculture is developed, this choice could switch between increasing population or warriors. Warriors allow a territory expansion, increasing food availability. This would encourage long term thinking. If the balance is too preoccupied with expansion and not enough with resources, people will starve. If the balance is too preoccupied with resources and not enough with expansion, they won't have enough population to utilize the resources. I would expect the balance to shift towards women during the agricultural phase. Agriculture produces an excess of food and has fewer jobs that favor one gender. Multiple wives per husband is likely to be the norm. 

I think that the first and second challenges are the most difficult to reconcile. If Trump wins the presidency, he needs to win the popular vote. If his vote share increases enough to support that, then it seems unlikely that he will still be unpopular enough to lead a state to secede. While Trump is a polarizing figure, his support is still broad-based. For example, men like Trump better than women do. But men and women are distributed in pretty much the same proportions throughout the US. How do you get the pro-Trump men out and the anti-Trump women in? 

There have been other explorations of this. In particular, the idea that life can be transferred. For example, there is the possibly apocryphal tale of Countess Báthory bathing in the blood of young women in order to stay young herself. The vampire legend involves transference of life from the victim to the vampire. Brandon Sanderson's Warbreaker has Breath, which can be transferred from one person to another and which allows magical effects when used. Rather than try to tell you what happens, I'm going to concentrate on suggesting questions. If you answer everything, then you can always post a follow up question for additional feedback. Environmental If life is normally released back to the cycle with death, what happens if the process is interrupted? Is there less life left for everything else? Does it take longer for those low in life to recover? I.e. is there a finite amount of life such that all gains are someone else's loss? Or does spreading life create additional essence? In this case, everyone would want to spread life so as to have more essence available. If there are three people, three bottles of life, and three magical tasks, what's the best way to split them up so as to maximize future essence? Do the bottles lose essence over time? Does using essence cause gain to increase? Under different assumptions, it may be best for each person to use one bottle and take one task, or one person takes all three tasks and they keep the bottles. Or one person uses the bottles while the other two split the tasks. Economics Ignoring the moral aspects, this would encourage additional production of life. This would have the effect of subsidizing food production, at least meat. Ordinary people would eat the meat while the nobility takes the essence. This is strongest if essence is growing, but even if not, groups would want to maximize their own essence. With finite life, we'd have a tragedy of the commons. Even though increasing life causes a reduction in average essence, people would still do it so as to maximize their own essence. If life increases essence, then it would be no tragedy. Everyone would want increased life so as to maximize essence. This would also cause the selfish to value human life. As aging increases essence, even the selfish want to allow people to become as essence rich as possible. This could cause them to subsidize the elderly and poor earlier in their societal development. It's not just altruism; it has a practical advantage. Morality Earlier, I ignored the moral aspects. That does not mean that they do not exist. The particular danger in a feudal society is that the moral arguments will favor the sacrifice of the serfs to to the nobility. We could even have extreme results like a religion that favors cannibalism. Assuming essence can be harvested without consent, this could provide an economic rationale for serial killing. It also provides an extra reason for war. Perhaps the real benefit of a war is not land or wealth, but the essence from executing captured members of the opposing army. Perhaps soldiers commit suicide rather than allow their essence to be captured. Or they find ways to use up all their remaining essence when attacked. A whole new meaning for the term "suicide bomber". If caught in a siege, does it make sense to sacrifice the elderly population in order to gain essence enough to attack? Can essence be claimed if someone owes debts they cannot pay? I.e. would it be a capital crime to be bankrupt? If someone leaves a bottle of essence, can debt holders enter claims against it as an asset of the estate? It is likely that different places will come up with different rules handling essence. In one country, anything goes. In another the only capital crime is theft of essence. 

Skyhook Build a space elevator. The best place to build a space elevator is at the equator. So build it in Indonesia. I would tend to place it towards the western part. Palau Tanahmasa is probably around the right area, although the western coast of Sumatra is also possible. Funding might be provided based on the markets of Singapore (an island in that area). Independence might be maintained by playing off the United States of American and China. Neither is willing to let the other dominate this area, leaving the USO independent between them. Since the space elevator will be the main way to launch things into space, this will give the country that manages it tremendous influence on space. The counterweight for the space elevator will operate under the USO's laws, and the USO can make it easy to launch space stations under their laws. This will give them outsized influence compared to their Earthbound population. They can also act as the law enforcement of space. So when two space communities have a legal dispute, they appeal to the USO to adjudicate. The USO also could police travel in space. Most things that require lots of electricity will move into space, where electricity comes from solar panels. This will give the USO outsized strength in the area of new energy production after fossil fuel burning is banned on Earth. Desalination It's also worth noting that Australia's comparatively low population is restricted by its large central deserts. If it could desalinate cheaply, it could hydrate those areas, expanding its populable area. Mining in space is likely to be done by automation in the asteroid belt. The USO could bring back that technology to Earth and use it to build saltwater greenhouses on the coast of Australia. In addition, a canal could be dredged through the heart of Australia so that saltwater greenhouses could be built all the way through. Solar power could provide the electricity for this construction. Sun not shining? No work that day. But when the sun is shining, push on. This would be slow, but there's no real hurry. You're willing to wait a century. Similarly, the islands of the area may be connected by saltwater greenhouse bridges. These will provide water and crops for communities that will build in what is now open water. These also will provide food for land-based communities built on what used to be cropland. Antarctica Like Australia, Antarctica is an island continent in the South Pacific. If its icepack melts due to global warming, it will be available for colonization. Adding it to the USO would make the coalition much larger. Again, the USA, Russia, and China may regard dominance by the USO as better than dominance by each other. Luna Another large piece of real estate to which the USO would have superior access is the Moon. To get to the Moon from the Earth, people will need to launch into space. And the USO controls the main space launch facility, able to launch cheaper than anyone else. Population Indonesia is the fourth largest country in the world by population, after China, India, and the USA. Add in the Philippines, and it would jump past the USA. Traditional Oceania would add a more moderate amount, but that would still put it in the top four, even if the European Union was a single country.