In a certain sense, then, some of the critique of correlationalism is already existent prior to Meillassoux's coinage. Thus, for example, Heidegger anticipates at least some of the aspects of the anti-correlationalist critique in §43 of Being and Time: 

First of all, let's consider what an "appeal to pity" is: its an attempt to win support for one's argument by appealing to the sympathies of one's listeners. It's considered a logical fallacy because, of course, one's listener's sympathy should not be involved in the (logical) validity of the argument (i.e., one should be able to agree that an argument is valid, even if one doesn't find it persuasive). It's nevertheless a powerful and effective rhetorical tool. Second, let's consider the "deductive argument" you adduce. While it's possible to impose such a structure on his remarks (mutatis mutandis), it doesn't get you to the right place. If Clarence Darrow were simply trying to establish the proposition "I trust farmers," he wouldn't be doing a very good job as a defence lawyer. After all, whether or not Clarence Darrow trusts farmers is entirely irrelevant to any conceivable defence. What he is trying to do is win farmers over to his side. The force of his remarks isn't to establish any particular proposition, but rather to create a connection ("he gets me!") intended to provoke them to be more sympathetic for the case he's trying to make. It is the goal or object of these statements that makes them an appeal to pity, regardless of whether or not one might discern some deductive argument within it. 

You raise a diverse range of questions, which I'll try to address in some form. Lyotard is not really the "founder" of postmodernism, though his book is sometimes understood as something of a manifesto of postmodernism. Lyotard presents "postmodernism" as a name for something already in progress, a name which summarises what philosophers have been up to in developed industrial societies. The term "postmodernism" itself was used prior to Lyotard's book. It was possibly coined the American poet Charles Olson. Whether what Olson meant by postmodernism is the same as what Lyotard meant is debatable. Perry Anderson, in his The Origins of Postmodernity (from which that Wikipedia quote is drawn), claims that Lyotard got the word from Ihab Hassan. In any case, it had been used in art criticism and architecture prior to Lyotard. Hence, Gary Aylesworth's assertion that "postmodernism" "first entered the philosophical lexicon" through Lyotard's book is probably the most accurate way of phrasing things. Lyotard uses the word "postmodernism" to characterise a range of philosophical views that share certain concerns. When, in the interview Wikipedia cites, Lyotard says that he had a "less than limited" knowledge it should be read, in part, as something of a joke, similar to what he explains in the introduction to the original report: 

"Taught" is a bit more of an interpretation than straight translation for ἀφικόμενος, but that's rather beside the point. The key is that it is the nature (φύσιν) of mind (νοῦς) and the opposite of mind (ἄνοια) that are at stake. ἄνοια, although a word in itself, in Greek seems like a composite of ἀ-νοῦς, the ἀ being privative, similar to how an "atheist" as the opposite of "theist" or how "anaerobic" respiration is opposed to "aerobic" respiration. Hence ἄνοια seems to resemble either a "lack" of "νοῦς" or constitute it opposite. νοῦς, though it is regularly translated as "mind", has a broader extension than the word "mind" in English, meaning something like reason or even good sense. Hence, ἄνοια, its opposite, has the sense of something that is without reason or foolishness, something like a form of irrationality that does not descend to pure madness (μανία). In this context, I think what Socrates is trying to ascribe to Pericles is a sort of comprehensive knowledge of the soul (cf. 270b-271c ff. where the art of rhetoric depends on knowledge of the soul). He knows not only νοῦς but the opposite of νοῦς---ἄνοια---and, more importantly, the distinction between them, just as (to extend Plato's analogy in the subsequent passage), the physician must be able to analyse (διελέσθαι) the body, to truly know whether it is healthy or unhealthy and how best to go about restoring or keeping it in health. Now, bearing in mind that Socrates is here assuming that Pericles has become the most perfect orator (ὁ Περικλῆς πάντων τελεώτατος εἰς τὴν ῥητορικὴν γενέσθαι), he seems to be suggest that Pericles, knowing both νοῦς and what is not νοῦς---ἄνοια---has a complete grasp of the soul in all of its modes presentation, both the rational and the irrational. 

The reference is to Plato's Sophist, to which Deleuze refers with some frequency, albeit, at times, quite obliquely. This is a text where the key question is often "How?" and perhaps more importantly "What is it?" Moreover, it articulates a concept of "simulacrum" and provides a rejoinder avant le lettre to the Neo-Platonic reading of Parmenides (and hence Deleuze's differentiation between Platonism and Plotinism). I can think of three reasons that this might be referred to as the "last dialectic": 

Philosophically speaking, free will is something of a topic for debate because it seems to intersect with a range of moral, legal and metaphysical issues. On the one hand, we tend to hold people less accountable for their actions if they are performed under some form of duress. One way of spelling this out is to claim that someone under duress faces fewer choices or options, and hence less freedom. If there's no free will (or something resembling free will) then what sense can we make of such intuitions? Conversely, if there's no free will, what sense does it make to punish people for actions they committed? Without free will it would seem they couldn't have done otherwise. Yet again, we generally understand things that happen to have a cause, a reason why they happened in the way that they did. If there is such a thing as free will, then it seems to require we rethink was causality is or allow that there are causes which happen with no prior causes. As for your example of a machine that passes a Turing test, it's unclear how that is supposed to undermine free will. On the one hand, it has yet to be proven that a machine can pass the Turing test, at least on a long-term basis (I'm not sure what the scores you refer to mean). On the other hand, even if such a machine existed that would adequately simulate human behaviour, it's not clear that this touches on free will at all (this is the classical problem of automatons and zombies). Would the ability to use human language show that the machine was identical to a human being? It seems possible to accept that such a machine could emulate human behaviour without thereby telling us anything about the human mind or how it works, which is to say that even if such a machine always makes exactly the same decisions as a human being, it doesn't tell us anything about how human beings make those decisions. Hence, this seems to be a rather weak objection to free will, first, because it relies on a hypothetical machine that may or may not be possible and second because even such a hypothetical machine doesn't seem to tells us much about free will (understanding free will as some kind of human capacity). There are many solid grounds to object to free will: it seems to deny causality or rely on an account of "special causality." It may not be necessary to explain the things proponents of free will think it is necessary to explain (for example, perhaps we can provide a different account of why certain behaviour demands certain punishments or why we think certain behaviour worthy of praise). None of these seem to require positing AI as "proof" that free will is impossible. 

I'm going to attempt an answer, though it will be---necessarily---incomplete. First, I'll note that there's a kind of ambiguity in the question. The text known to us as "The Monadology" by Leibniz was originally written as a summary of his views for Eugene of Savoy, and not really a full explication of them. Modern editions have tended to add a series of references from one of the drafts Leibniz wrote, largely to his Theodicy. "Monadology" as a text refers to a broader context that we might call "monadology," though few of Leibniz's texts that might be taken as being important to constructing this "monadology" explicitly use the word "monad." The question might be asking, therefore, either does the "Monadology" have a relevance for philosophy today or does Leibniz's philosophy have a relevance to philosophy today. Both Whitehead and Deleuze, as has been mentioned, make extensive use of Leibniz. I think @jobermark has adequately pointed to the elements of Leibniz in Whitehead. In terms of Deleuze, I'd simply point out that The Fold, his text on Leibniz (which has a rather novel but convincing exegesis of monads) is hardly the only thing he wrote on Leibniz. Leibniz also importantly infiltrates Deleuze's Expressionism in Philosophy: Spinoza and Logic of Sense both of which deal less explicitly with "The Monadology" though they do deal with "monadology." In particular, Deleuze is fascinated by a range of things which culminate around the notion of what he terms in The Fold "perspectivism" and its relation to monads. Perspective winds up defining both what it means for monads to express something and, perhaps more importantly, the notion of event. Gabriel Tarde, although perhaps not fitting the notion of "contemporary philosophy" for several reasons, was deeply impacted by Leibniz's monadology and saw in something consistently being reconfirmed by the science of his day. Walter Benjamin also takes up and reinvigorates the concept of monad in an entirely different way, particularly in his Origin of the Trauerspiel, which continues to have knock-on effects in the spheres that Benjamin influences. Hiroshi Kojima has published a study that links Leibnizian monads to Husserlian phenomenology. Leibniz's monadology has to be importantly understood as follow-on to Aristotle's notion of substance. In this sense, Leibniz is often in the cross-hairs of the Object-Oriented Ontology-ish types of recent thought. In particular, Graham Harman has introduced Tristan Garcia recently published Form and Object as an antidote to a certain form of Leibnizianism, though it retains some elements that seem quite "monadological." Thus, for Garcia, each object has its sort of inverse, which is much like Leibniz's notion that every monad expresses the entire universe. In a less continental vein, it might be worth mentioning Ian Hacking who, early in his career, had attempted, among other things, a Leibnizian account of space based on Leibniz's monadology. More than that, Leibniz's concept of monads, particularly following the ways it can be read into his correspondence with Clarke has become one way that some people attempt to rethink the idea of relativity. Certainly other aspects of Leibniz's thought, deeply bound to his conception of monads, remain current. "Possible worlds," for example, owns its coinage, and much of its meaning to Leibniz, and is intimately connected to both "The Monadology" and "monadology" more broadly. So, too, his principle of the identity of indiscernibles, important for establishing monads, remains an active area of interest in contemporary metaphysics. None of this is to say that there is some sort of great Leibnizian moment going on or in the more recent past. Nevertheless, Leibniz's monadology hasn't completely left the world without some sort of traces. 

Unlike the three critiques, there isn't an out-of-copyright English translation of Kant's anthropology. If you can read German, there's a digitised version here. Historically speaking, Kant's Anthropology hasn't received nearly as much attention as the three critiques. The anthropology probably is quite significant for understanding Kant's system on his own terms---if nothing else, the Anthropology is Kant's distillation of the course taught every year for 25 years, including during the period when he was writing the critiques. Some of the key ways the anthropology fits into Kant's system are explained in this review of the most recent translation. That said, the three critiques are far more important to understanding responses to Kant's philosophy and Kant's place in the history of philosophy. 

Notes 1: "Deconstruction" as used by Derrida derives from the use of "destruction" by Heidegger, in the sense outlined in §6 of Being and Time (p. 44-49 in Maquarrie & Robinson's translation, p. 22-27 in the German). "Deconstruction" in this sense is an attempt to call into question our pre-existing assumptions about a concept in order to open it up for new possibilities of understanding. 2: This is the upshot of the first Latin gloss Heidegger cites in this passage: definitio fit per genus proximum et differentiam specificam. 3: My translation of enti non additur aliqua natura. See Aristotle's argument in Metaphysics 3, especially 998b, where Aristotle argues that being is not a genus. For a use of these concepts in a Scholastic context, see, e.g., Aquinas' De Veritate q. 1 a. 1. 4: In Dreyfus' passage-by-passage commentary on Being and Time, Being-in-the-World, he notes that "[Heidegger] begins by noting three ways in which the nature of being has traditionally been miscontrued, ways that nonetheless contain hints of what he considers the real issues." (p. 11) While I have some issues with some of Dreyfus' interpretations, Being-in-the-World is a valuable and extremely clear commentary on Heidegger. 5: Being and Time is constructed in a rather difficult way where the initial hints of something to be developed are given first and the development of the idea occurs substantially later in the text. For example, this bit that I've called an "initial answer" is elucidated in §9, §16, §27, §31 etc., essentially spanning the entireity of the text. 6: This is, in fact, how ancient Greek and, in some cases, Latin actually functions; the copular verb is often omitted completely. One might also consider the various language-games Wittgenstein offers in Philosophical Investigations. 7: It would be slightly accurate to say "fore-conception" (Vorgriff) or "fore-having" (Vorhabe), two terms which become very important later in the text of Being and Time. But I'm trying to eschew Heideggerian jargon here. 8: If you like, I think it's fair to say that this conception of 'Being' (any conception whatsoever) is itself an entity. It can be defined, given bounds, discussed, etc. The point is that this conception of 'Being' still is in a certain way and both the way in which it is and what it means for it to be remain obscure; even more so since this conception stands in for what is trying to be explained. 

When Durant says "he uses the term substance where we should write reality or essence", he isn't claiming that the words "essence" or "reality" don't exist for Spinoza—both essentia and realitas are technical terms in Scholastic Latin—what he means is that where Spinoza has written 'substance' (substantia) he uses it in a way that is closer to how we use "reality" or "essence" rather than how we use "substance". Thus, for example, when he writes (in Ip14) that "besides God no substance can be granted or conceived" (Elwes translation), it's fairly obvious that "substance" here means something other than what we normally take it too. Similarly, when Spinoza defines "substance" in 1d3: