You'll need to incorporate weight training and/or intervals in order to maintain (or increase) your muscle mass. A blog post titled "The Running Body Builder" offers some tips: 

From that description, it appears that children that are at least eight years old can start training. Of course, parents know their children best and may be able to start them off at a younger age. 

There are several reasons for the ineligible receiver rules. In my opinion, here are some possible reasons: 

I recall that Don Mattingly was forced to remove his pitcher due to two mound meetings in an inning. I've read articles that indicate that a limit was placed on manager-led mound meetings to speed up the game. The MLB rule reference (8.06): 

The article also pointed to some other resources. The one article (from Best Hockey Drills) listed these drills: 

The duties of an assistant head coach vary widely, because each assistant coach on a football team takes on responsibilities that are designated by the head coach of the team. As an analogy of how duties might differ depending on the head coach, many coordinators may have a title, but plays might actually be called by the head coach (due to the head coach's previous offensive or defensive acumen), while other coordinators have handle play-calling, subject to the strategy set by the head coach. As @corsiKa has mentioned, many assistant head coaches can be position coaches, while some coordinators may also serve in this role. From general observation, I've seen that head coaches or team owners might designate an assistant head coach for several reasons: 

Though I'm curious about this in all sports, I'll limit my question to the scope of MLB for the moment. My question is what (if any) are the rules regarding electronic assistance in baseball games? Extrapolation 

After the runner is thrown out at first, the runner who was on first is no longer forced anywhere. He must be tagged. There are two reasons why it is best to throw out the lead runner first: 

If the runner is not forced at the next base, he must be tagged. If you throw out the runner behind the lead runner, he is no longer forced to advance (he could return to the previous base), and you create extra work for yourself by having to tag him. The lead runner is the closest runner to home plate - i.e. the closest to scoring. 

Scenario 1 seems like it is obviously illegal, and should be. Scenario 2 is no different than what pitchers do to prepare before games and perhaps between innings; but it allows for a much finer control on a pitch by pitch basis - and for some reason feels like it should be illegal. Scenario 3 is legal and practiced. So with that as background; my question expanded is: Are there any rules governing this? If so: 

If it's most important that there be a winner of the match, then you need to decide on a "tiebreaker" that determines who wins, or otherwise award one of the players the win even though you don't really want to. If it's most important that there be a player for the next round, but you really don't want it to be one of the players that was disqualified in the current round, then you need to decide on some sort of "tiebreaker" to determine somebody who moves forward in that slot despite not being one of the original players. For example, it may be that the highest-scoring non-disqualified loser of that round ends up with a "wild card" of sorts and ends up paired in the next round, despite having lost their "own" match. This of course doesn't really help if your double-loss happens in the final round, and could lead to some weird cases especially if double-losses are common and you run out of "wild cards". (Plus, it's probably just going to be confusing for everybody.) If it's most important that there be no winner, then you need to just accept that nobody moves on for that round, and the next round opponent gets a bye. (And it will be really unsatisfying for everybody if it happens in the final round, to end a tournament with no winner and two "finalists".) For what it's worth (just because this is the game which I'm most familiar with the tournaments of, or at least I used to be), for competitive tournaments in the Magic: the Gathering card game, if an event is single-elimination, and both players lose due to a match-loss penalty resulting in a double-loss, this is the way it's handled and the next round opponent gets a bye. I'm not aware of this ever having happened in practice, as both match-loss penalties and single-elimination tournaments are rather rare. 

I went to a baseball autograph database ($URL$ then I wrote a script that would hide all players that didn't play during the time frame in question. (I even granted several years leeway both ways). Then I looked at the autographs of everyone (A-Z, both leagues) who had an I or J in their last name. I may have missed some, because that part I did by visually scanning the page ( there are quite a lot of players from that time frame ). The only player who I thought was even close was Todd Zeile, and he wasn't all that close. If anyone is interested I can post the script here, and you can try what I did. For now however; I am (with much regret) concluding that there is something being overlooked in the OP's memory. Could it have been a Spring Training game (and the signer a minor leaguer who didn't make it to the show in that time period)? Maybe a coach who was a former player; and the OP remembered it that way? Worse - maybe the image is a reverse negative of the autograph of a career minor leaguer who, while acting as a temporary bench coach, liked to pretend that he really was his all time favorite player - none other than the famous Corey Koskie!! My point is that while I may have missed a few, I looked at most Everybody who fit the bill, and I feel safe concluding that whoever signed that ball wasn't a major leaguer in the time frame specified. 

You are essentially asking for two contradictory things. You want a single-elimination system where (1) there is a winner of each match, so that there is an opponent for the next round, and (2) there is no winner of the match. You need to decide which factor is more important to you. Here are the options that I see: 

Really, for any tournament with matches more complicated than results that are clearly "win" or "loss", you want to look for alternatives to elimination bracket formats. Elimination-format tournaments don't deal well with anything beyond winning and losing, such as ties, double-losses, ranking based on score, or players withdrawing. If you want a format where people can earn (for example) 0 for loss, 1 for tie, or 2 for win, where each player could get any of those values, you want something like Swiss or Round Robin. And if I could expand for a bit beyond what you're directly asking, it sounds like your actual problem is trying to find the right method of including "penalties" in your matches. This has been handled in many different ways by different games, and it's probably worth looking at a few. For your particular issue, perhaps you want to allow for double-hits to count as a point (or half a point?) for both players, but not allow it to count for a player for which it would then award a win (or within n points of winning). Or perhaps a double-hit gives some kind of "strike" separate from the score, which is used for tiebreaking, seeding, invites to future events, or just plain public shaming but doesn't directly impact the result of that particular match.