What you experience during your practice is absolutely not harmful. It is a stage in the meditation process. More: it is a sign that you proceed in the right direction. The vibrating 'light' that arises and passes away is the so-called nimitta. Catherine, Shaila, (2008) Focused and Fearless. A Meditator’s Guide to States of Deep Joy, Calm, and Clarity p. 116: 

Are there (small) differences between the vipassana meditation technique of U Ba Khin and S.N. Goenka? 

Can kamma and sankharas be considered as synonyms? And if not, which are the differences between both? Which is the relationship between them? 

The meditator uses the meditation object to center his attention (concentration—samadhi). When his attention is 'wandering' away, the meditator uses the object (i.c. the breath) as his 'base camp' to bring gently his awareness back. Mindfulness—awareness (sati) and equanimity (upekkha) are the two wings which lead to wisdom, to insight (panna): they show the meditator the phenomena as they really are (yathabhuta). Rosenberg, Larry, (2012), Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation p. 91: 

Is there any mention of the merits/ demrits of adoption in the Tipitika or any other Buddhist writings? Is there any incident from during the life of the Buddha in which child adoption was involved? Would it help to strengthen one's ethics by adopting a child? How can we compare or weigh the merits of dana to several orphan children vs adopting and nurturing one? 

Being married, I have of late been coming across the dilemma of whether to have a child or not and if yes, if a biological child or not (which by itself may be another question which I may ask separately). So, when I ponder on the subject, I get the thought if it may be more meaningful to adopt an orphaned child instead of having a biological child. But again, although at the surface adoption appears to be an altruistic and more meaningful thought, if I think deeper, I really wonder if the desires as a result of which I would want to have a biological child (and which I want to avoid) are pretty much the same as those which want me to adopt one. Additionally, adopting a child has its own administrative and emotional complications, which may result in unhappy experiences and which may therefore defeat the entire purpose. So, I thought it may help me build a perspective on the subject, if I come to know what is the opinion on child adoption with regard to the Buddha's teachings. So, my questions are:- 

This question is mere practical: how a practitioner avoids that his mind wanders away into stories and dramas. There are moments that "noting" does not help. 

In the Parayanavagga,Gatha #93, the Buddha says to Dhotaka: "Yam kinci sampajanasi" What is the exact meaning of the word sampajanasi ? 

A recent, marvelous book (especially written for Westerners) is from Larry Rosenberg (2012): Breath by Breath. The Liberating Practice of Insight Meditation. In this book you'll find—in plain English—the essence of Anapanasati practice. It's the essence: from the first step to enlightenment. What do you want more? 

(Translation by Thanissaro Bhikkhu) The Buddha asks his followers that they examine the outcome of practice to see if the teachings are true. Buddhism isn't about beliefs. Buddhism is about firsthand knowledge. 

Bhanga: the dissolution of the ego. Can it be described as a synonym of wisdom (panna)? As the realization (experiential seeing and knowing) of the tilakkhana (anicca; dukkha; and anatta)? 

Whether it is booking a flight ticket, hotel room, buying an electronic gadget etc there are so many online stores which offer so many deals, that I spend a good deal of time finding the right deal, before spending. Furthermore, where I belong its common to haggle with shopkeepers to get a good deal. And then, I occasionally donate money to some cause as Dana. That makes me think, what is the real purpose of Dana? Is it more about detachment from material possessions and sharing one's merits/ earnings with others to dissolve the ego or is it more about helping those in need? If it is the former, I might not as well worry about haggling with a shopkeeper or try finding a good deal online, and buy things at first sight, with metta to the seller considering I have donated the amount I could have bargained for to him. If it is the latter, I continue finding good deals and then donate the saved up money to those "I feel" (very subjective) are in need. So, how can Dana be explained in this context? 

Which are the vipassana jhanas? What are the differences with the jhanas? Where can I find more information about them? 

What is anuloma-nana and how does this adaptation-knowledge makes the switch from the mundane to the supramundane world? 

There are many views among Buddhists on the issue of euthanasia, but many are critical of the procedure. An important value of Buddhism teaching is compassion. Compassion is used by some Buddhists as a justification for euthanasia because the person suffering is relieved of pain. Keyword is intention (cetana). However, it is still immoral "to embark on any course of action whose aim is to destroy human life, irrespective of the quality of the individual's motive." For bhikkhus the rules are explicitly spelled out. The monastic code (Patimokkha) states: 

Is the experience of bhanga (5th insight - knowledge of dissolution) the equivalent of the destruction of the khandhas? 

if ur a budhist use your tools. there's nothing wrong. u can go back gently. all this suffering is just a wave in your mind. watch it, let it go. the feelings r temporarily. they r there, look at them, smile at them, create a distance...walk back to the silent place in ur heart, home. I can relate. I am a jew by birth, I believe in many things. I can imagine converting for someone I love. giving that. my heart will remain the same. the truth is the same. in any language. its naked. maybe u'll get to a different conclusion. someone here referred me to the Metta Sutta: Good Will (accesstoinsight.org/tipitaka/kn/snp/snp.1.08.than.html). I think it can help. welcome back, be well. 

why cant you just combine them? accept ur dids simply. at the end it's just titles. so u'll be/was a unique Muslim, the one that came from Buddhism. after all, a good man, muslim or what ever, wouldn't ask u to stop meditating on god, to be a vegi, to do ur best. these r all possibilities, choices. it can be hard to accept other manners, and find yourself there. but it can be easy or hard be respectable. at the end it just a change of names, its the same. go with a good spirit, u got the opportunity to learn about another religion. what the shame in that? visiting israel, the dalai lama once said to the druze spiritual leaders/cadis 'I also was a druze'... 

Why isn't prostration considered as a rite or a ritual in the sense of silabbata paramasa (one of the fetters that had to be abandoned to become a stream-enterer)? I wonder how this practice can contribute to insight especially when prostration is done mechanically (as practiced around Buddhist pagodas in Birma; Sri Lanka and Thailand)? 

How we can strengthen dis-identification in normal life? How can we free our attention from self-reference? 

Buddhism learns that everything is in constant change and in constant interaction; that nothing is steady and separated from the other things. Does that mean that buddhism is nondualistic? 

What is the exact meaning of 'acala sukha'? Is it mentioned in the Pali-canon? If so, where ? In what context ? 

Which buddhist doctrines form the supreme insights that all Buddhist schools (i.c. Theravada, Mahayana, Vajrayana, Navayana) can endorse? In other words: which doctrines are common to all? 

I'm a strict vegetarian and non-alcoholic. But all my friends are non-vegetarians and alcohol consumers. So, when I host a party at my place, it becomes obligatory of me to host them with alcohol and non-vegetarian food (bought from a restaurant). Although, I have done this in the past, I have started to think if it is really right of me to do so, since I may be aiding them in breaking their Sila. But, coming from a culture where guests are to be treated as Gods, I also wonder if it will be rude of me to call them home and not serve to their liking. So, should I, at the cost of hosting a boring(for them) party, appearing rude and risk losing their company, help them keep their Sila intact (if at all it does) at least for an evening? Or should I not bother about trying to combine preaching and hosting and keep my ethics limited to me? P.S. I'm convinced that consumption of meat and alcohol is breaking of Sila in the true spirit of the Buddha's teachings, irrespective of how certain sects or traditions of Buddhism may justify alcohol and meat consumption. 

Is it correct that only the 4 lower jhanas (rupa jhanas) are useful for cultivating insight (panna) because the meditator's mind is too absorbed when he enters successively the immaterial jhanas (arupa jhanas)? 

The question is not how to become a buddhist; the aim is to get freed from our misery (dukkha). This is possible through realizing wisdom (panna). Everyone can become enlightened. The Buddha has given us the tools; showed us the path, but everyone has to cultivate it himself or herself. Ajahn Jayasaro (* Mindfulness, Precepts and Crashing in the Same Car p. 33-35 emphasized text*): 

Each of those defilements has 3 stages (bhumi) which are identical to the 3 stages of consciousness (latent - manifested - action). 

A teacher who follows and explains rigorously and profoundly the Anapana Sutta and the Mahasatipatthana Sutta is worth to be appreciated, enlightened or not. Anyway, nobody can explain Buddha's teachings in a such a way without 'seeing and knowing'. S.N. Goenka: