Have the gospels been preserved accurately? Did the original gospels accurately describe what actually happened? 

My opinion is that the third reason had the most effect. With hundreds of thousands being readily able to play baseball instead of cricket, they exerted a large influence of the sports played at home when they returned. 

Did the original Gospels accurately describe what actually happened? This is a large question in itself, but I will try to consolidate my answer to a few main points. First of all, we have to look at the intentions of the Gospel writers. What were they trying to write when they wrote the Gospels? Let's take a look at the Gospel of Luke. 

There is some evidence (although much less credible) that Pershing did in fact say this phrase first. 

Now, this is more of a theological statement than Luke's, but If you're going to be convinced enough to believe what he says, the theology has to come from accurate history. So, we can conclude from this that the writers of the Gospels did intend to write accurate accounts (think biographies). Now, they intended to write accurate accounts, but were they able to follow through with their intents? Writing an account of what happened twenty to thirty years later, they could have forgot what actually happened. However, it is highly unlikely in those (less than) thirty years that the Gospel writers forgot what actually happened. Writing was relatively rare in the Middle Eastern culture where they lived and almost everything was oral. Stories weren't written, they were memorized. In fact, some people would memorize the entire Old Testament (huge). They were able to do so because of this oral culture and being used to memorizing everything. Given this, it's hard to imagine that the Gospel writers forgot how things happened. A few people have argued that the Gospel writers were dishonest or amoral, but there is no evidence to support this. Rather, on the contrary they are portrayed as people of integrity in the Gospels. Of course, this begs the question, "Did the Gospel writers tell the truth, but paint themselves as good?" A closer reading of the Gospels clearly refutes this, however. The Gospel writers often included details for no apparent reason that were embarrassing or made themselves look bad. For example, Mark has a consistent rather unflattering view of Peter, the head disciple (I'm not advocating the Petrine theory here) (Mark 8:31-33, Mark 14:37, Mark 14:66-72). Other examples include the disciples repeatedly misunderstanding Jesus (Mark 9:2-12), wanting the places at Jesus' right and left hand (Matthew 20:20-24, Mark 10:35-44), and many more. My point is that the disciples told the truth even when it was unflattering. I've seen a few people using this argument so, here it is. The disciples weren't liars, they just weren't correct either (i.e., they were confused). However, if they were just confused, when they wrote down the Gospels , anyone could have said something like, "hey, I was there too, and that's not how it happened! These Jesus freaks will tell you Jesus worked miracles, but I'm here to say He didn't." There was nothing to keep people from saying this. In fact, the disciples had many enemies who would rather not (understatement) see the Christian religion thrive. They had political and religious agendas that conflicted with it. However, nobody did that and refuted what the Gospel writers said. If they had, Christianity would have died in its infancy. And, surely, the Gospel writers were not the last people alive who had witnessed what had occurred. In fact, in 1 Corinthians 15:6 (commonly thought to be written about 53-54 A.D.) states this. 

You can see that Luke clearly intended to write an accurate account about what had happened. The Gospel of Luke is the only Gospel to have a preface like, that but the styles of the Gospels of Matthew and Mark are quite similar. It is only reasonable to presume that they had similar intents. The Gospel of John is a little different in style, yet we do find a verse in it stating its purpose. 

Iwo Jima was a Japanese fortress. It was designed for attrition. First, there were artillery, mortars, and rockets on the foot and slopes of Mount Suribachi. They had walls of reinforced concrete, four feet thick. In addition, they had reinforced steel doors. These were well-protected from bombardment. They were meticulously aimed and when the Americans showed up, the Japanese just opened fire. The bombardment did destroy all buildings, aircraft, and waters-edge defenses, but that was it. The Japanese knew these would be destroyed, so they were only a minor (if not nominal) part of their defensive strategy. In addition, there was a huge network of underground tunnels, almost completely safe and untouched by any bombardment of any size or length. They were deep underground and the bulk of the Japanese garrison were immune down there. There were several chambers large enough to hold 300 plus men. All major chambers were connected by over eleven miles of tunnels, all deep enough to be safe from any bombardment. During the actual bombardment, there was no Japanese response. The Americans had no idea where the Japanese artillery was. And there was an enormous amount of Japanese artillery: 

WWII World War II also saw some South and Central American participation. However, again, Brazil was the only nation of these to send troops to fight. 

Due to this, the Neger was eventually retired and withdrawn from service. The last major type of German midget sub was the Seehund. It was the most successful of the German Midget Submarines. Of the 1000 planned, 285 were completed and only 35 of those were lost, mostly due to bad weather. However, it was designed in 1944 and only used in the last months of the war. It's small size made it difficult for it to be picked up by ASDIC. It was also a very quiet craft, making detection by hydrophone impossible. It mainly operated around the German Coast and the English Channel, attacking merchant ships. It sank nine and damaged three. 

So the carrack continued to develop throughout the 15th century and even into the mid-16th century. The first "carrack" was probably a modified caravel. We do not know for sure who first came up with the idea, if there was but one man; if ever it has been known, it has long since been lost to history. Sources: 

However, this doesn't really work. The Gospel of Luke is addressed to "Theophilus". The Acts of the Apostles (also written by Luke) is also addressed to Theophilus. However, Acts refers to a "former book". 

So, by the end of World War I, Hitler was strongly patriotic and anti-semitite. He stayed in the army after WWI and eventually was assigned to monitor the German Workers' Party (DAP). The DAP was strongly antisemitic, nationalistic, anti-capitalistic, and anti-Marxist. It favored a "strong active government, a 'non-Jewish' version of socialism, and solidarity among all members of society." The president of the party, Anton Drexler was attracted to Hitler's oratory skills and invited Hitler to join, which he did. By 1921, Hitler had became known as a notorious speaker and became the leader of the DAP (which eventually came to be known as the Nazi party). 

They also objected over other minor points. In the end, the Soviet Union refused to sign along with Czechoslovakia and Poland. 

First off, the Civil War went a lot deeper than slavery. Ever since the foundation of the United States of America, there was enmity between the North and the South. The two regions had radically different cultures, which made it hard for them to get along. The South had a much smaller population, fewer large cities, and was overall rural. The North was full of harbors with large cities, industrialization, and dense urban areas. This caused tension from the very beginning. The South wanted very low tariffs because of their agricultural economy while the North wanted high tariffs to protect their products from cheaper European products. The South generally did not want to get rid of slavery, while the North quickly abolished it. In fact, if the Constitution had disallowed slavery, it is extremely unlikely that the South would have joined. One of the first acts of all of the Northern states after the ratification of the Constitution was to abolish slavery. They planned to slowly wean the South off of slavery, first by abolishing the importation of slaves after 1807. However, the South was unwilling to abolish slavery because that was the lifeblood of its economy. Until the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863, the war was primarily over taxation. The South believed they were being treated unfairly and decided to get out of the Union and form their own Confederacy. Of course, the North didn't want that. Why didn't blacks fight? Well, first off they were slaves. They had no weapons or communication systems. They couldn't just say, "everyone take over your plantation on March 18 at midnight". John Brown wanted to create an uprising of slaves like that, but it failed and he was hung. So, the war wasn't really completely about slavery. It was over the deep cultural differences of the North and the South. Although the focus was turned to slavery later in the war, the slaves had very little chance to fight (especially because blacks weren't even allowed to fight in the Union for the first part of the war).