It all depends on how your magic works, really, but most magical systems have some equivalent of cold spells and energy drain spells. These would be the most effective against your monster. Cold spells, by definition, are extracting energy (heat) from their target, not adding it, normally by transferring that energy into the surrounding environment and heating the surroundings. Energy drain spells do the same kind of thing, without the explicit focus on draining heat energy. Often it's a rather hazy "Life energy" that reduces the target's health and heals the spellcaster; this would be another option for getting energy out of the monster. Some magic systems also suggest that fire spells work in reverse fashion to cold spells, drawing energy from the environment and focusing it into a single spot; if you can focus where you're drawing the heat from, a flame spell would also be capable of drawing energy away. 

It's unclear at present. As mentioned, it's only normally used for 24 hours or so; theoretically, however, an extended period of hypothermic hibernation might reduce aging to a degree. Aging is a combination of wear and tear on the body's systems with a reduced ability to repair them as our DNA's protective telomeres are worn down. Reduced metabolism would affect both of these, with the body's systems not having to work as hard and cells not dividing as much. 

Oh, the possibilities... I'm assuming that even in 'stopped time' our villain still has a metabolism to be able to do things. Poison This one is ideal even for non-magical folks. It comes in a wide variety of convenient packages, and can be easily administered in a way that is not immediately lethal - and should thus bypass the "imminent death" trigger - but also irreversible. An Oubliette Exactly how you arrange this one is up to you; all you need to do is ensure that Our Bad Guy ends up in a space that he cannot remove himself from. A great option might be to lure him into a room with only a single exit, and seal the exit with a heavy block, then just...leave him to it. Death will not be imminent until several hours or days after he is trapped (depending on whether the room is airtight), thus will not trigger the annoying spell until it is too late. Garotting If you can get your hands on him, simply bind his hands with chains he cannot easily break, and bind his throat with a tight wire. The spell will trigger, yes, but he'll have at most a few minutes to try to get out of it. With bound hands. (Hopefully the spell will stop once he's gone cold). Drop a 21-meter wide rock on his head That 10-metre radius limitation is a key vulnerability. If you can get him out on a rock surface (so he can't dig) and drop a rock on his head that's too wide for him to dodge (I'm assuming, of course, that you have standard Invisible-Imps-That-Push-Everything-Down-Cancelling Spells), he can stop time as long as he likes, he's got nowhere to go. He can stay there and die of thirst/starvation/old age. 

Congratulations, you've invented...the balloon. That's exactly what you're talking about - a hydrogen or helium balloon. Of course, it can't be nearly as compact as a fish's swim bladder because air is so much less dense than water. To get enough of a difference to lift a person, you need something the size of a balloon. 

Short answer - yes, it's possible, but it complicates things. Check out Old Man's War and its sequels by John Scalzi. It includes genetically modified human soldiers who are capable of photosynthesis, among other things, but a key point of the system is that these soldiers are too different from baseline humanity to ever reproduce. They're all sterile. The changes you're thinking of would be possible, but they would also be massively life-altering. A person who underwent these kinds of changes during their life would likely have to go through a long and difficult transition, and almost certainly would not be interfertile with the baseline population. You'd need to address questions like why a person would do this to themselves, or if they were born this way you'd have to address the ethical concerns of creating a genetically modified human who would never be able to engage fully in society. Unless you want to fully engage in those questions, whether with this individual or with other individuals in the same world, it may be something you just don't want to bring up. 

Some more-than-usually clever boffins have knocked up a system that allows them to form portals into a region where the laws of physics are rather...different. An object that is fired through one portal - that is, with no physical connection back to the origin point - will emerge from the other with its speed unchanged and vector shifted to align with the exit portal's alignment - no matter what that alignment is. From the outside, this appears to have instantaneously - indeed, faster-than-light. But experiments to demonstrate its safety show something...odd. Biological specimens travel through the portal almost entirely unchanged. Bacterial cultures don't grow, animals don't age, plants don't photosynthesize. They bear every sign of having passed immediately from one point to the next. The only difference is that they appear to emerge colder than when they entered. Radioactive isotopes, on the other hand, appear to decay at an accelerated rate. When examined, they have decayed twice as much as they should have if they had simply made the same journey through normal space. Technological recorders are a mixed bag. Some technology works, some does not. After extensive study, the conclusion is this: Chemical reactions don't happen in the Pathway. A vessel sent through the pathway continues to move through time and space, but it's moving through the time of the Pathway universe, not our universe - hence the apparently instantaneous transit. But during this time, all chemical reactions simply...stop. Complex molecules remain in the state they were when they entered the portal. Heat radiates away as normal with no biological processes to generate it. As soon as the vessel leaves the Pathway, chemistry starts up again exactly where it left off. So, after all that backstory, here's my question: What changes to the laws of physics could produce this effect? And what kind of technology would be able to operate in such a region? 

A helicopter's utility does not only lie in its ability to hover and take off vertically, but also in its versatility. A present-day warplane is basically a pair of engines (or sometimes just one engine) with a cockpit and wings glued on. They're super specialised pieces of equipment, with a very limited set of jobs, and they're more or less useless at anything else. Military helicopters, on the other hand, tend to fill a wide variety of roles. They can transport troops and stores, function as gunships, they can carry airborne radar, sonar, or EW equipment, can perform SAR operations, etc... Your space fleet will likely still need a craft to fill these roles. In a space fleet, your starfighters would be like Babylon 5's Starfuries - uncompromisingly optimised for combat. A set of the biggest engines you can reasonably carry, a cockpit, and a weapons system, and nothing else. Your capital ships would likely be self-sufficient cities, too massive for fine manoeuvring (it would be possible, but expensive on reaction mass). Your 'helicopters', then, will be the equivalent of shuttles or ships boats - small, probably modular utility craft for transporting cargo and personnel, easily customised for different missions. They'd also likely be your primary air support for planet-side operations. Some examples: Battlestar Galactica In the rebooted Battlestar Galactica, the titular Battlestar predominantly operates two spacecraft. The Viper is a classic starfighter - single man cockpit, tiny wings, huge engines, and a pair of guns. Powerful, but inflexible. When the fleet needs ECM support, or transport of passengers or cargo, FTL scouting, SAR, or any other utility function, they call on the Raptor. It has a wider body, lighter engines, and a significant interior volume, enabling a wide range of missions. Babylon 5 The Starfury is iconic, of course, but like any starfighter it's very limited in the roles it can fill. It's a pure war-fighter - no cargo capacity, no passenger capacity. For those jobs, the EA has shuttles - both space-only and atmospheric versions. Star Wars Look at an X-wing - it's a beautiful ship, but where off earth could you put a passenger?? There's apparently some light cargo storage on the underside for the pilot's personal effects and survival gear, but there's no way you could use this ship for hauling ammo or food back and forth across vacuum. Instead, the Alliance has access to some U-wings. These are a much more practical utility vessel, with a roomy cargo/passenger space, and mountable guns to provide support fire, as well as being capable combatants themselves. These, then, are your helicopter analogues - the Raptor, the shuttles, the U-wing. They're versatile, efficient, and allow starfighters to do what they do best (presumably, fight stars). 

Yes, it's entirely possible. Your planet would have a pretty extreme axial tilt, something like 50- or 60-plus degrees. You would see the following effects: The poles would have extremely long 'days' equal to years, as we currently see on earth. The difference is that during the summer, the 24-hour sunlight would be much, much warmer, potentially warm enough to dry out the whole region - hence hot desert. During the winter, the area would freeze solid for six months. The equator would be much cooler, since it never gets close enough to the sun to warm up. At extreme tilts, this would be similar to the conditions in the arctic circle, where even in summer it's generally not warm enough to melt permafrost. The equivalent of summer for the equatorial band would be the equinox, when the sun would be directly overhead. Whether the days at this time are long enough for ice to melt is up to you. Between the two would be temperate bands, just as we have today. This is likely where most life would be found. You'd also likely see some strange weather. Strong, hot winds would blow from the summer pole towards the winter pole. This could bring energy to the equatorial regions, again, depending on your design. You could make more of a regular day/night cycle at the poles by having the star a relatively cool red dwarf and having the planet orbit much closer, making years much shorter. 

Check out the Old Man's War universe by John Scalzi. It involves, among other things, the transfer of consciousness between bodies. Without getting too spoileriffic, in this universe consciousness cannot be effectively stored, only transferred. New bodies are carefully prepared, with matching genetics and underlying brain structure, memories, psychology and the like are imprinted onto it, then the consciousness process is transferred from the old body to the new via a bridge. The person being transferred is aware throughout the process; they don't go to sleep in one body and wake up in the other, they feel themselves gradually merging into the new body. After the transfer, the new body is awake and aware, and the old body is alive and undamaged but no longer 'awake'. This has always struck me as an excellent way to avoid the problem of mind transfer, as well as an excellent definition of what consciousness is - it's not a thing that can be copied, it's a continuous process that can be transferred. Edited to Add: Thinking about this question got my writing spirit up; so here's something of how I would see it working. 

You're not describing a war, you're describing gladiatorial matches. War isn't a formal contest between two equally matched sides. War is the attempt to destroy your enemy's ability to fight in order to force matters to your will. That used to mean killing and/or scattering his army so they could no longer oppose you; now it means destroying his factories or cutting off his access to raw materials. Delimited War Zones, carefully set aside for battles to take place, do not do this. You could argue that both sides have agreed to this to avoid destruction, but you run smack into both the Tragedy of the Commons and the Prisoner's Dilemma. In short, while it may be in the long-term interests of both sides to cooperate and avoid destruction of all their infrastructure, that only works as long as both sides cooperate. If one side breaks the rules and the other does not, the one who followed the rules gets wiped out. Both sides WILL break the rules. Our present-day 'rules of war' are intended to make fighting a war as non-destructive as possible, but without putting the side that follows them at a disadvantage. Any rule of war that did leave those who followed it at a significant disadvantage would be immediately ignored. 

The Mandate of Heaven The king's rule is subject to the approval of the gods. As long as the king remains alive, he is seen to have the gods approval, and continues his reign. Assassins are seen as an instrument of the gods; a successful assassin indicates that the ruler had lost the confidence of the gods. An unsuccessful one indicates that his path is considered good enough for the present. This could be seen as a form of the ever-popular Trial by Combat specifically for the king. Trial by Combat was supposed to reveal the truth in the absence of witnesses, as the hand of god would strengthen the innocent, but one could argue that the king's dignity was beneath such customs. Instead, assassins are expected to continually test the king's luck, strength, and blessings. Avoiding the Curse There were a couple of ancient traditions that are worth examining here. One is the Babylonian custom of the substitute king: The priests predicted some terrible event - like a solar eclipse - which would be a bad omen for the king, and so the king would 'abdicate' his throne, and a condemned prisoner would become 'king' for the day. This idea that bad omens attach to a king, and can only be cleansed by killing, could be useful for your world. A second similar custom was that of the King of the Bean. A ritual feast would be held, usually around the winter solstice, at which a cake was served with one hard-baked bean. Whoever got the bean in their bowl because the 'king' for the following year. He lived the good life, was well fed and treated...and all the time, the sins of the tribe were building up on him. By the time of the next Bean Feast, all their sins were on his head, and he could be sacrificed. This idea that omens or sins collect on the King's head could certainly encourage assassination - we need a new king, this one's too full of evil. Could you kindly...retire him, Havelock? 

Depending on the type of magic you want to use... Use a Discworld Axle In the Discworld novel Thud, Terry Pratchett describes an item known only as an "axle". It's essentially a perpetual-motion machine, consisting of two six-inch cubes joined together on one face, slowly rotating but absolutely impossible to stop. If you have one side of an Axle-type object secured to the body of your ship, and the other connected to a large gear, you can translate that slow rotation into any kind of propulsion you want. A drive chain could run from the big gear to several propeller units scattered around the ship, for example. Of course, while Pratchett's Axle doesn't require any kind of fuel, you could certainly declare that yours does need fuel. Heroic Axles might need coal or food or a regular spell cast by a wizard to keep running; villainous ones could run off the blood of the innocent. Fire Spells = Jet engines A jet engine is functionally a fairly simple device - air is drawn in at the front, compressed, mixed with fuel, and ignited. This causes a rapid expansion of the air/exhaust mixture, which is shot out the back. In a magical environment, you can replace fuel in the mixture with a mage's fire spell. Keep a perpetual flame burning, surrounded by whatever super-strong metal you want and fed by compressors made of a similarly super-strong metal, and you have a decent jet engine. It would probably require regular input from the wizard, of course, so a ship's captain needs to keep his wizard's well-supplied. Air elementals Why bother with contraptions, when you can summon spirits of air to move your ship wherever you wish? With the winds at your command, you can simply move wherever you want to go. Giant birds/griffins/hippogriffs/dragons Mythology and fantasy are replete with tales of chariots, carts, and, of course, sleighs, pulled through the air by flying animals. Birds are a common choice, but so are celestial draught animals like horses and oxen (and reindeer). Strap a handful of flying animals into a harness and have them draw the flying ship through the air. For bonus points, they provide a) fertliser for the fields you're flying over, and b) an aerial bombardment capability. It's magic In the end, the nice thing about magic is that it can literally do whatever you want; the problem with magic is that it can literally do whatever you want. The only bound is your imagination. Any method you want, you can use. It makes it difficult for us to come up with a solid answer, rather than a lot of opinions. I would strongly suggest that you define what your magic can do first, then let details like how it propels ships flow from that starting point.