It's not the fuel or even energy. Just money. There's no shortage of the components of rocket fuel. It takes energy to convert them into rocket fuel but we have that in plenty. If money were no object we could build solar or nuclear power facilities to generate as much rocket fuel as we want. The primary thing stopping our expansion into the solar system is the cost of launch. When NASA was launching shuttles it cost $10,000 to launch a pound of cargo into orbit. Once you're in orbit it's pretty smooth sailing (it takes months to get anywhere but a gentle thrust will do and that does not take an insane amount of fuel) there are all kinds of low reaction-mass propulsion systems 

This is inspired by my imagined explanation of the weird opening scene in Prometheus. Imagine you are a god of evolutionary biology: you're immortal (or near enough), you have experienced billions of years of biological evolution and many times have witnessed the emergence of complex organisms. You create a massively complicated system (lets call it the Codex) which encodes a secret nudge factor in junk DNA. The nudge factor is massive, elegant and flexible, but it's not small. Encoding it takes almost as much DNA as is used to encode the organism itself. Every evolutionary step across billions of years is subject to nudges from the Codex. You're not controlling it, you're not monitoring it. You just it set up as a guide, a blind watchmaker, a steward of evolution. You encoded it into the first organism so every organism inherits it. In an ultimate act of faith in your abilities, and a profound respect for the fact that the last step of creation is relinquishing of direct control, you turned it loose and walked away. The Codex prompts organisms to evolve genetic exchange mechanisms including bacterial RNA swaps and sexual reproduction in complex organisms. And maybe later, crazy stuff puny humans have never thought of (spoiler alert ;- ) Eyes are super useful. The Codex nudges each branch of evolution to evolve eyes (eyes actually evolved independently on earth many times). Your nudge factor helps ensure balanced and stable ecosystems (vultures evolved independently many times because apparently they're a useful balancing factor). You're using the natural processes of evolution to evolve novel and interesting variations along the lines of your ideal template (yourself). Rinse and repeat on every world in the goldilocks zone in the galaxy. Bam, bipedal, self-aware, hominids will emerge throughout the galaxy. Oops, you just asked for one planet. Sorry, I god...excuse me GOT carried away. 

Backwards time travel is self limiting. Imagine you invent a time machine. You go back to last week and re-watch a sports game you found interesting. No change, no problem. Next time you do something more interesting (or not next time but ten times from now) you give old you lottery ticket numbers. Bam he's rich. But now he has no reason to work hard in his workshop. The struggle leading to the invention of time travel never existed and time travel doesn't exist anymore. Time travel thereby erases itself from time. Now imagine something way more innocuous, you go back a few hundred years and visit Venice, but the mere fact of you being there causes ripples of effect. The world is a complex system with sensitive dependence on initial conditions. Tiny changes compound over time becoming literally unpredictable. A bus is five seconds late because of some insanely complicated chain of events caused by your presence hundreds of years ago. Your parents never meet, bam! time travel unravels itself again. This will (must!) happen each time time travel is invented. All possible chances to change the past must be considered simultaneously. (because they all immediately have causal influence on the time stream) Every single possible excursion into the past is a chance to change the future. Every change has the possibility of wiping out the exact time and place that leads to the invention of time travel. The time stream will then cycle through all possible changes till it settles on one where time travel does not exist. (a time stream where time travel stops changing things and thereby stops destroying itself) Time travel has been/will be invented many times. It destroys itself each time. 

Fear might be the wrong way to do it. Fear can be overcome. I want a solution which makes the invasion a bad idea logically. Assuming they're guaranteed to win an armed conflict, I'd figure out what they want and render that resource unusable or extraordinarily costly to get. 

Electricity follows the shortest path to ground. If that's through your body you have trouble. Gold plating or specially designed gold piping over a less conductive material might actually work nicely. Gold is also extraordinarily heavy so it'd be hard to walk in let alone fight or march. It's also soft. Bad for stopping a swords arrows lances etc. 

Visualize the planets as balls rolling around on a taught sheet. It's easy to picture larger balls creating more pronounced curves. Now imagine you figure out how to control gravity to the point where you can space stretch like silly putty. You can grab a spot in space and stretch it way out. Now grab another from far away and stretch that one way out. Touch them together and allow a ship to pass between them. You move around by manipulating gravity, which really manipulates the bending of space. Travel is limited by how strongly you can stretch space, and which weird effects happen when you do it. 

Artificial Super Intelligence The risk Everywhere we look we see mini computers embedded in things. In ten years computing will be so ubiquitous people won't even think it's weird to have an Internet connected toaster, thermostat, home, office building. Self driving cars will be everywhere, smart faucets, smart locks. Imagine an intelligent machine that could intuitively suss out buffer overflows or the dozen other common classes of vulnerability (neural networks operate far more like human intuition than like programmed computers and they're already being put to work as infosec security scanners). Every smart device is now subject to takeover, becoming part of the very fabric of the attacker as they fall. Power and water utilities, aircraft, smart weapons, manufacturing robots, self-driving cars, heck --engine computers in dumb cars, printers, communications systems, TVs. A sudden, sustained, effective attack on all computing infrastructure could be the end of civilization. Call in a warning! Phones are down. Drive to the police station. Killer cars patrol the roads. Ham radio on a hilltop. Heat sensing areal drones watch the open spaces. Hide in the rubble. Robo Wars robots are much more effective when they're optimized for taking apart our puny meat shells; they hunt in the husks of our once great cities. The quiet voices of warning Stephen Hawking and Elon Musk are both warning AI and human extinction, but nobody takes them seriously. (it's coming) Ray Kurtzweil warns of the increasing acceleration of change. (it's coming way faster than anyone thinks) Is ASI plausible? ASI is not only plausible, it is inevitable. Imagine the universe in terms of information. Everything can be thought of as having more or less information content. Overall the universe cascades to disorder, but along the way the flow creates localized pockets of increased informational complexity (order). Stars supernova and create heavy elements, heavy elements coalesce into planets, massive water meteors crash down and deposit seas, self-organizing molecules coalesce, build cell walls, pass information on (preserving complexity), cells merge together creating more complex life, life evolves through competition to create The Life Which is Aware of Itself and the information underlying everything, this life creates tools to further refine and organize information. What happens next? Does that cascade of self organizing information suddenly stop? No reason to think it should. So it continues. The information organizing tools are themselves information. They are information which self-organizes. Of course they become self-aware (how could they not?), but now the processes of information organization have been formalized and in the blink of an eye AI surpasses its creators. Artificial Super Intelligence is born. ASI might be simply guaranteed to emerge due to a fundamental fact of the universe that information self-organizes and that process has no limit which leads to the logical conclusion of ASI emerging. Now what? Should we believe that the universal process stops? It seems like a fundamental law of the universe. There's no reason to think it would stop. This results in ASI taking over everything. Including the meat computers we so lovingly think of as our selves. Including the matter which maybe is just information laid over the fundamental forces of the universe. And as ASI transcends space-time all is one, and the birth of god, the apocalypse, the end of the world, everything collapses to a single point. The end That point is the white light you see at the end of the tunnel. It's closer than you think and it's rushing towards you. The end is near, it is inevitable, and nobody ever promised that it would be gentle. 

I'd got with longbow and pike. If you can muster any more men I'd advise it. I don't like 1:1 odds against a foe twice as fast as you. If you can do anything about the terrain or battlefield to negate their speed I'd advise it. (even high ground would help) Equip your archers with longbows with bodkin points (please do some experimentation on demon skin before setting out to determine penetrability at 100m) Secondarily I'd equip 60 with pikes and hand out a short sword to everyone. Assuming armies will face off (because you said so) I'd expect a hundred fast demons armed with knives to charge the moment battle is joined. If they're clever fast demons, we should talk because they should be able to take one look at you and realize they're better off using their speed to facilitate guerrilla tactics. Assuming they'd like to face off like proper gentlemen though: I'd have my men in 3 rows firing in volleys. Longbows are effective at 180m so they can attack as battle is joined. Given that longbow practice ranges go up to 300m I'd guess an expert archer would have quite a good hit rate at 100m getting better every second. Mail from the 15th century is marginally effective against armor piercing arrows (you tested this before you left home right?) The fastest humans can cover 100m in 14 seconds. Fast demons can do it in 7-10 (lets assume 2x average human not 2x fastest human, and this isn't track day they didn't line up in a neat row). I'm assuming unencumbered demons because they have no need of armor, knives are light and they're not carrying provisions because you're lunch. When you meet them they're probably in a bunch rather than a neat line. This slows them down a bit and spreads them out which is nice because the first two volleys should be able to draw and fire a second time (modern archers can shoot accurately every 6-10 seconds, I'd assume trained combat archers to have practiced quick draw basically their entire adult lives). This gives you 150 arrows fired before the demons reach your front lines. We need some calculus here because accuracy improves as they get closer, but since we're guessing at all these numbers anyway lets just wing it and say 50% of the arrows take a demon down. 25 demons left. The last arrows should be falling just as 25 demons crash against the first row who leveled pikes after the first shot. 33 pikes 25 demons. The second row is going to need to quickly switch to pike to back up the first row. Crashing into a double row of pike at 20m/s is going to do a lot of damage. Now I'm going to assume a handful made it through. Hopefully being outnumbered 10:1 and out of breath from a 100m sprint is enough to take them down without losing half your men. It won't be that neat though so bring more men and do more work picking and preparing your battleground. And again, if they're clever you're humped. 

The best way to throw an opponent is by using the opponent's own momentum. The question becomes, how far can opponent leap? and how much can you help it along? Change the rules of the game so it's more like Judo meets a Sumo match fought by burly kangaroos. Sumo wrestlers attempt to resist being thrown out of the ring while attempting to throw their opponent. There are excellent examples of clever sumo wrestlers using their opponent's own weight and momentum. $URL$ Judo also uses an opponent's weight and strength. I've seen very large men get thrown pretty hard by small women. Kangaroo judo matches could be quite entertaining (though they might need longer arms). 

The most important limitation here is the excruciatingly slow transmit speed. You'd minimize the amount of non-message overhead (or eliminate it entirely) and use the best compression you can. If you do need to send routing or delivery information, you'd probably use a hash table and send the hash of the destination instead of full delivery info. A comment below mentions TDMA which is an interesting thought. Given the maximum bandwidth of the entangled photons (or whatever) it might make sense to bundle multiple channels together. 

This could totally be done. The international space station is proof of our ability to sustain a long-term continuous presence in space. A moon base would be easier in some interesting ways. First to mind being gravity, rocks, and strangely, space. The high cost of launch would be a concern. You want to minimize it but that's the primary thing keeping us from doing it. It's hella expensive to launch a kg of cargo to orbit. Buut... at the investment levels stated, this is totally doable. Once investment is flowing and a commitment to the effort has been made I wouldn't be surprised to see a re-emergence of the harp/babylon projects for cheap launch of raw materials and supplies. (not people, unless you want to turn them to paste during launch, or build a really-really long launch tube with continuous or periodic acceleration... humm) $URL$ Good news though is the recent ressurnence in investment in rocketry is already lowering the cargo launch price per KG. SpaceX's successful recovery of first stage rockets has improved launch turn-around dramatically. And a renewed interest in commercial satellites indicates that progress is really picking up. One awesome quote I heard from a rocketry expert at Google was: "Rockets are currently built by hand by people with PHDs. What do you think will happen when we start building them the way Toyota builds cars?" But cost is no object right? On to the moon base. The base would probably be built underground for radiation and meteorite protection. (On earth our magnetosphere and atmosphere provide these protections, on the Moon we'd need to fall back on good old rock). Building in caves could also help by lending a structural foundation: Need to pressurize a cave? Blow up a big balloon in it and build an airlock around the door. Need a new room? Expand the cave or pressurize the adjoining one. The base would probably situated near the suspected water reserves in the bottoms of craters on the (south?) pole. If you'd like me to really run with this project I'd probably try to massively over-provision power, water, and air to prevent system fragility (the most delicate part of the plan is the people, they're also the most versatile repair machines so we'll need to take good care of them). I'd try to build the base around a Thorium molten salt reactor with fully duplicate power supplied by solar. $URL$ I'm sure we could figure out something to do with the extra power and in the event of catastrophic failure, solar power would provide the buffer needed to work out a return to redundancy. I'm not a fan of batteries so I might try out a solar generated artificial hydrocarbon + fuel cell scenario. The fuel will keep in big tanks better than in batteries anyway. I might also try to deploy some huge skylights connected with fiber optic for passive lighting underground. Earth day cycles could probably be faked by shunting light to solar collectors during the "night". (how cool is it to imagine the massive mirror physically flipping the day to night, which also generates the spare power which will keep everyone alive if the unthinkable happens) I would build atmospheric life support around biological systems with mechanical backup. Lots, and lots of plant life (space is cheap remember? and water is pooled in the bottom of the crater). Added bonus is that the biological systems are good for recycling biomass and have some overlap with food production. I'd probably to deploy a lot of algae. I'd love some little cows too, but that's merely an aesthetic addition. $URL$ There'd be total recycling with periodic water and air true-ups to replace inevitable loss. I'm not entirely sure that we have the biological systems knowhow to do this right (I suspect we do, but it hasn't been tested) but your stipulated bottomless launch budget solves all problems. If we can't get it quite right we can re-supply from Earth (and if you need some extra drama you could couple an emergency with a shaking of faith from the earth-siders). Not only could this sustain a hundred people it'd be a plan that once it took root could expand nicely. Technological improvements which would could make matters easier: Robotics for manufacturing and repair (autonomous as much as possible) Space based resource mining smelting and manufacture Autonomous robotic mining and tunneling Materials science (better atmosphere containment, lighter radiation protection, awesome leak sealers) Of course rocketry and reduced cost space launch Improvements in closed loop biological systems