From my experience as a personal trainer, I would say that regardless of the 180 being accurate, if you are not feeling dizzy, nauseous, or a headache then you are not overdoing your running. Most of the overweight clients who I have trained, would usually feel dizzy and or nauseous when I pushed too hard. The fact that you are getting tired after only 17 minutes isn't something to worry about either. It can simply mean that you are still not very conditioned, and/or it can be that you are running at a pace that is simply too fast for a long sustainable jog. The main thing to focus on is your body's communication. The body has a way of telling you when it isn't happy and you will certainly know when that's the case. So long as you feel fine after your run and nothing more than tired then you are ok. 

In a few days I am heading off to camp to be a counselor. My problem is that in this camp there is no gym, so that means I will be without a gym for 2 months. I am hoping that somebody can give me a few suggestions on how to really get a good workout through out the summer. I am not referring to just running, swimming and playing ball, but rather I would like something that can also stimulate my muscles at least enough so that they don't look smaller by the time the summer is over and I get back to the gym. Sandbags and a chin/pull up bar is about the extent of what I will have available to me, so any suggestion would really be very useful. 

The link you provided shows the exercise being done with the supinated (underhand) grip, and this grip does in fact recruit more of the bicep than doing this same exercise with the pronated (overhand) grip. If your goal is to work your back more with this exercise, I would suggest doing it with an overhand grip so that your biceps don't do most of the work. 

You can lay down flat on your stomach and then lift your feet up. You don't only lift your toes off the ground, but you also lift your feet up to the point where your knees are also leaving the ground. You then repeat this for several repetitions. This will cause you to feel a certain burning sensation in the lower back muscles. The idea is, once you feel these muscles working you will be more in tune with them and as a result know when they are flat. Mark Rippetoe uses this technique with people who have a hard time getting their back flat. $URL$ In this video you will see him demonstrate this technique amongst others. This video is on the longer side (11 minutes), but really worth the watch as it should answer your question. 

I am currently on the 5x5 program with the goal to get stronger. I understand that in order to achieve this goal one must consume a surplus of calories in order to actually gain the muscle. I am 5 foot 7 and weigh 160lbs, so my caloric needs to gain weight and ultimately muscle is about 2800 calories a day. Also required in order to gain muscle is protein. From my understanding a person should consume about 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight. For me that would be about 160 grams of protein. Now I have not done the calculation yet, but I'm fairly certain that i can reach 160 grams of protein while still consuming my maintenance amount of calories which is 2300. My question is, can i get stronger while only getting my target amount of protein without my surplus in calories? 

When a person works on one group of muscles more than another, this person develops what's known as muscle imbalance. The human body has many muscles working together in order to carry out daily physical activities. For instance walking up a flight of stairs is more than just your legs doing the work, but also your core gets engaged to to keep you balanced. By you only working on your arms you are neglecting the other muscles that would usually work together with your arms, and as a result causing a muscle imbalance. What ends up happening is that the muscles that you are working out start to pick up the slack for the muscles that are being neglected and as a result they start to work too hard, and this eventually leads to injury. Now I can't say for sure if your neck and lower back pain is a result of this (I have a strong feeling that it is, but I am not totally sure), but what I can say for sure is that you absolutely should start working on more muscles so that you prevent future injuries that can be a result of muscle imbalance. 

If you start reducing your daily caloric intake you can run the risk of your body breaking down the muscles to use them as a protein source. This will only happen if you reduce by too much. For example, if your daily caloric requirement is 2000 calories and you reduce that down to 1000 then you will certainly lose muscle along with fat. That is if you would be losing fat at all which I'm not sure you would be. Based on the above my advice to you would be as follows: Use a calculator that can determine how many calories you need based on your age, height, weight and your weekly workouts (how many times a week you workout). Once you have determined how many calories you need to maintain your current weight try and stick to that amount of calories. This will help you maintain your muscles, and even build muscle if you eat the right amount of protein, all while you burn fat. $URL$ This is a calculator that can determine your daily caloric needs. One thing I will say about this calculator is to take the number with a grain of salt. 

The awesome thing about HIIT is that it isn't just a cardio, but it is also a muscle building form of exercise. Allow me to explain. When a person runs on a treadmill for about 30 minutes at a steady pace, they are in essence getting an endurance workout because the fibers that are getting burned are the slow twitch ones responsible for endurance. When a person is working out to get stronger or faster at the something thew will usually try an go after the fast twitch fibers which give you short powerful bursts of energy which is in essence what makes you stronger. Going after the fast twitch fibers is done by doing short explosive movements such as quick intervals on the treadmill, or really heavy squats in the low rep range. Based on the above information, I would say that it is absolutely ok for you to incorporate some HIIT in to your routine. I would also suggest that you do it on the days that you workout and not on your rest days. As for how often you should do it, I would say that if you have one day of your three working days that you work on your legs that should be your day to do HIIT. If you work on your legs everyday of your working days like with the 5x5 program, than I would say say that you should make your own informed decision as for how often you should do it. Something to consider before you make that decision, is that doing more work on your legs other than the squats will increase the time it takes for your legs to recover and therefore hinder you from being able to increase 5lbs every time you squat as is suggested buy the 5x5 program (again this is only if that is the program you follow). As for swimming it would depend again on weather you are doing it as strictly a cardio or in the form of HIIT. If you do it as a cardio it will hinder you from the muscle gaining goal you have set for yourself, but if you do it as an HIIT than again you may actually become more athletic by doing this. EDIT: I just remembered one more thing you should consider. That is weather you should be doing the HIIT sprints before your workout or after your workout. Again this is a decision you should make for yourself, but to answer this ask yourself the following question. What is more important to you the sprinting or the rest of the workout? The simple fact is that whatever you do first will be easier for you and thus get your fullest efforts. 

Yes using a weight vest will make you burn more calories while running. Much like a heavier person burns more calories than a lighter person doing the same movement at the same intensity so too using the weight vest will help you burn more calories. In essence the vest is making you a heavier person. this means you will have to work harder to do any activity that you normally do at your own body weight. 

The way my workout is split is as follows: I do legs on Sundays which includes squats followed by deadlifts and then leg presses. On Mondays I do bi's and back. I do lat pulldowns, seated cable rows, and then I move on to doing curls. On which one of these days should i do the deadlifts? 

In the personal training studio where I work, we have several clients who come in for either weight loss or strength gain along with bad postures. Our approach to this problem is to include corrective exercises in their warm ups and then have them do regular workouts which are geared towards their goals. One of the corrective exercises which we use in the warm ups is called wall slides. $URL$ This is a great exercise which targets the traps and is a great way to help your traps keep your shoulders from rolling forward. Additionally, Deadlifts are a great strength training exercise which also help strengthen the traps. When lifting up the heavy weights the shoulders tend to want to roll forward, and the traps stabilize them and keep them in place, and as a result they get stronger. Stronger traps means straighter shoulders which means better posture. Now I do realize that the deadlift is an advanced move, but I am pointing out that strength training can have some very positive affects for you in your position. You also mentioned that your muscles are tense due to a lot of anxiety you feel. Typically lifting heavy weights and having a good effective workout is a great way to release stress. To sum it all up, should you include some strength training? In one word: YES! 

It seems to me that the trainer in the video you posted does not stress the importance of coming down to parallel with your knees. He only seems to use this point as a limit for how deep you should squat. Now with that being said there is a possibility that you made no effort to actually reach parallel on every rep which I think can be cause for the knee pain, and here is why. In his video on how to squat, Mehdi describes in detail the importance of coming down do a deep squat where the crease in your hip is actually lower than your knees. He says that a major cause for knee pain when squatting is from the muscular imbalance that can occur when one does not squat deep enough. Meaning, if a person does not come down to parallel then the only muscle that gets worked is the quad, but that hamstrings which work opposite the quads don't get stimulated at all, and this causes a muscular imbalance which then can lead to injury. However, if you do come down low enough, then you will feel a nice strong stretch in the hamstrings and that should help get rid of the knee pain. $URL$ This is the video I mentioned where Mehdi explains how to squat properly. It's a little bit long, but very clear and concise, and should totally clarify the squating concept for you.