Hitting the ball at all Hitting the ball consistently Hitting the ball far enough Hitting the ball straight enough (well really 1a-4a) Putting and chipping around the green 

The IOC has actually had to backtrack quite a few times at much later points in the process than host selection, 8 years out. The 1904 Olympics in St Louis and 1908 Olympics in London both were originally set to be staged in different cities and apparently moved within about 2 years of the games. Now, obviously those were a different era in the scale and spectacle of the Olympics. And there's also not great information out there on how early St Louis/London showed interest... But there's a lot of information on the mess that was the bidding for the 1976 Winter Olympics. 4 countries entered the final round of bids in 1970: 

On the ITF website, it gives contact info as: Telephone: 49 40 411 78 0 Address: Deutscher Tennis Bund EV Hallerstrasse 89 Hamburg 20149 Perhaps write to or call them?? 

But while there is no rule or any mention of yelling in the book, there is some leeway built into all three rulebooks: 

I came across this TalkSports article about undeserving champions. But it got me wondering about a couple other ways of looking at it: 

Have there ever been any incidents where a player got cautioned (or sent off!?!) for a wild tackle against his own player. In the Tottenham-West Ham game, there was a funny quick moment in which, amidst a bout of frenetic possession changes in midfield, one Tottenham player ended up tackling another. So, taking that to extremes, has a player ever gone in so recklessly upon his own player that he was issued a card? For that matter, are there any even circumstances where it was more intentional; perhaps a player, fed up with his team's play, goes "rogue" and takes out his own man in frustration? And finally, does anything in the wording of the rules regarding unsporting recklessness suggest that it should be less applicable in such self-defeating circumstances? 

If you are asking whether a player that typically plays guard can take the snap, the answer is yes... with a real caveat: From the NFL rules... First, Rule 5, Section 1, Article 2: 

First lets make sure that most reading this get the general "standard" football formation on offense and defense, set up across from each other here (from womensfootballguide.files.wordpress.com): 

Reading some threads on officiating message boards, these sportsmanship grey areas (and a couple separate rules) have been used by some to make calls (even one mention by a FIBA referee)... but it's certainly is debated heavily. Even what counts as disconcertion on free throws gets plenty of argument. Here are some of the better threads: 1 2 3. Others devolved more significantly. Unfortunately I don't think you're going to find a truly definitive answer. Which is a pity. Games often evolve into what they aren't supposed to be (as do many things in life). And definitive rules to prevent that can be tough to delineate. 

Based upon basketball-reference he was only averaging 25 shots per 42 minutes (how much he played tonight) and 11 3s before the night. So it was definitely a much heavier shooting night for him. From the team page on B-R, the Lakers averaged 18 assists per game this year... and had 19 tonight. So it wasn't necessarily that he absolutely had the ball the whole time... though it certainly also wasn't that the team was creating more open looks than normal for him. Interestingly the Lakers also average 84.6 shots per game and only took 85 tonight. So it wasn't they rushed the tempo to make it happen happen. The team as a whole wasn't just chucking up a ton more shots... just more of them were in Kobe's hands. There are some more interesting details at the NBA's Player Tracking page that show more of a breakdown of Kobe's game this year. He'd expect to: 

A real pity there aren't more complete databases out there, we Americans are spoiled with sites like $URL$ for our sports. I searched and searched. But only came upon list after list. But at least a list of a few decent ones could be cobbled together: 

Wikipedia lists quite a few comebacks from deficits of 25+ points in the 3rd or even early 4th quarter. The odds are certainly small that a team would turn it around, but even a glimmer of hope to win an extra game in a series seems monumental. Additionally, by pulling your starters you encourage the opponents to do so as well. By keeping your stars playing, you also motivate the opponents to do so as well. Otherwise they may give up a mismatch that might be exploited to make up ground. So therefore it seems there'd generally be no actual gain from resting players earlier, as opponents would generally gain just as much rest. Teams may well wait longer than is reasonable. But often effort wanes long before. Some players might well be accused of resting/taking it a bit easy... even if they're still technically in the game in such situations! 

I envisioned three possible values of draft picks: better player talent, cheaper pay, and increasing options for the future. The main negatives of uncertainty in player development and the time needed to develop. But had really no great idea on how to weigh them. However, I came across some great articles, particularly $URL$ and $URL$ that helped clear the picture more. They really narrowed it down to simply how much cheaper a drafted player's results are compared to the same results from free agency. Averaging from 538's table of net profit per pick... it appears that as of 2014, a random first round draft pick was a gain of about $13 million dollars salary over 5 seasons on average, or about $2.6 million per season. Which is about 4% of a team's cap (now ~ $3.1 million, next year probably near $4 million). Second round picks are worth probably at most $1.5 mill/yr based upon the graphs, probably less. So... if the interest is trying to be good, it looks like $3 mill this year would bump you around 20-40 players by salary this year... or allow you to improve one player by just under 1/4 of the league's talent. To upgrade from about the cheapest end starting salary (#150 = 4.3 mill) to a max contract (this year 1st year = $18.5-26 mill based on experience, higher for certain players) you'd need the benefit of about 5-7 average draft picks. So then looking into the Celtics... based on $URL$ you'll gain 5 more extra first round draft picks by the 2017 Draft... so in theory seems decent. In a totally random world, you'd expect picks of about 3, 7, 10, 13, 17, 20, 23, 27. So if the team had designed their contracts to absolutely start over from scratch about now... you'd get those 8 picks locked up for a 2nd year cost of only $14 mill total! Then you could afford to add on maybe like a... Kevin Durant max (should be ~23 mill second year^)... plus a DeMar DeRozan max (~22 mill second year^)... and still have 11 mill left (perhaps sneak in a free agent of the likes of Aaron Afflalo [8 mill], Danny Green [10 mill], or Rondo [9.5 mill], or get a team like Washington to trade someone like Gortat [11 mill] for later picks\contracts if they want to rebuild). ^ - These numbers will all change a bunch this year due to the salary increases. But the thing is, assuming the distribution by talent stays the same (it generally should given min\max\rookie and such are all tied to salary cap), then the approximate player classes you can get and what a draft pick is worth shouldn't change. So you'll see bigger numbers than those I gave for the players, but have a higher salary cap to match. So that's an average expectation of how things could be worked. You'd also quickly be going well into the luxury after a couple years, and so your owner would probably have to be willing to pay a lot extra. The economics from an ownership standpoint is a whole nother ball game. Getting these picks meant rebuilding, and that can be some really poor years. But then, being a middling team won't make money like being a star team. So a whole lot of other calculations to it from the ownership standpoint. Basically, is it financially worth it to be good? Considering league minimum is 90% of the salary cap, you'd think generally yes, unless you have a really consistent fan base. Anyways, if it did all build together as I've suggested, the team would then be mostly limited after that to building through the draft, min deals, and mid-level exceptions. Not a ton of flexibility once that team starts growing (and that's why most teams don't consistently contend anymore?) But feasibly, it could be done. Though your additional extra pick last year ended up being low, looks like this year you'll get a good lottery pick from the Nets, plus a fair pick from Dallas, and your own. I guess your Minnesota pick is turning into two more second round picks (gosh!). But then you've still got what are probably fair picks from Memphis and the Nets to come in upcoming years (plus your picks and that pile of second rounders). But then, in all this, I didn't even look into what the Celts have already built. #4 in the east, mighty impressive. With $20 million cap room next year (based on current cap). Actually, $32 mill if you elect to part with Amir. Thomas, Bradley, and Crowder locked up for two more seasons. So you could maybe resign one or two of Turner, Zeller, Sullinger... and still get a max player contract... and sign most of your rookies (doubt you'd want 8, if you still have that many picks this season!). And again, the numbers of course go way up for the cap this year and next (and thus the max and rookie contracts), but it's still the same general situation because it all balances, salary increases vs cap increases. Players honestly probably won't want to sign long deals because of the big 2017 increases, but in a sense that only helps you. If you can woo a star for a year based on what you have... then you can have the inside track to sign them next year... or be free to part ways and pursue other max contract guys while enjoying the same great cap situation. Usually players are FORCING long-term deals as it benefits them with security. So that you don't have to do that is just generally a plus. Especially if you're good next year (so people want to come your way). Plus the picks allow you maneuverability to trade for players or perhaps for picks further on down the road. Yeah, picks certainly aren't the end all. I don't think the most explosive resurgence stories (Heat 2010, Celtics 2007) were heavy on picks. But then there are situations like the Cavs last season or the Magic in 2000 (McGrady+Hill... perhaps close on Duncan) that still show potential is there. A lot of luck involved when it comes to draft picks. Having them be high. Having the players picked work out. Getting stars to invest in you over clubs. Picking up the right cheap free agents. But overall, it seems economically workable. Though it depends what you give up to get them, of course. But so far... you're looking mighty good! Addition to better answer one of your questions: The problem with rebuilding without giving up talent is usually your options are very limited. If your decent, you're not getting great draft picks. And you don't have much cap room to sign players, all the while dealing with restrictions based upon your current roster (and player desires). That the Spurs turned the 28th and 57th picks into two of their cornerstones was a shot in the dark. And now Leonard at at 15th. Not everyone can do that, it just isn't possible: there aren't enough good players available to be found that low! So finding the stud GM\staff\talent scouts cannot be undervalued. And the bonus that elite teams also get players (their stars and FAs) to sign for less helps extend their reign, as San Antonio has done a fair bit of too, I believe. Most teams will "rebuild" just by sliding towards mediocrity as their stars age and retire\move on. Does selling the entire farm for picks give more potential for a return to elite success? Don't know if we can tell given there are so few real fullblown cases. The numbers given show there is some potential. But the real answer probably is: go where the value is. If there's a lot of teams moving towards rebuilding, then the buyers market will land you talent for cheaper. But if there's a lot of teams seeking talent, you might have an opportunity to stockpile picks. It's not so much what you do as what the other teams do, and then what you make of that situation. But I certainly can't think of many San Antonio's at all in this day-and-age in the NBA. Much like the Patriots. You absolutely have to mine low picks in the draft and free agency insanely better than the league. And so then it just can't be a common thing!