Your wheel is overtensioned. That is not good as it will eventually lead to premature failure somewhere, maybe worse than you're currently experiencing. In the case of wheels that don't come as manufacturers' sets, ie the spokes, hubs, and rims were all purchased separately, the spoke and the rim and even the hub are going to have different maximum tensions. In this case if you overtension the rim it will either not stay true or crack at the spoke holes- in extreme cases it can even encourage the wheel to taco under less lateral load. If the spokes are overtensioned they will eventually snap. Should the hub have the lowest maximum tension and you overtension it you run the risk of breaking the hub flange. In the case where the wheel comes as a manufacturer's set (for example, many high end Mavic and Shimano wheelsets have compoenents that are all proprietary and only work with a given wheelset), you're going to have a maximum tension which is still going to be limited by one of the aforementioned components but you likely wont know which one. Same rules apply though- something will prematurely fail if you keep the wheel overtensioned. You need to let the tension down instead of bringing it up to get the dish correct. How old are your wheels? If they're relatively new you may have a warranty issue on your hand, although you may have voided said warranty by overtensioning the wheel. If the wheels are old, it's important that spokes have a fatigue life just like everything else and you may be hitting it. Often when you get close to the fatigue life of the spokes on your wheel you'll bust one after another until you relace the wheel. 

They will work fine together- same if you swap the brands around. I've done this many times for myself and for others with no issue and it's common practice amongst bike shops. This is strictly marketing & legal covering of their own asses. If you look at Wippermann Connex Link compatibility they say that the one link is compatible with SRAM, Shimano, and Campy. They're all so close in terms of the spacing that interchanging their quick links doesn't make a difference. As an aside, those Wippermann Connex quick links rock. Tool free installation and removal, and it's almost impossible for them to come undone while riding. 

Despite the fact that it's not the subject at hand, it's worth reinforcing what brendan said: make sure you're running tubeless specific road tires for road tubeless. Standard beads- both steel and kevlar- stretch, and without a tube to bind them in place they will stretch enough to climb over the rim and blow off suddenly and catastrophically. You can get away with non-tubeless specific tires at the lower pressures used by mountain bikes- Stan's made their initial mark on the industry by providing conversion kits for non-tubeless rims and tires. But you cannot get away with that at road bike tire pressures. Road tubeless tires use a carbon bead that doesn't stretch, and therefore doesn't blow off the rim. That is the critical innovation that took so long to come around and make road tubeless possible. 

They squeal because water acts as a mild lubricant. That's why things are "slippery when wet" ;) The water makes it harder for the pads to grab onto the rotors. They'll grab for a small fraction of a second and then let go again, and they do this really fast. Imagine the squeaky sound that a your finger makes when your run it over a smooth wet surface, or the sound your shoes make on a tile floor when you just came in out of the rain. Same sort of thing, only constant. With bike brakes and disc brakes especially, the braking surface (the rotors for disc brakes, the rim for rim brakes) will find a harmonic resonance and thus the really loud tonal squeal. All brakes have the potential to squeal, especially when wet. I wouldn't worry much about it unless you find that your braking power is being significantly reduced. In such a case, try some different compound pads. Metallic pads are generally considered to be superior in adverse conditions but they're also loud as hell in the rain/mud. Everything is a trade-off, don't ya know? 

Search for "schrader chuck" or "schrader head", and take your pick. If you want one locally. any auto parts store should have a couple to choose from. Alternatively, if you need a presta head, just switch the search terms. Silca makes a couple of popular ones. 

Ignore the commute miles and follow the training schedule. Maybe take it just a bit easier on your commute for the days with a training ride than you normally would. Whatever you do, don't give up the commutes. They help maintain your fitness throughout the week. I have never been in as good of shape as when I was training and commuting simultaneously. 

Yeah it will work without issue. Humans would have to generate far more torque than we are capable of to actually pull the threads off of the hub. If you think about it, if it's enough threads for a track cog then there's no reason it wouldn't be enough for a freewheel. Due to the smaller amount of engagement on a fixed thread the mechanical stresses would be slightly different but once again not enough to matter for our power output. I can tell you that I've run a couple of setups like this for years, as have many others, with no issue on any of them related to the topic at hand. 

10 speed SRAM Powerlinks require a special tool to undo and, unlike their 9speed counterparts, are not supposed to be reused. That said, you can use a pair of needle nosed pliers in a pinch, and the Powerlink can be reassembled after breaking it if you want to take the (relatively small) risk. However, if both derailleurs have screws as opposed to rivets, just undo the screw. Not a bad idea to apply threadlocker to the screw upon reassembly as I have seen them fall out before. 

Many of the smaller bolt heads on MTB components tend to be Torx these days, especially for certain brands. For example, of the components I own, the SRAM mtb derailleurs, brake levers, brake rotors, shifters, etc use Torx-headed bolts, yet all the SRAM road components I own are strictly hex keyed. Why they don't stick to one style- preferably Torx- I don't know. I do know that Torx provides more "bite" which results in a bolt head that is less likely to strip, especially in smaller sizes. This makes a lot of sense, especially where higher torque is required such as brake rotor bolts which typically require a higher torque specification in comparison to similarly sized hardware. That said, there would be no real technical or performance reason to have only one Torx bolt per rotor. I know that many cars with alloy wheels use a single lug nut with a special head per wheel and normal lug nuts on all the rest of the bolts for theft protection. Perhaps this is supposed to be something analogous to that. Alternatively, since you stated that this was a BSO (or Bike-Shaped Object, usually referring to a low quality or department store bike), it's possible that a) a single Torx bolt is used to discourage low skilled workers that are assembling the bikes from removing the rotors, especially if they are of differing sizes, or b) this is simply what they had laying around and the single count on each rotor is a coincidence. Bottom line, you would not find this as a "feature" of disc brakes or bikes equipped with them of any real quality. 

That depends on how good your ear is. If you can tune a stringed instrument effectively, then tensioning a wheel by ear is very effective. Identical spokes that have the same pitch when plucked should have the same tension within the margin of error for any tensiometer reading. The catch is you need a tensiometer to get the relative tone for the proper kg/f tension on the spokes, unless you have perfect pitch and can remember up to four different tones for a single wheelset. Keep in mind that for a wheel with any amount of dish, the tension, spoke length, and therefore the pitch, will almost certainly be different from one side of the wheel to the other. Therefore, once you have your tone for a given kg/f reading it will only be accurate for one side of one wheel (there are exceptions, such as a front road wheel, or a flip flop rear wheel). Flange heights and spacing vary from front to rear hub and side to side as well, also with some exceptions. Also worth noting that different gauges and shapes of spokes of the same length and tension will have a different ring to them. In short, don't assume that the pitch of properly tensioned spokes on one side of one wheel apply to the rest of the spokes on the wheelset, and certainly don't use the pitch of a spoke on a wheel as a reference for a completely different type of wheel. Anecdotally, I was discussing this very issue with a friend of mine the other day. He said that he believed tensioning by pitch gave a valid reading, but that he couldn't do it because he was mostly tone-deaf. So to reiterate, if you don't have a pretty good ear musically, then this isn't a viable method of checking tension. To summarize, with a good ear you can use pitch to check tension on spokes, but it's more of a timesaver than a replacement for a tensiometer as you need a baseline tone at proper tension to check the rest of the spokes against. 

That seems like a big gap, but it may be normal, especially if you've inspected how the bearings seat against the crown race and all seems well. When the headset is properly adjusted the bar move effortlessly from side to side? Is the any fore/aft movement of the fork if you hold the front brake and push the front end back and forth with some force? If the answers are yes/no then you're probably fine. It wouldn't hurt anything for you to return to the bike shop where it was installed and ask them about it. They may very well have installed that headset on another bike in the past and know that what you're seeing is normal. 

First, running an aero wheel in the back does help with drag, just not as much as the front. A 50mm section aero wheel in the front with a standard wheel in the back will be fine. It may look a little funny, but it won't make the bike unridable. That said, a deep section rim is a deep section rim, and it will cause some deflection from your course in crosswinds. EDIT: in the case of a windy day and front only aero wheel, your front end is going to get pushed around more than your back. If you're running both front and rear aero wheels, you're going to get pushed around more evenly, but you're going to get pushed further. Neither situation is pleasant, especially if you're using clip-ons, but I don't think that going with only a front aero wheel is necessarily worse. It is a setup I've used in the past, and a setup that I think isn't altogether uncommon in lower categories as racers are more likely to borrow just a front from a fellow racer for a cat 5 time trial. If you're dead set on getting an aero wheel I wouldn't let potential handling differences vs a full set stop you. 

You can make a slightly lighter, slightly stronger wheel, and depending on your priorities, it's a cheaper manufacturing process as well (hopefully to be passed on to the consumer), especially when we're talking about carbon fiber. Bead hooks serve virtually no purpose for lower pressure tires. They're designed to bind clincher tires into the rim only when used with a tube. Without a tube, once you get above ~65-75PSI, a kevlar or wire bead will stretch over the rim and blow off because there's no tube binding the tire bead into the rim hook. That was the biggest hurdle in creating a tubeless road tire, and why the ultimate solution was a carbon bead with virtually no elasticity. Since road tubeless hasn't really taken off and you wouldn't be able to use a standard clincher tire with a hookless road rim(1), you're unlikely to see a big push towards hookless road rims anytime soon. However, anyone interested in running a mountain bike tubeless setup isn't interested in running that sort of pressure so the stretching off the rim simply from being inflated becomes a non-issue. That combined with the reasons listed above are why you're seeing more and more mtb rims going with a hookless design.