Original Answer You are describing a post apocalyptic world where politics will be reduced to might, endurance and wit to control enough resources to survive. Perhaps some groups already closely linked to the military will effectively defect, acquire strong holds, weapons, munitions and supplies and set out to build a new future, but among them will likely be back stabbing, morale will easily degrade and loyalties which once seemed meaningful will lose a great deal of perspective. Of course there will be some individuals who had little to live for to begin with, who drone on without much thought of the differences in the world and without much affect over the losses of others. We typically refer to such individuals as sociopaths, but in this case they would become your true survivors as this kind of thinking is necessary to prevent the above hinted kinds of moral and ethical dilemmas that most "normal" people would face. If anyone survives the cataclysm, the detonation and the winds that will likely result from a huge movement of Earth mass through the atmosphere, a few hours later when the entire sky goes black and huge chunks of Earth rain down without warning, geo-politics will be immediately discarded from most everyone's minds, unlikely to return for perhaps centuries. Suggestion, choose survivors from different classes and walks of life and explore why they survived, i.e. what makes them keep ticking, who loses how much and what parts of their humanity, and who holds on to how much of their humanity and which parts of ones humanity really seem to matter, if at all in that situation. 

It may be ethically or morally wrong to do so. The brain works by processing information that comes in the form of a very large and broad-band collection of signals that pass up through the spinal column from every nerve ending in the body. Without a body, there is no incoming signal to process. Allowing a brain in silica to be conscious without being attached to the body would be equivalent to total sensory deprivation and could be viewed as cruel and inhumane. Edit For clarity, sensory deprivation, which is practiced by people to a degree using devices like sensory deprivation tanks, when done for short periods, can help people relax. However: 

Lower taxes to get everyone's support for anything stupid that you choose to do. Stop spending money on infrastructure and programs for folks in need. Divert that money into military development. Start snooping around a smaller country, spread rumors, then go to war with them, beat them up, put new leadership in place there and make their government (essentially their people), pay for a portion of you having to go to war with them. 

I just looked at a baby naming trends website. One of the random things that I chose to view was this chart which graphs the popularity of names ending in "ly" in the past century ( per thousand ). (click the "Combined Popularity Chart" tab above the list) $URL$ There are obviously two spike patterns on the graph and my curiosity peaked upon what the correlation may be to societal norms or perhaps the zeitgeist which happens to favor the sound of a name which feels sort of "homely", "friendly", etcetera. My point here is that a name represents a person and (one would think) everyone wants their children to be loved and respected by everyone else. It struck me that a societal circumstance where "ly" sounding names convey this desire or quality appear to be related to times of desperation or societal upheaval, i.e. the Great Depression and the Vietnam Era, times of conflict in which names conveying universally positive qualities as those ( which I have totally, admittedly reached for ) above are the most favored. Just my two cents. And by all means this is not the only available graph nor the least of correlations one may speculate on. Hopefully this will help you find a direction or give a hint of an idea that you may follow. :) 

Eyes: Not to step too far forward, but if I were to have a romance with a mermaid, language would certainly help. However, if she could see in the dark, could notice my vulnerability and helplessness in a very low light setting, that would make me depend on her more in those situations and, particularly, it would reveal a part of me to her. This could serve to strengthen the relationship and it could also serve to create tension upon first meeting her. And I wouldn't mind the glowing eyes. That would actually lend a more wild aspect to her, making her seem more exotic to me than she already is. Not sure if it matters whether she can see colors, but as you say, if it helps her to see higher resolution, and therefor greater distance out of water, then it is perhaps for the better from a purely evolutionary standpoint, i.e. spoting trouble from a distance, remaining undetected etc. However, and I'm getting gushy here, but I want my mermaid to be bad-ass, top-notch and well equipt in all aspects of survival and ready to fight and not just run away at the first sign of danger. Seeing well is also a predatory advantage, spotting seals on the rocks for example before they can see what is approaching. Vocalization: Well, as I mentioned above, language helps with human interaction and a human like voice is obviously preferable to that end, but it isn't strictly necessary - nor are vocal chords. For example in Jean Auel's Clan of the Cave Bear, the Neadertals are described as having vocal chords, but they are less well formed for speaking and the faces have less expressive features and as a result the communications with voice and lips are mostly grunts, whoops and simple sounds, but the language of the Neandertal in the book is a very rich and nuanced sign language which involves the whole body, not jus the hands. This sign language comes in a colloquial dialect as well as a formal/inter-regional dialect. If you go without smooth tones for the voice then perhaps a rolling burble or intricate sort of purring like muscular contraction like the sound that frogs make but less projected for close or quiet conversations, otherwise belting, screeching groans when a high volume is required - for example like the mating sound of the Southern toad or this cicada call, but overall perhaps with a more variable/deeper tone. I don't know that squawking, clicking and chirping is as personable as something more like burbling would be, something in between the lion rumbling and the aligator growling - but I suppose that as well is a matter of taste. Coloring: Anything from gray to white to cream-colored to brown or black I would think is fine. I'm assuming you're not after the blues and greens of peacock feathers. They could be different colors like animals and people - what a concept! I personally wouldn't make them too distinctly marked other than overall tone because I want to get to know them personally to understand their individual differences, but there is nothing preventing any choice you make in that regard. Natrually speaking they would probably be predators/hunters so they would need camouflage to hide and ambush or they would need eyesight and speed to rush. But they could in theory also graze on kelp forests. Maybe they have no natrual predators and are smart enough to capture or kill any kind of prey they wish so would have less need for camouflage. If they are smart they could make their own camouflage if need be. 

100 feet, although perhaps at a high inclination to the archer, is within target range for an expert archer. At 20 mph, while faster than most game animals in areas of natural cover, is less than a flat out run for most game animals and still likely within the range of standard training for an expert archer. So it seems that well trained and committed soldiers who are trained as archers would thus have few issue keeping the heat on these flying attackers. Obviously the restrictions on the wizard's ability to perform the spell and the restrictions on the magic prevent a sweeping advantage, so we have to make due with a trickle of soldiers who can fly, which would seem to require a well formed plan which adapts as the number of flyers increases, or which otherwise makes the best use of only a small number of flyers in an otherwise coordinated strategy. These subtleties make such a strategy difficult to form and be ready apply literally over night as the question suggests.