The Earth's equator is inclined to the plane of the solar system (called the ecliptic) by 23 degrees. In other words, the Sun's position, as seen from the Earth, varies between 23 degrees North (at the northern hemisphere summer solstice) and 23 degrees South (at northern hemisphere winter solstice), appearing to cross the Earth's equator twice (at the equinoxes). The tropic lines mark the maximum apparent solar move north or south. The Moon's orbit is inclined by about 5 degrees to the ecliptic so moves over a somewhat wider range of the sky as seen from the Earth. The Moon orbits the Earth every 28 days or so, so moves over that range each month. At full Moon the Moon is opposite the Sun in the sky, so if the Sun was close to the tropic, then the Moon would be around the opposite tropic when full, and so on. 

Stars are, to all intents, infinitely far away and hence present themselves as points - thus the small changes in the atmosphere's refractive index caused by different patches of density and temperature of air make them appear to twinkle. Planets, on the other hand, are relatively close by and (with the exception of the Moon and the Sun itself) whilst we cannot resolve any solar system body into a disk with the naked eye, they are still larger than (most) variations in the atmosphere, hence they don't appear to twinkle or the twinkling is much reduced. The evidence suggests you saw a planet, quite likely Jupiter or Saturn. 

Schindler et al. 1999: Morphology of the Virgo Cluster: Gas versus Galaxies has details for $\beta$ model fits for Virgo and its subclusters. 

The local environment is very important to star formation because it requires material as well as something to perturb the nebula to start collapsing and forming star(s). Therefore, both the type of galaxy as well as the location in the galaxy are very important to creating stars. However, once a star moves from protostar onto the main sequence, external influences don't much affect its development. This is how we can identify stellar streams because the stars come from a similar population when they are created, but some tidal forces cause them to spread out around the galaxy. 

When stars transition from the main sequence core Hydrogen burning to core Helium burning they can experience Hydrogen shell burning. 

After fooling around with a FITS file(s) (e.g. setting scale, changing color) is it possible to save the session such that there is a file associated with all those tweaks the next time I open it up? Save and Save Image just seem to keep whatever I set it to, but when I load those new saved files back into ds9 the settings are all back to whatever default load settings I have enabled. I would also like to be able to do this if I have FITS files loaded into multiple frames so I don't have to go through the process of loading each individual image. 

It's not possible to see photons from "beyond" the cosmic microwave background (CMB), because (assuming our cosmology is generally correct) the CMB is the result of recombination of electrons with protons in the early universe. Photons from before that era were absorbed in the plasma. Essentially then, the earliest matter we can see (in photonic terms) is this glowing hot hydrogen, but massively red-shifted so it looks like hydrogen at 3K. We see the CMB in every direction. 

The Big Bang happened everywhere and the recombination of electrons with nuclei - the thing that causes the CMB - also happened everywhere. So in every direction you look you can see the radiation from that recombination. But that recombination also happened a long time ago and so, given light has a constant velocity, the places where we can see the recombination take place are also a long way away. And, as a result of the expansion of space-time, that radiation is very red-shifted, so instead of the recombination looking like it is happening at roughly 4000 degrees Kelvin, it looks like something happening at 3 degrees Kelvin. That expansion is also what makes it look like the distant galaxies are all moving away from us and the further away the faster they seem to be moving. 

Asphalt roads do a great job at heating up cities! Mars can actually get up to 80F, so part of the challenge is preventing losing that heat in the low pressure atmosphere. 

The mass luminosity relation is non-linear (L = M^3.5 for the main sequence) so more massive stars burn at a much faster rate. This is a non-linear relationship because the fusion is caused by pressure in the core from the star trying to gravitationally collapse on itself. 

For starbursts, their star formation rates are best estimated by a combination of their ultraviolet and infrared emission. [O II] and [O III] as well as Hydrogen recombination lines can be used to estimate star formation, but like the UV, these suffer from extinction. 

Since basically all metals come from some stellar process, the question of elemental distribution can vary greatly between different environments depending on when you're observing that particular galaxy, star/galaxy cluster, etc. Galaxy mergers, supernova, and stellar winds can be particularly good at moving metals around a galaxy or galaxy cluster. Interestingly Wolfram has element data with Universe abundances but I'm not sure where they derive those. 

I'd suggest a good star atlas and look for stars that are close to that meridian. Depending on how accurate you want to be you can use a telescope to get closer (ie to observe stars that are not visible to the naked eye). But what is it that you are trying to do? Set setting circles on a telescope? You don't need to look for RA=0h0'00" then - simply look for an object with a known RA and Dec. 

Indeed it was the perturbations of Uranus's orbit that led to the discovery of Neptune - which was itself a major triumph of the scientific process and the mathematician Le Verrier is often credited with the discovery even though he did not actually make the observational discovery. 

No, except in the sense that national broadcasting and so on is regulated. Our location can be fixed, as you suggest, from simply looking at where the signals come from. Perhaps, though, you mean is it sent out "regularly" (i.e., at specified intervals). In truth we have been sending very powerful signals continuously into space since the dawn of the television age. Those signals may now start to wane in strength as we move to digital terrestrial television but that won't bother any aliens for some time yet. 

Take another photograph of the same field that is less exposed. (Doesn't matter if you do this by shortening the exposure time, decreasing the ISO, etc.) This will give you an image with far fewer stars so you can easily pattern match your images. 

To get an order of magnitude estimate you can just use the total mass $M$ and luminosity $L$ of the star and an assumption of your fusion process. Main sequence stars fuse Hydrogen in to Helium through the proton-proton chain, which converts 0.7% of mass into energy. So the estimated lifetime of the star would just be: $0.007\frac{Mc^2}{L}$ ($c$ is the speed of light). For example, the sun would have a lifetime ~$10^{11}$ years, but that's assuming that all Hydrogen is being converted to Helium via the proton-proton chain. Given the scaling from observations of the Sun, you can use the mass-luminosity relation to estimate lifetimes for other main sequence stars. 

Yes, minerals can be observed using spectroscopy on a telescope, typically from their thermal signature. We can determine what type of mineral based on the elements that make up the mineral as well as the type of crystal structure, which will give a different spectral signature 

There are certainly applications of number theory (as opposed to group theory/algebra - but you do also mention abstract mathematics in general) to astrophysics, though many would suggest these applications are on the boundary between real science and metaphysics. One such application is the measure problem - if we assume our universe is one of an infinite number of multiverses how can we draw conclusions about the fundamental physics of the many multiverses, for instance to say that intelligent life is possible in a given proportion. 

The discussion of the Cosmological Principle above is very relevant, but it is possible that so is a (weak) application of the anthropic principle - in other words if we were in a region of extremely energetic physical phenomena, such as quasars, we would be unlikely to exist - as the evidence suggests that the development of intelligent life takes a considerable time and highly energetic events are likely to disrupt that. 

As I understand it, gravity cannot be attenuated by any medium (in the way that EM radiation can be, for instance). Does this, then, not make it a source (theoretically, I am not talking of practicalities) of infinite energy - if we assume the universe itself is infinite and looks the same everywhere (ie there are objects with mass everywhere)? Or is it more correct to say that gravity has a net contribution of nothing to the universe's energy density because the attractional energy is balanced by a negative potential energy? 

Aladin is a good way to do visualization from multiple catalogs. MAST also offers a cross-mission search. 

This radius of the observable universe is measured by the comoving distance which is the same in every direction. Using CosmoCalc (a common tool for astronomers measuring cosmological parameters) you get 46 Gly for the comoving radial distance. 

Stellar mass black holes and supermassive black holes likely form from very different mechanisms. While we have a pretty good idea how stellar mass black holes form, we're still not sure about how supermassive black holes form because they occur very early on in the Universe. 

I believe your confusion is from combining two popular simplifications of our Universe. As we look further away we see further back in time because of the finite speed of light. So these distant objects are also evolving with us, but that light hasn't hit Earth yet. It might help to know that the observable universe may only be 14 Gyr old, but its radius is 46 Gly, not 14 Gly. If the speed of light was infinite, then we wouldn't be observing back in time as we look at more distant objects. 

Saturn's Great White Spot phenomenon often occurs in the Northern hemisphere, so it doesn't look like there is any particular preference. 

The key point is that the Big Bang happened everywhere at the same time, hence there is no centre (or alternatively, the centre is any point). This was not an explosion into space, it created space. (Think of a balloon, when you blow it up points on the surface all move further apart without there being a centre of the expansion on the surface itself.) A related idea is the "cosmological principle" (CP) which, simply put, states that, at a large scale, the universe looks the same everywhere. That means the "oldest" parts (as measured by how long it look radiation to get here) of the universe can be seen in any direction - and the CMB is just that and it does come from all directions. You can think of it as the burst of light that was emitted when the universe, through expansion, cooled just enough to let atomic nuclei recapture electrons. The electrons emitted photons and those have now been redshifted by the universe's expansion to match the spectrum of a body 'glowing' at about 3 degrees Kelvin. (In fact there is some evidence to suggest that the CP is not valid or at least that there is a question about what scale constitutes "large scale": there is more here $URL$ 

Vizier is a good resource for finding catalogs. Searching for "SMC+cepheid" I found a related paper (Udalski et al. 1999) with additional data $URL$ You can also look for "Similar Catalogs" though it may or may not be useful in this case. 

We observe the temperature of the CMB as a ~2.7 K blackbody, but that's the redshifted version we observe. The CMB is also know as the "surface of last scattering" at the point of recombination when nuclei and electrons combined to form neutral atoms the universe went from opaque to transparent. This happens at a temperature of ~3000 K. From this we can estimate the redshift (z~1100) of the CMB which corresponds to an age given our cosmology. 

A high density of stars definitely increases the chances of collisions, however, the high velocity of a halo star orbiting wouldn't increase its chances. Since the halo star is traveling very quickly, the halo star would only spend a small amount of time near the galactic core. Additionally, it would have less time to get deflected, gravitationally, by other stars in the core.