If you have a power meter than download something like Golden Cheetah to analyse the data. Otherwise, if you are just using Strava's predictive data - I wouldn't bother as it won't be accurate enough for detailed analysis. 

If the effective top tube (horizontal measurement) is OK for you - then the only other things I can think of might be the head tube angle & chainstay length. A road bike may have a steeper head angle & also have shorter chainstays. Which quickens the handling & steering. Mind you, at the smaller end of the road bike sizing - the head angles tend to be a little slacker which helps with toe overlap. So head angle also depends on size. Best thing to do is a compare a few geometries from a manufacturer for hybrid and road. There isn't a hard and fast rule for geometries. Also consider spacers as an alternative to a riser stem - might save you a few pennies. 

I've used Cif or Jif as it used to be called. Its a cream bathroom and kitchen surface cleaner. Works wonders. 

Not only will this stress your frame - it may also fatigue the frame. And may cause sudden and catastrophic failure. 

GPS may be accurate +/- 15 meteres. $URL$ If you have a GPS device with barometric measurement - then this can improve. Should you be worried? If you're using it for cycling then probably not - it is only an indicative figure of metres gained or lost. If you're trying to land a plane - then yes. :) 

Personally, if your road frame is an out-and-out road bike - I would say you will be faced with several issues. 

Single-sided power meters have existed since the "year dot" - and opposite leg power is often "extrapolated" from a single strain gauge And given most power-meters will quote accuracy to be within X% - the use of left and right strain gauges means although accuracy could be within X% of both left and right - it causes problems with precision. So the maximum variation between both strain gauges could be LEFT DRIFT + RIGHT DRIFT. (But both being within X% of true strain). So there is an argument which questions whether left and right power meters are in fact more accurate. And it is possibly the magic of the software / firmware further downstream from the strain gauge signal which provides a coherent reading. From your graph you have posted - you have tight banding of power on the left leg which indicates a smooth pedal stroke on the left-side. Your right side looks choppy like you're stamping on the pedals. This is often described as "pedalling squares". The important thing with power meters is precision (consistency) of the reading. In direct answer to your question - why do people use single-sided power meters - it has inherently been the cost of dual-sided power measurement. However, in the last 2 years - cheaper pedal-based systems have appeared from Garmin and more recently Favero. 

Exactly as per the title. This is surprisingly hard for me to google. I found one estimate of about 10 pounds, and the tech at my LBS "guesses" that a standard 30 x 8 x 53 box weighs 2 pounds. For long distance shipping, that much of weight difference can save a lot. 

Which strategy is better for learning to ride fixed gear, if you're already comfortable with clipless pedals: 

I'll add a dissenting opinion. A single strap bag is fine, and the second strap is not required. I've used several, and simply tightening the strap has always been enough to stop it moving around, even at 35 or 40km/h. Naturally, the weather resistance, size, and comfort concerns that the other answers mention are worth considering, but something important and not yet mentioned is to look very carefully at the quality of the stitching on the bag, especially the seems where the strap meets the bag. For instance, many laptop style shoulder bags are not well put together here, and will begin to fray or rip pretty readily, especially if you pack it too full or put too much weight in it. Look for something with quality construction, and pay more if you need to! Having your strap fail (or even just start to fail) is no fun. 

Is it safe to cycle while holding an Umbrella? Obviously it's at least a little less safe than biking without holding something in your left (or right) hand. But how much more dangerous is it? Specifically, suppose that I'm biking on a flat-ish, smooth surface, on a day with almost no wind (say 5km/h), at moderate speeds (say 15km/h) and in enough rain that the umbrella is helpful. I commute by bike every day, and have recently moved to a new location where the weather often produces these conditions, and where the folding bike and roads I ride on often lead to the above scenario. Recently I have begun riding with an umbrella in hand after observing several other riders doing so, and have fallen off thrice while learning, producing one minor injury to my toe. For comparison, I had one fall and no injuries while learning to use clipless pedals, and one other injury-free fall in the last 5 years. What I really want to know is this: Assuming someone does this regularly (presumably like the other riders I see), is someone who rides in the conditions mentioned above 10% more likely to suffer a serious accident or 10 times more likely? In the former case, I view the enjoyment / safety tradeoff as being clearly in favor of the umbrella, in the latter I take the opposite view and will stop doing it. Ideally I'd like to see a study on the subject, but since such a thing doesn't exist (AFAIK), guesswork or anecdotes will suffice. 

50/34 with and 11/32 on the rear is going to be very spinny. For me - the range is too wide and the gaps between the gears too big. But - this depends on the kind of riding you will be doing. If you are riding the very steepest of mountains - than the 34/32 combination might be what you are looking for. Purely for fast road work - that's too wide a combination (for my personal taste). The other thing you will have to consider is the rear mech. For such a wide range you will need to go with a mid or long cage rear mech. I don't think it will work with a standard short cage. However, I have used 50/34 with 11/28 on a short cage - and that has been OK. Try the Sheldon Brown gear calculator to work out the combination which will work for you. $URL$ 

The quality of the bike is in the sum of the parts. The heart of the bike is the frame and what carries the brand is more often than not - the frame. The manufacturer then hangs various components off the frame to complete the build. (Big brands) It could be argued - the quality of the frame (design and build) & warranty back-up is better. Other factors could be frame material and design. At the lower end of the market where you are looking for a hardtail frame - it is a fair bit harder for manufacturers to make their product standout from their competitors (such are the complexities of welding 9 pipes as opposed to designing suspension). And its probably where the brand name will have greater weighting in the buying decision. Markups are also lower at this end of the market and manufacturers will use plenty of own-brand / OEM components to keep their margins higher. Have a look closely at the component spec. as well as the brand. Manufacturers are great at hiding the down spec of a component ie. cassettes or brake calipers being common examples. Google for reviews. If you intend to keep the bike for years and not intend to go on the upgrade path - than perhaps you should be looking at the overall package (component level) as well. If you'll upgrade eventually - than the typically better resale value of a bigger brand like Specialized will be a bigger consideration. 

After my $20 floor pump from the hardware store gave out. I bought a rather more expensive one rated to 160 PSI. The pump has a metal nozzle on it, with a Schrader opening on one end and a Presta opening on the other. I find closing the Presta side of the nozzle requires an extremely large amount of force. It seems like I get a much tighter seal with it, and that I can go to higher pressures as a result. However, because it requires so much force to close I have ended up bending the valve stem every time I use it. Ultimately I've gone back to using the Schrader adaptor I had for the old pump, along with the Schrader side of the nozzle, which is much easier to close. Is there a trick to closing a purpose-designed Presta nozzle? Is my pump defective somehow? 

As a simple measurement, look at the size of the chain ring (the big gear that the pedals attach to). If it's bigger than the biggest one on your current bike, you'll probably be able to go faster. If the chain ring on the new bike is about the same size as the biggest one on your current bike, look at the little gears on the rear wheel. If the smallest one is about the same size as the smallest one on your bike, then then new bike will have about the same top speed. If the new bike's chain ring is smaller than the one you have now, it will probably be slower, unless it has a much smaller gear on the rear wheel as well. 

Flat pedals at first, clipless after you're comfortable with being unable to coast. Learning to ride clipless from the start, probably with the tension turned way down. 

I recently switched the pedals on my road bike over to the SPD clipless system. The pedals I got have an adjustable spring. Tightening the spring increases the force required to twist one's foot out, while loosening it does the opposite. Initially, I set the tightness as low as it would go. I have ridden the bike every day in the last week without issue, and without even the prophesied falling (though I'm sure my time will come!). Today, while biking uphill against a strong headwind, my foot detached from the pedal, and I nearly lost control of the bike. It seems to me that this is the result of pedaling vigorously while also swaying a bit to keep my balance. This also seems like exactly the wrong time to have one's feet come loose. This event makes me think I should tighten up the spring. At the same time, I have had several near falls where I forget to unclip at a light, but was able to quickly unclip after stopping and catch myself. I have two questions: 1: Is it more dangerous to set the tension too high or too low? 2: What sorts of schedules might be optimal for gradually tightening up the tension while learning to use the clipless pedals? 

That looks like the quick release mechanism used when removing the tyre to open the caliper a little wider. It looks broken? - it should be tucked under in line with the pull of the cable. Since it isn't the cable is actually pulling the release open as you brake. You might be able to temporarily remedy it by leaving it in the open position and pulling the cable tighter. You would however lose the use of the quick release. Probably not a great idea to run it like this - since the cable will be pulling on the fixing nut at a strange angle. Best replace with a new caliper. 

$URL$ is always good for a punt. And Planet X also do a build your own which can save you a few hundred. $URL$ A Cannondale CAAD 12 is also an excellent racer's bike - some are on discount right now. 

Weirdly I noticed a lot more drag when I went from the old square taper to HTII external bottom brackets. My old square taper would spin "forever" and the HTII would come to an abrupt halt after only a couple of revolutions. Apparently this phenomenon has a very infinitely small effect on performance. $URL$ With their measurement being 0.29 Watts to 1.64 Watts - which in the picture of things is nothing. Your bearings may also be stiffer if they are newer as they do loosen a little over time. If you have any other concerns - best take to a mechanic to inspect to make sure they have been installed correctly. 

Raising the seat height will allow for a more efficient pedal stroke. Too low a seat height tends to "burn" the thigh muscles. And cause a loss of power - especially on the down-stroke as you come through the pedals. The main difference by changing from mountain bike to road tires will be the tire pressure. Road tires - even on MTB - are pumped up to a higher psi than off-road tyre. Consequently the contact patch is smaller with the road and the rolling resistance reduced. A side-effect of this would be the sound and feel of your tires on tarmac will be different to your old tires.