I have a question. Are these nomads human or did they evolve on the planet with this creatures? If they are human then all bets are off. You cannot drop humans on a distant planet and expect them to survive in the native environment at all much less on one particular animal. We evolved to prey on and as predators of creatures on this planet. Finding a niche for us to live in another planet's evolution will pretty much get you panned in today's science fiction crowd but if you decide to make it fantasy then you don't have to worry about protein, calorie counts and so forth. On the other hand if you chose to make the nomads similar to humans but having evolved on the other planet your nomads can have evolved to prey on these animals before they domesticated them and the animals could believably fulfill most of their needs. Throw in a few native plants, roots and berries and you have enough of a varied diet to make a good story. 

Um....until we developed tools we were prey especially to the big cats on the African plains. We still are occasionally. House cats called polydactyls have one or more extra toes. These are sometimes called Hemingway cats. Often these extra digit form a unit in the place where the thumb exists in a human. We have one of these cats and have raised severe as fosters for the local SPCA. I swear they are more intelligent than your average house cat and they can use the opposable extra digits as we do an opposable thumb. Mine opens a cabinet door with them. If tigers or lions started developing extra digits like house cats I would be afraid, very afraid! 

If you are talking about human habitability then there may be a serious problem with growing crops humans could eat unless there is little or no seasonal variation. If you are talking about native life only then it should not be a problem because any life would evolve to fit the planet it springs from. 

I suffered from hypotention a great deal as a young woman. You wouldn't want me on there. Although most of the time I did ok there were times I could barely get out of bed. 

Having been looking into scientifically plausible forms of telepathy, I stumbled across the electroreception senses that exist in some electric fish (and in a few land-dwelling marsupials). My question is whether it's feasible for a human-like species to evolve the same kind of thing, and what limitations would be imposed by living on land where there wouldn't be a consistent source of water to be used as a conductor as for the electric fishes. 

My world has lots of civilizations which, due to geography, have little access to the kind of sea travel as a means for trade, exploration, and conquest. I think the people of this world may be driven to explore air travel as an alternative. However, I know that airplanes and balloons are "modern" technology, and tend to use modern synthetic materials that ancient peoples wouldn't have had access to. So my question is which of the materials that ancient peoples had access to would work best for building air vehicles, and could they construct entire fleets this way? What would be the practical limitations on their use of this technology? I'm working with the assumption that these cultures have basic understandings of the principles of buoyancy, and have at least some access to gasses like helium and hydrogen thru magic/alchemy. I am most interested in the construction of the air vessels themselves, such as the balloon envelope which has to be a fine enough fabric to keep gas from leaking out, or the rigid skeletons of zeppelins and airplanes. 

Knowing how every ecosystem on earth forms actually isn't that complicated. You really only need to know two things: how hot or cold it gets in an area, and how much water it gets and when. Places near oceans are usually wetter than places that are inland and/or blocked off by tall mountains; cool wet places will experience snow in the winter, while places that are rainy and warm all year round become rainforests. Depending on the size of the continents in your world they might experience on earth as well. After that it's just a question of knowing what types of plants and animals are likely to be found in what climate, for which earth can be a pretty good cheat sheet. I've also found Geoff's Climate Cookbook to be a useful resource in this area. 

Paul O. Müller was was a Austrian theoretical nuclear physicist who was stupidly drafted into the the German army and sent to die on the Russian front at Pechenkino near Sukhinichi on March 9 1942. Instead of having him die have him be captured and then the Soviets use him to run a separate nuclear program rather than use the Rosenberg's to steal the information from us. That way they could be on a par or even ahead of us. 

New Orleans is an area you will want to look at for inspiration. Also be aware that any low lying area that has massive storms such as hurricanes pushing storm surge inland before them is going to have problems with newly interred caskets coming out of the ground. 

Whooo (like halting a horse) there, "With that in mind, I imagine that some of these planets if not all would be capable of having sentient life." While one or possibly more of these planets may be the best chance of finding life on a different world finding intelligent life is a totally different situation. In only one instance has intelligent life here on Earth been proven on a world filled with life for millions of years. (Yes there is a questions whether we can classify dolphins, whales or even some apes as intelligent but for now we will stick to humans because we are the only ones capable of leaving the planet at the moment unless of course we take some of the others.) While some people think life on Earth may have arose from life on Mars or from elsewhere in the universe via extremophiles we do not know if panspermia (the name some scientist have given to that theory) will actually work or not. I will be thrilled to find some sign of life one one of these planets. I am not sure about sentient life. At only 40 light years if it were less advanced than us I would be concerned about our future effect on them. If it is more advanced than us I would be terrified of what they would do to us when not if they discovered we are here! 

Having worked in military satellite communications for about a decade I would have to say that you need a source of interference in the same range as whatever satellites you have that you can put up. On our own world certain entities use certain "bands" to communicate back and forth. A radio source either natural or man made compromising your satellite's transmit and/or receive will make most communications signals unusable. However if the planet is to remain unable to communicate the interference must be very broad and something that cannot be "fixed" easily. Without knowing whether the situation would be permanent or if it starts at some point and maybe ends at another I cannot go any further. Let me know because my husband was a military communications instructor and I can get him involved to find you a solution. 

Excess energy can be stored for later use, in a device like the niling d-sinks of Peter F. Hamilton's Commonwealth Saga. What I want to know is, would this actually be a good drive system for a spaceship? Would this be more efficient than a matter-antimatter drive? What would happen if, say, due to a computer error, someone accidentally piloted their ship into a planet? 

When I think of a creature with multiple eating mouths, I tend to think of a creature like the Lernaean Hydra, which has multiple heads sprouting from a common body. Such a creature, in my opinion, is likely to evolve in an evironment where there are a lot of creatures that "steal" kills from predators, making quick, efficient eating of your kill highly advantageous. Here's my idea on how such a creature could evolve. Imagine our proto-hydra: a small, reptilian creature, with the unusual adaptation that the brain is located within the body, instead of the head. This makes the proto-hydras head little more than a highly-mobile sense organ with a mouth attached to it. It obtains food through scavenging the kills of larger predators, usually darting in while it is distracted and stealing a few bites before scurrying of. Then, a proto-hydra is born with a birth defect: due to a genetic mutation, this proto-hydra has a second head and neck! Since the brain is within the main body cavity instead of the head, this second head does not develop its own desires or plans, like with two-headed versions of other species*. Thus, this proto-hydra has an advantage: it can eat twice as much food in the same amount of time! In its well-fed state, it is better able to compete for mates, and while some potential mates reject it due to its difference, enough are impressed with its size and strength, and allow it to mate with them. Thus, the gene for multiple heads is passed on, causing a new species of proto-hydra to diverge from the first, this second species having two heads! This process can happen repeatedly throughout the eons, causing the proto-hydras to develop more heads. At the same time, the larger size given to them by their scavenging success eventually allows them to graduate from scavengers to predators. First with small prey, them, when they continue to grow larger, bigger prey. Then, the multiple heads allow the proto-hydra to quickly devour its kill, leaving nothing for the scavengers, along with possibly leaving a head up to watch for and predators that might try to eat it. After some more evolution, adding other hydra traits like spitting venom and the ability to regenerate lost heads, you would have the hydra, a creature with multiple eating mouths, because of the need to leave no leftovers for anyone else. *In cases of a carnivorous species developing a second head, like snakes, there have been known cases of one head trying to eat the other! 

I grew up in the sub tropics. I ended up in Nebraska for a while and then England. You need to look up seasonal effective disorder (SAD). It is a very real depressive condition that is caused by the difference in the amount of sunlight you get from the amount you grew up with. It can be treated by things such as light boxes and high wattage incandescent bulbs but none of those are quite the same as getting as much sunlight as you grew up with. How people would handle the cold would depend on how well they are clothed and prepared for the conditions. Luckily I had access to proper clothing for the environment and was taught to dress in layers. If the individual(s) have to do things like drive or learn how to keep their homes warm without sufficient explanations it could cause a problem also. 

Human brains are hardwired to understand human language. Alien brains won't be. We come into the world preprogrammed to understand sentence structure, syntax, tense and the like. All Mom and Dad have to do is plug in the words. They show us a fish and say fish and we are then able to use that word, by itself, eventually in a phrase and then in a sentence. When you think of aliens understanding our language you are not making them alien enough. They may communicate all or in some part by any of the senses. We use hearing. They may use scent for instance. My question back to you would be why would they understand us? As far as "the message" itself don't forget that the first "message" they are going to pick up from us is going to be old radio and then T.V. shows. Talk about things that could easily be misconstrued! 

I don't see why not but I am not sure why it would be the best idea. A great deal of the ocean's floor is more or less deserted. I would build a stationary underwater facility in a particularly interesting spot and a couple of underwater "freighters" to ferry supplies to it and to remove waste items. It would do two things. First it would help us study our own planet and secondly it would be a place to train crews for the long journey to other planets like Mars. We would learn a lot about making the trip but have the people a lot closer at hand in case we run into serious issues for a long trip like that that we have not yet considered.