Clean everything with alcohol or some other solvent (especially your rims) to help the tape stick. In my experience, you shouldn't expect to get the tape off so be confident about the placement. Visibility is a great feature for night riding, but don't skimp on your lights! A bright headlight is an absolute must for any serious night riding as well as two taillights (one as a back up in case your primary goes dead.) Dynamo lighting is a smart investment if you're riding at night very frequently (but you'd still want to use a backup taillight.) 

Fender stays are usually mounted to threaded bosses (with an M5 or M6 cap screw) integrated into the front and rear dropouts (or near the dropouts.) In situations where you don't have dedicated bosses, you can use p-clamps to mount them securely. At the other end of the stay there is a nut and an eye bolt which allow the distance between your tire and the fender to be adjusted (10mm minimum!) Note: There are many different methods for attaching fender stays, but this is what your fenders utilize. 

The Burley Travoy trailer is an interesting design and is a good deal more compact than a traditional trailer. 

My interest stems from touring and international travel, but also from practicality. It seems like a no-brainer to be able to remove your crankarms with a common allen key without having to carry around a separate crank puller (or using riskier emergency removal methods). Beyond concerns of not being able to remove the extractors themselves (for lack of a pin-spanner), I'd like to know whether these have a history of characteristic failure. I haven't found anything in the way of recommending them or condemning them. I know that FSA, Sugino, and TA manufacture these gadgets, but are they as good on a bike as they are on paper? Are they simply unnecessary? 

There are loads more options in the world of handlebars that will stretch you out (and more that will sit you up.) I didn't mention aero bars because they'd look out of place on a classy old steel frame, but they'd definitely work. 

The noise is coming from your handlebars, but in my experience noises can be deceptive. It may be your stem-handlebar interface, but it may not be isolated to that one spot. The first thing to check is that the tabs on the face plate are not meeting the body of the stem when everything is torqued down. If you can see a gap there, you should be ok. If they are touching, however, the final torque will do nothing to hold the bar in place. This is sometimes a problem when new handlebars/stems are installed with parts that are spec'd a few millimeters off (i.e. in the example stem you provided, the bar clamp is 25.4 mm. If one were to replace it with a road stem with a 26.0 mm clamp, it may fit well enough to hold the bar without translating all of the tightening torque to the clamp area.) Another component to investigate is the headset. Lots of headsets are press-fit items and if the fit is poor, the races will make noise. This would be noticeable if you were to hold the front wheel with your knees and pull the bars side to side. It may not be apparent from examining with everything in tact, so some amount of disassembly may be required. A sign of a poor headset fit is fretting marks on the head tube. You can find Loctite or similar products designed for press-fit applications. Another headset issue that may be causing your clicking is indexing, or brinneling. This occurs when the ball bearings, usually in the lower race, wear evenly spaced dents into the bearing surface of the lower frame cup. This is more noticed in steering, but if the headset is over tightened enough, it may 'click' into place. If the issue persists, check your front hub to make sure the cones haven't become loose. This would allow the wheel to move slightly side-to-side making a noticeable tick. If you have a suspension fork, check to see that the stanchions haven't become loose in any way. To further muddy the water, you may want to check the frame very thoroughly for cracks or dents, especially around the headtube welds. This may not cause a noticeable click all the time, but a visual inspection will save you lots of headache if you find it early. If the frame is anything but steel, consider trashing it. Some frame materials have a tendency to fail catastrophically and unexpectedly. If all else fails and your certain the clicking is coming from your handlebars/stem, replace them. They're expendable items with a definite lifespan. A failed handlebar or stem will almost always cause a serious crash. Good luck! 

Really any 6 speed freewheel will work. You'll want to get the tooth numbers close, but they don't have to be exact (your 14-28 will be a fine replacement.) Chain sizing for 6-7-8 speed drivetrains hasn't been significantly changed since they became popular, though the profiles and faces of the freewheel cog teeth have, in most brands, been altered to improve shifting quality (see the image below.) There is no need to worry about the tooth profile being incompatible with a modern 6-7-8 speed chain. You will, however, want to replace the chain. This is because as a chain ages and wears, it becomes longer. The chain rollers/bushings/pins are spaced at an exact 1/2", and as it lengthens, they wear the chainrings and freewheel cogs into a hook profile. If you use your old chain on your new freewheel, you'll likely find that it skips when pedaling (hopefully your chainrings aren't similarly worn, but if they are you will know what to replace next.) 

Products like Power Tap hubs allow you to generate torque and cadence data from your rides. That information would give you better insight into your speed with regards to sustained torque and cadence and it will also better illustrate where total resistance is increased or decreased (e.g. going up or down a hill.) As far as taking average speed over a set distance, you're still averaging. It doesn't matter if your sample is 0.1 miles or 10 kilometers, it is still a measure of distance per time. Here is some more information on calculating propulsion resistance. I don't remember how to do much calculus, but it is there for anyone better equipped. 

Most Shimano components are compatible with the Ultrega and Dura Ace bar end shifters, so long as they are specifically for 8 speed or 9 speed systems (you can use a 9 speed shifter on a 7 or 8 speed cassette, but not the other way around). If you're fussy about indexing, it may take some adjustment, but friction shifting is fast, reliable, and cheap! (If I remember correctly Ultrega and some of the Dura Aces have a friction option, while a few Dura Ace models have only indexing). You will run into issues with 10 speed Shimano bar end shifters, especially with the front derailleurs. (Make sure that the shifter is compatible with triple cranks if you have a triple.) Sram mountain derailleurs, however, DO NOT work with most bar end shifters! I've never actually tried it, but I've read in numerous places that they are not compatible (even with Sram bar end shifters). Additionally, there are numerous other manufacturers of bar end shifters (Rivendell Silver Shifters, for one). Many different mounting options exist, including Paul Thumbies, which allow shifter levers to be mounted on top of the bar, as well as a bracket by IRD for mounting to the stem. Here, again, be aware that road handlebars have a larger ID than mountain handlebars. A bar end shifter made for road bars will not fit inside of a mountain-specific bar. 

To follow up on Tha Riddla's answer: If your freewheel is freewheeling in both directions, in all likelihood it is gummed up inside and the pawls are stuck open. (As a small note: the freewheel is separate from the hub and contains bearings, pawls, springs, and some lubricant.) You can either try to overhaul the freewheel or purchase a new one (they range from relatively inexpensive to bank-breaking). To replace the freewheel, you can either buy a freewheel remover or take it to a shop and ask them to replace it (the whole procedure should take 15 minutes). Some freewheels are difficult to crack open, so the simplest (and cost effective) overhaul would be to drip a medium-weight oil onto the seam where the cogs and freewheel body meet. Be sure to thoroughly wipe off the area with a clean rag before you start. You can do this WITHOUT removing the freewheel and you should hear a difference immediately. Put the wheel over a rag and continue dripping oil and spinning the freewheel until clean oil comes out of the back side of the freewheel. This should loosen up the pawls and clear out the gunk inside. 

Is it a cable lock like in the image? If so, bolt cutters. You'll be surprised and dismayed to see how easily you can cut a cable lock with a set of bolt cutters (maybe enough to invest in a better quality lock?) They're cheap, easy to find, and will get through most wire cable and some chain (depending on hardness.) They're also the go-to for most bike thieves, so don't be overly conspicuous about using them. 

As with any critical fastener on a bike, the vibration and flexing forces from riding will eventually work threaded parts loose. Normally this is the sort of thing that occurs over a few months--not every week. Fortunately, there are a few options that are applicable to this and any other situation where threads work themselves loose. (Before you do anything, though, make sure that the rest of your steering components are safely adjusted.) The easiest thing would be to buy a tube of Loctite (or comparable) thread locking compound. It is cheap and easy to find. You'll want to get a formula that isn't permanent so that you can make adjustments down the road. Back the nut off until you see some threads and add one or two drops those threads. Adjust the tension where it needs to be and let it sit for a little while. (Loctite is safe for threads mostly everywhere on a bike!) In less critical applications, beeswax is a great natural compound for securing threads and preventing corrosion. A second option would be to replace your 10mm nut with a lock nut. These are nuts with a nylon (or similar) insert in the aft part of the threads which prevents it from working loose. Similarly, you could procure a lock washer which will prevent the nut from backing out when tightened properly. (It doesn't look like you have enough space for it, but a second nut behind your primary nut (called a jam nut) will keep the adjustment stable as well. Jam nuts are typically narrower than a standard nut so they use less threaded area.) Any well-stocked hardware store will have suitable metric hardware. If those options fail you, you may need to take more permanent action. Either chemically (with a permanent thread locking solution), or mechanically by installing a castle nut. A castle nut has notches along one side to mesh with wire or a cotter pin that is drilled through the threaded bolt. The wire prevents the nut from backing off, but the downside is that this requires drilling a tiny hole straight through the bolt (which would require you use a drill press and lots of diligence). I really don't think you'll have to resort to this last option, but it works. In any case, continue to be vigilant in inspecting those parts for wear and adjustment.