In this alternate scenario, the horn of one other animal is being used in the process--that of the rhinoceros. The only problem is that rhino horn does not have a bony core--it's nothing more than compressed hair. So the question is: Would rhino horn be a feasible ingredient in the construction of a composite bow? 

In an alternate history, none of the listed texts are apocryphal and instead can be found in the official canon. What kinds of differences should I expect to see in the cultural attitudes and evolutionary history of Christianity? 

60 million years of dead plants solidifying into coal had fed an age of revolution in Europe. It is surreal to comprehend... In this alternate scenario, the Industrial Revolution began in China, around the 1330s CE, after the newly appointed emperor decreed an end to the old ways (Daoism, Buddhism, etc.) in favor of a future of progress. (Picture a medieval Mao Zedong.) It wouldn't be until the 15th century that China would decree expanding and updating trade by inventing rail transportation, starting with a railroad starting in Beijing, crossing through the wilds of Mongolia and Russia, then dividing Europe in half before bridging the Strait of Gibraltar to Africa, cutting off the rock of North Africa and the sands of Israel, Syria, Iraq and Iran before crossing through India and finally completing the circle right to where it began--Beijing. When the Asian and European migrants colonized the New World, they'd take the Industrial Revolution technology with them. This alternate Industrial Revolution would end sometime in the final legs of the 19th century. It's not just the length of the Industrial Revolution that's being augmented. It's the scope as well. 

On an alternate Earth, ALL of Reptilia (including the legless snakes) have most if not all of the features listed above. (Specifically, each species of reptile has 15% of its body volume reserved for air sacs.) Is this sort of thing both biologically and evolutionarily feasible for all reptiles? 

Compared to the rest of Europe, Russian history is exceptionally dark and bloody. Let's look at the highlight of the 18th century, known today as "Enlightenment". 

Undoubtedly, a longer, taller Appalachian Mountains and a Great Megalake would turn cities like New York, Trenton and Boston into rainforests along the line of Seattle, but what about the Midwest? Would the changes put on those two major geological features alter the prairies of the central United States in any way? Would they be the key to reducing the danger zone that is Tornado Alley? 

And red algae For this question, let's disregard brown algae because brown algae is a geologic newcomer--no older than 150 million years. In this alternate scenario, plants evolved from both green AND red algae. Plants descended from green algae are photosynthetic and can be found in every single terrestrial habitat, even deserts. They come in the form of ferns, mosses, grasses, flowers and trees. Would plants descended from red algae behave in the same way, or would they have different environmental requirements from plants descended from green algae? 

Will this series of breeding check all on the list out, or would it result in some unintentional side effects that outweigh the benefit, thus rendering the whole experiment a failure? 

...Big Ben Clock Tower. It stands 320 feet tall and covers an area of 40 square feet. Each clock face measures at a width of 23 feet, with hands varying between nine and 14 feet long. In this alternate scenario, Big Ben is closer in size to this more modern icon... 

From 6.5 to 5.5 million years ago, the Mediterranean Sea underwent what scientists called "The Messinian Salinity Crisis". In basic description, some geological force (I'm not sure what) simply... 

Alongside it, the entire Great Lakes Basin has been flooded off, turning the five Great Lakes into one Great Megalake. 

The next issue is what would a centaur eat? Would it eat grass, like regular horses? I say no and here are two reasons why not: 

We humans are plantigrades. That means our feet rest flat on the ground. We have large, bony heels to make sure that our flat feet stay supported under our vertical legs. But among mammals is another popular method of support--digitigrade, meaning that the animal walks on its digits, or toes, and keeps the rest of its feet off the ground. Our closest picture of a digitigrade human is a ballerina: 

Bradypodidae is the family consisting of the three-toed sloths, the one we most associate the word "sloth" with. As far as we know, they exist only in the tropical forests of Latin America and never climbed upwards to the more temperate United States. The only sloths instead to cross the border into the United States were the few families and subfamilies of ground sloths (giants, Harlans, Shastas and Jeffersons). Being ground sloths, they did not share the three-toes' adaptations for living and instead roamed great distances for a wider variety of plant foods. But let's say that there is a species of three-toed sloth that did make the crossing and is now munching leaves in the forests of the Appalachian Mountains. Would its lifestyle still be the same as that of its tropical cousins, or are the personalities of temperate deciduous forests so different that it would need to give its slow, arboreal, folivorous ways and be a ground sloth itself? 

I'll confess that I have a real issue with iron--it rusts quickly. In fact, the History Channel program Life After People constantly states that, left to its own devices, the iron that makes up a skyscraper's skeleton would have a standing lifespan of 100-150 years before rust weakens the skeleton into pieces. Long ago, I asked a question regarding the construction of metal weapons without the use of iron at all. In the answers selection, many candidates have been suggested, and they are: 

In an alternate 21st century, Earth is as hot as it was during the Eocene, turning, for example, the frozen continent of Antarctica into the southernmost jungle, replacing penguins and skuas with grapes, figs, palms and citrus fruits. With such a hotter climate, would the oceans of the southern hemisphere still have the westerlies strong enough to be named Roaring Forties, Furious Fifties and Screaming Sixties? Or would those winds be demoted to doldrums? 

Our planet's best line of defense against the worst of the sun is the ozone layer. It is no thicker than 0.01 millimeters. It absorbs 97 to 99% of the sun's medium UV light (200-315 nanometers). It contains 10 parts per million of ozone in that layer alone. With an absent or even thinner ozone layer, the sun's UV light would damage the planet to a greater extent, disrupting the course of evolution to the extent of barring it from ever reaching land. But what if the ozone layer were thicker? Say, 10 parts per hundred of ozone, half a millimeter thick. Would a thicker shield cool down the global climate? 

The proportion and ratio between the Arctic Ocean's average and maximum depths is the same as back home, but the average has now become 1652 meters, 5420 feet. The Atlantic's maximum width has now become 5350 miles, creating a landbridge that connects Asia to North America, erasing the Bering Strait off the map and shrinking the Bering Sea. To that extent, it would be like turning the Russian urban locality of Egvekinot (66.3205 degrees North and 179.1184 degrees West) the next-door neighbor of Teller, Alaska. 

Back home, Earth's moon is 2159.2 miles wide and orbits 238,900 miles from its parent. But let's pretend that the moon is 2500 miles wide and orbits 200,000 miles from Earth. Would the nightscape look any different? How much would tides and axial tilt be affected? 

While most other fish have pharyngeal jaws, those from the moray are highly mobile, probably as a turnaround to the problem that they can't chew. The oral jaw snatches the prey, but the pharyngeal jaw drags it to the eel's gullet. 

A volcanic eruption is measured in two constants--gas and viscosity. For clearance, low viscosity is like squirting water off a nozzle, whereas high viscosity is like squirting caramel off a nozzle, which takes more effort to do, which makes it more dangerous. In geology, there are four different kinds of volcanic eruptions: 

With this list, I was told that such changes wouldn't have any dramatic effects on gravitational pertubations. With that in mind, how would these changes affect the durations and extent of Earth's Milankovitch cycles? 

What I mean to say is that the Black Death of the 14th century still devastated Europe, but the culprit in this alternate scenario is not Yersinia pestis, the bacterium believed to be responsible for the plague. In OTL, the Black Death was Black because one of the plague's most conspicuous symptoms is the bubo, a swelling of the lymph glands. Each bubo was as big as an orange and, you guessed it, black in color. I'm picturing an alternate scenario where the medieval plague was called the Black Death not because of the buboes, but because the victim's blood turns black, resulting in some ghastly discoloration before death. The simple question is, how do I change a blood cell's color from red to black? 

Giants do exist. It's just that they can't be anywhere close to being as big as those in Norse mythology or the story of Jack and the Beanstalk. The best we'd ever have for a giant was Robert Wadlow, who grew to a height of eight feet and 11.1 inches. 

One of the last pyramids to survive to the present day was the Pyramid of Giza. Its longevity was no miracle. First and foremost, it was built on the Sahara Desert, a vast stretch of land that seldom--if ever--sees water. Then there was its shape--a triangle with a wide base and a narrow peak, ideal for durability. Finally, there was its size--139.5 meters, or 457 feet, tall. It took maybe 20 or so years just to build that particular pyramid. In this scenario, let's say that Giza was as tall as the proposed Shimizu Mega-City Pyramid in Tokyo--2004 meters, or 6575 feet, tall. How long would it take to construct such a monstrosity? For anyone who asks who this hypothetical pyramid is for, it's a pharaoh's astrologically-aligned palace, not his tomb. Because seriously, it's not practical to spend more than a few months building a tomb. By then, the corpse would have decomposed beyond hope. 

Tail Long; Usually tapering into a whip In this alternate scenario, dinosaur evolution came later than back home, which means that when the comet slammed the Earth 65 million years ago, geology and biology were Tithonian, not Maastrichtian. (It also helps that the comet worked alone in this scenario--which means no Deccan eruptions and no sea-level regression.) The sauropods became extinct in this scenario, but at the time, there was a group of dinosaurs small enough to survive the catastrophe and, once the ash had been cleared, become the giants of South America, Africa, India, Australia and Antarctica: 

This is a basic map of a castle in an alternate Earth. It was built with two walls, both of which were always built in a circle, with four broad, circular towers/gatehouses built in four cardinal directions—north, south, east and west. The outer wall protected the towns owned by the noble and gentry classes. The inner wall guarded the palace, which, on this alternate Earth, looked more like a mansion along the lines of Harlaxton Manor in England or Versailles in France than the many towers and turrets of fairy tale imagery. The outer wall had to be barricaded by a moat, dug from a river and with the right width and depth to deter invasion, and the inner wall had to be built at the foot of a hill. Could this sort of defense mechanism be feasible in real life? 

By the fourth century CE, the Roman Empire had become too big for its own good. So Emperor Diocletian came up with a strategically simple solution--split it in two. To the east is Byzantium, capitol Constantinople. To the west is Rome, capitol Rome. The latter was the target of a barbarian invasion that succeeded in reducing the glory of Rome into the Dark Ages. While Rome endured centuries of war, famine and illiteracy, Byzantium still adulated in luxury. In fact, it was Emperor Justinian who proposed reintegrating the two back into one new Roman Empire. (But certain circumstances strangled that ambition before it could get off the surface.) I am merely curious as to what would happen if it were the other way around--that the sacking happened in Constantinople, not Rome. It was a much bigger city, with more money and possibly more food. Assuming that some barbarian army, be it Germanic, Slavic or even Hunnic, invaded and destroyed Constantinople, would the course of history be noticeably altered in any way? 

In this alternate scenario, metropolitan cities are nothing more than titanic, self-sustaining pyramids, connected only via railway bridges and municipal power lines. Featured here are characteristics of Manhattan Pyramid crucial to the question at hand: 

The brown lines presented in the map are mountain ranges varying in height above sea level from 23,000 feet to 33,500 feet. The orange arrows are the directions in which the landmasses were moving which resulted in the mountain-building. The blue circle is, of course, the South Geographic Pole. The simple questions are as follows: 

In the history of disease, ranking high among the list of most deadly are the rogues gallery of sexually transmitted infections--syphilis, genital herpes, chlamydia, gonorrhea, HIV and especially AIDS. Combined, these diseases kill off millions of lives annually. The curiosity about STIs is that the focus on them is exclusively human. The bonobo, a cousin of the chimpanzee, relieves tension through intercourse, yet there is no evidence of venereal ills. Lions, of course, form prides, a harem consisting of one male lion and several females. One male mammal, as far as I know, does not mate with the same female in more than one season. Promiscuity and infidelity are rampant in the mammal class, yet humans are the only ones who suffer poorly from those acts. Before I allow evolution in an alternate Earth to tweak the human genetic structure before Out of Africa, I must ask--where do STIs come from, and why do they make sexuality a high price?