So you really need to be careful as what is your hub's inner-core LENGTH, not width. AFAIK, the skewer rod diameter is the same for all their wheels, for safety reasons. To be safe and sure, I would only use Campagnolo skewers on Campagnolo wheels, as per the above. Other makers are much more sensible and have a generic brand for most of their wheels. I mean (personal rant), it's ridiculous to think a Campagnolo skewer is also marketed specifically to the number of cogs on your cassette - 9, 10 or 11 speed variations! It's just marketing spin. Measure your wheels to be sure and shop accordingly. Another good answer, and again based on lengths and spacings of the wheel hub is here. 

Any bicycle is suitable for a beginner, as long as it fits! Just like buying clothes, you want to look good, feel good and basically not feel the bike is under you (the nirvana of bicycle selection!). Most cyclists (road & MTB) have incorrect bike sizes for their body. Their bodies ache and complain at first, but guess what? The body adjusts, and adapts to the changes, but the bicycle could be adjusting you into a bad position which could lead to long-term body and posture issues, especially back pain. Back pain is the most common ailment of riding bicycles, especially ones that don't fit properly to you! Before you buy a bicycle please get yourself measured for the right bike. Most bicycle shops claim to provide this service, but many/most I've encountered make a visual inspection, with you and the bicycle on a trainer, and then pat you on the back and on your way! There are professional bike fitters that are purely dedicated to just this alone. To getting your bike fitted to you - not you to the bike! Although your body will change (loose weight, leg muscle strengthen, etc) due to the exercise of riding a bicycle, never forget that your enjoyment and pleasure of riding a bicycle most likely came about because the bicycle was the right fit for you. I suggest you do your homework on what style of riding you want to do long term, not just occasionally a ride to the shops, to work or on weekends around the park. If you're going to take cycling seriously, a road or a mountain bike is the way to go and if fitted properly to you, you will not regret the benefits of riding bicycles. Look at Copenhagen! 

I bought a set of Cyclops rollers a few years back and it was scary to say the least when I started riding on them. I too was trying the door-frame technique, but I felt it to be dangerous in case I fell and could not grab onto the door frame in time! So I simply watched a few videos on YouTube and learned the best way was to start riding with the rollers next to a wall, with about 20cm gap between the edge of the rollers and the wall. Next I placed the bike onto the rollers but leaned it downwards towards me, so I could saddle my left leg (assuming wall is on your left) over the bike. I then clipped on my left foot first and whilst holding the breaks firmly in place, I sat myself up and clipped on my right foot into the last pedal. At this point I am actually leaning against the wall slightly. With my left hand on the wall, I started to pedal (yes, set the gears to low resistance before starting, so you pedal with high cadence). This is the point of no return. Let go of the wall! And do it sooner rather than later. Quickly place your hands on the levers as you would normally and look over the front wheel. You will naturally balance as you pedal. After a while you'll get used to it and think, why were you so scared trying in the first place! Some guys on YouTube can do amazing things with rollers, riding one foot, standing on seat, etc. I wouldn't dare! 

There are lots of questions here about back-pain, but generally about cycling in general and cycling on flat surfaces. I am after more practical tips on avoiding back pain when cycling up hills - with gradients between 10 to 22% (moderate to steep!). Any suggestions? I heard regular core stretching and exercises helps with this considerably. 

I am tempted in buying a Campagnolo Athena EPS groupset, but I am also eyeing the Shimano Ultegra Di2. What are the pros and cons of both of these? And don't get me started with SRAM as well. 

I have an awesome Ridley Noah carbon frame, fitted with Athena Campag 11sp groupo. Recently it's been making a lot of creaky and "pop" noises as I ride up hills (putting more force on the crank arms). I turned the bike upside down one day and noticed the same "pop" or "click" sound when I tried to jiggle the crank arms a little. Could it be the UT bolt inside the hollow crank centre is loose? I could not find any cracks or hairline cracks on the frame itself (but I could need an xray to see). Any suggestions appreciated. Thanks 

A comical question more than anything, but yeah a personal one as well. One "clown" recently took a KOM I've had for over 2 years, and he did it fair-and-square. No argument there. However, he argued with me that I had that KOM because I drove a car, yet I've got proof I rode over areas that a car cannot go on, and I don't own a motorbike. So he went on a vendetta and took out all of my KOMs! Bloody hell! Ok, so he's faster than me. So what? Or should I raise up and take him head on? Do we really care about KOMs that much? Is it all meant to be friendly competition, or do some of you actually defend these things to the death? 

Campagnolo skewers are also called "Cam" skewers. There are two main types of QR skewer, enclosed cam and exposed cam. Invented in the 1930s by the legendary Tullio Campagnolo, the enclosed-cam type is the original version of the QR cam and features a steel cam enclosed by a solid metal body, ensuring it is well protected against the elements. The body moves back and forth when the lever is flipped, usually with teeth that lock against the dropout. The exposed cam is a later variant on the cam design, which instead of housing the cam in a metal body uses a split external cam that straddles the end of the skewer. A curved plastic washer is located between the cam and the toothed metal washer that presses against the dropout. Exposed-cam QR skewers are popular as they can generally be made a little lighter than the enclosed-cam type, but are regarded by some as being less robust. The history behind this ingenious invention was what made Campagnolo a house-hold name today. From simple beginnings... "...The story goes that, on 4th November 1924 during the Gran Premio della Vittoria road race, Tullio was halfway up the vicious climb of the Croce d’Aune in the Dolomites when he stopped in a snowstorm to turn his rear wheel around in order to access a lower gear ratio. Finding himself with frozen fingers and unable to slacken the wingnuts holding the wheel in place, Campagnolo is supposed to have uttered the words “Bisogna cambiar qualcossa de drio” – “something needs changing at the back” – before setting about changing it. The back of the bike, that is. This fortunate event led to the invention and, in early 1930, patenting of the wheel retention system now universally adopted for performance lightweight cycles. The skewer, or rod, inside the spindle is only part of the system. It acts in tension, pulling the nut on one side and the lever head on the other up against the frame or fork dropouts and clamping them hard against the wheel bearing locknuts. And so on..." (source) So in terms of what's the difference between one set of Campagnolo skewers to another, is purely based on the model of wheel Campagnolo are promoting. It is unfortunate that like most Campagnolo parts, you pay a premium for a part that could be bought for a non-Campagnolo drive train, and for a 1/3 of the cost. But Campagnolo love re-inventing the wheel (pun intended), so they have create different LENGTH skewers for different wheels. Generally... 

I am a convert. Praise the Fixie Lord! Amen! I started out riding thinking, what the hell have I got myself into. But I persisted with it, and at first I was very afraid. So I took it to a park, with grass and simply started to ride in circles to get used to riding without attempting to or thinking I could coast. 4 years later, and I am loving riding my fixie. I have dual brake levers, like on a road bike, as it will keep me from going over the handle-bars. I ride it just like my normal road bike, but when it comes to braking, I found that it simply slows down automatically because of my natural reflexes to slow or stop. I used the brakes of course to slow down more quickly, but I was already slowing down because I "sensed" the danger ahead, and I naturally tried to back pedal or at least give some resistance. The difference compared to a normal road-bike with gears, shocked me. I believe it actually takes you longer to react and slow down, whilst coasting because the only things slowing you are the brakes. On a fixie, you have not only that, but the back-pedaling as well. It's a weird but satisfactory feeling. So to answer your question: 

Keep pedaling, keep it in your consciousness that you have to pedal continuously, and apply the brakes as necessary. Soon enough it will be embedded into your muscle-memory and you'll know when to pedal and when to slow down. I am even going to say, riding a fixie is the best way to ride a bicycle. Hills - well that's for weirdos! ;) 

I am in my late 40s and yes I have a sore lower back. Most likely from too many bicycle rides on incorrectly sized / fitted bicycles. I am thinking of getting a recumbent for my daily commute to work. Are they generally good for your back, or is it worse as you're bending your neck forward more to see ahead? I've never ridden one. Thanks 

Unlike this question, mine is about cutting the housing. All I've used with random success has been a pair of pliers with a good sharp inner cutting tool. Is there a better way, or a proper tool for the job? I am trying to avoid pulling the inner wire cable and fraying them. Thanks 

Ok. I won't mention links, ebay posts, or anything that may tempt you in any way, like I was. However, they are growing in popularity at my local and some guys swear by them. We all know buying local helps the local economy, jobs, and generally you get what you pay for ie ! BUT Most of us cannot afford Zipps at around $2000+ (AUD), that really look no different to those Chinese carbon clinchers. I mean, have we've been ripped off when most of these wheels are really made in China anyway? Are we just paying for the decals!? Please share your Pros and Cons on why and why we should not look directly at the Chinese carbon wheelset market more seriously?