Your assumption that solar wind should have blown the dust away is only valid for comets that have a close perihelion. But you are correct in that there is a process which regenerates dust. From Wikipedia 

Noctilucent clouds are at around 85km altitude and are formed of ice crystals. The ISS recently posted a number of photographs of these clouds and pointed out the key feature, which is the bright blue glow. Are these known to have an impact on ground-based or orbital telescopes? 

Our day is 23 hours and 56 minutes long, and slowing by an infinitesimal (but measurable) amount each year due to tidal losses. Our day has a connection with the weather, in that the sun drives all our weather systems, so heating over each part of the globe happens every day, but aside from that, your question doesn't make much sense. Weather changes may come at the same time where you live (on a 24 hour cycle) but here in Scotland, we still have low reliability on even a 3 day weather forecast, because the weather systems that impact the UK are so complex as heating from the sun drives various air flows. After your update, I still cannot understand what you mean. There is slippage in accuracy, but this is counteracted by leap seconds and leap years. It has nothing to do with weather. The shortest and longest days happen when they happen and are measurable. They help us define the year. 

Actually the sun's output over time does vary, and it does cause climate changes. There is an 11 year cycle as shown in this image from www.sciencemuseum.org.uk: 

As far as observation goes, distance equates to age, so as our technology improves we effectively see farther into the past. The actual increase in distance visible to us is much much greater than 150 light years. We can actually detect the effects of the big bang itself, in the microwave background radiation of the universe, but sars and galaxies formed much later than 150 years after themig bang (try millions of years :-) 

trying to arrange for the lander's velocity to match that of the landing site. For example if the body is spinning rapidly and an outcrop spins round into the path of the lander that could end badly staying on the surface - Rosetta tried to use harpoons. Another proposed solution was a low powered rocket pointing upwards while small bodies won't have an atmosphere as such, outgassing and dust can cause problems 

And in the early half of the 20th century it did increase slightly, which probably did contribute to global warming during that time but over the last 50 years it has actually slightly cooled, so it is absolutely not responsible for the global warming we currently see. This image (from the same source) shows some nice detail. The dotted line is the moving average: 

Realistically, no - there are too many stars with the same spectrum. The pulsar idea is a good one, though. There is a reason our location relative to some bright pulsars was sent out on the Voyager plaques: we are confident that a civilisation finding one could then find our sun, and us, as the pulsar rates are unique enough. 

For bodies small enough to be non-spherical, the mass is relatively low (as an example, Rosetta's bounces took a long time - it touched the surface at 15:34, 17:25 and 17:32 GMT comet time) but the centre of mass is still the point the lander will orbit. So a chaotic orbit is not a problem here What will be problems are: 

So the universe is considered an isolated system, but our local solar system is not isolated, so our local decrease in entropy does not breach the 2nd law of thermodynamics as the overall entropy of the universe does not decrease. 

As you can see, the yellow of our own sun places it in the 4.5 kKelvin to 6 kKelvin, as noted in the question. This temperature is down towards the lower end of average. The main sequence, where most stars are, tops out about 20 kKelvin, and there are some up towards the 40 kKelvin region - they aren't shown here as they are much rarer. White dwarves are a little hotter than our sun - between 6 kKelvin and 10 kKelvin. Neutron stars are way off the main sequence - young ones can be over 1 MKelvin! Core temperature: Internally, the core temperatures are dependent on the mass of the star. In our sun, energy is delivered via the proton-proton chain mechanism, which occurs up to about 20 MKelvins, whereas more massive stars can use the Carbon-Nitrogen-Oxygen cycle - which happens from about 15 MKelvins upwards. The differences are mainly down to convection and radiation differences - this extract from Wikipedia's Main Sequence page describes this in some detail: 

Our own magnetic field is generated by convection currents in Earth's liquid outer core. A useful summary from Physics.org: 

And it is simple to continue the scaling process to show that the same holds true for marbles. (Although I have not found a good source of data from people who scan marbles...) 

The meteorite decelerated from perhaps 30000 mph through friction and impact with the atmosphere, and this made it heat up to an incredible temperature. At this point the rock was boiling and burning, and liquids within it , such as water, became gaseous. Some small explosions cast off burning pieces of the meteorite, and the major explosion was from the larger chunk being stressed beyond breaking point through pressure from the gases within. 

The really simple explanation is that Venus' orbital period is 225 days. Earth's is 365 days. That ratio is 13:8 (well, more accurately 12.9777777777..:8) so you can see that your complete cycle is 13 orbits of Venus to 8 of Earth, but within that cycle our view of Venus travelling round the sun gives the pretty pattern as shown in your image. This YouTube video is quite a nice visualisation - should make it easy to understand. 

The principle is almost exactly the same as a watch or clock, but instead of three concentric axles, you need 9 for the planets. Have a google for Orrery kit - there are loads available. It is really all simple maths - you just need to know relative orbital periods in order to calculate cog sizes. 

The tilt doesn't depend at all on where one is on the planet, and whether or not it is to the left or right is irrelevant. The angle (excluding the wobbles and longer term effects as David mentioned) doesn't vary depending on where you measure it. See this pic from NOAA for a simple perspective: 

The answer to your simple question is that while a circular orbit could remain in the absence of any other gravitational fields, in reality you'll have an ellipse and it can be stable from the beginning, remember stable has a wide range of values. If you allow drag through tidal forces etc then the orbit will change, eg our Moon is slowly getting further away from us, but we still consider this stable over realistic timeframes. Additionally, the actual orbit will track out a sort of helix as the planet travels round the sun. 

That's not really how gravity works. When a galaxy forms, all the dust that falls into it retains angular momentum round the centre (and this pattern repeats locally round stars, and round planets round those stars etc) which leads to the relatively stable structures we see today with spiral arms etc. Collisions and near collisions can change the direction of stuff orbiting a centre, but we are quite far out, so while we could change orbits we would be as likely to move wider than closer in the short term. Over the longer term, it's a balance between the gradual loss of angular momentum of the Milky Way as a whole due to drag, gravity waves etc. and the slow growth of the black hole at the centre. 

You have 2 separate concepts here. The length of a day and a year are unconnected with how you measure seconds, minutes and hours. 

I'm assuming 1 is the one you are most interested in here. The solution Rosetta favoured was to pick a site that was on one of the outer surfaces, rather than on the 'neck' of the comet, as this offered the cleanest route to landing. A landing on the neck would have necessitated flying into a channel on a spinning body, and that would make the calculations much harder. 

If we look at Newtonian physics, and how galaxies will interact, a central black hole should just be considered as a massive, dense object. The Milky Way does not fall into its own central black hole, it orbits it - as physics tells us it should. When we get closer to Andromeda, the gravitational influence of Andromeda will act more strongly on us, and when we get really close, individual masses within each galaxy will have dramatic effects on each other, but as with any such system, the two black holes will not suck everything in. If the two galaxies end up coalescing - which is not a given - the orbits of the stars and the black holes will be very complex. For billions of years the 2 black holes will orbit each other, getting closer as they shed energy, but during that time the stars around them will suffer many effects, including: 

This includes some comets, planetary disks, and even minor planets. Some sources are likely to be star forming, but an IR source meeting the spec above could be many things. 

(picture from curiousminds.co.uk) For moons, you do add a little complexity in the form of a transmission to support the Earth, so that the difference in movement can move the Moon. 

Mars used to have a liquid iron core, but it was never as extensive as Earth's and has long since solidified. Once our own core cools enough to solidify, we too will lose our magnetic field. 

Update for clarity: For the visible part of a standalone galaxy, the stars can all be measured to orbit that galaxy's core. So if you wanted to measure the furthest extent at this simplified level, it would be very easy. The problem is that there is a lot of mass which is not stars, and which is dark matter. Some of it is so far out, it may be impossible to calculate what it is orbiting. If you read the paper, you will see that they chose a limit beyond which the effect of the negligible mass further out was not relevant to this calculation. A galaxy can be thought of as a flattened sphere, as regards mass. Stars, at least for spiral galaxies, tend to lie in a plane, but there is mass orbiting the common centre in all planes. So there is no start point, there is just a need to decide how far out we want to say the galaxy extends. For the Milky Way and Andromeda, a decision has been made that is the same for both (the exact decision doesn't appear to have been published for this paper, but as long as it is consistent, then the relative masses will be correct) For galaxies that are colliding or near to each other it is much more difficult - do you calculate which galaxy a star belongs to by the direction of its motion? Stars may swap from one to the other. From Wikipedia's Milky Way page: 

As mentioned on the NASA eclipse website the eclipse on the 3rd of November 2013 will be a "Hybrid" eclipse. I have looked at the diagram on that page but can't see what is different about the eclipse that would explain the word hybrid. This terminology also confuses me: 

The universe has expanded a lot since the big bang - any curves, ripples or inconsitencies have largely been flattened, so it is difficult to detect them now. This article on space.com quotes: 

The mass of the asteroid main belt is estimated at 4% the mass of our moon according to Wikipedia so any object formed from the aggregation of that mass would not be a planet. It would be the size of a very small moon. Even if all the asteroids in the solar system were combined, the total mass would be below a third of the moon's mass. 

As well as being oblate, like most large spinning bodies, there is a high degree of turbulence in any heated gaseous body, whether that be large gas planets, like Jupiter, or stars. Have a look at this NASA photo of the sun as an example: