Keynes once remarked that many persons who scoff at intellectuals and believe they are simply speaking their minds are in fact parroting the ideas of some long-dead economist... or in this case philosopher. Kant's influence on modern thought is so broad and deep it is hard to fully trace. First, he is considered the great philosopher of the modern Enlightenment or the "bourgeois revolutions," if you prefer. As Philip Klocking has noted, ideals of human dignity, universal human rights, freedom, individualism, reason, and world peace all find a deep grounding in Kant, one that differs in many ways from those of Locke and the "liberal" empiricists. These continue to have a profound influence on jurisprudence and government, and Kant was among the first to suggest the idea of a "League of Nations," inspiring later politicians such as Wilson. In addition, his demonstration of the "limits of pure reason" helped, I believe, to clarify the scientific method, of which he was an astute analyst. He was also among the first to introduce aesthetics as a serious topic in philosophy and in theory generally. More difficult to state concisely is his enormous impact on our modern conception of "the individual," the "subject-centered" cosmos misleadingly called his "Copernican turn," with all its moral, psychological, and civil ramifications. Freedom was perhaps the foremost issue of the Enlightenment, and continues to be central to modern thought. Kant was certainly one of the great foundational thinkers of modern freedom. But here, unfortunately, he may not hold the popular sway of more "libertarian" views. He saw human freedom from dogma and nature as inextricably entwined with reason and duty, possible only by virtue of its self-governance, or autonomy. Despite all this, it must be said that this broad influence and "common appeal" of the Kantian philosophy lies atop a critical philosophy that is complex, difficult, and not at all as "commonsensical" as its conclusions. 

Many in the Frankfurt School, notably Adorno and Horkheimer, regarded rationality with criticism as, in their view, led to dehumanization and enslavement. But what did they offer as an alternative principle or ethos in guiding personal or social heuristics? I assume not religion/god, as they were mostly Marxist. 

I happen to believe that strong writing and speaking skills are a non-negotiable requirement for any intellectual and philosophers in particular. While I obviously disclaim that as a personal opinion, I don't see it as particularly controversial because how valuable are your ideas if you can't communicate them properly and to as wide an audience as applicable? The applicability scope does matter -- a publication on tardigrade reproductive behavior understandably has a much narrower audience than a philosophical treatise on ethics, which their language should reflect (hint: it's more okay for the former to be arcanely worded as its target audience is more controlled). So when a philosopher who is speculating on matters that affect pretty much every human walking the planet has downright awful writing skills, let's mention Hegel as one of the not so few examples, why do you cut this person slack? Why, if they are so brilliant, do they need an interpretor (e.g. Kojeve) to translate their ideas to the general audience? If they are so brilliant to dispense ethical imperatives that apply to wide audiences, shouldn't they be held in high expectations to themselves make their ideas easily digestible to those audiences? What prompted me ask this rather broad question is that I notice (even on this forum) a level of disdain for any thinker who does offer philosophical insight but is not a formal philosopher and writes in clear, understandable manner. Famously Foucault said that 

Well, you can probably get the best answer for your purposes simply by googling. There is an entire branch of philosophy called "philosophy of law," which runs from Plato to Grotius and Hobbes to Dworkin and Rawls. Many texts and anthologies are devoted to the subject It is closely related to philosophy of political science and ethics, as you note. I would not say it is related to "logic" per se, especially not modern logic, but more to argumentation and rhetoric, as developed by the Sophists. The philosophy of religion is also somewhat related, in that most monotheistic religions have foundational "law givers," such as Moses or Mohammed or, to stretch the point, "We the People." As an aside, I would note that philosophy itself could be described historically as a "branch" of law, or at least as a descendent of the forms of competitive, public argumentation developed earlier in the law courts of the Greek polis and other "political" assemblies of government. Socrates, like Jesus, came to his finale in a law court. And I would add that in terms of crucial shifts in the modern age, both Kant and Hegel are very important here for developing the modern complexities of self-imposed human "laws" and the discovery of human "freedom." The literature is vast, so any number of overview texts might be a good starting point. 

Not that I have read any of his books but I've watched the documentary and several of his magazine articles and he totally seems like a centrist. On some subjects (like Islam/immigration) maybe even slightly right of center. Why is he considered a Marxist? 

What would be (the closest) logical fallacy when one demands that their proposition be accepted axiomatically and exempts oneself from providing reasonable argument or empirical evidence? E.g. "The simple issue is actually more complicated (so that I can attach my unrelated strings to it) but that's subject of another conversation" 

It's nice to be reserved against hasty generalization based on (however carefully collected) statistics -- but it is laughable to argue one's pathetically minute sample of observation trumps that of, say Pew research and similar (which I think can also be considered hasty generalization but in a non discriminatory way). What is the name of that fallacy? 

I do not believe such a mapping could ever get us very far, nor unify Hume's "is" and "ought" dichotomy. The technical problem is that a fact or datum, the "is", is something that has happened, is measured, recorded, and accounted for. The "ought" by definition is a judgment about the future. It is also an "ethical judgement," thus one that assumes a certain freedom of choice, an absence of causal determinism, or as Kant puts it, a different type of "causality" from those described in natural sciences. In his attempt to resolve such issues, Kant derives the categorical imperative from the very assumptions of freedom and reason, wherein "ought" is given by reason and only implies "can." This is was described by many as an empty formalism, inadequate to specific real cases. Your "neural" imperative seems equally empty. We don't need neural mappings to tell us that pain is bad or that we should save children from a burning building.The types of cases most plausibly mapped. Yet it is unlikely that gazing into the neural tea leaves we will find the answer to such questions as: Should I defy Creon and bury my brother according to custom, even though he broke the laws and subverted the state? Unless such a problem repeatedly came up. Though one can reason towards ethical solutions, such reasoning entails, in serious cases, judgments concerning freedom, indeterminacy, and an open future. Which is why such judgments are rendered not by machines but by judges and juries capable of ordinary imagination, guesswork, and empathy. To base ethical judgments in some appeal to "science" would only make them less subtly reasoned. It would be to willfully return to the crude imperatives of "nature" by the paradoxical route of discovering its "laws." One could perhaps rig up an "ethics machine," a neural-cognitive Leviathan that directs us repeatedly towards certain states. But I think the outcome would be a monstrously "unethical" apparatus and dystopian nightmare. So I would suggest that the "hidden assumption" you are missing is the complex and necessary relationship between reason, ethical judgment, and freedom, perhaps best developed in its relation to modern science in Kant's critical philosophy. You cannot adequately correlate neural states and ethical judgment without abandoning the assumption of "rational freedom" on which the latter rests. 

The land has indeed be explored by science and testable and evident theories provided by it have superseded their religious equivalents. TL;DR: (to quote the 1st comment to this answer) 

I've been reading on the holism-reductionism continuum. Reductionism strikes me as compliant with general principles of the scientific approach and method because it seeks to explain complex phenomena by breaking them down into smaller units and building theories bottom up, focusing on specificity and detail. Holism is the opposite and seems to me it could easily serve as a seemingly respectable (who doesn't want to tie it all together in a big "theory of everything"?) curtain for poor, insufficient or downright misleading and sloppy research. This is not to say we shouldn't seek to explain relations among phenomena -- only that it should be preceded by a thorough understanding of individual parts. In modern scientific circles, is holism generally regarded as a conduit for pseudoscience? 

I realize this is more of a question about "culture" of philosophy and answers will be relative. As an autodidact, beginning largely in the Continental tradition, it is sometimes hard for me to know whether certain ideas are undergraduate cliches in philosophy departments or somewhat more arcane and perhaps no longer part of a standard curriculum. In particular, I am interested in applying Sellars' concept of the "manifest image" versus the "scientific image." This seems a very useful model for sorting out certain aspects of the phenomenology-analytical contradictions. Are these concepts still regularly taught? Are "manifest image" versus "scientific image" ideas most grad students are fully aware of? 

I'm aware of the compatibilist attitude by some philosophers, such as Hegel and Daniel Dennet. I am interested in some philosophers who are firm determinists (deny free will). 

Is that just a euphemism to shield claims that cannot be established using methods of , which is a scientific standard? 

A knee jerk response from a nonexpert armchair consumer of philosophy is that it's a defense mechanism from the academic ivory tower to protect their status in the community as the select few who can interpret something that in better conditions shouldn't require much interpretation. But I am hoping there is a better explanation that doesn't come off as some anti-intellectual elitism paranoia and in favor of this hierarchy. In short, my question is, what intellectual justification exists to forgive (good?) philosophers for terrible writing skills? Or in other words, convince me that writing skills do not correlate with general intellectual value. I'm very open to change my mind. 

This is not a "philosophical" question, but it is a good question. Allow me to offer a personal (thus not "philosophical") answer. I am a secular, passionately Marxist, skeptical, hopeful being. I like to go into churches and pray. Why? Because we are creatures of and participants in "communication." We are constructed to speak and be spoken to. This is, to me, why "communion" and "communication" and "communism" share an etymology. When we pray we speak in a way that exceeds the utility of "speech." Prayer is the most profound and "inductive" exercise of language. 

This seemingly natural mechanism of restoring social equilibrium has, as you imply, many historical-cultural forms and political manifestations. Among the Greeks the Aristotelean sense of "virtue" is portrayed as a median between extremes, with Hubris afflicting and eventually destroying the hero who lacks a sufficiently self-critical sense of place. The "tallest poppy" proverb has exact equivalents around the world, the "tallest blade of grass" in Russian, the "nail that sticks out is hammered first," in Japanese. A Chinese version was used both in imperial courts and during the Cultural Revolution. Even in popular comedy there is humorous schadenfreude when the rich man slips on a banana peel, but not when the poor old woman does so."How the mighty have fallen," we cry with delight. What is crucial here is the political manifestation, which veers in two directions. The idea of "cutting the tallest poppy" implies, as your link says, that it is a person of "genuine merit" who is being reduced, at least ostensibly, out of common spite. The interpretation is famously expounded in Nietzsche's genealogy of morals as "slave morality" and resentment. It has gone on to modern mass mischief in the "John Gault" mythology of Ayn Rand. This view is naturally anathema to socialism and hostile to democracy. Its most interesting form is in the Greek ostracism, through which people could vote to expel a citizen, and this was frequently turned on those whom history might define as the "best." A famous story tell of 'Aristides the Good' coming into Athens when an illiterate peasant asked him to help him vote in the ostracism. Aristides agreed and asked the man who he wanted to ostracize. The peasant replied Aristides the Good. When asked what Aristides had done wrong, the peasant replied, "Oh nothing. I just get sick of hearing him called 'The Good'." Modern tabloid news serves much the same bilious function. The other political interpretation is that some form of leveling is indeed necessary and internal to any stable social system. Those who rise to power will only use it to expand their power. And it is true that in most societies, whether aristocratic or capitalist, those in power insist that the society is a true meritocracy, and thus any criticism of them is mere "cut the poppies" resentment by the 99 percent against those of "true merit." A "merit" usually attained at birth. But how to restore equilibrium? Here the Hobbesian paradox arises. Thus society has at least two paths. First, a single "poppy" can rise to overshadow and level the rest, as in Hobbes's Leviathan or the emergence of Augustus as "first citizen" out of the civil wars of the Republic's "tall poppies" against one another. Or the society can constraint inequalities through an abiding myth of justice, whether some religious ideology or a "faith" in reason and the law. This is what Jean-Joseph Goux and others call the "general equivalent," the invisible center of a value system to which all citizens are relativized. This is the precarious situation of modern constitution democracies that appeal to "equality under the law," but with the dangerous caveat that the "law" can be revised by external powers, such as corporate capitalism. Here, the height limit of "tallest poppy" is identified not as an individual but, in Gouverneur Morris's odd phrase, as "We the People," a kind of autocratic statistical abstraction, a representation that functions as a kind of regression to the mean. In modern, mass "statistical societies" the poppies are not so much cut as "averaged out" through rationalizing systems and ideologies such as "nationhood" or the "job market." A long-winded digression, but I hope you will find some useful terms and indicators in the above. I would look at Nietzsche's "slave morality," the philosophical works on "resentment" and the history of "ostracism, for starters. The TPS concept itself seems to have near-equivalents in the proverbs and social mechanisms of many cultures. 

Because we live in an age in which science, which can be defined as a reason-based epistemic framework that relies on testing and evidence, is, at an unprecedented speed, closing the gap of knowledge of universal phenomena. Not all answers are here yet but we're getting there. Skepticism and doubt in the existing knowledge are some of the fundamental bedrocks of science. Faith, on the other hand is an unsubstantiated moral and belief system that relies on superstition, supernatural, and, by definition, discourages doubt. Most religions practiced today were conceived thousands of years ago in a world very unlike what it is today. Religions have made numerous attempts to explain the universe, most or all of which have been superseded, therefore not deserving any further benefit of the doubt. It could be said that, as both an epistemic and moral framework, religion has run its course and serves no purpose to humanity. 

No "laws of the universe" are universal. They work to a certain scale of statistical observation. With more observation or new instrumentation they invariably fail. New laws reconstitute symmetry, then fail in turn. The most fundamental law of physics is the second "law" of thermodynamics. It can only be argued statistically from a given scale of observation. Yet is the "most fundamental" law. Conclusion: Laws of physics reconstitute symmetry. They are our way of exporting entropy. What we call "the universe" is better conceived of as our entropy exporting "membrane." 

Your urge seems to be the otherworldly allure of old-fashioned Platonism, and the very reverse of most modern tendencies, which is nice. In the ancient sense, Geometry indicates a form of completion, purification, or "self-enclosure" that at last eliminates the contingencies and irrationalities of physical experience and presumably transcends its own origins. This idea, which was last resurrected by Frege and Russell, seems to be in general disfavor now, in part for good ideological and political reasons. By reducing mathematics to set theory and logic, the hope was to make it a self-completing, purely "analytical" system, ultimately a tautological construction grounded in axioms, if not the old faulty Euclidean axioms. (For Russell, one effect was actually to inoculate "reasoning" in the real, natural world from its proclivities towards metaphysical "totalitarian" prescriptions. Analytics can model the world through science, but cannot ultimately "prove" anything necessary about it.) But if mathematics is to be purely axiomatic, what are the axioms to be founded on? Intuition? Clear and distinct ideas? And how are we to arrive at universal intuitions? The problem is an ancient one that became more acute when it was determined by Gauss, et al. that Euclid's system was not fully deducible from his axioms, and that relatively consistent, perfectly useful systems could be generated from other axioms... though never, it turned out, mutually and completely reduced to one axiomatic system. Of course, Godel is said to have delivered the coup de grace to this hope of completion. As others have pointed out, physics might take this not as a defeat but as a triumph, for it retains the relative certainty of mathematics, while allowing its uncanny, seemingly unlimited involvement in the physical world. We now have more attempts to derive math from physics, the near inversion of the effort to reduce it to logic. Penelope Maddy, for one, attempts a set theory realism, not unlike your coffee cup process, which might then be correlated to mathematized "neural assemblies." One interesting "in between" theory would be Kant's once notorious classification of mathematics as "synthetic a priori" as opposed to purely analytical. In other words, it is a priori idealism, not based in physical experience, yet neither is it a tautological system of analytical deductions. Like induction in physics, it produced or "synthesizes" new knowledge... knowledge that is not absolutely "certain" and potentially complete, but is "as certain" as rational processes can get for human consciousness, given its necessary, categorical structure. There are, of course, many developments of mathematics that are highly speculative, far from any physical origins, and seem to have no physical applications, a possible example being Cantor's infinities or even Godel's platonism. Can the mathematician then follow these increasingly pure forms and wean himself from their physical origins? Cantor went mad, "left his senses," and Godel starved himself to death. So perhaps there is a "way out" for you, if that's what you really want.