Hmmm, people with no real experience, no cardiovascular fitness, no strength to lug a pack around, no navigational skills, I would say heck no. The first time we did it we almost bought the farm, got lost with no gear, no winter protection and we were only a bit more than a mile away from town. It was not our fault, the Ranger gave us wrong directions and sent two newbs through the forest with less than an hour of sunlight left. A forest with bears, rattlers and gators. The point is, the unexpected happens to those who are not prepared. They should not be using their first experience for training. Trial and error, that is not the way to go out there. Have they watched the necessary vids on youtube? Are they members here? Your training begins and ends at home in safety, because if you can not do it there you can not do it anywhere. Does this group know how to stay together, how not to panic if they see a bear? Do they know how to walk around without injuring themselves? How to avoid snakes? Nights get cold in the forest, it was 73 in the day and 38 that night that day. Easy to lose the trail, easy to lose the rest and be stranded. First timers have no idea what it is like, I suggest take em down a well known trail, walk them down it for about an hour or maybe and a half and then bring em right back to the car and home. That should be more than enough. Just in case you decide to not follow any of my recommendations the number one thing I can say that you should make sure everyone carries is water! Most first timers will try to get by on 20 ounces of water... Let me tell you this, there is no worse hardship then being short on water. Make sure everyone carries a gallon of it. Then comes the pain of carrying it. Good luck! 

None of these fluids can be made "safe" for consumption. Most of these liquids are oil based with these exceptionn: 

If the wear is indeed in the region which is mostly (only) in contact with the Click-Up, I'd double check the carabiner. Here the device is sold only together with its carabiner, to avoid mismatches which can cause increased wear, and reduce braking friction (so one part of the answer: in special cirumstances: yes it can). Is the carabiner original? Is is really without any edge? I enjoy the company of a few people while training, who use a diversity of belaying devices (each their favourite, each for considerable time). There is no apparent difference in wear (that is my answer) for tubes (e.g. ATC), Click-Up (which is also considered a tube-like device) or grigri. There is considerable increase in rope twist when belaying with a munter hitch. There is noticable wear around the region of redirection when top-roping on routes when the redirection point on the rope is around the same region for some time. All of those people are deliberately using the rope from both ends (to even out the unavoidable wear and twisting). Apart from wear through belaying and redirection I would also check whether the rope drags regularly over abrasive surfaces on the wall. 

There ain't no way man...As Mr. Miyagi would say, "the best defense against a would be car vandal is no be there." I propose a different solution than others would: I never have that problem because I do not park at trailheads. We have been known to pull our 1999 Toyota Corolla off the dirt road we were on ( another tip: find those dirt roads! ) and cover it up, even if it meant building a small lean to over it. Since we were already driving in a very deserted area not turning off a major highway and into a crowded trailhead we would just camp close to the car and we have never had a problem. Sometimes, I bike to the trailhead after parking in Walmart's heavily watched parking lot a mile or so away. Or, I sometimes leave the car at home and bike all the way. Yea, down the trail and off of it too a good mountain bike will go. 

I carry a smaller pocketknife for cutting cord, doing some whittling when I am shaping wood, tent stakes for instance. I carry a big 8 incher for use as a machete, for splitting small logs, for general protection, for cutting meat, cleaning fish, shaving bark for fuel. We also carry some throwing knives, although I am pretty accurate with all my knives I generally use them to pass the time with practice. Some people have told me that the only tool they really need is a sharp knife,,, 

Shoes can be resoled from a worse state. My current shoes have been resoled from a similiar state three times. The first time they worked even better than new (the rubber was better). It all depends on the price you can get versus you'd like to pay for a new pair. Here a complete resole is around 1/3 to 1/4 the price of a new pair of shoes (if you don't buy the most expensive shoes) Edit: here is a nice breakdown how it's done. 

There is a little bit information out there (here), about falls of climbers heavier than normal which suggests (very roughly) almost a linear relationship between fall load (force) and body weight, assuming equal fall factor. Applying this in the reverse, a significantly lighter climber would apply a significantly smaller load. This says a UIAA fall is rated for a factor of 1.77. Children of 15 kg don't climb lead (I'd say). During top roping, forces are much less, so I'd say it is safe, if the rope passes visual inspection and "feels" otherwise "right" (e.g. no broken core). I'd apply a rough safety margin of about 1 order of magnitude, so I'd say it's okay for people of up to 30-35 kg when top roping, and not okay for someone heavier or when lead climbing. In the end you have to use your own judgement, and if there are any doubts, just take the safer alternative: use a fresh rope. Pieces of old rope are reusable as donations for e.g. childrens day cares. 

We use both. It is not difficult to light a fire with a ferrocerium rod especially if you have pine trees around as we do. A bit of sap from one of them on your shavings, cotton balls, spanish moss and one strike from the rod will start the fire. No sap? Then we also carry a small jar of vaseline. Both are overkill but help when you must light a fire in the pouring rain or high humidity. Small shavings can be made on site and charcloth is also usable with a firestick. Two is one and one is none...Equipment fails under special conditions and that is why we do not skimp on firestarting ways. We have started fires using a magnifying lens which we needed when the guy carrying the firemaking tools decided to fall into the lake and drench our equipment. Only the firesteel and the magnifying glass worked then. They are also a lot of fun but recommend watching a video or two to see the proper hand motions. Keep the stick when striking (scraping is the correct word), right on top or in the target. All of which you have probably done by now. 

When I am walking in a city such as NYC or Las Vegas, I do not look down. I am looking right and left for cars, people and dark alleys. But I think you are correct when in the wild to look down more than other places. As Cody Lundin says foot placement is very important. When stepping on rocks, up and over logs, in and out of mudholes and through high grass, you just have to know where you are placing your feet. There is only one way to know, you travel slowly and deliberately and do not place your feet in any spot that you have not looked at first. Sure, that means cutting your speed down but I do not see any other way. We hike in pairs so that the front guy checks the ground out and generally only looks 15 to 20 ft ahead. He is clearing the way for the guy behind him who scans the trees and listens, getting an overview. Depending on where you are of course we do not relax and smell the coffee until we reach the destination. If you want to look around and enjoy nature, stop! We never do that moving. 

In Germany the DAV teaches the method I think you describe (video here) and calls it "tunneling". The hand above the device makes sure that the braking hand can stay below the braking plane. You have to close your hand in case of a fall, which is possible quickly enough. 

With laces untied you're more prone to slipping around in your shoes thus increasing your chances of getting blisters. Also (from own experience with using low shows untied) those shoes wear down much more quickly because they get strained differently than they're designed for. 

@chris-h's answer is also spot on. I, too, use a dishwasher (the producer discourages it). I saw some oxidation of the aluminium parts between the blades after that. 

How well this knot is slipping should be dependent on the proportion of the diameter of the rope in relation to the diameter of the pole on which is used (nautical) or the carabiner (in climbing). If you tie a clove hitch around a very big diameter, it slips more easily. A diameter similiar to the rope or even smaller introduces way more friction between the strands of the rope. Second is, how well is it tightened. A non-tightened clove hitch will slip under moderate tension. (OK, edit: one can carefully craft a non-tightened clove hitch which will slip if drawn carefully) Third is whether it is under continous load, or rapidly unloaded and loaded (thrashing wind). I do fully trust this knot, as it sometimes being the only knot which holds me, e.g. when belaying my second.