My husband and I are learning to Scuba dive this year with a friend. We're doing the SSI courses, which require a large number of dives to progress through each qualification. Open Water through to Advanced Open Water requires a minimum of 24 total non-pool dives. We will be doing our open water dives at Vobster Quay and I know that you can dive inland at Stoney Cove, but it gets really busy. It would be nice to gain experience in more than just two inland locations. Are there any other common inland locations for Scuba diving in the UK? I also know Vobster goes down to roughly 36m, so that would cover Advanced specialisations, knowing other depths would be great too. 

However all of the above are restricted to seasons, and / or various permissions to cull / control. Details of which can be found on the gov.uk website. One not listed directly by gov.uk but that are hunted and eaten due to being a pest are Grey Squirrels As you mentioned rabbits, yes for the most part they are safe to hunt and eat (myxomatosis is still in the UK but rabbit is hunted and sold so just be careful with what you shoot) - my local butcher often has some for sale which are caught locally. But often you need landowners permission to hunt them. Most people shoot rabbit with only an air rifle and the more powerful licence free ones will kill them (and leaves less buck to pick out). Something to bear in mind is the wildlife licence which can be required if you're considered to be controlling a pest. There are also restrictions on equipment you can use to hunt in the UK. For example, no dogs for hares, deer, foxes etc - but they can be used to retrieve these. No bows, nets, vehicles, explosives can be used to hunt in the UK. $URL$ For some serious detail you can look into the Wildlife Act, which you have to conform to for hunting animals in the UK. 

I'm looking into purchasing a dog life jacket for kayaking with our Shetland Sheepdog puppy, when he is fully grown (6months, he's currently almost 4months). Ideally this will be for rough water such as the sea, as potentially on calm water like the canals he may be ok swimming. However he is long haired so swimming may get tiring without the jacket for him. When looking for my own life jacket I found the safety ratings confusing (first time purchase!) Do dog life jackets have the same / similar ratings to human life jackets?... Also What rating would be recommended for a mix of sea, canal and lake activity? Edit: here he is in his new jacket 

Being a bright red berry the old saying about avoiding red berries sticks to mind but I do remember reading that Hawthorn berries, or Haws, are edible... Is this true? Is there a seed to watch out for in the Haw, or are they like a raspberry / blackberry? 

If I am required to transport my diving equipment (in the UK and Abroad) what are the best practices of transporting my diving knife / shears? If on a plane this can just go in the hold luggage same as transporting any knife, but the UK seems to allow knives and other weapons which are part of sport equipment to be transported so long as it is with the equipment however, it can still be taken off you if you're under the influence, acting aggressively etc. I'd assume this is not the same everywhere and I'd have to take some precautions / research other countries. So some idea of how other people transport their knives would be good to know, or even if they don't and hire them instead as part of equipment hire? 

One thing I saw a lot of last time I went crabbing and apparently rage threw my net off the pier (I hold to the fact it slipped out my hand!) was people using left over cooked sausages cut into small chunks, or raw bacon again in small bits. They seemed to be fairly successful. What a waste of bacon... 

A long time ago when I was about 10 I went potholing on a school trip in Devon, and despite mild claustrophobia I found myself eventually enjoying it - egged on brilliantly by my friends. I hadn't thought about it in years until recently and now I'm curious, as a beginner: Where are good places in the UK to go potholing^, either experienced, or with a group for training? ^caving / spelunking 

The thing here to consider most is the biodegradability of what is littered along a roadside. There are items which you can leave and will breakdown pretty quickly - like tissues, papers, and thinner cardboards - though 'quickly' is relative, they will degrade faster than plastics. And most food waste, though things like apple cores are acidic, it's not a high volume and nature can take its course with this kind of waste. Tin cans, drinks cans and plastic bottles take a long time to break down and are much better off being picked up and put in a recycling bin. In the UK to prevent littering of plastic bags there's been a two fold attempt to fix the issue - one, the bags are now much more biodegradable than they were and break down in UV, and two, they are no longer free! If bags are a big issue for you collect them up - give them a rinse, dry them out and reuse them (carrier bags make great small bin bags etc). Many plastics and rubbers, such as tyres (though these are often synthetic), release toxins as they degrade or if they're set fire to and are not healthy for the environment at all - a habitat is only as good as it's soil, if the soil is unhealthy then the habitat will suffer. Plus they're breeding grounds for a couple of nasty flying insects. Better off taking a tyre to a decent recycling centre that won't burn it - or find a charity that will reuse them, they can be turned into pretty decently insulating walls. The more you can take, really the better. Unfortunately litter is a battle that's going on world wide, and there are plenty of people who are fighting the battle with you - so don't feel disheartened! If you want to know more about some inspiring people, let me know in chat - I won't plug them here ;) 

These boots are designed for a few purposes actually. Firstly, dogs paws can be affected by snow and ice - especially in breeds or dogs unused to colder climates. The boots help protect their paws from the colder temperatures, and also help prevent the build up of snow on their paw hair - which can then clump and freeze and cause irritation for the dog. They also help prevent damage to the foot if walking on terrain that is rather sharp. Some sled team dogs use boots, but not all. Secondly, these boots can be used if the dog gets injured, the foot for most animals (and people, it's not always easy to keep a plaster on your foot) is hard to keep a bandage on neatly, especially when already out on a hike, and the boot can act as a way to prevent dirt and grit from getting into a cut and help the dog from over licking the area as well. In addition, in the similar way to a horse with a poultice, you can use the boot to actually keep the bandage in place. It's not the kind of item every dog would want to wear, as many dogs don't like having something on their feet - but a friend of mine actually has a set in her dog first aid kit. 

They also don't have any qualms about flying around your head for insects, which they used to do outside my old house. They have a wingspan of 190-235mm, which would fit a young pipistrelle having a 4inch wingspan. However this is only a most likely option. The Natural History Museum provides a decent PDF of British bats which has some details of each bat, again this should help with the distinction. 

As for that, you answered it yourself really, be polite. That's all I ever expected as a rider, and it's all I do now as a hiker. 

This answer may apply to other countries but is pretty cert for the UK. Bird feed sold in the UK (from big chain pet stores, to garden centres, to little corner shops) usually comes with a time of year printed on the packet. This can be Spring-Summer, Winter or All Year for example. Which is because we get a cycle of birds throught the year and what is good for one species isn't good / appetising for all. A brilliant bird food list can be found on the RSPCB websites What Food to Provide page. Good autumn / winter feeds are: 

And what situations should I try and avoid in regards to wildlife and areas prone to hazards in the UK? Edited my question to cover the other answers more as they were very good additions to the wildlife aspect. 

Firstly, the best way to test if an obstacle (commonly called a jump) is safe to jump is to walk around it and give it a once over. This can be mounted or dismounted leading the horse. What you want to look for is holes or unevenness in the ground - usually caused from jumping in the wet and the ground drying with deep horse prints in. You also want to look at the quality of the jump, is the wood (log, or telegraph pole etc) splintered badly? If so a miscalculation in the horses jump could lead to a cut. Rotten jumps can also be an issue, but usually they should be fine. Also worth bearing in mind is if the jump has a clear line between height and floor, but this I referring to the fact that a single bar floating in the air is hard for a horse to gauge height and distance on. This is because horses do not calculate depth perception as a human does, so if the jump has no height reference for the horse they may catch and trip. Most cross country jumps or fences have a diagonal bar, or are completely solid. If the jump is excessively overgrown it is definitely worth checking by walking around it first as there can be hidden dangers in the over growth. For ditches and the like it is worth checking, one how deep any water maybe, especially if it is dirty as you cannot tell how deep it is, and two how degraded the far side is. Horses can panic in a situation like this if they slip. Most of the time a drop jump will be fine (imagine flat vertical drops cut into a small hill and jumping down them) but it's worth checking if the ground is slippery or waterlogged before descending. Take into account the surroundings and anything that may cause your horse to be skittish or refuse the jump, you don't want to get thrown off into anything unpleasant or dangerous. As for cross country jumping, this will depend. It is safe to assume if you're on a regularly maintained course then the jumps will have been maintained. If you're out on a hack and simply happen across one, I would follow the above and look for signs of degradation in the jump, and check the terrain before jumping. Bear in mind... many jumps, fallen logs, fences etc that are not held in place by wings are often very solid! I once had a refusal at a telegraph pole jump and was dragged backwards over it smacking my jaw.