Please note: He here changes the terms speaking of the actual laws of freedom to a doctrine of morals and of nature. Stage three: Empirical vs. a priori This is the most tricky one to understand correctly. In very short: although a priori literally means something like 'before all experience', this is not meant to be understood in terms of time, but in terms of inference; Philosophy dealing with objects a priori deals with objects and relations necessary for any of the actual experience we have, i.e. of course we need to have experience first before we can even think about its necessary conditions. Now, if there are two realms of experience, freedom and nature, each of them of course would inherit its own conditions a priori. Aristotle's book on the physics that looked beyond what is accessable directly through experience to its conditions was Metaphysics, so Kant simply applies this label to the same idea within ethics, making it two metaphysics distinguished by their objects: 

I cannot quote and explain the deduction here, but the idea is that he argues that we realise that our capability of rationality and acting under the idea of freedom makes us a part of an intelligible world that we share with all rational beings and that it is this part that enables us to have free, autonomous will just like any other rational being as well. 

The difference therefore lies in the point that the barber, even when executing his craft, does never own (the fruits of) his work, whereas the wigmaker does. A barber is dependent on hoping to get paid for what he did (= alienated from him - his labour power) without ever posessing actual property to trade, i.e. he does not own the product of his work. He is in this sense a service provider (to translate it into a modern term) and closer to a day labourer - offering nothing more than his labour power - than an artist/craftsman. This is also coherent with the difference between a wood cutter and a tailor. Keep in mind, though, that the last sentence of the note clearly states that this criterion is problematic, as it was hard to determine when someone really is one's own master, implying that there is some kind of a grey area. Ironically, this makes the criterion correct theoretically, but of no use in practice. But....why?! From today's perspective, this view must seem odd. But indeed, it is an improvement compared to the normal ancient view, like Hannah Arendt depicts it in The Human Condition (Arendt is very detailed and shows this point for e.g. Plato and Plutarch as well as Aristotle, her main focus; this is only a very short outtake!): 

But why does there have to be a law that is different from the laws of nature at all? This is somewhat clarified in the third section by another argument: 

As this touches a wide field that is discussed and still in motion today, I will just refer to what Henry E. Allison states in his Groundwork for the Metaphysics of Morals - A Commentary (Oxford University Press, 2011). On page 183, before going into the details for every single application, he writes: 

Though heavily discussed until today, it is quite secure to state that admiration (sometimes respect, like in GMM) is the reason why we act morally, though not our motivation: this feeling is described as being evoked by moral acting, not the other way round. And Kant does think it as an anthropologic fact that we do want to act morally, see for example GMM, Ak. 454, where he states that even the most evil person, as long as she is used to think rationally, will want to be a better person. 

Examples would be the above-mentioned argument of incommensurability, Wittgensteinian arguments about the limits of mutual understanding and community and language framing one's reality, or historical and more general contextual limitations of universality (like the Chinese delegate mentioned). 1 For some more elaboration of these points and other objections as well as counter-objections, see Roughley, N. (Ed.). (2000). Being Humans: Anthropological Universality and Particularity in Transdisciplinary Perspectives. Berlin: Walter de Gruyter. 

Philosophers reading early translations of Confucius As of philosophers reading them, Leibniz comes to mind. David E. Mungello writes in his paper Leibniz's interpretation of Neo-Confuicianism (Philosophy East and West, Vol. 21, No. 1 (Jan., 1971), pp. 3-22): 

What makes his application successful on first sight is a contradiction. The main point is how this contradiction is to be understood. The link provided does not help, because it is only an excerpt form a translation that is outdated. The problem is that there are two times four applications (4 of the Formula of Natural Law, 4 of the Formula of Humanity, naming by Allison) and in each case there are numerous essays and books on how they are to be understood. Therefore, the question cannot be completely answered in this context, but I can recommend to read the sections in the above mentioned commentary. The objections presented are various and sometimes (for me) inconceivable looking at Kant's own wording, but they are presented and summarized. As for some terms that looking for may be useful in that context: 'false positives' and 'false negatives' are discussed as the most challenging objections against the application of the categorical imperative on pages 191-202. 

That means despite its various advantages as an introduction to Kant's ethical thought, the Groundwork is revised and clarified in a lot of points in the later writings. In the end, you get a first grasp of the very core of his ethics, but everything else is depending on mere guesswork (what Wood calls "triangulation"). Beside confirming that it is the common theme that academics inform themselves regarding Kantian ethics often by reading the Groundwork only, Wood points out that the picture they get is incomplete at best and the things they develop from there are distortions of what Kant actually thought when you consider all of his ethical texts. Allison gives Ross (1954) as an example of that very problem (Allison 2011, p.3, fn.11). No wonder so many people accused Kant of being completely inapplicable and lacking any accounts of how the CI could possibly motivate anyone. They just took the Groundwork (or, as Allison states in the footnote just mentioned, the second Critique plus Groundwork) to be representing all of Kant's thinking regarding ethics. Considering Kant's later distinction between "schooling" philosophy and "philosophy of the world" which is "pragmatic" and about being a "citizen of the world" (better translation could be "cosmopolitan") (Anthropology, 7:120), it becomes clear that this narrow understanding can only represent the "schooling" part, but what's ethics as long as it does not become "pragmatic" or, more simple, practical? 

This basically means that because the will causes something, and the very concept of causation includes lawfulness, the will, even if it is free (i.e. not acting from inclinations under laws of nature), has to act according to a law. Freedom in this sense and moral goodness are the very same, see P2 above and 4:414: 

Interim conclusion So the argument up to here runs as follows (slightly paraphrased at times and with the necessary interim steps that I just described): P1: The moral worth of an action lies in acting not from inclination, but from duty. P2: An action from duty has its moral worth in the maxim (subjective principle of the willing), not in the purpose. C1: Duty is the necessity of an action from respect for the law. Second step: Content of such a law We have a will that needs a principle that has the form of a unconditioned law, without taking purpose into account. At the same time we know that every action is reasoned subjectively and governed by its maxim, i.e. that the will always acts according to its maxim (follows from his definition of a maxim). Interestingly, we don't even need the conclusion we just achieved itself for knowing what the content of the CI is. We will rather use it when argueing how it can be binding for us. For knowing what its content is, it suffices to take P1 and P2 in addition to what I summarized regarding necessity and the concept of law for closing the gap between the premises and the conclusion. So, without any content that we can presuppose to determine the law that our maxim should accord with more concretely (otherwise the principle would not be necessary anymore, because of being conditioned), all that's left is that the subjective principle of the action, the maxim, has to be lawful in the most abstract of senses, i.e. have the form of a law as such, i.e. generality (universality, applies to every rational being) and necessity (unconditioned and not allowing for exceptions): 

I think one should consider dogmatism as an epistemological problem, as that's what it is treated as in philosophy. About the definition of dogmatism I would like to link dogmatism with scepticism, as it is commonly depicted as one of the answers to the Agrippan Trilemma. The following reasoning can be read in Franks, Paul (2009): Ancient Skepticism, Modern Naturalism, and Nihilism, In: Frederick C. Beiser: The Cambridge Companion to Hegel and Nineteenth-Century Philosophy, Cambridge, MA: CUP, pp. 58-60 with corresponding sources. The Agrippan Trilemma gives three possible ways to face sceptical objections about knowledge: 

In Karl Marx and the Future of the Human, Cyril Smith makes a statement on this that can be found here: 

Following Kant's own system: As the schematisms of the categories and for corporal (i.e. physical) objects are the same, the concepts (whatever their language-specific label may be) are the same for any human being. The schematism or necessary construction of concepts has the task to ensure that this argument cannot be held against Kant. That is the whole point of the Metaphisical Foundations of Natural Science and why this book is so important for completing Kant's transcendental theoretical philosophy of the CPR, which lacks a schematism of space and therefore all external being (world, things). Again, this is described by Förster in The 25 Years of Philosophy. 

The last sentence implies that he actually read on Confucius himself in the early and at least one additional translation comparatively or a text whose author did that. Otherwise, it is hard to understand how he reached that conclusion. In between the two of them, one of the more famous names mentioned is Wolff, the metaphysician that considered himself as heir of Leibniz and was the main position Kant argued against, as it used to be the state of the art metaphysics: 

Kant discusses this within the first paragraphs of his Critique of the Power of Judgement. This is really a matter of definitions here, and as all too often, if you take Kant's definitions, the outcomes are analytically derived from them: 

Each of them may be answered for itself, or, even better, in the light of each other. I beg you to found your answers on sources. I will answer myself in about two weeks after ending my paper about the practical part of the question. 

Apart from this not being the formula Kant uses in his political philosophy - and he DOES use the Categorical Imperative in context of political philosophy (see Perpetual Peace, Ak. 8:377 for the formula he uses and Ak. 8:370-80 for the argument why it is/should be THE principle in politics) - I will stick to this for the moment as the argument will essentially be the same. So, it says "so act as if the maxim ...", which means it is the maxim of an action which is to be universalised. But what is a maxim? As my answer in the linked question points out (including sources), a maxim contains the following: 

So given that moral goodness is comparative and there because of that is no such thing as a "best" world, God obviously could not be morally perfect. That is what the argumentation, working with lots of premises, expresses. Therefore, the only question is about the validity of the reasoning itself, which is obviously shaky as well: 

Answer Taking it that way, the answer is quite easy: Get some persons close to you and let them attest that they have been attributing this belief to you (as characteristic) for a relevant period of time because you yourself did it, as this is exactly the way a belief of one's own is defined. If you have uttered this belief e.g. in videos or social networks, this may help as well. B now has two options to react, and the validity of his argumentation stands and falls with it: Either he only has been sceptic and accepts supporting facts, or he is ignorant of any given fact and will not accept anything. The first case would be part of a valid and reasonable argument, the second one would be not.