Yes, they are compatible. As long as you are using a 160mm caliper mount, and a 160m rotor they will work together. There are industry-wide standards for rotor position for front and rear brakes. Like @Carel says above though: make sure your pads are a type that are correct for the rotor (this shouldn't be a problem with HRD rotors, you can use metallic or organic pads on them) and also compatible for the type of riding you are doing. For example, if you are doing tons of downhill with organic pads, you'll wear through them really quickly. 

If you suspect that the faces are out of alignment, you may want to take the frame to your local shop to have the bottom bracket faced. This will cost between $20-$40, and will typically also include the chasing of the bottom bracket threads as well. Finally, you may want to consider a higher quality bottom bracket. The UN-26 is entry-level quality, but if you are riding regularly and/or in inclement weather, it will wear out quickly regardless of installation quality. 

It's called a stem clamp binder nut. The names don't get more specific than that, unfortunately. You could search for the bolt by the stem name, and maybe get lucky finding another one. It's not a super-common setup for stems; they typically used a hex nut. If it doesn't fit a little further into the stem, it's most likely an incorrect size for the stem. The flange should sit flush when the bolt is fully tightened. The binder bolt thread only comes in a few sizes, so you may just have a bolt that "works" but is not original to the stem. 

I have this bike for a year now and I am pretty happy with it. It does not allow very sportive riding, but it is nearly maintenance-less, since the chain is fully enclosed by the protector (which rattles sometimes). The rear rack allows mounting a Basket. I check the chain every 3 Months, and there are still no signs of rust or that the original oiling has diminished. The transmission is very good for city riding and pulling a trailer up a hill, but not so good for going fast on roads (35 - 40 kph max possible if you have to pedal). The brakes are also very good, the only maintainence required is filling them with some special oil, and they have no problem braking the bike going down a steep hill with a fully loaded trailer. The bike has built in lightning that is very bright, with a hub dynamo. This is a photo of my bike in action, with full loading capacity of about 60 kg (30 kg on the trailer, 30 kg on the rack). Total cost of the Bike, as you see it here (with trailer and baskets and airzound) was 1500 €, Maintenance cost is around 30 € per year. 

I am using Headphones like this: They even reduce wind noise, and you can hear the music and everything around you, because they are not blocking outside noise. The problem is that in city traffic you will not hear the music, because the cars are so loud ;D Important is that they have foam, cause that reduces the wind noise. 

In Germany, all bicycle lights above a certain lumen value have to have a low beam feature, so it's pretty standard here. So, if you do not want to kludge your existing headlight get a german one, e.G. Busch und Mueller Headlights always have a low beam feature, which they especially advertise. Here is their english web page. $URL$ 

@STW has the right idea, but I think it's worth noting that to the extent possible, you're trying to hold your upper body still, and (especially when sprinting) you "wobble" the bike under you to maximize power. In other words, most of the "wobbling" involved is less of an accidental side effect than something they actually work at. Conversely, when you see somebody whose upper body is moving a lot, while the bike stays relatively upright, it's a pretty good sign that they're running out of energy. There are some other (also intentional) reasons as well. First, working your way through a tight peloton can be tough, especially close to the finish. Most of the riders are staying as close together as they can to get maximum drafting. Worse, unless they happen to be your team-mate, the people right next to you will often try to "squeeze" you to intimidate you enough to slow you down a tiny bit. Here you're literally "throwing your weight around" to make it harder for others to squeeze you in. Likewise, the "smoother" you ride, the easier it is for somebody to draft off of you. The more you're moving sideways, the harder it is for them to get/stay in your draft. Earlier in a race (like in a breakaway) you'll see people do relatively quick sideways movements of the bike to help drop people drafting off of them. In the final sprint, you usually can't afford to do that, but you're still doing the best you can to make drafting difficult, as long as you don't slow your self down (much) in the process. Finally, if you're riding smoothly, it's fairly easy for somebody to stay close beside you and stay in your draft almost until they're in front of you. By moving around as much as possible, you force them to pull farther to the side before they can pass safely, which means they lose your draft and have to do more of their own work to pass. 

A good option, if you can't shift any packed weight to the front of the bike, is to lean forward over the handlebars while climbing. You'll distribute your weight more equally between the wheels and avoid lifting the front wheel. Be sure to have the bike in the lowest gear before you start the climb, and just spin all the way up the hill. You will move slower, but the bike will stay stable, and is actually a little more efficient in terms of energy expenditure. This will require a stronger core, so if you find it difficult at first, add a couple sets of front and side ab crunches to your morning routine. There may not be a perfect solution to this depending on how much rear weight you are carrying. If it's really a lot of weight, the only good solution may be front mounted carrying systems like panniers or a front basket/bag. 

Install the cassette and derailleur. Measure your chain to the correct length (using Park Tool's 3rd method), but do not cut the chain yet. Add an additional link (outer/inner) to the total chain length. Cut the chain, install, and check the shifting function. Adjust the B-tension screw in on the derailleur so that the chain and upper jockey wheel on the derailleur do not grind against the largest rear cog. 

I would recommend first checking on what Noah recommended: checking that the crank bolts are tightened down to the proper torque. If they are, I would start with the following steps: 

If for some reason you can't adjust the drivetrain noise out, then forget it. Any of the above factors may make it impossible. It's unusual, but it does sometimes happen. If there is excessive slack in the chain in the small ring/small cog combination, it's also probably not a great idea. However, I would not worry a great deal; Shimano SS cages have never been compatible with 28t cogs, but tons of people run them all the time. It's for legal protection that Shimano states this. What you really need to run an SS cage and a 28t cassette is mechanical know how (or a good shop mechanic!) 

Most 700c rims will work with essentially any size of tire. Yes, smaller tires generally reduce rolling resistance a little, but unless you're road racing, it's rarely worth going below about 700x23c, IMO. Also note that just being smaller doesn't necessarily mean lower rolling resistance -- one brand of 700x19c might have higher rolling resistance than another brand of 700x20c, for example. The big change (if any) happens when you switch to slick tires (and most 700x32c tires have fairly substantial tread if not outright knobs). 

Make sure you get plenty of sleep, eat about normally, and ride less -- mostly just enough to stretch your legs, with maybe one semi-hard ride to tire you out somewhat. If you do that, do it early in the week though, so the last few days before the century you can take it easy and be fully recovered by the day of the big ride. Ideally you'd have done something like a 60-70 mile ride a couple weeks before hand, but the last week is really a bit late for that. As far as the bike goes, my advice is to inspect it, but resist the urge to "fiddle" with things -- if you see something that's really wrong, fix it, but otherwise leave it alone. In particular, do not change any adjustments in the hope of making things a bit better -- you're better off with the bike adjusted as you're accustomed to it, than deciding that maybe you'd be just a tiny bit better with the seat raised and the handlebars dropped a bit (or whatever). 

First a disclaimer: most of what I know about carbon fiber fabrication comes from aircraft, not bicycles. Also note that carbon fiber is not the only composite that gets used -- just for one alternative, Kevlar fibers can be useful as well (Kevlar is stronger, but also more flexible than carbon). Carbon fiber is strong, but does not respond well to point stresses. This is largely because it's basically cloth (woven out of carbon fibers). If you put a lot of stress at a single point, you're putting that stress on only a few of those carbon fibers. While the fibers themselves are extremely strong (for their weight), the bonding holding the individual fibers together is much weaker. For comparison, think of the packing tape that has fiberglass fibers running along its length. The fiberglass itself is really strong, but the strip of plastic and "goo" holding them together is a lot weaker. Although the details differ, the same general idea applies to carbon fiber as well. The exact strength depends on direction as well. As I said above, carbon fiber starts out as a basically threads that are woven into cloth. The cloth is then impregnated with some sort of epoxy (the exact epoxy used varies with the application), laid up in a mold, vacuum bagged1, then baked to harden the epoxy. You can get the cloth in various different weaves, some with the same amount of carbon fiber running in each direction, other with (say) 80% of the carbon fiber in one direction, and only 20% in the other direction. At a guess, most of the CF used in a bike frame is probably somewhere closer to the latter variety, with most of the threads running along the length of a tube, and considerably less running around the circumference of the tube. As long as we're at it: carbon is also about twice as strong with respect to being stretched as being compressed. You'll typically have around twice as many plies where it's primarily subjected to a compressive load. 1 Vacuum bagging means a big plastic bag is placed around the mold and laid-up cloth, and the air sucked out. Air pressure on the outside holds the layers of cloth tight together to (try to) ensure that when they're baked, they act as a single layer, not separate layers. This has little effect on the strength when subjected to stretching, but a huge effect when subjected to compression or bending. 

I got a pump with an head like this, and I use both the presta and the schraeder opening. The problem is that the automatic switching does not seem to work as well as it once did. It is pretty random where the air comes out, and most of the time it involves a lot of shaking and cursing before I can get my tires pumped up. Can I fix this somehow? The pump was not cheap, and I would like to avoid getting a new one, though the hassle of getting air out of the correct hole is annoyinng. This question is about a Pump Head, where the mechanism does work (air only comes out of one hole), but switches pretty randomly. I want to get an answer if there is a solution without replacing the head, else i would order a new pump head. 

Well. I think that you really want this you have to build something youself. Basically you will need a light without a condensator and this circuit. Just add it to the power cable and have fun. $URL$ IMHO flashing lights are not optimal because they reduce the ability to gauge distances. A better approach might be to use a really bright rear light, or one with the braking light functionality e.G. the light from Bush and Mueller Toplight Line Plus 

I am from the Bike Lobby in Austria, and we are doing security checks together with the police. We make a checkpoint, the police stops all cyclists and checks their equipment. If everything is O.K. we give the rider a goodie, like some chocolate If something is amiss we have a repair tent nearby where we fix the problems. We have reflectors for free, and do repairs e.g. for dynamo powered lights for free. If there are some components missing (battery lights) we sell them cheaply. If someone does not want to fix their lights (happens rarely) he will not be fined, but has to push his bike. This works great, and we have pushed the light quota from 60% to 95% in the city we are doing this kind of activities. It requires a lot of effort and support from the government though. We run 12 of these checkpoints on different places in the city, always in the weeks before or after the change from daylight saving time to normal time. This activity is sponsored by the government, they are paying the costs for the repair tent and some of the equipment and goodies. So summarizing: Instead of trying on your own, better work together with some people and get organized. This approach works! Infos about the Event in German 

Yes, aluminium rims help wet braking performance a lot compared to chrome plated steel rims. You still usually need roughly one rotation of the wheel for the brake block to wipe off most of the water film before you get really good braking, but there's still almost no comparison to steel rims. One thing to keep in mind though: if you do a lot of riding in wet weather, the brakes can wear out aluminium rims fairly quickly. When the rims are wet, a lot of road grime tends to stick to them, and when the brakes clamp on that, it grinds down the surface of the rim relatively quickly. We're not talking about a ride or two (or anything like that) here, I've seen people who commute all the time wear out a set of rims in a couple of years or so (whereas I've rarely seen a fair-weather rider wear rims out at all -- they usually last until they either get bent in some kind of accident, or the rider gets the itch for something newer and/or lighter). 

Just a couple of notes: first of all, what you're thinking are missing teeth may well be intentional as well. Even on a brand-new chain-ring, some of the teeth are shortened (some of them a lot) to give the chain a spot to shift on to the next ring easily. That being the case, the real problem may be just the bent tooth. It's at least worth trying just straightening the tooth that's bent as well as you can, and see if that doesn't fix the problem. 

At least in my experience, Risse Racing shocks require relatively minimal maintenance. A quick glance shows that their Jupiter 5 (and 5R) are definitely available in/around the length you've asked about (though I should add that those are both coil shocks, and my own experience has all been with their air shocks). They don't list lengths for the air shocks, but do claim that the Genesis (for one) fits most FS frames. I can speak about this one from experience -- I've been riding a Santa Cruz Tazmon with a Genesis damper for a long time now (mine is a pre-production frame with no serial number that I got before the Tazmon officially started production in 1993, and it's had the same shock on it ever since, and required only extremely minimal maintenance). Most rear shocks are mounted pretty similarly -- though the Tazmon is one that actually does have a rather unusual mounting system.