It sounds like they want you to solve problems and demonstrate problem-solving capabilities, not which language is the latest and coolest. (which is a really good thing). If this is the case then writing it in an really obsolete language (VB6?) would be just as good. If they wanted to know your abilities in a specific language because they were a software company that used a particular one, then they would definitely have asked you to code in that language (or at least show you know something of that language). There's a possible case here that if you were to use a super-cool language they might reject you for chasing new techs rather than doing the job they want, or that the interviewer may not understand the new stuff anyway which would only confuse matters. Its also worth, in these cases, using the more verbose language for the task. eg, if you were asked to create a web service you could do it in C# writing a wsdl, running it through svcutil to generate code, implementing your interfaces and attribute-decorated methods, and writing a service program to run it self-hosted. Which would demonstrate you know all the bits you need to know. Or you could write it in PHP which would be 1 line of code constructing a soap server passing the wsdl in. That demonstrates only that the PHP devs know how to do it. 

If you're singled out for unfair treatment, then it is definitely grounds for a "constructive dismissal" case (where, rather than sack you, they want to make life difficult enough for you that you voluntarily quit). In the UK, go speak to a solicitor specialising in commercial and employment law and get proper advice on how to proceed with this. In the meantime, document everything concerning this. Proof is everything here, print and save your emails and if you have discussions with management about it, ensure you have someone else there to just observe, take notes and otherwise act as a witness. If you do this, they will get the message that you're taking it further and may take steps to ensure an outcome - but that outcome may not be to defend you, they will most likely 'close ranks' against you. In this case, I'd go for it though - my opinion is that I wouldn't want to continue working there anyway. I would think there's something strange going on if HR is doing this without direction from the MD, but you never know that the MD is in on this activity but keeping himself safe. Either way, it sounds very peculiar situation and if it were me, I'd be looking to move regardless (clocking in, in a professional development environment is not something I've ever had to do - only when I worked in a supermarket! Getting pay docked for being late to work in an office environment is again unheard of, you just work 15 mins at the end of the day, assuming you don't already put in an hour or two extra anyway!). 

Remember: agile is about being agile, not following the rules as laid down in the holy book of Scrum as if they were scripture. That means you can, and should, change them. You have problems with the standups being difficult to schedule. So get rid of them. Replace them with some other way of communicating workload to the rest of the team, maybe emails, a scrum or other project website, or a "social media" style feed of updates from every team member. Then your standups will be rolling, continuous updates. Whatever you choose, the point is that you change it to suit your team. Scrum was never very agile in the first place, but its important to force it to be so for you. 

You're the first one to complain... of course someone has to be first. You can try to get more co-operative with them. Instead of asking for a new chair that costs money, ask for a small amount of budget to source a chair yourself. That's more likely to gain a favourable response. Similarly for hotels, instead of them booking for you, ask if you can book your own - to a set budget - and then see if you can find better for yourself (I find nasty hotels are not as cheap to book as they appear and you can do better for the same amount, particularly if you book last-minute for bargains) But ultimately it looks like your management just don't want to spend any money they don't have to (maybe they get to keep it as a bonus at the end of the year if its not spent on other things - like chairs or hotels) 

No. If they want you they will make you an offer - this may not be what you expected (or suggested) but you can guarantee they will have looked at the relevant salaries for the area and work and will offer you something in that region - and probably bumped up a little too. Leave that decision on how much to offer to them. Never go back and start sounding desperate for the job by making offers to them, it never looks good. now, if they reject you, it is reasonable to mention to your agent about the NYC salary, and that if that was the problem you would be willing to accept less in order to "join such a great team" or similar, and let the agent handle that on your behalf. Chances are though, salary expectations are never the issue for a candidate they want - if they cannot pay enough, they will come back and suggest a salary to put the ball back in your court to reject (or not). 

Job titles are worthless. I've been a developer, developer level 5 (tell me what that meant!), an analyst/programmer, a principal developer, a development architect, and a senior developer. Bet you can't tell which one I had most responsibility in, and which one paid the most?! See, job titles are not an industry-wide thing, sure 'senior' always means 'better than junior' but it that's as far as it goes. IIRC Sun used to let people make up their own job titles, they're that pointless as a reference point outside the current company. What matters far more than title is your responsibilities and work. When you come to write your CV with a job title of "developer", then feel free to say you had a senior role within the company and list the things you were responsible for. Recruiters will always look at that and will pretty much ignore job title anyway. When you go for interview, ask about job titles as part of the "general friendly chat" part, make it casual and you might get an answer. IT might be that the company only has "generic programming units" and "management" roles anyway... and I'd be way more worried about that. But then, they might also not care about hierarchies and I'd be very happy about that. 

There are 2 easy ways to do this: first is to get a new intern, and the pecking order of your hierarchy changes, boss nods at the new guy instead of the old one. Easy! The 2nd way is to ensure he gets a chance to rebase his position in the company so it becomes the new focus. You said he has had leadership in areas, so why not make him the project manager/scrum master/etc for a project - he can't be seen as the intern if he's performing the work of the boss. But generally, yes, he should suck it up unless its actively demeaning or patronising (which it seems it isn't) then its just normal human interaction. I've been in companies where a hire came from a competitor as was forever referred to as the 'guy we poached from evil company x' well after it no longer mattered. I suppose it a case of (metaphorical) hats, you are known by the hat you wear until such time as you change it for a new one. You have to make an effort to get that hat changed. 

Sounds like you have a great internship. Paid even, what is the world coming to!!!! :-) For colleagues: this is what workplaces are like, it isn't a social club and even if there were people your own age, there's no expectation they'd be into the same stuff as you. Get talking to the other guys there, you'll learn lots. Really. So get out there are talk to them, ask about the stuff you're documenting, find out the secret bits nobody will admit to, hang around them in between work. For the work: interns aren't going to be given the best work - that's for the employees. Interns get the stuff nobody else wants to do. Its OK, accept it because one day you'll be doing the good work and some poor intern will be given the crappy documenting job you don't want to do either. Embrace it, learn to love it, as there will be many times when there is no intern to drop your worst jobs on, and you'll have to do them anyway. So you might as well learn now to love even the boring jobs. You can get a great deal of satisfaction out of a job done well, even if its a horrible one. when you leave the company, leave behind sparkling documentation that will have them remember you with a sense of awe. Besides, document writing is a great way of learning stuff - which is where you're at. You will learn all the tricky bits and it sticks in your mind as you've written it in a way that reading never reaches. I will make an assumption that you're stuck out on your own with little to no involvement with the rest of the staff, it happens to easily with new guys, and guys who will not be around forever. If that's the case, it is up to you to make yourself more visible. even if all that means is asking your manager to put you closer to the rest of the staff. 

I won't say it was the build that's at fault - the OP asked once and was told it was the build, not that it was the build every time. So unless it's clarified it was a continually bad build, it's going to be other problems. It sounds to me that the colleague is extremely strung out and stressed and this is causing his reaction to any bad news to be excessive. I've been there, you come in tired and irritable in the morning, and you find your work is difficult because someone did something late the previous night, you get annoyed and express yourself badly. After a coffee and a sit down, you approach the problem with a sense of calm resignedness you use for all problems. The outbursts are a symptom of an underlying problem with the colleague;s mental state, not with some bad build (after all, we all know that sh*t happens, and happens often). If the rest of the team is quietly chilled, then this reaction to work is not because of the work - all the team would be affected by the same problems, and they don't react the same way. What to do about it - this is a managerial/HR problem. Employee welfare is their responsibility, and though you can take steps to talk to the guy and bring him into your group to let some of your own chilled attitude rub off (which will work quite effectively), its not something you can 'fix'. 

As Julia says, enforced greetings is a very inefficient way to manage this, and it won't "scale". However, what you can do is combine the greetings with some other part of work - if you have daily meetings, then have them in the morning, so people can all congregate and chat before the meeting starts. If you have coffee and/or breakfast nibbles laid out, there's a reason to turn up and participate too. The purpose of the meeting is not to do greeting however, you allow social interaction to happen by itself, have the meeting for its own reasons. Even 1 or 2 a week might be sufficient to "oil the wheels" of your interactions, and let the other days just happen as they will. 

If your boss is struggling to keep his team together while the rest of the company tries to revert the global changes back to the old regional ways, then you need to get it to the attention of whoever decided to implement the changes in the first place. They are the most likely to have both the authority and the inclination to deal with this properly - or their own work will be undermined. It just sounds like your old team are trying to protect their old empire. 

There are advantages to staying put, at least for a while longer. I know there is an urge to jump ship asap to find something else, but ultimately it doesn't matter whether you start looking now or in a few months time - the jobs will still be there waiting for you, the ones you miss by waiting will be replaced with others that don't open until later. So, the question is really how much loyalty do you want to show to the current company. Is it a good employer fallen on hard times, or is it a bunch of losers who couldn't manage properly? The former happens all the time, and whilst sometimes ends up failing, sometimes they pull it around, get a new contract or client and end up succeeding. Who gets promoted and generally made a much better position if they stayed when times were hard? Certainly not the guys who left like rats leaving the proverbial sinking ship. So there's plenty of opportunity staying, with limited downside (which is you don't get paid - which is what happens if you leave anyway!). Now, if you can't afford to be paid less or on time, then its time to leave. Be open about it with the management and they'll be happy to help you leave in these cases, maybe asking you to stay on part time and job hunt while at work with company equipment. 

My suggestion is to simply start reading it. See, I had a bit of time on my hands a while back, and I read website versions of UK newspapers, and rather than read only 1, I read several of them. And what I found was that I could read a single story presented differently from all of them - the left-wing Guardian would leave certain bits out, the right-wing Mail would highlight certain aspects, the pro-EU Times would offer a slightly varied account, the anti-EU Telegraph would highlight how house price investments would be affected. What you do start to see is the bias inherent in all of them, and that is a truly good thing (not the bias) but the opening of your eyes to how much propaganda they all inflict upon us. Anyone who, say, reads only the Guardian will live in a little echo-chamber bubble and start to believe everything they put out, you'll find its not all true. Its all set up to tell you what to think. Anyone who only reads the Mail gets the same. The trick to fight back against this brainwashing is to read as many of them as you can with an open mind and the ability to critically think and analyse the stories. You'll soon get good at seeing how bad they all are. As for getting it banned, its not a fake news rag, that's just nonsense spread by activists who love fighting their political enemies and would like to see nothing more than a solitary source of news that conforms to their views. If liberty means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they do not want to hear. -- George Orwell 

As someone who has done his bit of recruiting in the past (for IT developers and similar), I would say that generally the answer is no. The number of CVs I've read that have had photos on them .. well, they don't inspire confidence in the individual especially when the vast majority of other CVs are just plain text. Pictures slapped on top next to the candidate name looks like they're either trying to "stand out", are narcissistic, or are overly fond of social media styles! (and invariable the photo that's added looks like it was taken in a passport booth with the typical fixed pose and awkward grin) That said, for a design job, I look at your CV and think that would be a wonderful CV to receive. I think that would be a good CV to receive even for a technical development job too, the trick is (as with everything) to make it look like it is supposed to be there.