In football betting, a "line" is provided by which the favorite team needs to win, in order for bettors to win that game. Sometimes the line is x.5 points. If it's impossible to gain half-points in football, why have a half-point line? 

In this week's Jets-Packers game, the wrong person called a timeout from the sidelines (only the head coach is allowed). The referees played correctly, watching the field instead of who is calling time, and blew the whistle. The players didn't notice, and the Jets scored a game-tying touchdown. After the refs noticed that they had called timeout incorrectly, why couldn't they reverse the decision and allow the touchdown to count? 

When it is known before the season starts that the team's top prospect will be called up that year, does it usually happen for Opening Day, or do they get the call later in the year? Also, are there different statistics regarding pitchers vs. position players? 

I was watching the MLS All-Star vs. Tottenham match and noticed that there were substitutions made for more than 3 players during the game. Is this standard for exhibition games, All Star games etc? 

I've been in the same position as you and hope I can shed some light on the subject: I found that it wasn't super difficult to transfer over, but the major thing was the idea of bindings and boots. This is a major difference, as now your feet are attached to the board which will change you balance and how comfortable you are on a board. The technique is pretty similar with leaning and balance etc. Watch some videos online to decide what footing you are. If you are a proficient skater, you should have no real issue transferring over to snowboarding. I would advise you to start on the short hills to promote safety and learn the ropes, and in all seriousness WEAR A HELMET! I know it isn't cool, but neither is having your brain scrambled! I received a severe concussion from snowboarding and it altered my life mentally and physically. I never wore a helmet when I would skate, but I was glad to have it that day on the slopes. Keep it real and enjoy the slopes this season! 

A pitch on a full count (3-2) is also known as a "payoff pitch". I assume it's because the at-bat usually ends there (pays off), but it seems to preclude a foul ball. In fact, i just heard "the payoff pitch... foul ball... the payoff pitch..." Obviously the first one didn't pay off. So why is it called that? 

Check out the Elias Sports Bureau. They keep statistics on all sorts of things across several sports. 

I was recently at a single-A baseball game, and I'm not a great judge of distance, but I wasn't sure that the bases were a whole 90 feet apart. How far apart are the bases in the minor leagues, and also Little League? 

In baseball, if a hit ball lands just inside the foul line (fair), but then bounces out (foul), what is it ruled as? The flip case: if a ball lands foul, but it hits a patch of grass or whatever and bounces fair, what it is? 

(Also, note that there are more infractions penalized by a bench minor penalty other than just Too Many Men, even though this is probably the most common; another example is a penalty for a second violation of faceoff procedures at the same faceoff.) (All citations from the IIHF Official Rule Book 2014–18.) 

Jelavić did not obstruct anyone’s line of vision or movements, and he definitely did not deceive/distract the opponent, since the Irish defense probably did not see him at all. Which leaves us with the last option debated above. None of the three points was fulfilled, therefore, no offside. 

However, UEFA (the European football association) uses a different system in its competitions, where results from the matches between the teams concerned are given more importance than the results from the rest of the group matches (plus, there are more auxiliary criteria when everything else fails). See e.g. the official Regulations of the UEFA European Football Championship 2012 which state in the rule 8.07: 

I have never understood who serves first, and when it switches, in ping-pong (table tennis). Could anyone explain it? 

My brother decided that in order to help break in his baseball glove, he would put a ball inside and tie the glove closed. Does this actually do anything? (Note: An experiment with this isn't really going to work for me. I can't wear his glove, and he might suffer a placebo next time.) 

Watching an MLB Gameday live lookin today (7/6, NYM@CIN), I noticed Brayan Pena of the Reds batting with a leg brace. He singled, and removed the brace at first brace? Why might someone do this? 

This has happened before, most notably the Grand Slam Single of the 1999 NLCS. The Braves and Mets were tied 3-3 in the bottom of the ninth. The Mets loaded the bases, and Robin Ventura crushed a grand slam. He was mobbed at first base, and never touched second. Only Cedeno, the runner on third, actually touched home. Ventura was awarded a single, and the Mets won, 4-3. Joe left a comment: 

The majority of the time it is a better plan to draw the penalty then immediately get the 5 on three. This situation actually just came up one the Blackhawks vs Kings games for the Semi Finals of the Stanley Cup. One of the Hawks forwards drew a second penalty in the offensive zone. They pulled the goalie and tried the 4 on 6 for about 25 seconds but had nowhere to go with the puck. Unless an obvious opportunity presented itself, such as one of the King's defensemen was without a stick, it would have been better for them to get the 5 on 3. It gives the primary PP forwards a chance to rest, regroup, and decide how to proceed on the play and hopefully convert. 

I didn't go cold turkey on my original stance. I made it a gradual switch, riding on each near the end of my runs so as not to injure myself and give myself a chance to think about it As dumb as it sounds, I put my boots on and strapped into my bindings and just switched back and forth, flipping the board around on each hop to get my legs into the rhythm. I took my skateboard and found a short, gradual hill and just rode that up and down, switching my footing for each run whenever I had free time to also help with my muscle memory. 

The crucial question here is whether Jelavić received the ball after it rebounded to him off an opponent, or if the opponent played the ball. Because the Laws of the Game define offside as (Law 11, p. 33): 

Fouls are called only for offences which are committed by a player on the field of play while the ball is in play. (See Interpretations of the Laws of the Game and Guidelines for Referees, page 117.) If the ball is out of play because the play was stopped by the referee because of a previous offence, no free kick is given, only the persons involved in the misconduct may be cautioned or sent off. So, in your example, the Team B player will be sent off, however, the play will be restarted with the original free kick for Team B. (Similarly, free kicks are not awarded for misconduct by e.g. a manager, nor for a misconduct of a player outside the field of play. If the referee needs to stop the play because of such misconduct, no team will be given a free kick, and the play will be restarted with a dropped ball at the position of the ball at the time the play was stopped.) 

No, there is no agreement. You are accurate in your finding that there is no agreement. However in my experience it starts with one in the upper left and rotates clockwise down to the lower left to 4, with 5-hole added on. 

They do this to prevent their shoes from getting slippery. It is the same reason they mop the floors near the hoops. It is important that the players have a good grip on the floor, and if their shoes are damp they do not have enough traction. It reduces the risk of injury and helps them to play better. 

Certainly safety would be a consideration. Also it means your board won't go flying in the event that you do fall. If you fall off, your board would continue going down. If you fall with the Velcro then you keep the board with you like a snowboard. 

These are perfect examples of cases where touching the net is not a fault. The current net-touch rules are constructed so that almost no inadvertent net touches are faults. Simplifying it a bit, touching the net is a fault only when 

You are carefully describing the position of the ball in the moment of your attack hit and in the moment of the defensive contact. However, it is not important. The decisive criterion in this case is not the point of contact with the ball, but the position of the blocker’s body. If any part of the blocker’s body (usually but not necessarily hands) is higher than the top of the net, it is considered a block. See Rule 14.1.1 Blocking (emphasis mine): 

If we would consider the play under standard (FIVB) rules, there is no issue here at all; the blocking players did not even touch the ball. The “reaching over the net” rule refers only to playing the ball beyond the net, not just literally “reaching over the net”, without touching the ball nor interfering with opponent play. You can reach beyond (or under) the net any time you want, unless you touch the ball there or interfere with the play in another way (e.g. by preventing the opponent from playing the ball).