I am interested in self-learning philosophy, but I am faced with a seemingly insurmountable obstacle: being dyslexic (metaphorically speaking) while reading serious philosophical works (including books, papers, etc.). All of these things (even most SEP entries) are way over my head, because they seem either cryptic (when written by analytic philosophers) or extremely cryptic (when written by continental philosophers). My aim is to understand what philosophical giants had to say as well as to be able to comprehend modern philosophical works. As of now, everything I know about philosophy has come to me from Wikipedia articles, this website, some SEP entries and, most importantly, the book Philosophy: A Text with Readings by Manuel Velasquez. [By 'philosophy' I of course mean its main branches, the discipline itself is way too broad to "learn".] What advice can you give me to achieve my goal? I am really at a loss here. 

Thought experiment: let there be an omniscient being who knows the future and an agent with free will. They are playing a simple game: there is a table with 2 cards and the free agent asks the omniscient being the following question: Which card will I pick up? Since the omniscient being already knows the answer, then the free agent necessarily must do exactly what the omniscient being knows he is going to do (otherwise the omniscient being isn't really omniscient). However, if the omniscient being answers "the left card", then the free agent will pick up the right card, and if the omniscient being answers "the right card", then the free agent will pick up the left card (because he feels like trolling the omniscient being). Since either option leads to contradiction, doesn't this prove that free will and omnscience are incompatible? 

There's an entire subfield of Philosophy of Technology. For your specific question, you might be especially interested in the work of Langdon Winner and Shannon Vallor's new book Technology and the Virtues. 

Arguably this narrative is oversimplified. "Theistic evolutionists," like Asa Gray have argued that evolution by natural selection is compatible with the existence of God and a divine plan. (Roughly, the idea is that God sets a plan, then uses evolution to achieve it.) Natural selection is only one form of evolution. It's not clear how compelling the argument from design was pre-Darwin. And there's a lot of contemporary work in philosophy of biology on how we should understand biological function-talk (the purpose of the heart is to pump blood, gene XYZ is for this phenotypical trait). 

Determinism: your actions, either moral or immoral, are just the ripple effect of past events, you cannot help but do what the laws of Physics make you do, you had no choice, it's not your fault, therefore there is no true moral responsibility on your part. Randomness: your actions are random, chaotic, there is no control, you are lucky/unlucky that you behave morally/immorally by random chance (e.g. because of weird quantum randomness in the brain, for example). In other words, it's just a matter of luck, a matter of winning the morality lottery. If you behave immorally, it's not really your fault, it's just your bad luck. Therefore there is no true moral responsibility on your part either. Determinism-Randomness Hybrid: your actions are the result of a combination of deterministic rules applied to past events combined with random quantum noise or something along those lines. Depending on how strong are the causal ripple effects from past events and how strong are the random noises altering them, you end up acting either morally or immorally. In part you are unlucky, in part you have no choice. Anyway, it's not your fault. Therefore there is no true moral responsibility on your part either. 

It's difficult to answer your question about postmodernism, for a couple of reasons. First, the term "postmodernism" is used extremely equivocally: sometimes it refers strictly to a movement of late twentieth-century French philosophers (Derrida, Deleuze, Lyotard, Irigaray); sometimes it also includes Heidegger, Nietzsche, Freud, certain readings of Marx and Hegel, or any feminist philosopher. So it's not clear whose views of science you're asking about. Second, even the strict-sense postmodernists had very different views on science. Deleuze saw himself as providing a new metaphysics for science, following Bergson; when Lyotard rejects "metanarratives" in The Postmodern Condition, he's primarily targeting science. If I recall correctly, Gary Gutting's French Philosophy in the Twentieth Century discusses both of their views (and has a great chapter on prewar French philosophy of science). The view that the value of science comes from the way it lets us do things is historically associated with Francis Bacon. If anything Bacon was just barely pre-modern! In the nineteenth and twentieth century, it's associated with logical empiricism — especially Otto Neurath — and American pragmatism — especially John Dewey. For a discussion of the relationship between logical empiricism and pragmatism, check out George Reisch's How the Cold War Transformed Philosophy of Science. For work by contemporary philosophers of science, I recommend Nancy Cartwright's "Well-Ordered Science: Evidence for Use" and Matt Brown's book-in-progress. 

Since natural languages (e.g. English) are prone to ambiguities and misunderstandings due to their constant evolving nature and lack of rigorous formalization, and given an arbitrary philosopher X who wants to show the validity of his argument, would it be possible for that philosopher to translate his argument into a formal, non-ambiguous mathematical proof written in some kind of formal mathematical language in order to convincingly and indisputably show everyone else his argument's correctness? 

If determinism happens to be true, then people just do what the laws of Physics governing the chemical interactions of neurons in their brains make them do. In such a scenario, wouldn't it be unfair to punish people in Hell (or any other form of eternal punishment for that matter)? If determinism is true, then people have no choice but to do what they are determined to do, including those people who behave immorally. If the goal is to put an end to immorality, then there are 2 options: 

I haven't used/taught LPL myself, so I don't know the format or standards for finishing a RAA proof. The indented lines 1-4 are correct; for the un-indented line 2, either it's malformed (Eaa if and only if E?) or I don't understand how to parse it. In my logic courses, I would probably accept 4 as sufficient to show that 1 leads to a contradiction, QED. 

Some recent work on "agnotology" by historians and philosophers — the name is derived from "ἄgnosis", "not knowing" — distinguishes "native state" ignorance from "passive" ignorance and ignorance as a "strategic ploy." (I might be garbling the terminology slightly, but that's at least close.) Native state and passive ignorance are roughly what you call "ignorance" — ignorance on an issue due to lack of study or exploration of the issue. "Strategic ploy" ignorance is roughly what you call "false knowledge." Ideology, propaganda, and manufacturing doubt are cases where ignorance is more-or-less intentionally constructed to maintain the status quo. So, to answer the first part of your first question, this recent work seems to fit with the distinction you're looking for between "ignorance" and "false knowledge." No one working in this area also studies Nietzsche, AFAIK; and I'm not an expert on Nietzsche myself; so I can't really answer the second part of your first question. Now to your second question. The creators of strategic ploy ignorance generally do not present themselves in public as having a "will to untruth." Indeed, they often present themselves publicly as defenders of the truth. For example, climate skeptics — manufacturing doubt about anthropogenic climate change — claim that mainstream climate scientists have politicized science and are failing to respect "the scientific method." (Here is a fascinating paper about the ways both mainstream climate scientists and climate skeptics rhetorically appeal to Popper's falsificationism.) It's tempting to say that, while both sides of the climate controversy present themselves as having the will to truth, one side actually has the "will to untruth." Indeed, if I remember the standard readings of Nietzsche correctly, he argues that the "will to truth" is always nothing more than convenient rhetorical cover for the will to power. So, on this reading of Nietzsche, neither climate skeptics nor climate scientists are actually interested in truth; both are pursuing power, in different ways. Note that Nietzsche doesn't present normative arguments that the will to power is somehow morally better than the will to truth. Instead, he's making descriptive arguments that in fact we are driven by the will to power rather than the will to truth. I would argue that Nietzsche (or at least this reading of Nietzsche) commits a version of the fallacy of the single cause. ("Cause" in the sense of "explanation" rather than "efficient cause.") In other words, Nietzsche assumes that humans have exactly one motivation or goal; and so if power is our goal, truth can't be our goal. But humans have a lot of different goals, and these goals are often entangled. Let's see how this works in the climate case. Climate scientists are probably generally motivated by desires to keep their jobs, get their students jobs, continue or expand their research funding, get social attention and acclaim, and so on. Many of them are environmentalists, and so they're also motivated by a desire to protect humanity and the environment from serious harms. And as scientists they're probably generally motivated by a desire to understand and make accurate predictions about the climate. Some of these motivations reinforce each other; some of them conflict. And some of them interact. Specifically, environmentalist and scientific motivations are probably combined for many climate scientists — they want to understand climate in order to protect the environment. And this combination will probably make them more willing to accept certain claims (about the seriousness of climate change, for example) and less willing to accept others (claims that climate change isn't happening or isn't a serious threat, for example). Climate skeptics will also have a complex combination of motivations. Specifically, many high-profile climate skeptics have received funding from the fossil fuels industry and conservative funders, and so they have financial incentives that shape their pursuit of truth. This combination probably explains why they're more skeptical about claims that climate change is seriousness and more willing to accept claims that climate change isn't a serious threat, for example. These complex combinations of motivations don't, by themselves, make either climate scientists or climate skeptics irrational. We're all engaged in the pursuit of many motives, including but not limited to truth. Instead, I argue, we need to consider what motivations should be shaping climate science, and in what ways. For example, which is more important, protecting human health and the environment, or protecting the profits of the fossil fuel industry? Insofar as we think the profits of the fossil fuel industry are less important, we have reason to discount the claims of the climate skeptics and accept the claims of mainstream climate scientists. (And that gives you my answer to your third question.) 

Since words are defined in terms of other words in dictionaries, leading to infinite loops, does it mean natural languages are meaningless? Are infinitely recursive definitions valid? If we visualize the relationship graph of a dictionary, where vertices are words and there is a directed edge X -> Y from word X to word Y if X appears in definition of Y, we would see that such a graph is full of cycles. So if you pick any word and try to fully capture its definition from the dictionary, you will be looping in the dictionary forever. In order to avoid that, you would need a DAG (directed acyclic graph) of definitions. Correct? Do you agree with this? If so, would that mean that all natural languages are bound to be meaningless and we should state our logical proofs in formal logic / mathematically? 

One reading of evolution by natural selection follows a similar pattern. (I think I'm cribbing this from Dennett's Darwin's Dangerous Idea, but that could be wrong.) Here's the idea: 

In social science and humanities, qualitative research methods systematically collect observations, identify phenomena, and analyze them without quantification. Consider this report by the research nonprofit FrameWorks. (There are plenty of peer-reviewed examples — qualitative methods are widely used in anthropology, for example — but this was the first fully-public document to show up when I searched my research library.) The researchers gathered data by interviewing two groups of people ("experts" and "members of the public"), then analyzed these data to identify common themes (in the way people talked about the value of natural spaces), and were especially interested in picking out themes that were different between the two groups. This study involved systematic observation and analysis, but not quantification. So I would say that it's identifying things that aren't "delusions," but without measuring anything in the McNamara sense. "Objectivity" is highly ambiguous. You might think that quantitative measurement and analysis are objective processes because they're "mechanical" or "automatic," meaning roughly that the outcome doesn't depend on the researcher — i.e., different researchers would get the same results. Qualitative data collection and analysis are not mechanical in this sense, so you might worry that they're not objective or reliable. But qualitative researchers use other approaches to ensure that their data analysis is reliable. For example, they'll continuously re-analyze their data until they reach saturation. Or they'll develop definitions of the concepts they're analyzing, have two or more researchers independently analyze the data according to those definitions, and then compare the results.