...P.S. As @Schiphol mentioned, the material conditional has nothing to do with causation. Rather, it dictates what IS true, right now, given that something else IS true, right now. Look up subjunctive arguments to see some truth-functionality issues with trying to bring temporal qualifiers into propositional logic. There are separate, temporal modal logics to deal with that sort of thing, because propositional logic is not really sufficiently expressive. 

There are papers in the philosophy of literature (I don't remember names and authors, I can look them up if this sounds interesting to you) that talk about literature as a tool for gaining ethical knowledge by "placing" oneself into novel situations. I believe there is a reference to mirror neurons, which are a mechanism for sympathy that works by forcing the brain to mirror someone else's emotions (as opposed to simulating them). There is also evidence in psychology that, say, practicing an instrument in one's sleep is a lot like real practice (once again, haven't read this stuff in a while but would be able to find it). I think this question would do well being moved to the cognitive sciences SE. But as a quick answer, it appears that experiences in one's sleep (and thought-experiments, for that matter), can indeed be very useful. But, as was mentioned by @danielm above, the system one is working in at these times is no longer the world, but is rather one's imagination. This means one is bound to make mistakes where one's knowledge falls short, and won't necessarily notice that such mistakes were made, because there is neither physical reality nor other people to provide a natural "check". This was Plato's problem with the arts, as presented in The Republic (see SEP on Plato's aesthetics): an artist imitates the truth as it appears to his or her imagination, and the unwitting public takes it as fact. There need not be an artist/audience separation; the same can be said of an individual undertaking a thought-experiment, or dreaming. 

In order to present said alien civilization with an adequate definition of Modus Ponens, we would need to provide the truth values of both P and Q for every possible case, rather than just one or the other and for only some cases. (If we were to apply more generally your method of revealing only part of the output, we could avoid ever adequately defining any function because we could always keep re-iterating the premises (or just tacking on a tautology, such as (P or ~P)) in our output instead of providing any new information). What distinguishes MP from the disjunction (P or Q) is that in the latter case, P and Q cannot both be false under the same interpretation, while in the case of logical entailment, it is not possible for Q to be false while P is true. This would be evident to your hypothetical civilization. The mathoverflow post to which you linked covers efforts to get around the ability to draw unrelated tautological conclusions by attempting to set rules for a relatedness requirement--but this is mostly a matter of psychology, because formal logic does not purport to do anything except preserve the truth, and that it does. The efforts do, however, make logic more useful to humans because they create reasoning-like restrictions. 

I would highly recommend reading Spitzer's "New Proofs for The Existence of God" which takes into account modern physics (and goes far further in depth than most books of its genre). There are multiple arguments presented in the book, such as the fact that irrespective of which scientific theory you follow (short of a theory of a multiverse where every mathematical possibility exists because it has to [which has far more philosophical issues]), there has to be a reason for why the universe is an instance of that theory (supposing we actually arrive at a theory that truly models reality) and how it is actually material (Actual) as opposed to a Potentiality. Stephen Hawking (before he started trying to figure out loopholes in the problem) phrased this in the question: 

Chris Sunami's anwer is excellent. I would like to add to it by pointing out the fact that "the scientific method" isn't as well defined as you may think, and defining this method is in the realm of philosophy. While some people argue that you should just "Shut up and calculate", others (notably Nancy Cartwright) would argue that the Scientific Process isn't just the building of a mathematical model, but also the building of a philosophical model and understanding how the two relate (explained quite well in this book). Technicalities as to how the scientific method works means that you not only have divisions between philosophers arguing on the subject, but even people who say they believe in "scientism" also have contentions on. For example, you have the split between the people who think that all scientists are discovering something about reality and those that disagree that anything they discover is "real", since it is not the final Fundamental Unification theory. As you study more science, you discover that interpretation of theories (and choice of the theories you deem worthy to interpret) cannot be based on any ground truth implicit to the theory without resorting to some philosophical principles. 

The BGV theorem also suggests that current science points towards there being a definite need of a first cause, while most philosophers also argue that it is impossible to have an infinite past, due to the fact that we would have had to have accomplished the infinite past to get to the present, which is impossible (as opposed to an infinite future, which can be described as simply unending and provides no paradoxes). Furthermore, as stated by user103766, there are also deterministic theories of QM, such as Bohmian Mechanics, which suggest that there are existent particles that move in a deterministic way, guided by a waveform. The main issue in terms of QM in terms of being a stochastic theory is the question of Free Will. Does QM allow us to have any choice (and is this choice hidden away within the stochastic results of QM) or are all actions entirely random. This possibly actually provides more "room" for the possibility of Free Will than a deterministic Classical Mechanics does (especially in bizarre theories such as the Many Minds theory). However, philosophers should be cautious about this as it is an attempt to put Free Will in a gap of our understanding (and therefore has an analogue with the flawed God-of-the-gaps position). There are of course many alternative suggestions to this problem, such as Emergence or a Neo-Aristotelian perspective which tries to explain why Special Sciences are valid and model reality well, and how Free Will could arrive from structure. 

No, you don’t need to know what truth is before you decide that something is true or not. The way we use the concept of truth is with a predicate, i.e. truth is with reference to the subject of a proposition, and all we need is the verification of our senses. For example, if you want to know that a certain cat (e.g. Schrödinger’s cat) sealed in a box is dead or alive, all you have to do is open the box. If you do open the box and find that the cat is dead, then your earlier statement (if you made one), p = The cat is dead, is true, else, according to Quantum Physics, the cat is both dead and alive at the same time (in Nagarjuna’s tetralemma: p AND ~p is the case just before you open the box, which does away with Aristotle’s principle of non-contradiction (law of the excluded middle, i.e. either a proposition is true or its negation is true.) In Mathematics we have no need for the verification of our sense, but we must follow a series of steps (rules, laws, procedures) determined by logic and, sometimes, by intuition. Platonists on the other hand believe that there is such a thing as Truth, an Ideal Form, which has little to do with the truths revealed by our senses but is like the truth revealed by mathematics. The same applies also to other concepts, e.g. Justice, Freedom, Good, Evil, etc. But this idea has no practical value in a mundane world. Nietzsche said that all such terms (those above) are governed by conventions and we must not forget that they are metaphors, metonymies, etc.: “What, then, is truth? A mobile army of metaphors, metonyms, and anthropomorphisms—in short, a sum of human relations which have been enhanced, transposed, and embellished poetically and rhetorically, and which after long use seem firm, canonical, and obligatory to a people: truths are illusions about which one has forgotten that this is what they are; metaphors which are worn out and without sensuous power; coins which have lost their pictures and now matter only as metal, no longer as coins.” (Nietzsche: On Truth and Lie in an Extra-Moral Sense). For Nietzsche, and for a lot of other people, “Truth … the ‘thing in itself’ (for that is what pure truth, without consequences, would be) is quite incomprehensible to the creators of language and not at all worth aiming for.” (Nietzsche: On Truth and ...etc.) 

To know that something is true means to know that something is the case. For example if one makes the statement p, ‘The sun rises in the east’, and you want to find out if p is true, you need to go out there and observe the rising or not rising of the sun in the east. If the sun rises in the east, as has been the case for us humans for thousands of years, then we say that p is true. This is called inductive reasoning, which has served us very well and allowed us to make magnificent technological progress. You don’t need to know what ‘truth’ is. Truth is just another way of saying that something is the case for a particular object or event in a specific time and place. In other words, Truth is not a Platonic idea to which all things partake in order to obtain the property of trueness. This means that truth is not absolute but relative to the perspective we take. Outside our specific perspective the notion of truth does not make any sense. For example, if you live on a space station and make the statement p, ‘The sun rises in the east”, then p is meaningless. In space there are no cardinal points, or up, down, left, right. All these orientations make sense and can have a true/false value only if we decide to adopt a point of reference, to which these orientations will be relative. In addition, we assume that the laws of nature are true everywhere in the universe. We make assumptions in order to work on our theories to build models that would explain the world. And know very well that progress is made only when our models are falsified. In which case we are forced to change our assumptions (what we held as true) about the world and proceed to build new models on the basis of the newly acquired knowledge. To know that p means that we take p to be true, until evidence proves otherwise. This is how knowledge progresses, by revising our beliefs or what we hold as true for a particular object or event.