From an information-theoretic perspective, this would fail. That's because the language uses a unary encoding (the length of the silence). The unary encoding could carry a binary encoding on top of it, which would make it basically equivalent to Morse code. But in general, a unary encoding is exponentially less efficient than a binary or higher encoding. That's because the digits required to write a number N is proportional to N (it's exactly N). But the digits required to write a number N in base r (with r > 1) is only log_r N. It's the difference between being able to write the number 1000 on a piece of paper or not. In unary, you would write one thousand scratch marks one after the other. Any creature which used a more complex encoding would be able to transmit information much faster, which would offer an enormous benefit to the creatures trying to communicate in unary. In fact, human language, despite its redundancies, is very efficient. It roughly uses a Huffman encoding for the length of words (common words are short, with infrequently used words being long). Also, using the silence instead of the sound is quite wasteful of the available degrees of freedom. Almost every creature that can make a sound can vary the pitch or amplitude under control. So failing to use these dimensions is an unnecessary handicap. I can't think of a single creature which uses sound to communicate, but fails to use amplitude and frequency to carry information. 

As Soon As Possible I would say that trade would proceed as quickly as rocket technology permits. However, we should be clear that the initial cargo would likely be the same as on Earth today for private space launches. There is really only one thing that is so valuable you would pay almost any price to launch it into space: yourself (where "yourself" == rich billionaire). The first launches would likely be diplomatic missions between the superpowers on each planet. After that, luxury tourism would probably be the first private industry to finance inter-planetary launches. And naturally, once rich people can travel between the planets, they will insist on certain personal items being transferred to their off-world vacation home (pets, trophies, etc.). Regular exchange of trade goods (non-people) would probably not occur until launch costs come down dramatically, or non-rocket solutions are developed (space elevator, tether, etc.). However, we are virtually guaranteed that powerful and rich people will want to travel off-world just as soon as it is feasible. The first off-world in-person delegation to arrive would literally be a world-wide event for both planets. Also, consider that any superpowers with imperial ambitions would realize that having just one world to conquer is not enough. Such a nation would surely militarize space as soon as possible. 

Invite Power Make the local power utility buy your electricity. Ideally, the machine would scale according to some input. That is, if you put more energy into the machine, even more power would come out. This would allow you to ramp up power output to any arbitrary level by introducing a feedback loop. Then connect your device to the local power grid, and charge the utility to buy your power (works in the USA). It really doesn't matter if feedback is available or not, as long as you can submit enough "free power" for the utility to meter it and notice. Even a few hundred watts of continuous power will be convincing. Dump power into the grid for a few months...enough to get statements from the utility showing that they are paying you. If you can get a feedback loop, great! You can easily dump enough power into the grid to put a nice dent in their profits, but be careful not to blow up your local substation!! Finally, write an open letter to the utility, along with properly redacted copies of your electricity bill, and have it posted as a full-page ad in the nearest big-city newspaper. Tell them that you are feeding power into their grid with a device that consumes no fuel, or that produces over-unity outputs (more power than it consumes). Invite them to come inspect your "generator" with qualified experts, under the condition that all inspections are conducted in full view of the media and independent witnesses, to prevent tampering/destruction. Go National In fact, invite all national utilities, and threaten to bring your device to their grids too, if they don't come and investigate your power source. Especially invite the scientists (obviously). Ask the local universities to provide experts to oversee the inspections, and make it clear that you will comply with any reasonable requests to make the device available for testing (checking ground connections for surreptitious power, etc.). Conclusion First, you are gathering evidence that your device does what it says. That's the electric bills. You are using an objective third-party to "pre-certify" your claim. Second, you are employing the carrot of curiosity, by inviting all experts to examine your device, and letting people know that you are aware of the kinds of tricks employed in the over-unity scam space, and that you will let them eliminate all such explanations for your device. Third, you are employing the stick of using your device as an economic weapon, by forcing utilities to buy so much power from you that they go bankrupt. This incentivizes them to quickly verify or disprove your claims, before things get out of hand. Of course, you could be just running a conventional gasoline generator and feeding it into the grid, as a publicity stunt; but the utility will eventually want to prove that is what you are doing. They might sit on their hands for a while to see if you get tired of buying gas for your generator, since you can't possibly do that at a profit; but the longer your machine runs, the more obvious it will be that it's legit, and you aren't just trying to scam them. And if you can introduce feedback, you can force them to act very quickly. With feedback, you can do something quite dramatic, like set up a huge Tesla coil and generate massive lightning displays powered by your device. When you get a forklift and pick up your device and drive it around a bit while the coil is discharging, it will become obvious that there is no way you are generating millions of volts and significant current from a scam device. 

Overview We have durasteel and tritanium because nano-structured material science is a very new field, and writers could not have reasonably predicted it over the history of sci-fi. The kind of nano-engineering we are used to comes from biology, which we all know is "squishy", not solid. However, the strongest materials we are able to make today do not involve finding magical metals. Rather, they are discovered at the nano-scale, from building things up at the molecular level. Examples Carbon nanotubes are currently one of the strongest materials we know about. Aerogel is one of the best insulators, as well as some of the lowest-density material we know how to make. And, of course, graphene is the current poster child of nano-engineering awesomeness. Then there are metamaterials, which can provide a kind of cloaking. Theory What these examples teach us is that nature is not interesting because there are 100+ elements on the periodic table. 100 is a very small number, atomically speaking. It is interesting because a mole is a very large number: ~$10^{24}$. If you take just a small handful of those 100 elements (or, in the case of carbon, just one) and combine $10^{24}$ of them in different ways, how many interesting things can you produce? The answer: a mind-boggling number. Biology is the first proof of this. But biology has an agenda: it's trying to make successful replicators, which limits the kinds of materials it can produce. Biology doesn't produce aerogels because most creatures do not need to insulate themselves from 1000 C flames. Humans, on the other hand, have all kinds of uses for an insulator this effective. Other examples involve energy storage. In the past, we would make batteries, optimize them, and then ask: "How do we make the battery hold more energy?" And the answer was usually: "Find a different material to store it." So we moved from lead-acid to NiCd to NMH to LiIon to LiPo. Well, chemistry-wise, LiPo seems to have the best energy density we can find, so how can we squeeze more performance out of LiPo? The answer is to stop doing macro-scale chemistry, and zoom down to the micro- and nano-scale. 8th Century Metallurgy A simple iron sword is better than a rock as a weapon, but iron is relatively soft as metals go. So add some carbon, and you get steel. Now, most of us think of steel as a fairly uniform material. Just a bunch of iron with a tiny bit of carbon mixed in. The strength is surely just a function of how much carbon is included, right? Well, not quite. In fact, steel quality varies quite a bit depending on the process used, and as far back as the 8th century, blacksmiths were using nanostructures to make Damascus steel. Of course, they didn't know that carbon nanotubes were part of the secret to making really tough steel, but that is apparently the case. So, instead of looking to a magical element on the periodic table to give you exceptional new properties, start with the $10^{24}$ lego bricks in a kg of common elements, mix, match and rearrange them in novel ways, and you can probably derive almost any kind of extreme property imaginable. 

Overview No war would be fought. First, you don't have immortals. Immortals are beings which do not age or die of old age, but are otherwise susceptible to harm and death. You have invincibles, which cannot be killed under any circumstances. Despite your claim, these beings should not have greed, lust, anger, etc. Mortals hoard resources because they are necessary to survive and thrive. This leads to greed and competition. They lust because reproduction is the only form of immortality available to them. But immortal and invincible beings should have no biological imperative to reproduce, unless there is some other benefit to increasing numbers. History So, it matters how these beings came to be invincible, because that would determine what kinds of drives and motivations they inherited. But logically, such beings should not care about food, clothing, housing, or any other needs related to survival. They should only care about pleasure, whether by art or learning or hedonistic experience. They may develop technology, but if they start at medieval level tech, then their most advanced weapon is their invincibility itself. Even trapping an invincible may be difficult to impossible. If you chain one to a brick and throw it in the deep ocean, it could just break off its leg and regrow it. If you try to bury it under a pile of rocks, it could explode itself or even immolate itself to escape, literally in a cloud of smoke. And technology may well boil down to various ways to attack not one's enemies, but oneself in order to avoid an unseemly fate. This would be a rather peculiar state of affairs, to say the least. Tactics Thus, any kind of conflict would center on imprisonment, as others have noted, but especially on escape, which may defeat capture/imprisonment entirely. Such beings may simply choose to embed a bomb inside their own bodies so that they can detonate at any time, making it nearly impossible to truly trap them. Conclusion Since scarce resources are meaningless for survival, at most, such beings would compete over art and pleasure. Learning would benefit most from cooperation, and is generally not zero-sum. Even competing over resources to, say, build musical instruments or theaters would seem petty and small-minded for such powerful beings. In fact, it is hard to believe that such beings would want to do anything other than advance their technology to match their innate abilities, and this would be accomplished quickest by cooperating. Strong leaders would not exist because they can guarantee survival or riches, but simply because they would give people something to do. Boredom would be the biggest danger in a world of such beings. This is why intellectual advancement is the most logical pursuit. How they came to be so powerful with so little technology to begin with might be the defining question of their time, given that nothing else in their world is as durable as they are.