You can conceive a universe where usual logic would not work, for instance, a universe where everything you believe or want or fear is true, or a universe where there is no logic, only some constant permanent sensation, but it will not be universe in the usual sense (it would not be possible to describe it in formal language). But if you take the level of the most abstract qualia, you can conceive a qualia flow that would break usual laws of logic. In a sense it would be somewhat similar to a sleeping dream or being under drugs. So, if you consider such deep modification of reality as modifying the basic qualia (and not just changing the physical laws), as a different “universe”, yes, it is possible. In sort, if we consider the universe as some kind of qualia flow, we can construe another flow with different logic. Yet we cannot construe a universe with different logic by just modifying the laws of physics. You should also note that this will require changing not only sensory qualia such as vision, but more subtle ones, involving thinking and memory. 

In Russia there is a term "destructive sect" or "destructive cult". While many new religions often get labeled as such, there are people who are trying to give a strict definition of a "destructive sect". Particularly, some of the following criteria were suggested: 

Peter van Inwagen in his "Metaphysics" (2009) explains point of view that both determinism and indeterminism (which he understands as randomness) are incompatible with free will. He concludes that as such, free will cannot exist or merely an illusion. 

Mathematics is the study of common properties of things that have different physical content. That is study of properties which are common to physically unrelated things. All triangles have common properties, be it triangle of atoms or triangle of the roof or triangle of stars. All sets of 6 items have common properties be it 6 apples, 6 cars or 6 galaxies. People have noticed this and decided to study these properties separated from the physical things. 

There is no universal agreed upon answer, but personally I would be a little Aristotelian about it: art has a purpose, and the degree that it is fit to that purpose is the degree that it is great art. Some would say that the purpose of art is to make our surrounding more pleasant. It is to make us feel good, so we may judge whether lots of people "like" something to determine its value. Under this definition, even a soothing wallpaper pattern or elevator music could count as art, and professional opinion is valueless compared to the aggregation of millions of "likes". Personally I think art is different from decoration, or at least great art is much more than decoration. I have heard a definition of art that art is what the art community says is art. There are various traditions of creating art, and the artists in those traditions can evaluate what is actually part of those traditions. Professional opinion is all that counts as it takes training to evaluate how well a piece of art maintains a particular tradition or not. This is probably a gross simplification of the position, but I'm not happy with this definition, as I think there is a universal and timeless quality to art beyond what a community of artists may define it to be. Some would suggest that the purpose of art is to embody or communicate emotions and ideas, usually in a metaphorical way that gives it a general applicability that prose does not have. When we see great art, we feel something more, or understand something more than we did before, even if we can't say what it is. It is also accessible beyond a select group of people; it tries to communicate with everyone. Art seems to have a language all of its own, and the way that we respond to art is largely determined by the associations we have with art from a similar tradition. These associations are like the language that we have picked up by previously being exposed to art. Some art languages we seem to pick up naturally, just as we pick up our native spoken language. Some languages take more work. In this perspective, we can evaluate art by how well it uses the art languages from the traditions it draws on, and communicates to the desired audience. That audience may be people with only basic art language comprehension, or it may be people who have spent years learning artistic languages. Maybe great art needs to have something to offer both audiences. There is a certain genius to just communicating to people using a small vocabulary, as shown by Dr. Seuss. But it has nothing for highly literate people, so it may be a stretch to call "Fox in Socks" great literature. Likewise, I think a book that can only be read and understood by a select few is no good at communicating, so it can not be great art. Really great art seems to have a quality that allows it to transcend the art tradition in which it is based. It is almost like even if you don't fully understand it; you just know that it has a lot to say. So in that way, we can all judge great art to some extent, but it is good to have people around that can read it properly so we know whether it is really great or whether it is really just a babbling imposter. 

It should be noted that there is a chance that can save the free will. A research by Thomas Breuser concluded that neither deterministic, nor indeterministic universally-valid theories are possible. That means that no theory can predict (even probabilistically) the future of a system which contains the observer himself due to self-reference problem. As such it seems that the free will of at least the observer can be saved while all other people will appear to him as following the laws of deterministic or random theory and as such, not possessing free will. Particularly, regarding quantum mechanics Breuer proves that a system which includes the observer has states in phase space which are in principle cannot be distinguished by observer himself however good measurement devices he would employ. Yes these states affect the future evolution of the system. This can be understood as that there is hidden information which real but unreadable by any physical device which affects the future behavior of the observer. 

It should be noted that there is a chance that can save the free will. A research by Thomas Breuser concluded that neither deterministic, nor indeterministic universally-valid theories are possible. That means that no theory can predict (even probabilistically) the future of a system which contains the observer himself due to self-reference problem. As such it seems that the free will of at least the observer can be saved while all other people will appear to him as following the laws of deterministic or random theory and as such, not possessing free will. Particularly, regarding quantum mechanics Breuer proves that a system which includes the observer has states in phase space which are in principle cannot be distinguished by observer himself however good measurement devices he would employ. Yes these states affect the future evolution of the system. This can be understood as that there is hidden information which real but unreadable by any physical device which affects the future behavior of the observer. 

Let's rephrase the doctrine a bit, because Geometry is a tricky case due to the study of consistent non-Euclidean geometries. For example, in spherical geometry you can construct a triangle with two right angles. Since the doctrine in question was espoused before the advent of non-Euclidean geometry, let's give them the benefit of the doubt and rephrase it. Suppose the idea is that even God can't change logical facts. Then you might say that even God could not make a claim simultaneously true and false (unless you go in for paraconsistent logics). Suppose the idea is that even God can't change mathematical facts. Then you might say that even God could not make induction false over the natural numbers, or true over the reals. Or maybe that even God couldn't make it the case that 2+2=5. (This is hairier, since as in the case of geometry this can be false in some arithmetic-like models, i.e. the integers mod 2, but here we take ourselves to have good reason to say that those aren't the natural numbers.) The justification for these claims is that it's unclear what it could even be for God to change such facts. What would it be for God to make it both true and false that I have two hands? Or to make it false that (p and q) entails p? Or that a mathematical property could be had by 0, and passed up from each number to the next, but not be true of all natural numbers? (we have a good understanding of how this property can fail, but not how it can fail over the natural numbers). Edit: Realized I didn't directly address the questions at the bottom. Most (not all) philosophical views about mathematics don't take geometry to be describing physical objects or tie the truth of propositions about triangles and the like to the existence of suitably related structures in the world. They could think there are real shapes corresponding to geometrical objects (one example of this view would be Platonism), but think this in the same sense that there's a real object corresponding to, say, any given function, algebra, splitting field, or the like. So they definitely don't think the subject matter of geometry is visible things (any more than the subject of arithmetic is collections of pebbles). Depending on your ontological views you might think there are objects (i.e. collections of spacetime points) corresponding to particular geometrical objects, but the truth of mathematical propositions is not taken to depend on their existence. A notable exception is nominalism, which holds that for propositions about triangles, well-ordered sets and the like to be true there must be concrete physical objects (broadly understood) in the world corresponding to them. And here geometry plays a major role, i.e. Field's famous nominalization of Newtonian gravitational theory cashed-out notions from mathematical physics in terms of the geometry of points, regarded as concrete objects. 

Example An example I am aware of is the Torah Codes, in which the birth and death dates of important Rabbis are supposedly encoded close to their names in the Bible. Some very intelligent researchers found extraordinarily strong evidence using recognised statistical techniques, and their results were published in a secular peer-reviewed journal. It had many people convinced for a time, until other researchers demonstrated methodological problems that were the probable source of the amazing evidence. It is likely that the researchers "tuned" their experiment, settling on a sample which confirmed their hypothesis, and then presenting their tuned sample as an independently compiled sample. When you disregard confounding evidence, as is common with religious belief, any statistics that you use as justification for your beliefs is automatically useless. Based on this, I think it is extremely hard to take seriously research done by people with religiously predetermined opinions. Meaning of "Intellectual Honesty" The standard of intellectual honesty is more rigorous than just having knowledge. For instance, true belief does not consititute knowledge. For knowledge it is necessary that a believer have justification to support their belief. But the believer must only be aware of the justification for their belief for it to be knowledge. The belief need not be caused by the justification. In contrast, I don't think that simply having justification constitutes intellectual honesty. It is not just necessary that the believer is aware of the justification, I think they must believe an assertion because of the justification, or at least be open to disbelieving it should the evidence point in the opposite direction. While an (hypothetical) entirely irrational person may have true beliefs and untrue beliefs, none of their beliefs constitute knowledge because the truth of their beliefs is accidental. They do not know (or understand) the difference between their true and untrue beliefs. Likewise, a person with an overriding faith may have justified beliefs and unjustified beliefs. Although they know and understand justification, this time they simply do not care about it. Whether their beliefs have justification or not is accidental, and so the truth of their beliefs is still accidental. Such a person may be very intelligent, and may in other ways be honest, but as the truth of their beliefs is still fundamentally accidental, it can be difficult to trust them. Even without lies, if they do not believe because of justifications, and would not be able to be swayed by justifications, they are still intellectually dishonest.