How do you get a sense of how a girl will treat you before you've gone on a date with her? Well, you could analyze her, observe her, ask her friends... but the best way is to just try it out and see how it feels. You're not really under any obligation to stay with a company for any amount of time after joining if you don't like it. If you were, it would also be reasonable to assume that a company is under an obligation not to fire you if you are lazy or incompetent. 

Phone interviews from other developers is by far the easiest way to get a job as a developer. In my experience it's like a shortcut for the highly skilled. You will probably be asked a lot of technical questions, so there's nothing you can do here but answer to the best of your ability and let your years of experience and expertise shine! Specifically, 

In order to deal with this, you need to make your appeal directly to the person capable of fixing this decision. The first step would be to identify the right person. Head of HR would be good, and then the next step up would probably be the VP in charge of HR, then the president themself. Keep in mind, that to give you guys your money (which I think you ought to have,) whoever issued the disciplinary action is going to have to admit they are wrong. That means they are going to fight you for it. I feel like your reasons explained above are very reasonable, so you should explain them to someone in charge, and hope that they are reasonable. If that doesn't work, the question is, how badly do you need your job? If you are unwilling to take a stand in any way, or walk away from this job, then it will be difficult to affect change. I'm not a big fan of issuing ultimatums. Personally, I would quit, just like that. But if you don't want to quit, the above are your options, as I see it. In regards to seeking help from an external government authority, this is very noble, but honestly it would probably take months to change anything, and the government agency would, at best, simply meddle with your company or shut them down. 

I would say simply work as much as you're comfortable with and listen to pressures and demands of your supervisor as you would the sound of the ocean. If you want to stop working precisely at 5, then do so. If your boss cannot deal with you working what are normal hours, they will fire you. Mission accomplished - you have extricated yourself from this negative situation. If they don't fire you, you are now working hours that you like. Win-win. 

It is very difficult to tell if someone is lying over the phone, in fact even professionals have trouble doing so. There are some techniques you can use, as outlined here. For example, if a person is lying, they take a bit longer to answer than if they are telling the truth. That being said, a person may take a bit longer to answer over the phone because their cat is doing something cute right in front of them. You can't know for sure, it's a phone. Over the phone, you should ask questions that cannot be 'cheated,' due to their content. For example, "Name one situation where you faced a technical challenge and overcame it." "What is your greatest strength and why?" Then save the creatable questions for the live interview. Seriously, it's just common sense. 

The most important thing to consider is if you signed a contract with your boss, and if that specificially prohibits you from personally engaging clients of the business for a certain period of time. If so, then you cannot accept the job without risking a lawsuit. Since your contract does not mention this, you are clear. That aside, your company will definitely fire you if they find out what you're doing, which is called "poaching" in the industry. They would probably also give you a bad reference or also just sue you anyways. You should determine if the total income from this client would be greater than the wages paid by your employer for all duties, and if so, go for it. 

My point is, there is really no way to protect yourself from being laid off. You are much better off planning for the inevitable need to move to a different job. To be constructive, here are some things you can do: Things You CAN Do 

It is a fairly antiquated term, but it is certainly used and its meaning is widely understood as "a dramatic and unpredicted weather event." The term originated in the United States sometime in the last century. As seperation of religion and workplace did not exist at the beginning of the century, and the US is a Christian state with "God" right in its motto, it fit. In lieu of saying "act of God" you can say "extreme weather conditions" or "unpredictable, theologically-agnostic natural disaster." 

Everything is negotiable in a contract. There is absolutely no "bulletproof" way of getting your requests, because each potential boss will handle the negotiating process differently. If you would like either of these benefits, simply sit down with your potential employer, and state these are the terms on which you will work. If they say yes, great. If they say no, try to convince them via some logical argument or your own personal charisma. There may be many scenarios where it is impossible to reach a decision that is unilaterally favourable to you. 

You basically have two threads of things you can do when you have nothing else to - germane and anti-germane. Germane comes from the word "germinate," as in germinates from or is spawned from your day to day work. Assuming you're a programmer... Germane Activities 

If it's the sort of job that makes sense for you, you should perceive a four hour interview as something fun where you'll get to do all sorts of new, interesting and challenging things. If you feel as though it would be a hassle, then why would you even consider the job in the first place? Do something you want to do instead. 

The thing that is really important in any team setting is communication skills. Many people find communicating with arrogant people frustrating. I'd say the issue isn't that you perceived him as arrogant, it's that he didn't communicate the answers to your questions sufficiently well. In conclusion it's very easy to hire someone unpleasant if someone else is managing them. 

Startups are notoriously greedy with the time of their employees, this is just one example. All employers, but especially startups, want you to be minding their business as much as possible. Legally, you must mind their business for a pre-agreed upon span of time, usually Monday to Friday, 9-5. The remainder of your time (evenings and weekends) are not yet spoken for. If possible, your employer would like you to be minding their business during all this time, which could include 

Physiological (Food, shelter) Safety (food, shelter for tomorrow. No leopards in the cave.) Love/Belonging (Friendship) Esteem (achievement) Self-actualization (creativity) 

You should absolutely go for it. Recruiters are like bird-dogs for companies, that run through the brush and dig up qualified candidates for their positions. Going to a company directly is like a bird flying straight into your net. It's awesome! I would say don't expect any surprising results. Recruiters tend to be informed on what their companies are looking for, and are usually saving you as much time as they save themselves by offering a quick rejection. But, by all means, try. 

I'd say proceed with caution and if you trust them, then carefully move forward without a contract. I've worked with contracts and without, and I found that having a contract doesn't really help collect money from clients who don't feel like paying. Assuming you do have a contract, if it's only for a few thousand dollars, the legal expenses of forcing the company to pay are often greater than the value of the cheque. In conclusion, if this company is well known to pay all its bills on time then it's fine not to have a contract. If they're not, I wouldn't work for them with or without a contract. 

The paycheque a company provides, even if it is very big, can only cover need #1 and perhaps need #2. Therefore, without some means of covering these additional needs, some (not all) employees will feel dissatisfied. All employees are different - that's why some love wrap parties, and some hate them. However, throwing a party celebrating the team's good works provides both Belonging and Esteem. This is very important for morale! Employees who have their financial needs met but don't feel a sense of belonging or esteem will not put forward their best work. They will feel "unappreciated." To avoid this, throw a party, award them a plaque, or just appreciate them. In conclusion, every employee weighs the five needs differently. You need to see if a party is right for your team - however, everybody appreciates esteem and respect. 

I would say this situation is very well suited to quitting gracefully. Quitting at a random time, with no warning, is a little unprofessional (but still your prerogative.) However, simply being asked to move to a different position, be it up, down, or laterally, is a great opportunity to quit in a professional manner. Simply decline the new position, for personal reasons (It is a great position, but not the right one for me at this time.) You are therefore able to exit the company from the senior position where you were. If you accept the position, then you will never be able to honestly say you left the company from the senior position. Moreover, it may be a while before you have another opportunity to quit that is as good as this one. 

Unless your placement is secret, you can totally list on your resume, or your LinkedIn, that you worked at whichever of the companies you wish. You can even list both, since you did technically work for both. For example, Company A, RecruitoCo, hires you, and sends you immediately to work at respected developer DevTech. You get a cheque from RecruitCo, but on a day-to-day basis you work for people at DevTech. So who do you say you work for? Barring any contractual provisions, you can identify as working for either. Whatever suits you best. Legally, you are bound by any covenants of secrecy that are within your contract, so I'd advise you to look at it, if any particular detail concerns you. Source: Worked this way since 2013. 

To answer the question, "Can I choose leave my job before my two years is over?" Just ask yourself the question, "If it turned out that I was lazy, incompetent, and unpleasant, could my employer dismiss me before my two years is over?" The answer is obviously yes. (If anyone knows an employer who won't, please let me know - I'd love to work for them.) Therefore it is not reasonable to assume you are "bound" to work by a contract. Such an agreement serves as a good faith understanding that if all goes well, all parties will make their best effort to see the contract through. Further, a contract or agreement more or less lays out: 1) What the work will be 2) At what rate the contractor will be compensated until the expiry of the contract If you want to leave at any time, you can. I can't speak to any blacklist since these practices vary from place to place. Most of the time though, "blacklisting" is something people in weak negotiating positions say to scare you. I would recommend you make a good faith effort to continue, and ask your employer to match the terms of the new contract. If they do not, they have failed to make a good faith effort to keep the working relationship alive, and you may end your contract, with appropriate notice, at no risk of unprofessionalism. 

It's important to realize that you do not owe this employer anything. You could simply march into the office and quit, and they would still have to pay you for the time you've worked. However, if you don't want to offend your boss, say something like this, "This job has been really good, and I've learned a lot from it. But I've also found that, personally, I'm not as able to keep up my studies while working a job like this as I thought I would be. So, Friday will be my last day. But I appreciate the work you've done!" 

I can add some perspective there because I am that guy! Not literally. And I've never given anyone the finger at work (Seriously, he gave you the finger?) In one situation, a manager came into my office, and without any formalities, told me to come into his office, where he began explaining to me that my code was wrong and broken, and he didn't like the style. I tried to explain that it was not broken, and if there was a problem with the style we could talk about it, but he was very insistent in not having any discussion whatsoever about it, and just having it his way. HIS PERSPECTIVE: He has an important responsibility to maintain the website. He needs complete subordination from all his employees to meet his responsibilities to his superiors, and get the job done. MY PERSPECTIVE: I take pride in my work. Saying that it is wrong and broken makes me feel vulnerable, and offended. Not listening to my explanation makes me feel unheard. At the end of the day, the person who manages both of us had to get involved three times, and finally got us to work out a compromise. The silly thing here is the work was easy! I just didn't do it because I didn't feel respected. If you are a pro developer, you do not care that you are getting "paid." Pro developers have insane amounts of job security. Pro developers value respect very highly. I am sure your problem developer is also extremely competent. I am sure he could easily do all the work you asked him too. You should have a seat with him, and in a very respectful manner, ask him to explain his attitude. DO NOT interrupt him or try to defend yourself. Just listen. Then after he is done talking, do not invalidate what he has said, but say, "I'm sorry if you felt that way. It was not my intention, and, being caught up in my responsibilities, I failed to recognize that in you. Do you think, if moving forward I'm more sensitive to your needs, we could build a better working relationship?" I am certain he would say yes. At the end of the day, it may be more valuable to you to eat some humble pie and have a developer who does what you says, then to be proud, yet an impotent manager. NOTE: This management philosophy is adapted from Stephen Covey's 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, which you should read if you would like to hear more about this perspective.