Parents would wait for the kids to fall asleep before intercourse and try to do it quietly. If a kid would wake up, s/he would usually not understand what was happening. PS. "sex usually in private" is one of the very long list of "human universals" in the appendix to Pinker's "The Language Instinct" (yes, I know he was citing someone else). PPS. This is relevant not just to 19th century. Many families in the Soviet Union lived in a single room (kids, parents, and grandparents). This is, actually, my source - anecdotal. 

Plausible deniability limited the resources allocated. Intelligence failure greatly overestimated the internal tensions of the Castro regime. 

The difference between Germany and Italy & Japan was that at that time Germany was divided into two separate countries - FRG & GDR. In 1969 West Germany switched from Hallstein Doctrine ("exclusivity" -similar to One-China policy) to Neue Ostpolitik ("detente" - normalization with East Germany et al) which led to UN membership by removing objection from the USSR (which had veto power). 

The nature of science (and the Manhattan project was much more an open-ended research enterprise than a typical modern-style DARPA project) as understood by the luminaries taking part is openness, not secrecy, so things like "need to know"/compartmentalization were anathema to the participants. Despite plenty of evidence of its repressive and murderous nature, the Soviet Union and the Communist idea still commanded much sympathy (additionally fueled by the role the Red Army played in the WW2 after 1941). Some scientists worried about what the West might do with nuclear monopoly. 

@sempaiscuba answered the question as asked, I only have a note: While, indeed, the Nazi atrocities (including mass murder of Jews) were well known to everyone who wanted to know, the Allies made no effort to spread the information because they did not want the war to be perceived by their citizens as a "Jewish war", as Hitler tried to position it. E.g., Jews are not mentioned in the Statement On Atrocities (Moscow, 1943) - although many others are, e.g., Cretan peasants. PS. Of course, I am not implying that the Allies should have publicized the Nazi slaughter more. It certainly would have hurt their war effort. 

How can chariots, which have relatively soft horses in front, charge at a phalanx bristling with spears? How can a phalanx open its ranks? The warriors can make the sarissas vertical, but how can they move fast enough to open the ranks before the chariot approaches? Okay, they opened the ranks, now the chariot is between them - why does it not turn 90 degrees and attack the broken-up phalanx from the flank? What damage a chariot can inflict on the enemy? 

In addition to the other excellent answers, I would like to mention the Posen Conference of October 6, 1943. Its express purpose was to make sure that the Nazi leadership (Reichleiters and Gauleiters) could not claim ignorance of the Final Solution - and, being aware of the determination of the allies to prosecute war crimes, will fight harder. This is not, of course, "the majority of German population", but it is still an important data point: in the fall of 1943, when the extermination programs have been in full swing for over two years, the top party officials might still be able to deny knowing about it. 

Workforce Men Many men were mobilized into the army, the only people who had an exemption ("бронь" - literally, "armor") were extra-skilled workers and administrators, and the threat of withdrawing the exemption was a powerful pressure point for them (and, of course, on the other end of the spectrum, there were people who tried to volunteer for the frontline and were refused because they were necessary for maintaining the industrial output). Women & Adolescents Women and adolescents were mobilized into the industry to replace the men, but note that, unlike in the West, many women were already in the industry since the 1930 due to the program of industrialization, so the main "new recruits" were teenage "фабзайцы" (mobilized trade school students - running away punishable by 1 year of labor camp). These "workers" were trained and driven by the aforementioned extra-skilled workers to the degree that the workplace injuries and even deaths were relatively common. 

In short, Russell's statement is a typical example of "if you misspell milk 4 times, you may get beer"; if he is allowed to define important, liberal, victory &c, then yes, he is certainly right. 

EDIT: as so well expounded in the other answer, the non-antisemitism of Rommel was relative, i.e., compared to the rest of Germany he appeared to be gentleman - while serving the Nazi regime. In the absolute terms one can say with confidence that due to Rommel's actions (his successes on the battlefield) the war lasted longer and many more innocents (Jews, Gypsies, Russians, Poles &c) were murdered. It does appear that these deaths were not to his liking, but they did happen. 

Morale is important but bullets are bullets. Originally hand-held firearms were not very safe. If you are loading and thus your gunpowder pouch is open, and your neighbor is firing, a spark from his shot or priming may ignite your pouch and it will explode, killing your and possibly causing a chain reaction or some other people are loading too. Thus arquebusiers had to fire and load all at the same time, which led to volley firing. As muskets became safer, the importance of volley firing for safety decreased, but by that time the drill was so advanced that even without volleys the rate of fire would not be much higher. However, by that time the morale effects of volleys was discovered, so the trade off between the morale effect and a slight increase in rate of fire was an easy choice. 

Summary Probably not - and whatever you can find or generate yourself will probably suffer from Selection Bias. Detail Reliable statistics require comprehensive data collection. You can probably find some data in DP camps archives - if they are publicly available. However, not every survivor went through a DP camp, and some went through several. Another source is various survivor databases (see below). Alas, they contain data submitted by individual survivors or their relatives, so they are extremely incomplete both row-wise (missing individuals) and column-wise (missing data for people present in the DB). Also, the web interfaces allow searching for individuals but not downloading, so you will need to talk to the curators about access. Resources 

Another aspect of the Soviet strategy is that the reserves are given to the most successful of the multiple directions of offensive. IOW, if unit A, B and C are attacking at three different points, and A is making progress, B is stalled, and C walked into an ambush and is being decimated, then B and C are left to deal with their issues themselves and all possible support is given to A (source). However, this makes such an eminent sense, that I doubt that it is specific to the Soviet Army. 

Political Constraints FDR could not afford to give more ammo to the isolationists, who already were outraged by the aforementioned actions. His political opponents were many and varied - from Nazis and Communists (although the latter switched sides on 1941-06-22) to traditionalists who love to mention Washington/Jefferson's "entangling alliances". The even more important issue were the people. FDR understood that the war will be a hard fought all-out effort. He had to make sure that the people will keep morale high and not think "we provoked the war ourselves, it's our own fault, let's settle". Note that during his reelection campaign Roosevelt pledged that he would "not send American boys into any foreign wars". Industrial Constraints Seriously, what could FDR do that he was not already doing? Building a battleship takes 2-3 years. Making 1000 strategic bombers takes similar time. Mobilization, training the troops, arming them takes time. US was in no position to do anything it was not already doing. See also the Details section in another answer. 

Because, according to the Constitution (Article 1 Section 8), war is declared by Congress, and Congress was heavily isolationist. Also, for all practical purposes, US was already at war: 

The claim that Hitler wanted to kidnap the Pope is, at best, dubious. Even if such a plot did exist, that does not contradict the assertion that "the Vatican did not oppose the Nazi atrocities" and could have had no bearing on whether the KGB would have tried to discredit the Pope. 

Thus Hitler did not much care whether his actions would bring a war or not, he, apparently, believed his own propaganda and thus thought that Germany would win any war. Thus he was trying to strengthen his position ahead of the inevitable conflict, and if that lead to immediate hostilities, so much for the better. I don't think he had a very clear understanding of the British and French attitudes, and he did not realize that after he took the non-German parts of Czechoslovakia, the Entente had resolved to go to war. However, even if he did, that would probably not have changed his policies. Note that he always pretended to be a peacemaker and claimed the Entente to be the warmongers (the line repeated by the Soviet propaganda until 1941). 

Note that Marshal Beria, executed as a British spy, is, obviously, not an acceptable example here. :-) Infiltrators A citizen of country Y working for the intelligence services of country Y, also working for the government of country X under an assumed name. Examples: 

Nuclear bomb making was a new endeavor and it was not clear which approach would be successful - cheaper, faster, more powerful, smaller, more reliable &c &c. They really had to try all feasible approaches before settling on one. 

People commemorate important events even when they were failures - for various reasons. Propaganda Often they need a rallying point - an inspiring example for the war which is yet to be fought. E.g., the Battle of Chemulpo Bay was a resounding defeat for the Russians. The official Russian propaganda turned that into a momentous act of heroism. The Russian survivors were treated as heroes. Instead of being dismissed for incompetence, Rudnev was decorated and promoted. "Remember the Alamo" became the rallying cry for the Texians who were defeated there (this also fits into the next category, "bravery"). Bravery Other times, the defeated fought so bravely, that it should be commemorated regardless of the outcome. Battle of Thermopylae was a Persian victory. Needless to say it is widely commemorated. Russians view Sevastopol as their "Hero City", despite losing it (after resisting heroically) twice (1855, 1942). The Charge of the Light Brigade was a Russian victory; the eponymous poem make it famous and celebrated. Could Be Worse Sometimes the defeat is not as bad as it could be. Dunkirk evacuation was a defeat, but it could have been a disaster instead, so there is a lot to celebrate there, not just commemorate. Battle of Borodino was a defeat for the Russians, but they preserved the Army and managed to eventually win the war (this item also fits into the second - "bravery" - category). Baptism of Fire This is where the Gallipoli Campaign fits for Australia and New Zealand. Another example is the Defender of the Fatherland Day. On February 23, 1918, the first detachments of what would eventually become the Red Army ran away from the Germans. This was first turned into "fought the first battle", and then into "won the first victory". 

You can never be sure that a naval blockade will indeed lead to a national collapse. E.g., Britain did not surrender. Why do you think Japan would have? You must also remember the international situation: what if the SU would land in Japan and occupy it? By mid-1945 is was already a fact that, despite numerous agreements and promises of free elections, SU was turning Poland into its communist satellite. What if US troops would be required elsewhere? This is the same answer to the common question: why did SU fought to eliminate the surrounded 6th Army instead of waiting for it to collapse. Finally, you are forgetting the other side of the equation: how much effort would be required from the US to keep Japan blockaded? This includes not just the fleet necessary to isolate the islands from the continent, but also the "insurance fleet" in case Japan built new warships. The pressure to "finish the war quickly and bring the boys home" is very strong in any democracy. 

Remember that, unlike England with its primogeniture, in France the title was inherited by all sons, there there were plenty of petty nobles with no means of self-support besides their sword. After the Revolution: 

They were not elite from the military POV. Despite the general perception of "German efficiency", the 3d Reich was far from efficient, in part due to Hitler's tendency to encourage competition by giving the same task to several people. One example is the existence of the Waffen-SS, which grew from three regiments to over 38 divisions (another being Luftwaffe Field Divisions). The reason both were bad ideas is that a fighting force's efficiency depends on training, and the best training is provided by the colleagues. Thus it is much better to replenish a battle-tested unit than to create a brand new one. This is the rule ignored by both creation of Waffen-SS and LwFD, and by Hitler's policy later in the war when he let existing divisions bleed white while forming new ones. The reason Waffen-SS had good reputation is that they were supplied better than the Heer - both in men and materiel - especially at the end of the war, when they became more numerous and the regular divisions were bled white (see above). Sources: 

Idi Amin's Expulsion of Asians from Uganda soured his relationships with the West and endeared him to those who hated the West, including Libya (financial and military aid), East Germany (helped to build Amin's secret police), and Soviet Union (became Amin's largest arms supplier). What happened to the Libyans once Idi Amin fell? The Libyan forces retreated to Jinja and then were repatriated finally through Kenya and Ethiopia. I seem to recall that this involved a ransom paid by Gaddafi to the new government of Uganda. 

Lenin and his followers were the ultimate opportunists; they never let principles interfere with the practical matters of gaining and keeping political power. "Do not look for logic where you did not put it yourself" - i.e., do not try to view whatever the communists say as some coherent political, sociological or philosophical doctrine. 

Jews, like any other ethnic minority, lived in separate quarters (ghettos) in cities. Such a community would have a normal economy: shops, tailors, other artisans; mostly serving the community itself. Most people in the community would have little contact with the outsiders, the exception being the traders who "imported" raw materials (e.g., grain and livestock) and "exported" whatever the community produced (e.g., jewelry). These people tended to have a larger cash flow and thus could double as money lenders - and did so because this occupation was forbidden to their Christian neighbors. Now, the only Jews most Christians interacted with were the traders/money lenders, so this created the stereotype that all Jews are money lenders. So, to answer the question, only a small minority of Jews were involved in money lending. One can actually see that mathematically. The number of money lenders that an economy needs is determined by the demand for credit, which depends on the size of the (surrounding!) economy - the money flow, production rates, stability &c &c. Thus it should be determined (roughly) by the number of non-Jewish customers, not by the number of Jews. Take a look at statistics: in Nuremberg, in 1338 there are 212 adult Jews for 20k Christians; in Paris, in 1296-97 - 82 Jewish families for 100+k of Christians. To use a very rough estimate: if all 80 Jews in Paris were moneylenders, then 1 moneylender can serve 1000+ customers, which means that 90% of Nuremberg Jews are out of money-lending jobs. See $URL$ for more information. 

The general rule is that the command is with the most relevant officer. E.g., an amphibious operation is commanded by the naval commander. I.e., when a ship lands an amphibious force on an enemy shore, the overall commanding officer is the ship's captain, not the amphibious force's commander. Moreover, even if the ship is lost and all troops are now ashore, the command remains with the ship's captain. Similarly, a port will normally be commanded by a naval officer (unless it is under a land siege). I know the answer is even broader than the question...