There may not have been a movement in Britain, but there were certainly individual left-wing anti-colonial intellectuals from the British colonies who wrote works in this vein. C. L. R. James from Trinidad was one, recognized even today for Black Jacobins, a history of the Haitian revolution published in 1938. This event (contemporary to the French Revolution) seems to have inspired anti-colonials, whether they wrote in French or in English – Césaire also wrote a history of it. James’s first version of the story was a play, apparently, and he later wrote the first novel by a West Indian published in the UK, according to Wiki. It might be instructive to compare his biography to Césaire’s. After the war Césaire managed to become the mayor of the capital of Martinique, and he was instrumental in setting up the arrangement where the island remained a département of France on its own terms. James was more of a loner, his leftist politics never achieved anything concrete for Trinidad, and he ended up mainly writing about cricket! Concerning the Négritude movement, it’s worth remembering that its founders were not only anti-colonial activists, they were also poets and novelists who wanted to gain recognition as such not at home in the colony, but in the metropole (Paris). French writers, especially on the left, were more likely to form movements at that time (the 1930s and 40s) – would André Breton, leader of the Surrealists, have recognized Césaire and supported his poetic efforts without the calling card of Négritude? Perhaps not. In Britain in those days, on the other hand, literary movements were unusual – only Pound’s Imagism and Wyndham Lewis’s Vorticism come to mind, and these were both on the right politically. So for James or his friends, founding such a movement might have been rather pointless. I think it’s this, more than the different ways Britain and France managed their colonies although there may also be linkages in this regard, that answers your question. 

The review and Wikipedia note that Hitler himself attended her funeral in 1935. However, there is no mention of her actually meeting the Fuehrer. But Brigitte Hamann’s Hitler’s Vienna relates a conversation between the two people. Hitler explained to her why he had never married: 

Despite appearances the “Han Chinese” don’t really conform to the stereotype of an ethnic group. The fact that they speak diverse local languages is just one aspect of this. South-central China can be divided into a number of regional systems, each typically centered around the drainage basin of a major river, that do not correspond to administrative divisions. G. William Skinner pioneered the study of these macroregions, although we should note that he was primarily interested in economic and social relations, not linguistic ones. In the introduction to an innovative study of the history of Hakka migration and ethnicity in the Lingnan region by Sow-Theng Leong, Skinner notes that speech group boundaries and regional ones line up: 

Yet Poetsch was at the same time an “Austrian patriot” who later was reportedly upset at being cited as an inspiration by Hitler in Mein Kampf. The Pan-German students were actually more radical than their teachers, who as public servants had to stay kaisertreu to some extent. Even at that time they supported an Anschluss, or having the German part of Austria join the rest of Germany. The “Heil” greeting (later so familiar!) was one of their identifying symbols, as opposed to the “Hoch” of the loyalists. The young Hitler would do things like distribute pencils with the red-gold-black German colors during class. Hamann (whose book I recommend) sums up Hitler’s early German nationalism quite well. (The sections in italics are quotes from Mein Kampf.) 

However, I'd also like to address the issue of "states' rights" brought up in another answer. I actually agree that this issue played a strong role in secession, though not in the manner that many Southern apologists claim. It wasn't just that the Southern states decided to assert their individual rights of self-determination. They also justified this on the basis of previous actions by Northern states, specifically regarding the Fugitive Slave Clause of the Constitution, and the failure of the Northern states to adhere to it and its enacting laws from 1793 and 1850. Again, from the South Carolina declaration: 

The Constitution contains a set of enumerated powers for the federal government. Originally, Congress had no power to pass laws that could not derive directly from one of these powers; any other government powers were granted to the states (as reinforced by the Tenth Amendment). However, the exact limitations on these powers were disputed almost immediately as new legal situations arose. The 19th century saw a number of these enumerated powers become slightly expanded or curtailed in various Supreme Court cases. Nevertheless, the presumption in the early 20th century was that Congress could not create laws which went beyond those original enumerated powers. The Supreme Court frequently struck down federal laws that could not be related back to the Constitution (perhaps most famously in the string of court decisions that repeatedly invalidated much of Franklin Roosevelt's "New Deal" in the early to mid 1930s on the grounds that the federal government did not have those powers). While the Supreme Court jurisprudence of this era tended to focus on economic freedom issues (the so-called Lochner era), any legislation that took power away from states or individuals could be suspect if it was not in the enumerated powers. The regulation of "interstate commerce" is contained in the enumerated powers, but it was still largely interpreted as an interstate issue, i.e., the federal government could legally become involved mostly when merchandise or businesses went across state lines. Thus, early attempts at drug restriction by the federal government tended to focus on taxes for items going across state lines, rather than outright bans or detailed regulation. An interesting case study here is the Harrison Narcotics Tax Act, which was passed in 1914 to regulate opiates and cocaine. The act did not make such drugs illegal, but merely required special registrations and taxes on those who manufactured or distributed them. The tax on physicians and medical use was low, but for non-medical use, the tax was so exorbitant as to effectively prohibit distribution or sale of the drugs. This second tax was challenged in court, where it was claimed that the act was not a tax -- which would be a Constitutionally enumerated power -- but rather a federal infringement of the police power of the states, which of course was its intent if not its literal mechanism. Nevertheless the Supreme Court upheld the act in United States v. Doremus (1919) while reaffirming that the federal government could not usurp the police power of the states. But the Supreme Court did later object to use of the act to arrest doctors who chose to prescribe these drugs without sufficient medical justification, e.g., just to drug addicts. As Justice McReynolds wrote in Linder v. United States (1925), "Obviously direct control of medical practice in the states is beyond the power of the federal government." This shows the kind of complex debates about precisely how far federal power could go, which a Constitutional amendment would avoid at this time. Another option was for the federal government to pass uniform acts, such as the Uniform State Narcotic Drug Act of 1934. A "uniform act" is a collaborative measure intended to be adopted by individual states to ensure a uniform process governing a particular issue. However, states cannot be forced to adopt such regulations; initially only 9 states adopted this early narcotics act, and a public relations campaign was launched by FDR and others to convince the public of "reefer madness" and thus adopt narcotics legislation. Since alcohol regulation is not specified in the Constitution, Congress had no explicit power to regulate it. And, as affirmed for example by the Supreme Court in the Matter of Heff (1905): 

The Wiki page on the spread of Islam in Indonesia stresses that our knowledge of this macro-historical process is fragmentary, for instance often we don’t how the religion diffused out into the general populace after a ruler converted. Bali seems to be the most prominent example of non-conversion, as opposed to say Java, earlier the site of the Hindu kingdom Majapahit. Javanese courts like the one in Yogyakarta retained a lot of Indic cultural features like court ritual, dance, and costumes while becoming Muslim. What prevented Balinese courts from going the same route? Possible factors: Bali was isolated from the trade routes that spread Islam; conditions after the fall of Majapahit made Bali a refuge for fleeing Javanese aristocrats; charismatic Hindu mystics like the Shaivite Dang Hyang Nirartha (see Wikipedia) helped rejuvenate Hinduism on Bali at the same time as Java was going Muslim. And if not at that time, why not later as with Lombok and other islands to the east? 

There are two cases of blowpipe-wielding hunter-gatherers being made use of in modern jungle warfare: the Dayaks in Borneo during WWII, and the Orang Asli (Senoi/Temiar) in peninsular Malaysia during the Malayan Emergency, the post-WWII conflict between the Malayan Communists and the British colonial power. On the first, see this link to a PBS program called The Airmen and the Headhunters, based on a book by the same title by Judith Heimann. 

It seems like the term is Zählappell “roll call”, from the verb zählen 'to count'. It may not be necessary to look for the pronunciation in a dialect or Yiddish, if this was the official term used in the camp. The following excerpt from the Dachau camp regulations (Strafordnung) suggests it was: 

The Hakkas were the exception because their heartland was actually a mountainous area peripheral to several river systems. In the early Qing period, they migrated in large numbers to several different areas that were expanding economically, but by the 19th century changed economic conditions and overpopulation led to conflict between immigrant Hakkas and the core speech group (Cantonese in the Lingnan region, for example.) This conflict took on an ethnic character, so we could actually say that the speech groups within what is now called “the Han Chinese” behaved like ethnic groups in some ways. Yet according to Leong, there wasn’t much in the way of pan-Hakka solidarity across regions, even when the Hakkas in, say, Lingnan banded together for self-defense in the face of Cantonese discrimination. So generally, linguistic/ethnic divisions within the “Han Chinese” can be explained by looking at regional systems within China. Reference: Sow-Theng Leong, Migration and Ethnicity in Chinese History: Hakkas, Pengmin and their Neighbors (Stanford UP 1997) 

Problems mentioned in the article – Hitler looks too old, Lenin is supposedly wearing a disguise but in fact he never did so at this point, Lenin had given up chess and Hitler probably never played, there was no reason for them to sign the picture, there is no record of Hitler taking art lessons, etc. It’s also suspicious that there is no documentary trace of the artist in Vienna. Brigitte Hamann in “Hitler’s Vienna” has gone through the archival record for Hitler’s contacts at the time. In fact, he did visit the house of a cultured Jewish bourgeois family in 1908. His roommate at the time, August Kubizek, played the viola and was sometimes invited to the home of Dr. Rudolf Jahoda to fill out a string quartet at musical soirées. Once he brought Hitler along, and the 19-year-old was largely a silent observer. There is no Lowenstamm/stramm in Hamann’s index.