When you do military presses, the optimal way to activate the entire shoulder and even trapezius is to shrug when you're at the top of the movement. So as you go up, you normally press the weight until your arms lock out. If you're familiar with the shrugging movement, you can do this one trick to really push your shoulders, by activating your traps with the shrug motion. Essentially when your arms are at the top, extend them maybe an inch further and pull your traps in. Guaranteed to build you up. Also, consider internal and external rotations for shoulder mobility and warm-ups, this will help with your rotator cuffs during lateral and front raises. External Rotations Swimming is also a big one for shoulders. +1 @JohnP Stay thirsty my friends 

Yea, so currently I do something called Intermittent Fasting. I have an eating window of 12-1pm through 8-9pm. The rest of the time, I just drink water, coffee, a diet soda here and there, or tea. I have had bulletproof Coffee. A Keurig cup of coffee, a tablespoon or two of Coconut oil, throw them in a magic bullet, and blend together. AMAZING. I have received energy boosts from it in the morning, although its somewhat greasy around your mouth afterward cause of the oil. Your body is actually usually in ketosis, the question you want to consider is how many ketones your body is producing, getting Ketostix is one way to do this. I think the higher the number the more INTO ketosis you are. I have found that low-carb or extremely low-carb with carb cycling is somewhat efficient, but you have to eat carbs after 3 days, because your body will only optimally burn fat for a few days in ketosis, then it goes into starvation. The magic bullet that Berin mentioned is Intermittent Fasting. I am doing a www.leangains.com style of IF 16-fast/8-eat. Cut out snacking, make my meals count, stay on your macros, but most of all stay in a caloric deficit. I lost 8 lbs in two weeks, and retained my strength, by IF and strength training 5-6 days a week. No cardio. I have increased my insulin sensitivity, i feel great... Anyways, Bulletproof coffee is definitely a good choice. The reason it is ok during the fast is because the fats it releases into your blood stream doesn't spike your insulin. Protein can effect your insulin, obviously carbs do too...but the MCT works great due to the caffeine and rapid fat transport activation when you ingest it, giving way to immediate energy. 

Flip it(the backpack) to the front, dude...hang it from your legs, be creative. Placement is going to bring in helper muscles, but if you want an emphasis on your core, just swing it around the front, it's a pulling motion, the weight will be focused on your center, and shouldn't get in the way of the exercise at all (shoulders maybe)... BTW 5 pull-ups in a row? Why not move on to 10? or 15? 

Switch From KB A to KB B and repeat. We did this for 0.5 miles or roughly 10 times with each KB. I would consider this Lower intensity, as we weren't running. (Correct me if I'm wrong) We stopped and did 

Bench press will always incorporate your front shoulders, the key is to bring it down far enough to allow your triceps to catch and engage on the push. Also try wider grip if you're not feeling the pull around your armpit. 

Yes it's useful. Or you could just eat some WHEY protein Isolate after each workout, as the frequency and in turn volume is increasing the BCAAs will help keep you from catabolizing for muscle for energy. Personally I trained fasted in the mornings, always my better workout, training on a full stomach usually leaves me sluggish and lazy. Personal opinion of course, but i hear a lot of suggestions on eating pre-workout insta-carbs, i just don't think it's all that necessary. As long as at some point before 2nd workout you refill your glycogen in your muscles. You should be fine. Your body doesnt go catabolic in 3 hours, but fill em up, burn em down, fill em up, rest. 

Your muscles and brain run on glycogen. More importantly for this question, Glycogen fuels your muscles. When you exercise with high intensity for 20 minutes or more this is when your body switches from a primarily carbohydrate based metabolism to a fat metabolism, as duration increases so does amount of fat burned for fuel. SO IN ADDITION 

It could be a number of things but I would ask myself: If I lower the weight does the pain subside? Pain is usually an indication of an injury, have I injured myself? If you perform a front squat, does the pain still occur? How about during any other exercises? I found that this happened to me during military presses. I would be able to press the weight, but under my chest almost under my armpit would have a sharp pain. It was only when the weight was too strenuous on my core it seemed. I developed my core and shoulders a little more appropriately before attempting that weight again, and the pain was gone. Just personal experience. 

If you're contagious or think you might be, why not just attempt the yoga at your house, and skip the class, and skip possible infection of others.... Also, I'm no doctor, but for sore throats, apple cider vinegar + water + honey = quick fix for sure. Just fast, allow your body to focus on rebuilding your immune system. Do some stretches and yoga, relax, get some herbal tea or something, and drink plenty of water. Hope you feel better! 

Sounds like you have high estrogen/low testosterone. I'm no doctor, but you might consider looking into ways to increase your test levels. First of all you should see a doctor to determine if you really have low testosterone. You will get blood work to confirm the findings. Secondly, if your doctor says you do have low test levels, you may consider finding natural solutions to the issue. But you're young so there are going to be several options. I would increase your test levels, work out, stay away from soy. Let us know how it turns out for you. 

Well this may or may not help. But I am a huge advocate of Intermittent fasting. I have come to find that I also had IBS for years, not knowing the true cause of it or any way to fix it. I started intermittent fasting, and it gave my digestive system a break. I use a 16/8 Lean gains protocol. You can google it up. I have proceeded into my adventure by testing my body and discipline with not only 16 hour fasts, but 24 hour, and my longest went into today at 36 hours. Now, I also spent several months in the gym at 185lbs with no weight loss, just muscular transformations. I also never liked to diet, but I started counting my calories, which led to counting my macro nutrients which led to me getting tired of eating all day long. So I watched the Hodgetwins and Low Carb Cory on youtube, and they were sharing information they previously researched and learned called Intermittent Fasting. I started at 185lbs 23-25% Body fat. Overall stocky build, with a lot of bad fat around my midsection. I am now 168lbs 13% Body fat. V Shape Back to waist look, nice traps and a strong core. I can't chalk it all up to Intermittent fasting, but I followed a rigorous 4 day split workout schedule and intermittent fasted my last 3 months or so, from which I have received the best results of my life. Here is some reference for you: This is my eating schedule protocol $URL$ This was my initial training protocol $URL$ This is what I do now, with lean gains in between. $URL$ and I am on week 2 of this program $URL$ Keep in mind. People will call you stupid, people will think you're crazy, but people will also want what you have. They will want to look like you. Don't downplay it. Do your research. Work hard, Stay dedicated. When it's all done. Pass it along to a friend or family member who can also benefit from this lifestyle. PEACE 

"Train for Strength" can mean very different things to different people. By strength do you mean muscular endurance, functional strength, powerlifting strength? To train to be a powerlifter - you will need to break down your muscles and rebuild them via protein synthesis and recovery periods in order to maximize your potential with the given goal with powerlifting. I would suggest reading up on Sarcoplasmic vs Myofibril Hypertrophy training types $URL$ To train for muscular endurance - You can definitely keep your weights lighter and reps higher to stimulate muscular endurance and achieve a physique that will do more sculpting and oppose to a strength program which will give you more mass in your muscles by tearing fibers and creating scar tissue around those parts of the muscles thereby making the size of your muscles grow. If you lift heavy enough to stimulate a response, chances are you will grow even slightly. After 4 weeks of a consistent program one will notice gains. It may not be so noticeable that you're just a giant now, but your shoulders might be wider and more defined. Your back may be wider or thicker. Your arms may be more vascular, etc. These are side effects of effective lifting. My question then becomes, What's your goal? Hope this helps! 

If you want to lose FAT as your primary objective, personally I would do things a little different. You have an hour let's look at the best possible way to utilize that hour to maximize your fat loss and muscle growth potential: To start A warm up is fine, 10 minutes on the elliptical, bike or treadmill will get your blood pumping. I would spend no more than 10 minutes warming up. The workout So you understand that you can actually achieve better weight loss results by strength training as your primary routine without interjecting bits of cardio into the mix? Strength training is primarily anaerobic, which means it doesn't require a lot of oxygen or endurance necessarily to complete a routine, you're going to increase the muscle mass in your body by working out at a higher intensity, which will in turn create a more suitable environment for fat loss. The more muscle in your body the easier it will be to drop fat. I would incorporate a full body split for those three days (monday, wednesday, friday) (chest/back, legs, arms). 45 minutes in a solid routine, little rest, you will see results. Math - Science Get off the elliptical and get over to those free weights, they will prove to be a better use of time, and here's why. If you run a 10 minute mile @ roughly 100 calories per mile, in one hour, you would burn 600 calories, right?...RIGHT!?!? Probably...but would you gain any muscle in the process? It's possible, although it would be primarily in your legs and core. If you are conditioned to do that that's great, and is what some people prefer, however if you are looking for a better physique, possibly that of Mensfitness magazine or that of a body builder, cardio is not to be your primary weight loss or strength building strategy. If you work out for 30-45 minutes you would burn between 300-500 calories with a med/high intensity. You would gain muscle, and actually work out muscles in your entire body, you would become stronger, as your strength increases running that mile would become easier, your body would condition itself, and then if running is still your goal, you can practice from there. Summary You say your goal is to lose weight and then gain muscle, but in reality, you would probably want to gain muscle first and then lose the fat. Once you have the muscle it will be much easier to drop the fat, oppose to dropping all kinds of weight, becoming a twig, and then trying to get muscle back (which in the process would put fat back on as well). Just do it all in one and strength train! Don't forget your diet, that's actually more than half the battle, but that is not in your question so... 

I mean Idk.. I generally pick like 3-4 of these aforementioned exercises and break a sweat. keep in mind this is between 5:30am and 6 so my time is limited. I'll work out like this 3 times a week So my question is: 

Muscle memory, genetics, caloric intake, daily activities would all play a role in this. It's not JUST genetics, just like it's not just caloric intake. These guys must eat enough to retain their muscle mass, whether they accumulated it 10 weeks ago or 10 years ago. You mention they are sedentary... What did they do for work, if they don't anymore? Also consider that there are two types of hypertrophy. Myofibrillar and sarcoplasmic. The first being that of central nervous system, deep down strength. Think Arm-Wrestling strength. Sarcoplasmic strength is just for looks, it creates an environment where more water flows to the muscles making people look big, think body building. Also consider an individuals body type: endomorph, ectomorph, mesomorph, i knwo i'm forgetting one...these all play factors in metabolism, weight gain, muscle retention, etc.