I'm relatively new to weightlifting, so take this with a grain of salt. There's more than one view on the concept of training to failure, Glenn Pendlay (USMAW Olympic coach for several years) is one of the people who doesn't believe in them. That said, based on what I've read so far, you may have to do something unintuitive in order to increase your strength. That's Lift Less. Particularly when changing a workout plan, you have to adjust to what is demanded from that plan. In particular, when I migrate off the StrongLifts program to one of the Pendlay programs or Madcow, etc. there will be a deloading process. In short, you lift less weight while your body adjusts to its new demands. You admitted that you are not doing two things on the Body by Science program: 

What you describe is called "super-setting" and sometimes a "barbell complex". It's a tried and true approach to training, particularly when working with assistance exercises or focusing on conditioning. There are a few things to consider with super-sets: 

More concerning is the idea that an injury while wearing the belt will be worse than if not wearing a belt. Back to recommendations.... Starting Strength forum's first recommendations were for $URL$ Inzer got another recommendation there. Again the recommendation is for single prong belts. 

You can swap out the main lifts on the day for something equivalent. The idea is to have one of the squat/press days go heavier and fewer reps, and the other to go lighter with more reps. They would also be different variations of the lift to work your muscles a bit differently. If your goal is physique, then you also have options with subbing out the deadlifts. Other options would be snatch grip deadlifts (more traps, upper body, and glutes), romainian deadlifts (more glutes and hamstrings), etc. For an intermediate bodybuilder, this fits the sweet spot of building more general strength as well as building the volume of work to increase size. Don't forget to eat properly to gain muscle. The goal is to gain mass slowly, at an average pace of 3 lbs a month. That keeps you from regaining too much fat. Add in carbs and protein pre, intra, and post workout and you should do quite well. 

You may even have a combination of multiple factors going on at the same time. Don't rule out "Bad Form" unless you have a qualified coach tell you that your form is good. Someone who is spotting is just looking out for safety, not how to get more muscle into the bar. I'm going to assume that the food, sleep, and hydration are all working good enough for the remainder of the answer, but please make sure they are not the issue. Pressing Things Overhead The different variations of pressing things overhead require your upper back to be engaged and transition the weight from in front of your head to directly over your shoulders. In fact, you should be able to draw a straight line from the center of the barbell, through your shoulder blades, and your mid foot. Your lower back should also be in a neutral position. If you are not ending in this position, chances are the bar is remaining in front of you. Chances are also good that your upper back is not involved in the lift at all. Bench Pressing Things Refine your technique, but don't change it completely. There is a time and place for flat back with feet on the bench, but it is to isolate the arms if they are the weakness. Arching your back is a good thing, but do make sure of the following things: 

Note that in both of these cases, the glycogen stores are depleted. This affects the energy you have available for exercise or competitions. It also accounts for up to about 5lbs of weight. This is why after coming out of ketosis you will have a one time weight gain of around 5lbs. Emptying the glycogen stores only takes about 3 days even when you don't exercise. 

The only real difference is that the Pendlay row is a stricter version of the bent-over row. Important: the assumption is that you are not doing what's referred to a "Yate's Row" where you body is at an angle to the ground instead of parallel with it. Main distinction: 

Let me preface by the fact I've never swam competitively, and it's been a while since I've swam routinely. I do train competitively, and I do eat before training. The two biggest risks with eating before training are: 

To call out exactly what the program is, because it wasn't immediately obvious with the 2nd edition book, check out the Basic Structure of the Program. Some of this information I had to extract from the "Practical Programming for Strength Training" book, where this is covered in the "Beginner Programs" section. Essentially, for the first 2-4 weeks you are focusing on just the squat, bench, overhead press, and deadlift. Once you have that working well, you can incorporate the power cleans. After another bit, you can choose to switch to the Onus Wunsler variation of starting strength which incorporates some other assistance lifts. The bulk of the information in that book provides the technical details of how to perform each lift, and troubleshoot it if you are having problems. As such, it makes a very good reference. I learned that the Starting Strength 3rd edition will be hitting the bookshelves if it hasn't already, which purportedly makes things a bit more clear. 

You'll find that many of these foods are low density. In other words, not a lot of Calories for the portion you are eating. That's a great thing when you are on a diet since it helps prevent the feeling of being "punished", and you actually may feel like you could never eat all the food you have outlined for you. I recommend keeping things simple. Don't try to adjust up or down for training/non-training days. However, if you choose to do that, keep in mind the average for the week should be hitting the targets for your calories and macros. There's a lot of right answers, but the best answer is something you can do habitually. 

You'll find the big trick is to get under the dumbbell as soon and as confidently as possible. BTW, the circus dumbbells can weigh over 200 lbs. I have a loadable one, and completely empty it is 135 lbs. 

The second portion is understanding what the exercise is designed to target. The primary part of the posterior chain that single leg deadlifts are hitting is the hamstrings, and secondarily the glutes. As such, you need to follow these guidelines: 

The big take away The supplement industry has very little oversight in many countries, particularly in the USA. There is an independent resource you can use to sort through the hype: Examine.com. Maximuscle may indeed be a great product, or it may be very overpriced for what it delivers. I don't know about that product specifically, but I know about the basic supplementation that I do and why I do it. There are a few unscrupulous companies that sell banned substances under new labels as the next secret sauce so they can make a quick buck. The problem is that it's hard for people to make sense of what really does help. Very often the benefits, while present, are not nearly what they are sold as. When you look up the research provided by a supplement company, it goes to an "independent review" that they paid for and are hosting the site for. Essentially it's an elaborate scheme to separate you from your hard earned cash. The examine.com folks provide a very welcome resource that you know to see just how useful something is. 

The thing is you have a lot of steady state cardio work. That helps build endurance, but not muscle. If "gym training" is using the machines, doing body weight exercise, or even lifting weights, the two activities are fighting each other. Your body will do its best to make a reasonable compromise, but endurance doesn't build muscle. It burns fat, but doesn't improve your muscle mass. If you want to improve muscle, you need to focus on activities that force your muscles to work. And then keep increasing the effort your muscles have to exert so they do get stronger. The only thing in your conditioning you listed that doesn't conflict with that is boxing. You would do better with Tabata training than cycling. I lift free weights, and routinely spend at least 1000 Calories per session doing it. The key is to go heavy and improve on that. However, to go heavy you need rest days so you can recover. Your current routine is 5 straight days of work with no rest. That's not good because it will cause you to have elevated levels of Cortisone. That in turn burns muscle, and since you aren't giving your muscles a chance to fully recover and rebuild you will be burning more muscle than you build. Muscles increase during rest, after you put them through heavy work. I would reduce your training days so that you have no more than 2 days in a row. I would also look at more efficient use of conditioning. Summary and Recommendations The long story made short is that it looks like you are eating too few calories and exercising too much. This is a recipe for losing muscle. That combined with elevated Cortisone levels will keep more fat around your belly that you are trying to get rid of. Even if you do an epic refeed over the weekend, the combination is likely to force you to overcompensate. 

My gym put out a nice little newsletter talking about weightloss, and the focus of it was their reactions to the USDA recommended daily allowances. The bottom line is that they've followed some studies that prove that low carb diets provide the best results for weight loss. Their supporting articles are: 

If I were a betting man, I'd assume you are performing exercise incorrectly. One problem I had with laying leg raises is precisely what I pointed out (hyper-extending the lumbar when my legs were in the bottom position). To fix that, I started performing the laying leg lifts on a bench with my legs hanging in free space. I also slowed down the exercise so I could control the lower and upper position better. It also had the benefit of keeping the abs under constant tension. With planks, I had to do them incline (elbows on a bench) for a while, focusing on tucking my pelvis forward by engaging the abs directly. Troubleshooting: 

There are people who believe that the lift in the heel on most weightlifting shoes helps, even with the squat and deadlift. Others say it gets in the way. The most important thing is a stable base. 

Staying "Strict" with SL5x5 With this choice, we're going to change the progression on rows, and adjust the technique a bit. This means you are going to have to drop the weight to get used to it. The following technique points are for the Pendlay row (which is simply a strict bent over row): 

There are several aspects to aging, and depending on what you do will affect how you age. It's not as simple as "just be fit and you'll stay healthier". Apparently there is a book on the subject that will provide a much rounder picture than I can provide here. 

The thing with volume related programs, you will need to eat a lot more just to keep up with them. The good news is that the amount you have to eat will help you clean bulk. Bump up the food by 600 Calories. It might be beneficial to load the bulk of your carbs on training days to leverage the hormone spiking impacts that can help build muscle without increasing fat to the same proportion. 

The shortest answer to your question is yes. Seniors are more likely to have injuries, general weakness, or other extenuating health conditions due to their age or other activities when they were younger. More care has to be taken toward the beginning of their journey, but once they get started it will drastically improve their quality of life. That said, their bodies will still respond to training stimuli. Improvement will be slower and fatigue will be higher due to the age factor. However, they will improve, and they will get stronger/faster/more mentally quick just as younger folks do. Step 1: Assess and Correct Base Fitness If the senior is very much out of shape, has high blood pressure, history of heart disease, or have lost a lot of muscle due to sarcopenia, the steps at the beginning will be very modest. You may have to consult with a doctor to help design something they can do. Someone in their 60s is likely still strong enough to embark on fitness. However, if the person is in their 70s or higher when they start, there's a good chance they'll have some basic work to do. Start slow. The first step is to get them moving more often. It's likely that stuff hurts and they don't like hurting. It takes time to figure out when they are wimping out or it truly is a chronic problem they have to work around. Sometimes the effort involved just in standing up alone takes all the vim and vigor they have. If that's the case, you may have to start them off in the weight room. A leg press can be a an effective way to get them moving while they are seated. Start on the lightest setting, and over time add weight until they can leg press their body weight. That will help them tremendously with just standing up. You will likely need to get them to do some sort of back exercise so they can keep their torso as erect as possible. If they already have severe kyphosis there may not be a lot they can do. If they haven't developed it yet, the back work will help them tremendously. Same approach with the leg press, use a cable row machine on the lightest setting and work up to about 50% of their body weight. Then graduate to back extensions. When they can do that bodyweight only movement, they will likely have the confidence they need to do most things. Step 2: Find something they will want to continue to do The older the trainee, the more brittle their bones and cartilage. That limits the types of things they can do. Sports that require a lot of agility may be out of reach, or highly unadvised. I always suggest that there be some element of strength, mobility, and conditioning in your activities. Strength training provides a number of quality of life benefits as well as enabling the trainee to perform another sport better. Mobility also improves the quality of life as you can move better and with less pain. Finally, conditioning helps the cardiovascular system respond to the demands that the trainee now has. As the trainee starts to feel better and more enabled, they are more likely to keep doing what they are doing. If they used to be completely untrained, they will start to gain enough muscle mass to support being active. They won't feel as frail. At this point it's a question of finding something they can do that they enjoy. The more you enjoy something the more you will continue doing it. Think outside the box. Tai chi (or taiji) uses slow flowing movements that even older students can perform even after many years of abusing their bodies. Running is an option, and I've witnessed a few 70+ year old guys beating much younger guys in 5Ks. I also know a 79 year old power lifter who handed his cane to the judge at my last competition as he said "excuse me, I have to go squat". He was a man with a bad back and a minor case of permanent kyphosis, and was able to squat, bench press and deadlift (his final pull was over 315 lbs). The biggest challenge is finding something that is either competitive or social (or maybe both) that they will want to continue doing. It may be that while you are working on the base level of fitness that they take to the weights. Great. It might be that now they can move better power walking and then running is actually enjoyable--esp. if they meet people they wouldn't otherwise.