In the United States, the issue of exempt versus non-exempt is determined by the Fair Labor Standards Act and is administered by the US Department of Labor. To complicate the issue further, some states have wage and hour laws, which may add more requirements than the FLSA. Non-exempt employees are entitled to overtime pay whereas exempt employees are not. Whether a non-exempt employee is paid an hourly rate or an annual salary rate, if they work overtime there will still be a calculation to determine their hourly overtime rate. Under some contractual obligations, there can be conditions where even exempt employees are paid an overtime rate (e.g. working a Holiday). There are any number of what ifs as to why a company would salary a non-exempt employee. A negotiated contract may stipulate that everyone is salaried, which could make payroll easier if they are paid say twice a month rather than every two weeks. Being an IT guy, I'll throw out a what if that I've lived with more than once. It's entirely possible the company has an ancient, 30+ year old, ramshackle, Mainframe COBOL, "ERP Solution" (and I use that term loosely) which requires an annual salary to be entered for EVERYONE, exempt or non-exempt. 

It's rather ironic that you want to protest because your prospective title is not euphemistic enough. Usually, titles are overly euphemistic since they don't cost anything and motivate some employees. From that perspective, the interviewer should be quite happy to honor your request. This way, if you also ask for more tangible perks, he can tell you he has already given you the extra title. A problem arises if there is a whole team of web developers who do the same job as you and who didn't ask for a software engineer title. This could lead to tensions and therefore dissuade the interviewer fro mgiving you the title. 

In addition to the existing answers regarding a reevaluation of the question whether this position is right for you and the possibility of donating a part of your salary, it is also possible that you have impostor syndrome. It seems that you hold yourself to higher standards than your boss does. (Unless he should also be unhappy with your performance but hasn't told you just yet.) These standards are a positive thing as long as you realize that you're already on par and aim higher, they should not keep you from being satisfied with your performance in general. 

It's been my experience, from 25 years in IT, that it is always incumbent upon the applicant to demonstrate tenacity in the job search process. Do not expect HR, the hiring manager, a recruiter, or anyone else to get back to you when a position is available again. Even if they tell you they will, the person who does is the exception and not the rule. This isn't to imply that the hiring world is full of idiots. Quite the contrary, they are generally capable if overburdened. I was on an interview panel a few years ago in which a position was open for just a few days. 35 candidates applied. In 2011, a friend of mine, who's an attorney, applied for a corporate attorney position. The position was only open for a few days, and the company got over 900 applicants from all across the United States. In recent years, Boeing has implemented a candidate screening process that is heavily computerized and automated because they get so many candidates applying. Boeing actually goes around to job fairs and Worksource (unemployment office) teaching a class on how to apply for jobs at Boeing. You need to do whatever you need to, and feel is right, to make yourself stand out from the rest. That said, don't become a pest. Use your judgment, and if necessary ask direct questions. "Is it OK if I follow up with you in a month to ..." Do follow up on Emails. I would leave out Happy Holidays just in case someone becomes miffed that you didn't specifically cite whatever holiday they celebrate. Courtesy and respect go a long way. A coworker at a previous job told me the Rule of Always, Sometimes, and Never. Always say Thank You, Sometimes say Please, Never say #$@! 

The bad news is that you are working under unreasonable conditions right now. Not necessarily with malicious intent from your boss, but as long as you don't establish reasonable boundaries, he asks for more. The negotiation style of your boss might be OK when he deals with employees who perform grunt work but is inadequate with regard to the degree of autonomy and responsibility that comes with your new projects. The good news is that you are in a very good position to negotiate better conditions. You just need to get more assertive. In a first job, it can be acceptable and even very good to take on responsibilities above the official job description. He may officially promote you. Even if not, it still allows you to explain to new employers what you actually did and be officially considered for better jobs. (Especially with startups this happens a lot.) I think that faster experience most of the time trumps the fact of being underpaid for the more important work. You should try and concentrate on the new projects instead of the support work. At the very least, you need to force your boss to respect your boundaries. If a deadline is not reasonable, say so. Or tell him that this is possible only if he gets someone else to do your support assignments and let him decide what is more important. Here you could subtly hint that this might even be possible without hiring new people. Whenever he overrules your objections, make sure there is a written trace of this. 

First, consider what you want to do. Then go talk to your ex-boss one on one and face to face, and be honest with him. Don't think of it so much as loyalty as it is maintaining, fostering, and growing a business relationship. This person thought enough of you that he found you a job before shutting down the company. This tells me that he sees something of value in you. He has the potential to be of value to you, so don't throw that away. Start the conversation with something like this. 

When faced with a foolish statement, I often prefer quips and sound bites to well reasoned arguments as most people are neither prepared nor interested in a well reasoned argument when they make a foolish statement. Here are a few to try. "Those who can do. Those who can't teach. Those who can do neither study." "So basically you're out of ideas and pounding the table?" "Well, if that's what they do at then perhaps you should return to ." Throw out a fictional institute of higher learning. Google for names. "You would never have made it at Faber College." Faber College was in "Animal House". If you want a quip that is rooted in a well reasoned argument try, "Argumentum ad verecundiam". It means "Argument from authority", and it is one of many logical fallacies. $URL$ 

It also depends on the employer. If we are talking about multi nationals, you want to specialise more for the future. Even if they operate in different fields, they can hire so many employees that they will want to have specialised experts in each one. If you combine two fields of expertise that are used together in companies but rarely mastered by the same person, it can still be great for you though. You can be the interface that makes the two teams of experts understand each other. Even if you take that role on only informally at the beginning, this can land you into leadership- rather than expert roles. You wouldn't need to worry that the experts still know their own field better than you. Up to you to decide if you find this desirable. Smaller companies or startups that operate in dynamic environments cannot hire a separate expert for everything. They will hire a few experts for what they perceive to be the core business but they also love allrounders. These types of opportunities come of course with other risks and benefits than the corporate jobs. 

What you say next depends upon what you want to do. Do you want to continue doing the freelance work, but perhaps at a different pace or fewer hours spent on the work each week? Do you want to abandon the freelance work altogether, which has the potential of eliminating any future freelance work. One of the unknowns, or at least not stated in your post, is how long do you expect the freelance work to continue. A few more weeks, a few more months, a few more years, something else. If you don't know, ask. Maybe there is light at the end of the tunnel, and the work he needs you to do will be ending soon. 

In a word, don't. There is a crude cliche, which I'll clean up for the forum. "Don't eat where you poop." Most romantic relationships fail, and as such if you were to become involved romantically then statistically you would break up thereby creating an even more uncomfortable situation at work. If this were outside of work, I would still say don't. You describe this person in negative ways--holier than thou, indifferent to you, makes you angry. These are not the makings of a healthy relationship. Don't. 

The price of labor is determined by supply and demand. The employer does not have to offer wages that are nominally the same as in the US because he can find local employees with the relevant skills that are willing to work for less. As others said, equal pay legislation does also not apply across borders. Why is that? Why can't the employees negotiate for the same nominal wage when their work can be done remotely and their location does not really matter much? The costs of living differ from country to country. A wage of i.e. 35 lakh rupees per year in India may represent the same cost as 50k$ for the employer (tax considerations etc. aside), but not the same standard of living for the employee. While Indian engineers would surely appreciate the luxurious lifestyle that comes with 35 lakhs, there will be enough of them who are willing to settle for the reasonably good standard of living at 15 lakhs. This will become the market rate. The employer does not need to pay more. Does that mean that Indian and Chinese engineers have no negotiation power even though they provide comparable work as their western counterparts? No, this is not true either. The wage gap between developed and developing countries is much larger for unskilled jobs than for skilled jobs. This can be seen as a result of this negotiation power. The nominal salary is still lower than in Europe/the US, but the perceived standard of living needn't be. As an anecdote: Multiple Indian engineers have told me that, in spite of their hugely increased nominal salaries, they feel poorer now in Europe than they felt before in India. They can afford smaller apartments and fewer aides for their household work. reference material from McKinsey