Hopefully you can see from the video which gear is stuck at the time, or any other detail that might be relevant. Thanks in advance for your help! 

I'm trying to troubleshoot a new rear shifter that my bike store installed. The new shifter is a Shimano EF65, 9 speed. The bike is a 2016 Trek Allant 7.4D. I don't know what the derailleur is off hand and the bike is back at the shop at the moment, it's definitely a shimano 9 speed. The 1st time I picked the bike up after having the new shifter installed there were about 3 bands across the entire range where shifting up OR down did nothing in terms of which cog the chain was on, they were more or less dead spots. The 2nd time I picked it up after having it adjusted I had to shift down 2x then up once to get it to go down one gear: shifting down one time did basically nothing. Sometimes I thought it'd be in gear and then there'd be a massive *crunch* while on full power as it slipped down into the gear I'd actually selected. This nearly threw me once or twice. The 3rd time I picked it up the downshifting problems were limited more to the upper gears (i think). 7 -> 6 would take about 200m of pedalling before the chain would eventually clunk over so I still have to downshift twice then up once to make sure I'm properly in gear. Before I dropped it off it was shifting fine except for the 10 minutes before the original shifter failed. For a moment it randomly wouldn't shift down every now & then, then it wouldn't shift down at all - there was 100% play, like the down shift lever was just gliding with no resistance. I tried to limp it to the store but about 10 minutes after getting stuck in top gear the bottom of the shifter fell off onto the road and the inner workings spilled everywhere. Apart from that... it was running like a Swiss watch. It's been given a thorough service less than 3 months ago. I think everyone's a bit confused at the moment. Are all shimano shifters for the same speed compatible? Is there a chance my derailleur could have worn along with the shifter so they'd be compatible with each other but not with a new drop-in replacement? What else could really have gone wrong? The hub's been inspected to see if the gears are indexing properly and apparently that's not the problem. I'm scratching my head a bit at the moment trying to figure out what could be wrong. We've spent about a month working on it so far and we haven't had much success getting it back to the way it was working before the original shifter failed.     Update as of 15th May: The mechanic tried a spare derailleur. He installed new Alivio cassette. He replaced the inner core of the shifter cable with a SRAM core, as he mentioned it looked as though the old core was snagging. He replaced the shifters with another set of Alivios. Every single time I've picked the bike up from the shop the guys have told me it's been tested and is running fine. I don't doubt that they're telling the truth. I had one good ride to the shops taking about 45 minutes with panniers on and didn't experience the problem that one time. I usually ride for 1 to 1.5 hrs and every other ride, apart from that one good trip, I have experienced the problems a few times during the ride. This may be completely coincidental but I think I noticed the problems more frequently in the cold. I'm wondering if the crunch / free spinning / lack of resistance on the crank sensation could be the freewheel, and the slow shift times might be a separate problem? The crunching seems to be set off most often when I shift from 7-8 but it also happens on bumps & spontaneously a bit. Last time I rode the bike I had time to start my helmet camera once the gear had already stuck, and recorded and additional 30 seconds of me shifting up & down without the derailleur engaging the lower gear. 

There are tons that are out there for recording routes, and such. There's also the physical mounting. Is the iPhone actually good/useful for bikers? 

In NY, there are many people, including me, with this lock. The one downside is its weight, ~6 lbs! I usually carry in a backpack or wear it around my waist(that's what the badass bike messengers here do...I'm not one of them. :) ) 

If there is a good book what would it be? I'm pretty sure I can find stuff on YouTube (any particular user?). Any blogs out there? 

I'm looking for one that attaches to your bike and easily detaches so you can take it with you. I usually ride with a small Timbuktu messenger style bag (really small, it's about the size of a large book) and I carry my wallet, phone, keys and stuff in it. Is there something for bikes so that I can easily attach and detach from the bike? 

What should be in the basic toolkit for someone that wants to maintain their own bicycle? I'm looking for something for your average day to day maintenance and tools that I will get the most use out of. Ex: I don't think I need a chain oil/lube/clean contraption...(do I?) I have some hex wrenches, a few tire levers for changing tires, random screwdrivers, and pliers. Do I need a chain tool? Do I need a bike stand? (I sometimes invert the bike and do tuning that way) 

I have heard all of the reasons for getting cramps such as not enough electrolytes, not enough fluids, heat along with all of the fixes but the one that actually is the biggest cause and the hardest to swallow is not enough saddle time. Back when I was riding a lot, I would get cramps on every long ride that I went with the fast group or when I attacked a hill at the end of a 60 mile ride. More miles and harder miles fixed that problem. 

If you wish to do it yourself, go ahead but at the cost of how much the proper tools cost, how often you will be doing this yourself and how much time you have should also be a consideration. I have bought the equipment to do it myself several times over the years [lost them all of course!] and have done it myself but would rather have someone who does it everyday and have the tools to do it properly and save me time as well. I would say $50 is well worth it. 

As several have pointed out, it is best to get something that actually fits you but with that in mind, it is better to go a little smaller than a little larger of a frame. For example, look at George Hincapie. He is 191 CM or 6 foot 3 and rides a bike that is just a little bigger than my 56 CM and I am just 5' 10 or 155 CM. He rides a 57.5. Putting on a longer stem and setting the seat back as far as it can go and pulling out the seat tube is how he fits on a bike that is just a tad bigger than mine while having a lot longer legs and body than I do. If he got something more like a 61-63, his bike would be heavier and not as stiff. It also depends on a few other factors. The length of the top tube, riding preferences, riding style. Keep in mind that on a typical bike, if you got one that is smaller and just added a longer stem and pulled out the seat post as far as you could go, handling will also be a bit different because your center of gravity would be different than what it was built for. It wouldn't be as easy to go downhill, steering would be a bit more squirmy. All bikes are built different. I have been on 56 CM's that were too big and too small for me in the stock format and even though I have owned my own bike for years, I am always adjusting the fit according to where I am in the season or how I feel on the bike. 

We inherited a Huffy Stone Mountain 26" mountain bike. We live on the 3rd floor of a walkup. It is quite difficult for her to carry the bike up and down the stairs. It has a fork with a spring suspension. Other parts of the bike look normal. When I pick up the bike, it seems to be front heavy. I'm not sure how much the bike is worth now...maybe $50 bucks maybe a little more? Is it worth trying to tweak it to make it lighter or should I just trade this one in? 

I currently have a 'regular' bike, i.e. a bike with typical brakes but I've been more fascinated recently with single speed and fixed gear bikes. One of the reasons that I've held off on getting on is the braking. How does coaster braking and braking on a fixed gear bike compare to regular brakes? I live in NYC and want to make sure that I can brake in all situations! 

I ride my bike maybe once a week at most. I need to add air to the tires every time to bring it up to the right pressure. (I ride a mountain bike and I put about 45 - 50 PSI's into the tires.) Is this normal? 

I live in NYC and would like to ride to work during the winter as well. What should one do to a mountain bike? a road bike? If you can also show products that you actually use that would be great.