There's no real harm in dropping HR a quick line to inform them of the typo - it's an easy enough mistake to make and I think that it's much more likely to be seen that way if you provide that correction unprompted rather than in response to the descrepency coming up as a result of the background check. 

There's no requirements in the UK for them to provide you with kitchen facilities such as a sink or cutlery etc. While it's quite common for offices in the UK to have such things there's no obligation on them to be provided. They do need to provide access to drinking water (and suitable cups if the water isn't from a drinking fountain), so the water cooler would cover that requirement. Bathroom facilities are also a requirement and it would appear that they already do that as well. Here is are the appropriate regulatory info. As for what to do I'd just bring in whatever you need and then take it home with you to clean to be honest. 

I'm sure this is not what you want to hear, but that job has gone and they have told you as much. It's not very pleasant that this previous employer has been able to scupper your application in this instance but the fact is it has happened and chances are that nothing can change that now. It doesn't sound like the bridge is burnt there so if other jobs are advertised working for them you can certainly re-apply but as they advised you I certainly wouldn't be counting on it. All you can do now is move on and carry on the job search. If you find yourself in a similar situation where a potential employer is going to be doing a background check then it is probably worth mentioning the history with this old employer to them before they carry out the check. Essentially getting your side of the story in first. You don't need to go into too much detail with this, just let them know that you had some difficulties with this old employer and you're aware that they have been giving false negative reports about you on background checks. 

Assuming the task doesn't cross the line into "free work" territory then this sounds pretty normal to me - I've experienced this frequently when I've been the candidate and I've applied the same strategy on several occasions when I've been the one recruiting. By establishing a candidate's technical bonafides (even in a cursory) before you get them in for an interview helps avoid the annoying situation where only discover at interview that they are far below the standard/skillset you require which wastes not only the interviewer's time but yours as well. It also gives you an early indicator of how serious the candidate is about coming to work for the organisation, if they won't spend an hour or so doing a technical exercise then they probably aren't that motivated and assuming they aren't badly written the job description/advert and the company's website should be enough to motivate the candidate to do a short exercise, otherwise I'd potentially question whether their motivations for applying weren't rooted in them wanting the job (e.g. interview practice, avoiding unemployment benefit sanctions etc). FWIW I fully understand that these sorts of practices happen, and generally for good reasons but (and I can only speak for myself here) if a candidate is applying to me for a job I'd expect them to at least act as if they want the job! 

and hope that someone volunteers at this point. If no-one does then it's either nominate someone (slightly tricky as you aren't a manager, you'd still need to ask if they mind doing it really) or do it yourself. Since this is a recurring situation if you repeat the above often enough then people will likely get the cue and start doing it without being prompted - unless the task is particularly onerous of course. 

There are back-end focused roles out there but as you've discovered full-stack positions are by far more common, I'm a back-end developer myself by preference and if Italy is anything like the UK you'll find opportunities to do pure back-end work few and far between. Having recently been on the hunt for a new contract back-end heavy roles made up less than 10% of those on the market and even then most had full-stack elements to them. There's nothing wrong with looking for back-end roles by preference but you need to be realistic about the amount that this will narrow your field. 

It's the last "pro" I listed for the "send it later" option that clinches it for me. As HLGEM points out in his comment: 

Asking to be involved would probably come across as presumptuous, offering to help out however probably wouldn't. 

If possible make an appointment with a counselor or doctor (even if that appointment is after you'll be seeing your boss) and bring details of that appointment with you so you show you are taking steps to address the issue. To be honest either way you're in a pretty crap situation and I hope you can work it out without too much damage to your work and life so good luck! 

There's no "right" answer to this as it will depend on the manager in question, certainly I would aim more for the middle rather than the beginning. Give yourself chance to impress them before you potentially put them on the defensive by framing it in the context of asking for a raise. 

While I sympathize you don't know that they are just sparing your feelings, "not now but maybe" is a perfectly valid answer. 

The buzzword for this sort of thing is "networking", and it's usefulness varies from industry to industry. Establishing a relationship with a decision maker at a company in your field can certainly help when it comes to applying for jobs but the eternal question with it is how you get to have that initial contact and again this varies from industry to industry. It generally doesn't consist of cold contact but rather meeting these people through industry events and job fairs and the like or through a mutual connection. 

If they ask why you're asking and you have a good enough rapport with your manager then you can maybe add: 

They may well not listen to these and if their mind is made up then they almost certainly won't but they will probably respond back to you overruling them at the least and the important thing is that you've got these concerns and consequences and their subsequent dismissal of them in writing and should there be any attempt to blame you in the future you can point at that e-mail chain and show that you raised them and were overruled. 

So what should you do? The best bet is to keep impressing upon your boss (Director of Technology) about the specific workflow/productivity problems you are encountering. Ideally keep it as impersonal regarding the Product Director has possible but it sounds like that ship has sailed, so you just need to focus as much as you can on the work problems and how it impedes the business (because that's what senior management will care about) and if they aren't things he can solve directly within in his remit then press him to escalate them to the CEO - because that's his job not yours. 

Is probably correct - if their skills and experience are otherwise strong then unless you have a wealth of good candidates and are looking to cut the field down a bit I would just count it as a minor mark against them and make sure I focussed on checking out their judgement during any interview process but wouldn't just bin them outright. 

I'm making two assumptions here, firstly that the profession you are working in is not one that relates to traveling (or anything you did while traveling) and secondly that the role is a permanent one. With those in mind any CV landing in my inbox that emphasized travelling "experience" beyond simply explaining employment gaps would get binned. This may sound harsh, and please understand that I'm in no way judging someone as a person because of their personal interests but I'm not reviewing CVs looking for friends I'm trying to fulfill a business need - Recruiting is expensive and time consuming so I don't want to do it more frequently than necessary. A CV that emphasizes taking "months to years off" to go traveling would (rightly or wrongly) give me the impression that I could hire you and then six months later you'd disappear on your next adventure and I (and the organisation) would be back to square one. When I was first starting out in the world of work I received quite a bit of advice around making sure that I listed my hobbies etc on my CV to show I was a rounded person or some such. Now YMMV (especially in different industries/professions) but from my experience in IT and software development, both from applying and recruiting for roles I would say that's completely useless advice. No one who has hired me has ever so much as hinted that they even noticed any such information and despite having reviewed dozens of CVs over the years (probably more than that) I have never, ever, read the personal information section and found it contributed positively towards my impression of the candidate or my decision to interview or hire them. Conversely I have been made to feel wary about a candidate when such information is excessive in length or detail. So now I stand by the mantra that unless something is relevant to your ability to perform the role being applied for it's just squandering your very limited space to advertise your ability to do the role. 

Nope this isn't the point. The point is to present yourself in a professional manner and to show that you are taking it seriously. Unless the company is known for actively disliking buisness formal attire or the recruiter advises specifically otherwise interview attire is always shirt, suit, & tie. I've worked in places with daily dress codes varying from the uber scruffy to fully suited and booted. The common thread (no pun intended) through was that when having external meetings with suppliers, clients etc you were always expected to err on the formal side - especially for a first meeting. An interview should be treated the same way. 

Without something in writing it is essentially your word against theirs - and I can't see you winning that one. So unless you can find something, anything with the number of days vacation on it supporting your higher figure I think it's a complete non-starter and you're left with the choice of deciding whether the lower amount of days off is acceptable to you if continuing in the role or most likely leaving. If the amount of vacation really is a deal-breaker for you then you wouldn't have anything to lose by going back to them and suggesting a compromise. Something like: 

You might think you want to keep this job, you might even really believe you want to keep this job but really, you don't. Toiling away, endlessly in a role that you aren't suited for (I wouldn't say you are too "dumb" - it just sounds like your brain doesn't work "that way") is never going to be a happy situation for you and the longer you attempt to maintain it the more damage it's going to do to your self esteem and general mental wellbeing. You're already talking about how: 

Adding your comments about the illegal discriminatory hiring practices regarding gender and age to the exploiting candidates for free work situation in the main question which itself opens a can of worms with potential legal implications (since if you don't pay them they potentially retain the copyright over anything they produce in the process) paints a telling picture that this isn't a case of someone who has blundered into an unethical situation but rather an unscrupulous individual who simply doesn't care. People like that don't suddenly undergo a moral 180 because of logic or reasonable arguments from a colleague it takes significant real consequences which short of reporting him to the appropriate authorities you aren't in a position to bring. My advice is to stop trying to talk the tide out of coming in and get out before the CEO's dodgy practices taint the company's reputation and potentially your own by association. 

No harm in asking.. they will either have a suitable role or they won't - I think if you make it clear that you understand that they might not have a suitable role and that you aren't demanding they create one there's nothing wrong with what you propose. I'd stress how positive you feel about the company and how you'd quite like to work there. 

Yep that's pretty irritating, and I would probably feel similarly about it to how you do. However assuming that the person(s) doing this have the appropriate authority in the company to do so then there isn't a lot you can do about it (of course leaving is the nuclear option), it may speak to a lack of trust but I would be wary of jumping straight to that conclusion. It's not unheard of for things like this to just be the norm in a company and may have no reflection upon you or how the company feels about you at all. If you think about the "granting admin" case - IT & Network admin staff often do things out of hours to reduce disruption to the working day. I've worked in several companies where staff could walk in the next morning and find all their equipment had been swapped out or even moved to another desk entirely since they left the previous day. Things like the coffee cup moving could be so many legitimate things - an admin using the machine or even a cleaner moving it to clean the desk surface. Regarding the other user accounts and the lack of a wipe before you started, well, as easy as it is to start thinking of a work computer as "your machine" it really isn't it is the company's computer and they can do whatever they like with it. As to what you do now I would say not to panic at this stage, I would ensure I didn't keep anything personal (or anything you wouldn't want the company to see) on the computer but I would advise that regardless (not your machine remember?) and if you get any solid indications or evidence that they are actually "going through" your computer or things then you can either raise that specifically and see what they say or leave depending on whether you feel that the situation is rectifiable or not.