Wow what a horrible guide. Tightening the gear cable while in the highest front gear is very tough and will only hurt your fingers. I recommend putting the front dérailleur into the lowest gear and tightening it that way. This is much easier! As for your specific problem, in all my experience you can never not get 'rubbing' (if by rubbing you mean the chain running through the dérailleur over hang and brushing it). However, you will notice that the brushing varies depending on whether the back gears are high or low. Since this varies the angle at which the chain 'points' to the back gears. So the solution: Since you will always have brushing (a tiny bit at least), you just seek to minimise it. Put the back gears in the most used gear before tuning the front dérailleur. For example on my touring bike I'm usually in my third highest gear at the back, unless going up hills or firing down them. So I tighten my front dérailleur cable while the back gear is as such, this means I only get front gear rubbing when the back gear is perhaps in the very low gears, thus causing the chain to 'go backwards' at a different angle. If you want to spend a ridiculous ton of money on a fancy dérailleur you can mitigate this, but there's really no need. For mountain bikes the most common gear back gear is the lower one. If you're not sure which you've used most, clean the cassette of a bike you've used well, and look at the wear on each cog. 

My daughter still goes in a Hamax siesta at nearly 3. It's seatpost mounted and we swap it between bikes. The seat is rated to 22kg (which from the growth charts should take 99% of children up to age 4 and 75% to 5½. We're anticipating being able to use it when she starts school. You don't need to include the weight of the balance bike as that wouldn't be carried on the toddler seat. The rack-mounted seats don't have a much higher limit - in fact then the limit is usually the rack itself, which has to carry the weight of the seat and the balance bike for you. So you may actually find a lower weight limit overall despite a higher child weight limit. But on both bikes we have a rack underneath. I haven't tried carrying her balance bike at the same time yet - she's not yet into going very far on it. But putting the balance bike vertically, with the handlebars at the top rear resting on the rack, and strapping the balance bike frame to the rack should work (at least on 700C/29er etc.). I managed to get some quick pictures (I didn't even have time to arrange everything somewhere less cluttered so sorry about the quality). I wasn't quite how I envisaged: 

I have been chased by dogs countless times while riding solo or with a group. In all cases I have never been bitten. I may be wrong but in most cases the dogs just want to frighten you away. What works for me is not to panic, try and maintain a steady speed, and most importantly, make sure not to hit/run over the dog if it is coming towards you. Here is a pic of me and a buddy of an incident with 2 dogs 2 summers ago taken from a GoPro camera: 

I would go with a Dahon myself such as this one: Dahon Eco Dahon has been around for a long time and is well known for manufacturing folding bikes. I have a friend who uses a similar bike to commute more than an hour each day. It is fairly reliable. He travels mostly on side streets. I myself uses a Brompton M6R but only for short range commutes or for multi-modal commutes where I would only ride a maybe maximum of 5 km one way and only when I can use side streets. Beyond 5 km and/or when I have to travel via arterial roads, I use a cyclocross bike with bigger 700c wheels. The Brompton is just too slow to travel safely in my opinion on arterial roads where I live where the speed limit is 60 kph... most cars do more than that though. 

Your rim will be drilled for one of the two. Usually a schrader. A presta (which is thinner) will allows fit in a schrader sized whole, but give more freedom for the valve to move around, often causing a valve wall tear and leading lots of people to think "wow what a useless valve". A typical case of human error. This can easily be countered with a schrader to presta valve converter, a cheap little bit of plastic cushioning which usually costs pennies. Prestas are far more performant in terms of the amount of pressure they can hold, and the rate they can take air in. Schraders are widely used not just because "they're the best" but because they've become a standard which is hard to break away from. 

If it's very stiff to shift I recommend lubricating it with some grease. If using the gear cable does cause the dérailleur to move but not enough to shift the gears it's most likely a case of 'wrong tension', either too much or not enough. 

Cycling up hill will do this. Although it's not too intense a work out. Ride standing up and you'll use the required muscle group for balance (as a person standing is harder to balance than one sitting, and thus uses more muscles). Since you're sitting symmetrically this will also give you an 'even' work out. So just modify your route to take in a couple of small hills. Fartlek is best (basically - alternating intensity during exercise to stress your body), so flat then hill then flat then hill. 

I'm not a fan of learning to balance on a downhill, unless it's a slight initial downhill with a nice flat field at the bottom. You do want a bike that's big enough - the one I bought to learn (all but the first steps) on was a little too small for me, and it was only when I replaced it with something bigger that I got really confident on rough surfaces (bad tarmac, not MTB trails) and in traffic. Once he's over the basic, a gentle ride round flattish, smoothish forest trails will do wonders for his abilities - time and distance count for a lot when it comes to getting into the flow. 

I may never get to the bottom of this, and would still like to know what roadside repairs would be possible. I do know that cleaning the rear rotors withs meths (denatured alcohol) and putting the old front pads on the back (complete with bedding in) got it back to a working condition. They're possibly not a sharp as the front brake with new (bedded in) pads, but it's plenty for the back -- I had to hang off the back of the saddle to keep enough grip on the road to bed them in properly. While the moving pad had become very worn (and with an angle on it) I reckon this was caused by leaning on the brakes on all the downhills to try to get something out of them. I did inspect the pads when the symptoms first appeared (without removing the wheel) and would have noticed a non-flat pad then, or anything between the pad and rotor (which is what I was looking for). I don't particularly want to test this again but will carry some IPA wipes (as used before injections). While alcohol-based wipes are no longer recommended for cleaning wounds they're still handy to have in a first aid kit especially if your hands might be greasy when dressing road rash, so they'll do double duty. 

You definitely can use an XC bike for road-biking purposes especially if you swap the stock XC knobby tires with slicks meant for the road. The only area you might be at a disadvantage as Glenn has already pointed out is you might run out of gears if the group you are riding with hits speeds in excess of 60 kph which can happen on downhills. 

I have Planet Bike Cascadia fenders and my shoes did clip the metal rods/wire fender supports after I had the fenders installed. This happens when I am making a tight turn while continuing to pedal. Simple solution for me was to cut the protruding rod/wires. Initially I tried to use a hacksaw but had little luck as the coating was hard and the saw just bounced around. I then tried using a pair of big pliers and that did the trick. I found that the wire only had hardened coating but once you pierced that it cut easily... a big set of pliers can easily do the job. 

I have used a CO2 inflator for almost 5 years. On average I use mine around 2 to 3 times a year not only to pump my tires when I have a flat while riding solo but also those of my friends when they suffer flats on group rides. I have had no incident of the tire exploding and I don't even check what pressure the tire got to after inflating it with the CO2 inflator. What experience has shown me is you just pump your tire (700 x 23 or 25) and the pump will auto stop outputting CO2 when it reaches approximately 100 psi. One cartridge if you are careful is good for inflating two 700 x 23c tires (or being used twice). I use a spring loaded Genuine Innovations Inflator which you just press a bit hard to engage. Finally one should remember the CO2 seeps out of the inner tube faster than air so one should replace the CO2 with air after arriving home or at the shop. 

Adjust the min pin on your rear dérailleur so that if you wanted you could lower your gear past the lowest cassette ring throwing your chain into the tiny gap between the wheel hub/spokes and cassette. This acts as an immediate hand brake since that space isn't actually wide enough for the chain. The downside of this is your chain hub and spokes are trashed, but if both your brakes are gone this is the only guaranteed way to stop. You must also be careful not to go down to many gears if you rig your bike this way. Another warning, this is very effective so hold on before doing it or you'll go over the handle bars. 

The bike in your picture has a rack on the back no? If you can't fit the low riding ortlieb recumbants (due to their length) I'd recommend ortlieb front panniers (smaller than their rear counterparts and therefore more likely to fit that small rack. Also all Ortlieb bags have adjustable clips (so you can make them fit smaller/bigger racks). 

Take the appropriate hex key and free the gear cable to the front then 'shift' the front gears down to the lowest gear (if you have a road bike with drop bar compliant shifters, this will most probably be the little 'button' to the right of the shifter, on the left side of the handlebar) now manually push the dérailleur over hand (the big hunk of metal on a spring which the chain feeds through) so that it is lined up above the smallest cog on the front gears holding the dérailleur in position, tighten up the gear cable again. 

As an aside: I picked it up in a hurry, lightly used/ex-rental and without a test ride, for around half the shop price. I'm happy with it apart from this, and assumed that I might upgrade consumables (perhaps as they wear out). I looked at the specs in detail to be sure the fundamentals were there, but is there any way I could have spotted this? 

I'm planning a few routes, and while I've generally used Google maps and cyclestreets, the former makes exporting to GPX a pain (there are third party tools, but once you've customised a route they sometime refuse to work, and Google doesn't pass on the customisation properly) and the latter doesn't allow custimsed routes (though its 3 options are generally good). After hunting for another tool I tried Strava's route builder planning tool (I don't feel any need to log my rides online so don't use Strava for anything else). This apparently uses openstreetmap data. Now when I put the same loop into Strava and Google I get a difference in elevation gain, and not a small one: 522m from Google and 774m from Strava which is 48% more. The distance is within rounding error (Google: 68.5km; Strava 67.7). At 10% or even 20% I wouldn't be too worried but that's a big difference. So which one should I trust? 

The main reason people go to these bike shows is to look for bargains. If you intend to go, bring a list of bicycle stuff related items (tires, wheels, pedals, saddles, etc.) along with their going range of prices on the web and at bike stores. Compare the prices in the bike show to those in your list and if it looks like you found a bargain then go for it. 

Schrader valves are more robust, this is the reason why you see them universally in use for vehicle tires. With Presta, you have to be more careful when putting in or taking off the pump nozzle or you might bend or even break either the rotating (locking) tip of the valve. You could also go to literally any gas station to pump air to your tires if you are using a Shrader valve. Presta's advantage is that it is thinner and the rim has a smaller valve hole in which case it makes the rim stronger. This can be a factor especially in thin bicycle rims. Another advantage of Presta valves is they can be made longer, a lot longer in fact than Shrader valves. This is especially important when you have deep aero type rims.