It's simple. Instead of deflecting the compliment, accept it with grace. Executive: wow. I don't know how you guys do all this stuff. I wish I knew what you do about computers. You: well, I'm here to help. Glad I could assist you. (or) You: Just doin' my job. Gotta take care of folks. (or) You: Yup, computers can drive ya crazy. But I've got your back. (or simply) You: No worries. I'm glad I could help. 

Leave the family history out of it. The only reason they are asking this question is because you have no work history. Once you establish yourself in the field, no one will care. And talking about family dynamics can only cloud your answer. So give an answer that is both truthful but discrete, and makes you look good. "You know, I studied Political Science as an undergraduate, and found it to be an interesting and fulfilling course of study. However, I've always had a passion for computer science. So when it came time to choose a graduate program, I decided that while I had enjoyed my undergraduate major, I really wanted to expand my CS skills and master my craft. "Although my approach may have been atypical, I find that my political science / international relations training has given me a perspective and soft-skills that many CS grads may lack at the beginning of their careers. I understand what makes people tick, and have a big picture perspective that gives me maturity, and helps keep me grounded." That was just what I came up with in 30 seconds. Modify to fit your taste. 

You accepted an internship with a set duration, knowing beforehand that you would be leaving almost a month early. Speaking as a professional, honestly, this seems very flaky. But, I guess this is what you get when you hire students / interns. They are probably often flaky, and make commitments and then don't see them through (and make excuses about how their travel plans are just too important to meet commitments). So not the end of the world, and the company will probably survive. In answer to your question: 

As you probably already know, here's what's happening: Senior Manager S is customer's point of contact. Flawed / buggy product keeps making it to production and it's making S look bad. Customer doesn't know or care about your company's internal politics, or why they keep receiving software that "isn't thoroughly tested enough" and that has "too many errors [getting] through the process [to production]" due to "organizational constraints." Customer is paying lots of money and just wants quality product. Every time they are hampered by a bug, it is affecting their ability to complete their business processes (and potentially costing them money). Daily / weekly / monthly / whatever, S is having a meeting or a conference call or an email conversation with customer where they point out (possibly very nicely, possibly not) the bugs that they have found. S keeps having to apologize and make excuses. S has had enough of looking like a fool. Like a good problem solver, S is trying to fix the problem. She is going to make sure that crappy product does not make it to production. So, she has created a new position with a slightly altered job description. I say, good for her. She's fixing a problem that others can't or won't fix. It sucks that your supervisor can't, or won't, or is not empowered enough to affect structural change. As you predicted, there may be a redundancy forming, and your unit may be down-sized in favor of the other unit. Or, maybe you won't. It sounds like Big Boss doesn't care how the problem gets fixed, he's just glad someone is doing something. Who knows what the future holds? You have a few options: 

In an 8 hour shift, at minimum you should take two 15 minute breaks, and a 30-60 lunch break. The 15 minute breaks are on the clock, the longer lunch break is not. Additionally, you mention in one of your comments that your job involves writing code. Programming requires mental breaks to be effective. Programming is very cerebral; it's not a job where you can mindlessly follow a rote pattern. You need to rest your mind from time to time -- especially when you switch from one major task to another. I find that if I walk away from a difficult problem for a few minutes, when I come back, I am often able to attack it in new / better ways that I wouldn't have thought of if I just stared at the screen waiting for inspiration to come. Here's what I like to do. In addition to unwinding on my 1 hour lunch break, I allow myself 15-ish minutes per day to read the news. I don't have a set time; just whenever I feel I need a break. I scan google news, and pick two or three headlines that interest me most. After finishing those articles, that's around 15 minutes. Additionally I allow myself another 15-ish minute break to get water, use restroom, goof off online, play a game on my phone, whatever. The second break is not at my desk. Additionally if, throughout the day I need to refill my water bottle, or make a brief pit stop to the restroom, or even just stand up for 5 mins and stretch my legs at my desk, I don't worry about it. Writing code is mentally taxing work that most people don't know how to do, or even how to learn to do, and it has a big impact on the business. Generally managers will be understanding of occasional breaks. One programming shop where I worked, the entire staff would take a daily break where they would share snacks and read / talk about the newspaper (back when newspapers were a thing). You're young, and an intern, so I understand that you need to make a good impression. So, obviously, don't abuse it. But if you take a few reasonable / 10-15 minute breaks a day, and a lunch break, it should be fine. 

After that, it should just take the occasional reminder. As the deadline approaches, if he is still avoiding and complaining, perhaps send a more direct reminder and CC his boss -- preferably on the same email thread as your previous communications so the boss can see you've been asking for a while. 

Time to set some boundaries. If he starts talking about the women he admires, say "you know I don't like that subject. Can we talk about something else?" If he teases you or ignores your request, calmly say "I've asked you not to talk about this subject, but you are continuing to do so. I'm not interested in hearing anymore. Let's catch up another time, but I don't want to hear about your tastes in women." Then stand up and walk away. He may get offended, he may not. But at least he's more likely to get the message, and it sounds like the friendship is starting to make you uncomfortable anyway. 

Personally I wouldn't bother with a breach of contract action as what would that accomplish? Further poison the relationship to hang on to a job with a bunch of promise-breaking creeps? This question is largely opinion based, so all I can tell you is what I would do, not what you should do. First, I would look around and make sure that the going market rate for my skills is at least equal to or above my current pay. If they are already paying me more than I can get elsewhere, then that will inform my next actions. If it is possible to get equal pay or better elsewhere: Then, I would have a sit down with my immediate supervisor (and the higher boss if he wants to come). I would bring my contract. I would keep my tone very neutral, not hostile or accusatory. My goal is simply to get final clarity on their plans -- whether they plan to honor the contract or not -- and to give them a final opportunity to do the right thing. I would discuss my contract with them, and point out the clause where it says that I get a review (and raise) after a year of satisfactory work. Then I would ask what their plan is; if they intend to follow through on that clause. If he says "No, you're already at the cap of what we're willing to pay," then I would not make any threats about leaving or about bringing suit. I would thank them for their time, and say that I will plan accordingly. If they are smart and want to keep you, then they will read between those lines and possibly change course. If not, then at least you know what kind of people they are. Next, I would start looking for a new job. In the meantime, no more unpaid extra effort for current job. I would not burn any bridges, and still give my best effort during my contractually obligated 40 hours, but that's all they get. If they ask me to do something on the weekend, I would say, "sorry, I'm busy." Finally, I would accept the first promising offer that came along with a suitable compensation and convenient location. I would not hold out for a major raise. These people have demonstrated that they do not honor their commitments, and I would be anxious to move on. 

You are fighting an uphill battle. Speaking a native language is so much easier that getting them to change is fighting a most basic human impulse. You are in a bilingual workplace; people are going to speak the dominant language. I'm not saying it's impossible, but your options are to either remind them constantly and become the office nag, or start learning French. However, what you consider an aggravation may in fact be a great opportunity to learn a second language, the more so because you have people to practice with. Many people learn a second language, but quickly become rusty because they lack practice. But you are thrust into a situation every day where you have ample opportunity to practice. An easy way to begin learning a conversational language is to start watching TV in that language. At first with subtitles, but over time without. Also, language learning software can be helpful since you have people to practice against. If you are a white-collar / professional, you can probably make the case for spending 15 minutes of work time per day learning the dominant language. Tell you boss it will have a dramatic impact on your ability to work with your coworkers and bring value to the business. Finally, you may find that if you make an effort, your coworkers will reciprocate. It is always endearing to people when outsiders make an effort to learn their language and culture. If you make a little effort to engage them in their language, they may meet you halfway and engage with you in yours. 

Depends on if you want to stay at the company. Changing jobs can be a pain. If you have solid information that other employees with similar job description are making significantly more than you, and it is a believable pay level for your profession, then ask for that pay. Don't bring rivalries into it ("I heard Jill makes more than me, and I want the same as her."). Schedule a time (do you have an annual performance review coming up?) and make your case. Highlight your successes, emphasize your good qualities, and mention projects that you have completed successfully -- especially if they increased revenue or decreased expenses. For example: "There's something I'd like to talk to you about. I've been with the company for X years and have always received favorable performance reviews. I work hard and bring good value to the company. I am very proficient at my job. Two years ago I completed a project that streamlined our X process, on time, making sales go 20% faster. Also, I updated all of the old [file type] records in only 3 months. I have done some research, and I believe that for someone with my skill set, experience and proven work ethic, an appropriate salary would be $$$." Then stop talking and let him respond. After addressing that issue, you can also bring up the bonus issue if you want. Have the emails printed out and ready. "Also, last year we were promised a 100% bonus, but I only received a 90% bonus. I'd like to know why I didn't receive the bonus I was promised." Depending on his response, decide if the job is worth it. If not, start looking.