Why wear it when you can ride it? Just look at all these lumbering hunks of armour on the battlefield: 

How did the English Civil War and the following reign of Oliver Cromwell affect policies towards and in the American Colonies? I don't see anything Wikipedia that covers this topic (I can only see mainly the militaristic aspects of it there). 

All of the factors you mentioned did play a role in the loss of the ships. But the largest factor in the ships themselves actually blowing up was the absolute horrendousness in the ammunition handling of the battle-cruisers and basically every other British ship. To that point, the battle-cruisers also had less armour than battleships which made it easier for shells to penetrate the ship, which then set off the badly-placed cordite charges in the turret and ammunition shafts. In the loss of the Indefatigable and Queen Mary, the problems in signalling (to Evan-Thomas's battleships) had more of a hand. However, the presence of battleships might not have made too much of a difference since the Defence, an older "armoured cruiser", and Invincible were lost while steaming with the main battlefleet. I must also note that the Germans had also had a problem with ammunition flash explosions in a previous battle (Dogger Bank I think it was) and they instituted a system to prevent that from happening again. So, even though the Germans had a few errors on their part in the battle, none of their battle-cruisers blew up. In all, the largest cause of the loss of the British battle-cruisers was the problems in ammunition handling which was exploited by the lack of armour on those ships and the others which also exploded (Defence and Black Prince). On the Hood, the largest problem was that her armour was not up to par with the weapons she faced, permitting a shell to go into her magazines. If you like, here is a documentary that goes into more detail on what caused the explosions. I must say that I have probably overstudied this battle for too many years. 

To be perfectly correct, the Cossack and the ships from the Adamss on are not true "Destroyers" as the true destroyers first came about in the 1890s as an invention of Jackie Fisher named "torpedo-boat destroyers". On this line, the more modern "destroyers" are not what can be classified as classic destroyers but as cruisers (The last of the classic DDs were the Gearing Class). From what I see in the ships post-Gearing, the DD and the Cruiser design merged and the cruiser-type design took precedence. The modern terms of "Destroyer" and "Cruiser" have more to do with the roles that the ships play rather than anything from their historical antecedents. I would like to point out that the Spruance DDs and the Ticonderoga CGs are just different superstructures on the same hull. TL;DR The speed on the later ships are more in line with the cruiser doctrine as the designs of those ships are basically cruisers. The pre-Adams class ships on your list are TBDs and the ones from the Adams onward are modified cruisers. Cruisers have a different usage doctrine than Torpedo-Boat Destroyers have. 

To add to some already good answers. It didn't matter hugely. The most important aspect of having a war on two fronts was having to guard the Atlantic coast. For the most part this meant tying down the requisite number of armed forces to ensure that invasions or raids could not be conducted (or at least without huge risk). Winston Churchill had made it clear that defeating the UK (a pretty daunting task as it stood) would not mean an end to conflict in the west. His famous speech in 1940 made it clear that the UK government would continue to fight on the island, even after losing land superiority, and even if entirely ejected from the British Isles, would continue resistance within the Empire. Partisan action could also be assumed in occupied territories. As such, a large number of German soldiers would be tied down for a long time in the west, even if the war on that front was "officially" concluded. The other aspect to note was that it was considered to be a bad idea for Germany to fight a war on two fronts. Stalin did not believe that Hitler would ever invade the USSR while Britain remained a threat. To perhaps lend credence to this idea, the largest air raid against Britain was conducted in the run-up to Barbarossa (10th-11th May). Despite intelligence to the contrary, the USSR (and Stalin in particular) was caught napping when Germany launched an invasion on 22nd June. This had the effect of complete devastation of the Soviet forces in the west. However, as war with Germany had been considered ultimately quite a likely scenario, much of the soviet industry had already been repositioned behind the Urals, meaning that it would be virtually untouched throughout the war. While fighting a war on two fronts eveutally allowed the Allied to land in France during Overlord, by that stage the war was already decided. 

When considering the Victorian era there is a typical reference to the zeitgeist that thought that human society and technology were inevitably progressing for the better, a sort of manifest destiny that was seemingly confirmed by the ongoing industrial revolution. This was promoted by the peace and relative stability experienced in Europe at that time, and strength of the British Empire, which had at this time reached its zenith. What name is given to this strain of thought (either within the United Kingdom or Europe generally)? 

The doctrine lasted from mid-1950s until 1971. You can read more about it in the wikipedia link and, for more detail: William Glenn Gray, Germany's Cold War: The Global Campaign to Isolate East Germany. University of North Carolina Press. (2003) ISBN 0-8078-2758-4. 

Well, if you are working in a place deemed "important", say, in an aircraft design bureau, chances you get one are pretty good. (But if you are not on good terms with your boss, you have a problem.) But what if you are working in a shoe-repair place? Or a collective farm? (Which means you live not in Riga but somewhere in a country-side.) Chances are very minimal. You wait and wait and wait for the life-saving evacuation document and then Germans arrive all of a sudden. (The rest you know.) What are your other options? Say, you get your wife, kids, parents and you try to walk along a highway. In particular, you have abandoned your workplace illegally and you are also impeding the military traffic. The first NKVD patrol that sees you will declare you a "saboteur" (somebody sabotaging Soviet industry by leaving your workplace without a permission) and "paniceur" (somebody spreading panic about the danger of advancing German troops and who does not believe that the glorious red Army will soon crash the German invaders). So, you get shot on the spot (quite legally!). Edit. I will add more when I have more time. Here is an extract from $URL$ (which is in Russian): 

[1] Trotsky, Leon, The History of the Russian Revolution. 3 vols. Translated by Max Eastman. New York, Simon and Schuster, 1932. [2] Bykov, P. M. The Last Days of Tsardom. London, Martin Lawrence, 1934. P.S. The story with the initial official denial of the execution of the rest of the family an then blaming PSR members, I find a bit strange, more precisely, out of character for the Bolshevik leadership: They were not shy (actually, quite proud of) of admitting mass terror against the "class enemies". Executing spouses and children of the latter was quite consistent with the (theory and practice of) Communist morality. However, it is irrelevant regarding the original question.