I'm reading the phenomenology page on IEP, which talks about the relation between phenomenology and science, and I must say, not that I haven't met with phenomenology before, but as it's presented on the page it seems that phenomenology is exactly the way science works nowadays, especially the idea of different aspects of the object, multiple experiments in multiple situations to have more comprehensive understanding of the object. Is that true? Is our contemporary natural science works in the phenomenological method? 

Epistemologically, every bit of knowledge you aquire is based on believing that knowledge to be true/false/real/imaginary/etc, or more precisely, believing that knowledge to be at the very least epistemic (meaning it can have a conscious meaning for you). Hence, we already, in our very essence of thinking, believing, thus being able to be at least slightly biased. Sociology, economy, biology, physically, your body and brain and mine are being affected throughout your life, even when you're just a new-born, you have the genes of your parents (at the very least). Each experience you have throughout your life shapes you. Shapes your views. This is one of the reasons philosophers have tried to emphasize the "return to youth" state of mind, because that's when you were the least affected by life. This is causing the very fundamental language you're using to be influenced by your past. Formalization of regions such as language have tried to solve these "issues", but even those formalizations can be argued to be influenced by the views of the ones who created them, thus even those aren't "unbiased".* 

A long title. Postmodernism is known for its post-truth ideas, that there's no objective truth that we can even wish to discover, or that it even matter. An idea came to me - if we do take a postmodern approach, can we treat philosophy and science (i.e. the "knowledge" tools), that originally are designed to help us understand the world, instead use them as tools to help make our lives better? And sure, one could argue that this is exactly what these departments do, but I'm going to a different direction here: in this postmodern position, questions such as "how X works" simply won't exist unless it directly helps us. We don't have to research issues such as the origin of the universe, black holes, space and time, etc, unless we directly benefit from it as society, as humanity. My question is, first, is such position possible in postmodernism? The next one would be, is such position possible in modernism? And the last one would be, is there such position already? (the last one can answer the others as you can see.) Edit: a better example I think would be: assuming we have 2 theories for a subject. One who'd take this position will consider the theories by what it gives us as humanity, rather than how closer it is to the "truth". 

[Note for admins - close if it doesn't fit the SE, I asked in the Symposium but no one answered so I came here. No need to downvote.] Hi all, I saw Dennet, Krauss, and Massimo debate a couple of days ago (an absolutely bad debate in my honest opinion), and after that I thought why not looking at some more, so I came to the best place to ask for some recommendations. So, first, I'd love to get any recommendations that has heavy philosophical talk, but specifically I'd like to see ones relating to science, religion, and all these relation to philosophy. Also I have no issue with reading correspondences instead, so that's welcomed too. Also debates regarding certain philosophers are welcomed too (e.g. a debate between two philosophers about some Heideggerian idea). [Had no idea which tag to use but I saw there's a "debate" one so I used that.] 

Now I understand that it is considered an "evolutionary" step (?), but I don't quite understand the meaning and uses it has to offer. [note - I had no clue which tags to use for this.] 

Seeing as there are many answers here that claim to the contrary, I'd like to attempt to present an answer where I find atheism to be as dogmatic as theism (or maybe, in a slight change of definition, "non-dogmatic"-I'll show this in the end of the answer), but first let's set up the terms properly (note- all definitions are my own, and I'd be happy to argue about them in the comments): Dogma: 

I've been trying to attack this question (or more precisely, come up with an answer to that fact) for some time now, but after a while of research I'm suddenly not so sure of the reason the situation is as it is. I used to think that nihilism today is so popular because of the uprising of positivism in science and scientism in the past century, but I'm not exactly sure anymore. I know some blame it today for post-modernism, but I'm not sure it's quite correct too. So, I'd like to see what people here think is the core issue that made room for the popularity (of course there are those who will argue with me about its popularity too) of nihilism in the last few decades. I should say, while it is not directly related, I am going to connect atheism in some way to nihilism, as in my opinion they both came from the same source last century, but I would definitely accept other point of views here. Edit: while writing a comment to @GeoffreyThomas' answer, I realized the two definitions of nihilism I'm talking about: 

Kant, Reinhold, Fichte, Schelling, Hegel.. Is there anything left from the Kantian movement today in the thoughts of knowledge and nature? The question is focused especially after Popper essentially "removed" (though I don't know if successfully, tell me if not) the dialectic method at the core of those Idealists as pseudo-science. 

"Scientific method", as controversial as this phrase is, almost always contains the need for predictions - a theory will be scientific if it's (among other things, but at the very least) able to predict future phenomenons. I'm reading Husserl's Crisis of European Sciences (haven't finished it yet), in which Husserl presents the accomplishment of the "Galilean technique which is called physics" as "nothing but prediction [Husserl italicized] extended to infinity". Then he goes on to state that actually everything in our life are predictions (where he also previously compares prediction to induction) - "seeing, perceiving, is essentially having-something-itself and at the same time having-something-in-advance... All praxis, with its projects, involves inductions [or- predictions]". Now if we take Husserl's presentation of physics as "nothing but predictions", and life as always involving predictions, we can ask - is there any use for a method that doesn't involve predictions? [Note- I'm talking about natural phenomenons' research.] Furthermore, if we're not going with Husserl's comparison of induction and prediction, or, if we simply don't accept that everything in life involves induction/prediction, but still take his presentation of physics, we can ask if a method that doesn't involve predictions can actually be useful and unearth certain aspects of reality we could not with the current methods that do rely on (or, requires) predictions? [I suspect that the transcendental phenomenology that Husserl suggests, which I have yet to read but have a general sense of, is somewhat in line with this thinking, so I might just need to read ahead but the question simply struck me so I had to go here and ask. But in any case - even if Husserl's phenomenology is an example, what I'd like to recieve is either more examples (not necessary, if there are) with further explanation of the idea in the question, or a refutation of the question.]