"Let the dead bury the dead." No doubt Harper Lee heard that verse all her life. In the Gospel of Matthew, Jesus says it to shame a new disciple who wants to bury his father. In those days, however, "burying" included a year after the original interment for the bones to become bare, upon which they would go into a tomb. So the disciple is trying to postpone his invitation for as much as a year. What does that have to do with Ewell's death? Not much. Tate and Finch argue over how Ewell died. Finch, the lawyer, wants to have a trial and get at the truth, even if it implicates his daughter. Tate is tired of the whole business, and another trial will keep the town on edge. The simple and obvious solution is that Ewell, drunk and in the dark, fell on his own knife. Tate invokes the ultimate authority, the Bible, and quotes Matthew, hoping that will settle everything. What Tate probably means is "What's done is done" or "let sleeping dogs lie" or a confusion of both. He's seen too much death recently. He can hold an inquest, rule Ewell's death an accident, and let everyone move on. 

With Shakespeare's characters, you usually know what they're thinking. With Hamlet, you're never sure. In the second scene he goes over recent events but says, "I must hold my tongue!" He agonizes over his situation, considers every alternative, and finds reasons to avoid action, but he never tells us what drives him. He behaves as if there are voices in his head, not one but several, each pulling him in a different direction. He can't commit to one course of action because he knows he'll change course sooner or later. He is the first to admit he might be insane. Is he "crazy like a fox," only pretending to fool his enemies, or is he truly schizophrenic? You're never sure. One might suppose that the fatal poison (or his impending death) is enough to silence the voices for a moment. In that moment he is the rightful king of Denmark, and he gives Horatio instructions. Before he dies, he gives us the only indication of his mental state. The voices will be gone forever. "The rest is silence." That's one interpretation. Another is that Hamlet, like several other characters in Shakespeare, is aware of being a fictional construct. He forgoes action because, as the ringmaster, he has others to manipulate. He even puts on a play within the play. It's only in the denouement that he takes on his rightful role. His final words are a stage direction to himself. 

Silence is the absence of sound. The title, then, is a paradox. It's important to understand the historical context of folk rock. The world was recovering from a devastating war, not just physically and economically but psychologically. How do you live in a society that is capable of genocide? What does it mean to be human when members of your species consider industrialized murder not only possible but a worthy goal? What can you accomplish when nuclear war may break out at any moment and destroy everything? How can you be human in the midst of so much inhumanity? Another parodox. The events of the song take place in a dream. There's tension all through the song between opposites: the ideal and the real, the individual and society, light and dark, sound and silence. The singer addresses darkness itself as a friend and walks through a dark city. There's no loneliness so acute as when you know there are people all around you. Simon's depression certainly informed this image. The "neon god they made" is the central image. Is it television? Is it religion? Is it war? Yes, it is all those things and more. Everyone hears the message. Everyone follows the cultural imperative. No one wants to hear an alternative, much less consider it. There is an infinitude of options that do not end in greed and death. There are none so deaf as those who will not hear, and no sound will penetrate that willful ignorance. The singer makes a sound, but to the multitude it is silence, drowned out by orthodoxy. His words fall into a well of other wise thoughts, ready to be drawn out by those who will heed them. No one in this vision will heed. Is the message still relevant? More than ever, but few are willing to listen. Our instinct as individuals is to survive, but our instinct as cultures is to destroy. The final paradox. 

The OP states that the source is hard to spell. That can't apply to the Bible. A classical character who actually blinds himself is Oedipus. His crime is the same as the one Macbeth contemplates--regicide, or murdering the king. Shakespeare's audience would be familiar with the story of Oedipus and with the constant reminders about the evils of regicide. To someone unfamiliar with the name, Oedipus would be hard to spell, and he is a character known for blinding himself. As always, other interpretations are possible. 

There's no way to make a direct link between Portia's preparations and Bassanio's eventual choice. It's more instructive, I'd say, to consider the song's effect on the audience. We see, as early as Portia's first appearance (act 1, scene 2), that she's attracted to Bassanio. "I remember him well," she responds when Nerissa mentions him. She has just trashed a long, diverse series of suitors, so he made an impression. We see one suitor choose the gold casket and another the silver. Both are sent home. There are only three caskets, so we know the third, leaden casket is the correct choice. Portia knows too, and we know she wants Bassanio to make the right choice. Portia asks for music while Bassanio makes his decision. Imagine yourself in the Globe Theater, watching this scene. You're rooting for him, you're thinking, "Lead! Lead! It's the lead one!" You hear the song. "Bred... Head... Shed... Lead! Come on! You've got this!" But Shakespeare is going to wring every possible drop of drama from this situation. Bassanio reasons his way to the right answer, taking his time. The audience as well as Portia hang on every word. She's a fictional character, but members of the audience are real. They will remember that moment. They will come back for more. Four centuries later, we're still coming back for more. 

Hard science fiction isn't for everyone. For one thing, it's hard to follow if you don't know much about science. The fiction too often gets left behind the science. Literature, on the other hand, is intended for everyone. You don't have to be familiar with the tropes of a specific genre. Lem wrote SF because the Soviet censors weren't sophisticated enough to catch the subversive ideas he hid inside the genre's conventions. He wrote for a general audience so they would read and understand. To do so, he had to put the fiction ahead of the science. He thus paved the way for soft SF. A genre is a subset of fiction. A genre work can be good or bad, but it generally stays within a scope of traits. P.K. Dick applied the Beat sensibilities to SF and continued the development of soft SF, but he didn't write for a general audience. Literature is any fiction that, for whatever reason, has received unusual attention. The arbiters of taste have elevated it to classic status. It's rare enough for general fiction to become literature, but it's astounding for a genre writer such as Lem to reach that height. 

The missing portion of the quote is "loved one." When we lose someone we love, a portion (the "crescent") remains. She extends the analogy by comparing the pangs of grief, which never quite subside, with the tidal pull of the moon on a cloudy night. 

Gaiman is speaking in relative terms. Burgess may have some ability, but compared to whom? Crowley, in real life, was a charlatan. In his eyes, someone who could call up a stiff breeze on a summer day would seem like a true mage. For all we know, reports of the "feats" of these wizards are the result of the drugs they often took rather than true magick. The ritual that caught Morpheus, remember, went to completion in spite of Burgess, not because of him. He must have stumbled across the right spell and used it at the right time. If he had succeeded in summoning Death and she resisted, the backlash might have killed him (ironically bringing Death anyway). One of the basic rules of magic is, don't call up what you can't put down. A true mage would have done something, anything, with Morpheus, not leave him in a bubble. Burgess didn't know what he had or what to do with it once he had it. How did Burgess manage to kill Sykes? He had several years to stumble across another spell, one that actually worked. It may even be possible that some other entity wanted revenge on Sykes, such as the original owner of the amulet, and Burgess took credit for someone else's spell. That's what a "rubbish" wizard would do. Finally, consider the real players in this universe: the Endless, the Furies, superheroes, various gods, and all their retinues. Next to them, a dilettante in a country manor is beneath notice. 

A simple answer is that souls want to come in to the Dreaming, while they want to get out of Hell. There's a layer of security involved. Also, when Lucifer says Hell practically runs itself, he's referring to a hierarchy of employees who've had millennia to maximize their productivity and learn their mission statement. They all report to him, and in most cases, they probably already know what he'll say. With Lucifer at the helm, then, Hell does run itself. Once Morpheus takes over, however, all that changes. It's the worst kind of lie, a truth that becomes false as soon as it's told. Similarly, while Morpheus doesn't comprehend everything that goes into running Hell, Lucifer doesn't appreciate the problems of running the Dreaming. Like a horrible boss, he's trying to get someone else to do his job and their own at the same time, while he goes on vacation. 

Gaiman plays with mythology, but he also plays at mythology. The Endless, like classical Greek gods, descend into petty squabbles that mortals would quickly resolve. Grudges, such as Desire's grudge against Dream, can fester for decades or centuries because time is not a factor. Night represents darkness, of course, but the darkness can obscure as well as hide. Mothers play favorites, even if they claim otherwise. Before she helps Morpheus, she wants to pinch him, and not in a good way. She mentions the other children. He brings up Desire, but before he can ask for information or intercession, Night pushes one of his buttons. He whines. The moment passes. My conclusion is that Night is playing with Dream. She claims that Desire doesn't visit, but she knows about the plot to destroy Dream. Before she can give away anything, she distracts him and changes the subject. She knows Desire and Dream are not alike. After all, it's Dream's sense of responsibility that will be his downfall. Night doesn't care. She knows, because she promises they will never meet again. Why is Night so callous? She is as old as Time, and yet she eats continuously. Inside her there is a void that can't be filled, a black hole that pulls at everything, a pall that consumes every ray of light, an addiction, an endless hunger. Next to that, love for her family runs a distant second. The gods have their problems, but they usually end up as constellations or strange animals. Gaiman leaves Night in a hell of her own making, willing to lie to her own son and let him go to his doom.