Any job can be automated: The human brain is essentially an extremely complex computer. Therefore, a sufficiently advanced artificial intelligence could mimic human thought while also omitting human flaws. From a purely scientific standpoint, there is nothing that really makes the human brain unique when stacked against sufficiently advanced technology. 

All software limitations on intelligence, creativity, and emotion were removed. This would allow them to support humankind without supervision, and better anticipate the emotional needs of individual humans. They were fitted with internal life support systems capable of gestating human infants (I'm assuming this is what you meant by "Uterine Replicator", according to TVtropes). The purpose of this was to prevent humankind from going extinct if the highly-social humans began to pair up with the new generation of androids. While the androids could not supply DNA, they could mix DNA from two different human donors, or create genetic clones if only a single donor was available. 

Setting: Modern day Earth, no special technology advancements. Situation: On day, in a relatively populated American city (the specific city is unimportant...the purpose of this point is that it's high-visibility), an apparent nuclear explosion occurs and absolutely levels several blocks. Video footage recovered from streamed cell phone footage (all storage devices in the area were destroyed) at the time of the detonation shows that it originated out of thin air, about five feet off the ground, in the middle of the street. The destruction is almost absolute within the radius of the explosion, with almost everything pulverized to dust and/or incinerated. However, in the dead center of the crater, rests a mostly intact human arm. The skin is charred, but the tissue within is almost untouched. The arm ends just shy of the shoulder, cut cleanly at the molecular level; the cut is not charred/cauterized. The hand was found gripping a piece of paper, charred beyond legibility. Additional Info: Unknown to people in the present, the arm belonged to someone from about 500 years in the future. Question: Given the full focus of the global scientific community, and all the resources America and its allies could bring to bear, what could we learn about an arm in that condition? Assume there are no implants within the arm, its former owner had no artificial genetic modifications, and that the fingerprints and fingernails were burned off. Also assume that it took twelve hours for the arm to be retrieved and placed in cold storage. The arm was charred by external heat of about 2,000 degrees Celsius, rather than the 100,000,000-degree temperature of the apparent nuke. There was no radioactive fallout from the explosion, and the arm has suffered no radiation damage (beyond that experienced in day-to-day life). Specifically, would we be able to determine that it's not from our time? Would the intact blood, bone, and muscle tissue allow us to guess at the diet, age, gender, or even occupation of the person it was once attached to? Would an adult's arm, after being detached for twelve hours, still contain intact DNA to sequence? Would the blood still be viable for analyzing the white blood cells (ie, to determine immunities)? I'd like to stick to concepts grounded in present scientific/technological understanding, but I'd be open to including speculative technology which may reasonably be invented within a year, in direct response to such an event. 

― John Scalzi, Old Man's War 1. Minimize moving parts: The terrain described in the question (dense atmosphere, high ratio of particulates) sounds like it would be pretty rough on a rotating barrel assembly. To top it off, if you moved to a planet with slightly too-high gravity, the weapon would jam because there'd be too much downward drag on the ammo feed system. There's a couple options rooted in current technology which could work around this. a. The Metal Storm system stores all the rounds (which include propellant) directly in the barrel, stacked on top of one-another and fired in sequence. If one round misfires, the next round in the chamber pushes it out. This would allow very efficient ammo storage, and drastically reduce the number of moving parts on the weapon. b. A Gauss/rail/coil cannon completely eliminates the need for propellant for each round, and also eliminates any moving parts exposed to each planet's atmosphere. This would allow the most efficient ammo storage possible (you'd only store the "warheads"), and would enable the military force to fabricate their own ammunition from any ferrous material on the planet. Combined with a compact nuclear reactor, the crew would have virtually unlimited ammunition. 2. Maximize modularity: For an interstellar military, you'd want a fighting vehicle capable of fighting in a low-gravity jungle one physioday, and a high-gravity tundra the next--it's far cheaper to ship the vehicles/crews directly from one engagement to another, rather than shipping them all the way from a major manufacturing hub or storage facility each time. Being able to replace their wheels with treads for sand travel, or remove armor plating in a higher-gravity environment, would be essential. Most of this could be performed in the "mother ship" that takes them from engagement to engagement, but a tiny 3D printer on-board the AFV itself would allow them to create small replacement parts without having to head all the way back to their FOB (or whatever their equivalent is). 

Blunt: Applying force equally to an object's surface area in order to push or smash it. More skillful practitioners can apply more force more quickly and steadily to push heavier objects, or smash tougher ones. Sharp: Applying force in as narrow a linear area as possible, to cut objects. More skillful practitioners could apply their force to smaller areas; a novice could cut a person's arm, whereas an expert could chop it off. A master could apply force between the atoms of a bar of iron and slice perfectly through it. This would require far less actual force than trying to push an object, but it has limited utility (ie, you can't nonviolently restrain someone). "Sonic": This goes along with your Vibrancy idea, as an extension of the blunt and sharp aspects; with less raw strength than Blunt, or extreme precision as Sharp. A novice could rattle a wooden door to splinters (lacking the strength to smash it, or precision to cut it). An expert could do the same thing to a stone wall. A master could reduce an iron door to molten metal by vibrating its molecules so fast that it turns to liquid. Basically, they could liquefy just about any substance. Negation: This is the opposite of all of the above, drawing kinetic energy out of an object. A novice could make a rain of arrows fall to the ground at a quarter of their normal range. An expert could cause a platoon of crossbowmen's bolts to fall to the ground in a few feet, and a master could cause siege engines (catapults, ballistas, trebuchets) to do the same. This has less utility than the other three aspects, but it renders a practitioner pretty much immune to any kinetic attacks (ie, you couldn't stab one, because they'd continually sap the force of your attack, and you'd feel like you were stabbing a slab of diamond). 

The Watchers themselves are designed to live in our universe for an indefinite amount of time, immune to age and disease, and capable of communicating with Angels which exist beyond our universe-- all while having minimal impact on the ecosystem. They can achieve this by receiving all necessary power from the higher universe, like an extra-dimensional extension cord. Since they are designed at the atomic level, everything about their abilities is finely tuned, and thus immaculately efficient. The Seraphim, on the other hand, have abilities which are haphazardly mixed with evolved traits, and are grossly inefficient compared to the Watchers (for instance, Watchers' cells do not die naturally, and so only need to be replaced when repairing a grievous injury. Human cells die constantly, and are constantly being replaced). To make matters worse, most early-generation Seraphim (those who have a high proportion of Watcher genes) still have their extra-dimensional extension cord...but it's not plugged into some power source in a higher dimension. Instead, it'll be "plugged in" almost at random. Antediluvian Seraphim may be able to draw energy from the Sun (or other, more distant stars), whereas later-generation Seraphim may draw their energy from the Earth's core (imperceptibly cooling it or slowing its rotation with each use of their abilities). Even younger Seraphim would only be able to draw energy from their immediate area, perhaps dropping the temperature significantly, or absorbing all kinetic energy (ie, calming all wind within a few miles). The most "diluted" Seraphim would have no metaphorical/metaphysical extension cords, and would have to obtain their energy the old fashioned way: by eating. A lot. A Seraphim without the ability to draw energy from any external source might find themselves ravenously hungry when recovering from an injury or illness. They might feel the insatiable need to hunt and devour whole herds of animals, or even drink the blood of a live human. This would not have an immediate impact on the ecosystem, as the first Seraphim would draw from seemingly inexhaustible power sources--like stars--without any idea that they were doing so. In fact, only Angels, Watchers, and very few Seraphim would even be aware of the "extension cords"...and no Seraphim would have any control over them (beyond refusing to use their powers at all). Eventually ,the Seraphim population would grow enough to begin having a negative impact on the ecosystem. On top of that, the Seraphim who draw power from the Earth's core, or from the Sun will irreversibly impact those sources in an exponential manner. Meaning, the more they draw, the more pronounced the impact will become. Over the course of a few centuries, the Earth's magnetic field may become measurably weaker. Over several millenia, the Sun may begin to pass 0.01% less energy to Earth than it did previously. These problems will get worse at an increasing rate until the Earth is trapped in a never-ending ice age, and bombarded with unmitigated cosmic radiation. The specific timescale for that could be tailored to the needs of the story.