Now the majority of these things you can adjust or change. So what you'll really want to look for is frame size and geometry, the "feel" of the bike, which the shop should be able to help you with. They can also help get the suspension set for your weight and riding style at least to start with, that's another adjustment you can make. If you manage to get a really good shop or if they're not busy, you might be able to persuade them switch bars, stem, seat and other bits to see if you can make the bike feel better. One note, on the maintenance part, I added this because you can buy bikes that are horrendous to maintain (internal gearbox, weird suspension layout) and some are super easy. I wouldn't make it your main factor in choosing, but it's something to look for. And, not surprisingly, buying a bike is a lot like a car, you have to like it. That means, color, design, and feel; and that's something only you can determine. Some guys like riding a smaller frame because it's more "flickable" and others like a longer bike to have more stability at speed. Lastly, there's really no substitute for riding the bike you want on a trail. Rentals, demos, and friend's bikes are great for this. Check with your local shops/clubs to see if you can find a bike you'd like to try and maybe meet someone at the trail. 

Being the owner of a 2004 dirt jumper, and a 2007 full-suspension, I can say it's just fine. However, be prepared to solve problems...creatively. Certain things that are specific to the bike may not be available anymore, but there's usually an after-market part to fill the gap. The main reason not to buy an older mountain bike is the difference in how it's made, what it's made of, and what it can ride. How it's made: Newer carbon, and even alumninum, is much stronger and prepared in different ways. What it's made of: New steel is generally lighter than old steel frames, this reflects both material and manufacturing changes. Some things like carbon and titanium have come down in price, but are still worth more even on older bikes. What it can ride: The downhill of yesteryear isn't what it is today. 3" of travel back then was more than enough for some serious trail riding, but now that same style of riding might require 4", 5", or 6" of travel. However, these are just general problems that can arise or should be taken into consideration. I've had zero trouble with my older bikes (although the full susser is pretty heavy and not the greatest to pedal!). So, I would recommend that test ride and then compare to what a new model would cost and make a decision. Good luck! 

This has always bugged me. At the end of the season I'm breaking down my bikes and cleaning every inch of them and I get to the derailleur and can't seem to ever get all the junk out of the middle of it! Anyone have any good strategies for getting in by the springs and around the moving parts? I'm fine with removing the cage and doing jockey wheels, etc., but would prefer to keep the main body together. 

I'd like to start a DH race at my local ski hill (which has a few DH trails) and I'd like to know how to setup the following: 

Ultimately there is no limit to what you can ride beyond your own skill. Many people say "too steep" is a cliff, but some riders just look at that like a drop and ride it anyway. You need to evaluate whether the places you are walking are because you lack the skill to ride them, the confidence to ride them, or improper equipment. Yes, you could theoretically ride an entire downhill track on a fully rigid, carbon XC bike, but wouldn't it be a lot easier on a 8" travel, full-suspension bike? Looking at the steep section that flipped you over, see if you can find why you flipped. Too far forward on the bike? A big rock/root in the way? Application of too much front brake? Remedy each of these things and you might find yourself riding steeper and steeper hills. So how do you fix it or get better? 

What's the best way to wash the pack part of a hydration pack (not the resevoir/hose)? Is it just like a back pack: cold water and a little detergent with air/tumble dry low? 

Yeah, they're done, but perhaps not out as another company may pick up the brand/product. Check out the article on GeekWire. 

My recommendation is to compare the specs on both bikes and see how much is the same before deciding to swap all the components, as it will be a headache when you get halfway through the build and discover that you need to buy a different sized part! This is also a good time to upgrade components and evaluate wear. 

Yes and no, it depends on how much elbow grease you want to put into it. If you just want to get the oxidation off, then you can use a grinder with a wire brush and go to town. Alternatively, you can use sand paper and do it by hand, with a coarse grain for the major stuff. After that, it's all about details. You can work with successively finer grain to achieve a smoother, more uniform finish. And if you are feeling particularly picky, this is when you pick up some 00, 000, and 0000 steel wool and go at it. From there, you'll want to seal the frame with something to prevent future oxidation. 

I had first hand experience with what a full immersion can do. Racing through 3-foot deep muddy water and diluted mud isn't as great as it sounds! The biggest problem comes from your bearings, no matter what type they are. At the time I had a sealed square taper bottom bracket which is more or less impervious to getting grit and fluid and inside. However, repeated immersion (only over the course of an hour) caused water and dirt to get inside which caused this nasty grinding sound. Any other bearing is going to be similar. In my experience cage style headset bearings tend to dry out faster but pick up more grit, which is probably why your steering appears to be less responsive. As for the rusty water you're seeing, it could be coming from uncoated areas within the frame, and unprotected parts going through the frame. To answer your questions, yes you will experience similar issues. However, these could take more or less time depending on how much water they are exposed to and how well you mitigate those effects. Making sure water is removed (drying the bike, turning it on it's side or upside down) will help. You will also have an accelerated maintenance schedule which means cleaning bearings and regreasing parts. Following a proactive maintenance schedule will give your bike a much longer life than if you wait until something is wrong.