Probably not at all. Inspired by @pharap's comment about doubting OUR Sun is real: Our own situation isn't much different from Morgan's. Our ability to test things breaks down very quickly... To what degree would you demand the reality of the Sun proven? Learn optics, astronomy, research possible errors/security flaws in that lore/tech, build (not buy) a good telescope, record from multiple points, find everything else you don't know about... yech. Maybe trust an astronaut instead? But why would you? How would you verify they WERE an astronaut in the first place? Or that they weren't duped? Going there yourself, besides being prohibitively expensive, would have been only marginally better. And then what level of certainty would you say you held if everything you can test checked out, after years of effort? If you were in a world that was NOT modern to the viewers outside, your idea of technical & economical plausibility would be woefully outdated. And, most important of all: What would make you want to go to any of that effort in the first place? The show admins supposedly don't screw up. 

Far better are materials that can simply absorb the thermal energy, ablate and allow you to ignore it. Covering drones or missiles, that already have a very low radar cross-section, with the kinds of tiles found on reentry vehicles like the various space shuttles, typically ceramics and/or aerogels is far cheaper than reflecting surfaces. Additionally rotating the missile at high speed reduces the time any laser has to heat some part of it. Additionally, these tend to be extremely lightweight although brittle and so add little to the weight of the weapon making them an ideal and cheap countermeasure to any maser/laser. Lasers are easy to counter. The latest fashion for them ignores their obvious limitations in favor of the PR and status they present rather than their efficacy. 

Burn the jungle. Enjoy the tiger meat BBQ. Everyone knows scorcium only accumulates in bones. Collect drinkable water from created rainstorms. Get picked up and sold into slavery by the angry tour organizers who notice the large bonfire and come early to investigate. Yay, survival! Side ideas: 

Now, the other parts of the question: world governments? Well, anyone with some influence who isn't in denial would try to make the best of it. Mass suicide wouldn't fly for various reasons, but these would: 

Don't forget to wipe the subjects' memory periodically, lest they become numb to the horror or the emotion shifts to flat despair. With that, you don't really need to be all that creative with the actual reason for fear. Whether it's any of the other excellent ideas; helplessness awaiting torture; undiluted awareness of the place of life in the universe, you get the most fear when learned expectations turn out to have been laughably optimistic. Refresh those now and then and you get a much better result than what you get on fur farms. 

Using a distributed network of compact, mass-produced identical energy stations on the lunar surface, built on Earth and scattered across the lunar surface, would also free up each rover from having to carry their own bulky solar panels or power sources. This would allow vast regions of the lunar surface to be surveyed and/or explored quickly and at low cost to any participating nation willing to utilize the provided network instead of going it alone, with its associated cost. Using wireless charging, rovers might also charge each other, meaning rovers will be unlikely to suffer loss from unexpected losses of power due to unforeseen events, if their peers can 'carry energy' to them from some nearby recharging station. This behaviour can, of course, be automated. Thus, this makes a lunar 'colony' of machines more likely, cheaper and faster to create than any human colony, with all its inherent and complex needs for air, protection, shelter and water. All this, of course, with a view to later mining the moon by later automated systems. 

Bring primitive (no arrowheads, etc) bows, arrows and spears made with freshly cut plant material. Even common poplar and willow stay alive a LONG time after. If you're paranoid, do the same with clothes - armor won't be of too much use anyway, except against Morritiw's sword. Best case: Ghuvj attempts TK on the arrows (or ignores them in favor of offense - weird, but don't be overconfident, king!), Morritiw's shockwave fails to work due to the arrows' aerodynamic profile, both mages die. Worst case: Ghuvj and Morritiw cooperate and are quick to catch on, a wall of earth saves both from the volley but cuts off their field of view and pins them there. That's a good start. Assuming both mages live: A cautious probing attack is just a waste of soldiers. An immediate all-out charge (from both sides of the wall, neither lining up (lightning) nor clumping (fireball, shockwave) will likely be a win, though at cost. Keeping distance provokes ranged fireballs and lightning bolts. What defense could we have against those? A saline-soaked heavy cloth held on dry sticks could fall prey to TK, though, assuming you're not strangled with it, that at least would mean no fireball the next few seconds. But getting into ranged combat with mages in cover feels like a bad idea anyway, so - charge. As for protecting the king? maybe not let them know which one IS king? Just an archer giving suppressive fire; have the knight bark orders. Yes, there are loops upon loops in this plan, but no plan survives contact with the enemy, and we don't know the stats (magnitude, range, damage, AOE) of the spells (could TK be used to push the wall of earth? Could the shockwave send pieces of it flying? How quickly can a different spell be cast?), and we can only assume everything about the environment had already been mentioned (e.g. that it isn't an option for the royal side to go into debt to hire mercenaries, or that we don't need to worry about vulnerability in the hours following the battle) so it's hard to tell the BEST way to proceed. There is always risk. Turtling the king is a sure loss, so we must hope he isn't engulfed by a one-hit-kill 30" fireball in the first second. 

A permanent base on the Moon would be PERFECTLY feasible. A permanent base for humans on the Moon, not so much. To assume humans are needed to carry out activities is a fallacy. Building a robotic base on the moon, allowing those machines to gather energy, recharge themselves, and then explore would be perfectly feasible, as ALL the technology to do this existed over 10yrs ago. Flying robots out to the moon has been possible since the Russians sent their rovers. We are good at making robots for Mars. The moon is closer and potentially easier to reach with a bouncing landing approach using armoured ballutes that jettison after landing. Some machines could be pure energy collectors, scattered across the surface like gas stations, constantly building up stored solar power or thermally derived power to deliver it to rovers, using wireless charging, that explore the regions between the sources of power. Mapping the moon for later mining would be automated, with the machines relaying their data to cheap orbiters, themselves both comms relay and Lunar Positioning System (LPS) providers. This would free up weight on the rovers otherwise used for bulky, heavy comms and navigation systems... for survey instrumentation instead. 

Good manners started to happen as soon as all the mammoths were killed off and there was no piece of food big enough for everyone to eat at the same time (Nanny Ogg's Cookbook, © Terry Pratchett & Stephen Briggs) As long as they can tolerate each other's company and there is a benefit - ANY benefit - to keeping it, the details don't matter as much, and what each thinks of the other - "brother" / "master" / "tool" / "supplier" matters even less. Doesn't have to make sense, as long as it works. Some benefit is had on average, and selection will have done its thing. Even if one side is shortchanged due to food scarcity, such teams might still outperform singles. Some ideas: