As for practical leaders, it is impossible to be a communist leader and not to be very cruel dictator. Communism doesn't work. And a communist leader (CL) have to make it look out as if it works. Somebody has to pay for that. CL's people pay by their lives for nothing, talents for dust, children for "revolution" and so on. The false idea cannot not be cruel. When the people ends with the dead morals, dying nature, ill and extincting population, communism falls off as a parasit from the dead master. And a CL starts a "perestroyka" As for pure party leaders, there were Marx and Engels. They were communist leaders, but never they ruled people. So, even if they proposed a cannibalistic regime, they did not realized it. So, they answer for crimes of Lenin as Nizsche for Hitler's. The only practic crimes they did were these of Engels as usual capitalist of those days and Marx, when he sometimes published articles of Engels as own works. (way of sponsoring from Engels' side) Are these two OK for you? On the badges with communist chiefs they were in one row with Lenin and Stalin (sometimes +Mao) 

The first, and "weak" dictatorship was in Italy. 5 years after devastating start of the communist regime in Russia and pairs of them in Germany and Hungaria. So, some people wanted to protect themselves. And further - agression calls for aggression, evil bears evil. 

In America there existed the word "fort", that had got the meanings "fortified outpost" - for frontier and "small fortress" - for use in usual warfare. In Russian frontier the word for "fortified outpost", was "ostrog". Later often towns appeared around that old centre, such as Petropavlosk, mentioned by you. And the old fort was used there as a prison. So, the name "ostrog" became one of synonyms for "prison". These forts could be very beautiful . You can see many images of different ostrogs here. It is hard to find that very ostrog picture. There are many pictures of other ostrogs, but the only old picture of the Petropavlovsk in 18th Cent that I have found after half an hour of looking is here: 

I apologize for certain primitivization. I only tried to set the frame, pointing to the main issue, that the reason was the combination of two conditions. Of course, very many very interesting points remain open. Should we look at the person of the dictator, or should we consider him and his surrounding as some collective dictator? How that group works? And how happened the Cambodia terror? IMHO, it is a different case, it had a special level of totality - they had for everyone what other totalitarian states had in camps. And I hadn't ever read about somebody trying to understand that case. And I hope very-very much that I was right using the past tense here... 

Yes, the slaves had almost no rights. (They only could not be killed). But that does not mean they were forbidden to do anything or to be active. That only means that they could be punished for their actions postfactum. Or not punished. Or even prized. The Rome Empire/Republic was a living, and effective structure. And it definitely was not a rigid monolyth, trying to regulate everything. Don't forget, slaves often became so rich personally, that they could buy themselves out. So, they could have a great allowance for initiative. And the system was very diverse. The slaves were subjects not to the Law of province and state only, but also to the rules of the owner and his family and to the traditions. Also, every latifundia had some organizational structure, and the slaves had their roles in it. 

Conclusion: There were reasons to choose Moscow for a target, but it could be only a preliminary target. And it was. Taking it did not help to make Russia to capitulate. So, the decision to go for Moscow was voluntary, purely personal and erroneous. But choosing the St-P would be even worse error. Napoleon simply could not solve the task - what intermediate tasks could win the war in Russia. Napoleon wanted a decisive win. History teaches that it is impossible to win over Russia without it having the inner conflict. In 40 years the half of Europe, having the technological edge had managed to get only one important port from Russia. Overtaking the rich western regions of Russia would be much more effective and easy. And really possible. Or Napoleon could initiate and support the civil war in Russia, claiming the freedom and ground for farmers. And Russia would become his willing and eager ally. But Napoleon wanted to prove his geniality of a tactician once more. So, he had set the impossible task of total and pure military win over Russia. An impossible and/or foolish task is an often reason of fail for dictatorships. Maybe the main one. 

The Silk Way was not a single road, but rather a net of roads. And the ways Amudarja/Uzboj (Amudarja went to Caspian Sea till 16 Century, for example) - Caspian Sea - Volga - Don - Azov sea - Black sea - Konstantinople (variant: Aral-Caspian Sea by foot) was in use -especially for long periods when Amudarja was switched to the Caspian Sea and some stable state as Khazars sat on the lower Volga. Because it was a quick way - the only problem was to carry boats of goods from Volga to Don). The southern way, anyway, was more popular, having worse roads (through mountains), but more cities on the way. But it is hard to say what was the reasson - cities, or the Silk way. Because after Vasco da Gama The Silk way died and these cities degenerated, too. So, some parts of the Silk Way did pass along the North of the Black Sea. The Genoa town of Cafa (Feodosia now) lived mostly from this very part of the Silk Way. Marco Polo finished his way there. But to move goods from East to West in the stripe to the North of the Black Sea was always a bad idea. Because it was very slow (carts and horses are slower than ships) and very complicated and expensive - you would have to cross many large rivers and to pay to the owners of ferries or/and places around them. 

I wanted to ask that question myself. But I would define, what is meant by a concentration camp exactly. For otherwards any large group of prisoners held together is in a camp. Nevertheless, camps were definitely used when captives started to be used as slaves massively. Another question is using such camp for noncombatants. And again, from the start of slavery that was used, too. When Crimean Tartars regularly (practically every year) brought in 15-18th centuries tens of thousands of Polish, Ukrainian and Russian peaceful population to Crimea to be sold, they were kept in extremely bad conditions - for example, they simply didn't take small children and babies - killed or left them to die, for anyway children had not the chance to live over up to the selling. Really, the reaction to crimes of Hitler or English in Boer war is so strong not because that behaviour was unknown before, but because it was not for long applied to Europeans. The behaviour in colonies or to slaves was not better than these "horrors of XX century". Simply people in colonies were not considered as human beings. BTW, that was the problem of Boers - they were not considered as fully human, by English, too. And where people are not considered as human beings, camps and other horrors appear. And it is incorrect to ask when it happened for the first time - for people for thousands years considered all foreigners as non-fully-human. So, the answer will be - it was when the first time a large group of prisoners was considered as too valuable to kill off or to sacrifice. It was so far ago, that it is impossible to say where and when. 

First acknowledged war photographer, according to the article mentioned, is Carol Popp de Szathmari, Hungarian. After him there started French photographer Ernest Eduard de Caranza and British photographer Roger Fenton, Crimean war $URL$ I have found an even earlier war photographer. "John McCosh, a surgeon in the Bengal Army, is considered by some historians to be the first war photographer known by name. He produced a series of photographs documenting the Second Anglo-Sikh War, from 1848–49". There was an exhibition about him in London in 2009. 

Moscow was a capital in XIX cent. It was "old capital", "second capital", but capital it was. Without any doubt it was the main religious center. Moscow was a main road hub. Taking it and controlling the nearest surroundings, Napoleon controlled all main roads. At least, he thought so. The problem was, that being the best tactic, he was weak as a strategist. And against him Kutuzov stood, maybe the best strategist at all. He was famous for winning wars without battles. This time Napoleon had the hub, Kutuzov sat nearly and it was Kutuzov who blocked Napoleon, not vice versa. Yes, taking St.Petersburg was much easier. So, Napoleon thought that Ponyatovsky would be enough. The same as he thought that Schwarzenberg will take the Kiev. None of his strategic plans in Russia were successful. By the way, Napoleon never thought about the retreat until it happened and never thought about famine until Kutuzov MADE him to return the same road. If 640000 ( Or even 320000 that went in this direction) army would go all along the same road to the ST.Petersburg, they would start to die of hunger much earlier than on the BACK route. 

Technologically it became not only possible, but easy in the time of cannon ships - when they started to heat the cannon balls to lit the enemy ships. If they could keep hot cannon balls, they could keep the hot stones without litting up the own ship. or to use these balls. Relatively closed space and pouring the water on these stones make no problem by itself. In travels by foot a tent was used, on the ship a sail could be used. Not a problem. So, Russian, Norwegian and Swedish (Danish?) war ships could make a sauna, they loved it, it was a natural part of life for them, and every time when they had enough wood, surely, they did it. About when that possibility was realized. When I have read the description of the travel of Bellisgauzen and Lazarev in which they open Antarctida, banya ( = sauna with a bit vapour) was mentioned as a weekly (on Saturdays) washing for the command. And it was something absolutely natural, not special for that expedition. It was not thorougly described there, only something as "After banya, when the free shift was resting on the deck, checking and repairing their uniforms, ropes and spare sails...". It is 1819-1821 years. I don't have earlier references. As for former times, when ships used cabotage courses, the sauna on board was simply useless and dangerous. Games with fire are dangerous on a wooden ship. Any ship owner could have such caprice, but if somebody had registered that? As for Vikings, they could be the first in on board sauna use. Their travels in the open sea lasted for several days. They needed it and they could do it. But now mentions known to me. Japanese and Chinese term in light variant was simply a large barrel of hot water. Absolutely no problems to use that on big enough boat, you should only have enough wood and an oven. 

The culture harvested - rice takes more time than rye. Climate seasons - according to water or to warmth. The light seasons. That factor together with the second one can cause funny results. For example, if we compare the spring in the Czech Republic and in the region around Moscow, according to the warmth the May in CR corresponds to June in Moscow. But according to the light, it is vice versa. So, the blooming of strawberries or of lindens in CR is a month earlier. But the the leaves on the birchs appear about at the same time or even later in CR. The time of seeding - if the climatic seasons are shifted, the same culture will be simply planted/seeded and harvested earlier in one place than in the other. Places far from sea has the temperature peak a bit after the middle of astronomic summer (21th June in the Northern hemisphere). Places closer to sea has that peak moved to later dates - it takes time to warm the sea. Of course, the time of seeding could be defined voluntary, at will of the owner. In the places with very soft climate, as Canaries or Southern Chile, practically anything could be planted/seeded at any time with the same result. Here it is somebody's decision that determines the start of growth and thus the harvest time, too. How close the weather is to the ideal for the culture - the better the weather - the shorted is the time for riping. Too cold, too hot, too wet or too dry (without watering) weather can slow the growth. 

Yes, it did help. Even now, soldiers use helms and vests. Only helm, as it was found during the WWI, decreases the number of KIA in troops. (But increases the number of wounded) $URL$ M-1 helmet worn in World War II had saved 76,000 American infantrymen from serious injury or death ($URL$ Of course, more armour brought more safety. But it was expensive, so, used only for more expensive troops, such as heavy cavalry, engineers, grenadiers in some countries. 

I agree with @vpekar that the source of totalitarianism was the war. For the countries that were left out of it got no totalitarian regimes. But I don't think it had to be namely WWI. After some war, especially a great war or/and a civil war, millions of people are prepared to kill for some idea - they already did it in the war. And they readily accept that easy method of problems solving. But that is only one reason of the two needed. We should difference authoritarian and totalitarian regimes. In the latter, the people themselves massively participated in the oppressing system and it resulted in much more deaths. Without that mass participation, Hitler or Stalin would be merely authoritarian dictators, maybe even effective ones. As for authoritarian style, yes, it could be useful by itself, in some societies it could be more effective than democratic or liberal style. The autocratic regime is not so terrible by itself. But when it meets with masses ready to kill, it creates a totalitarian regime. On the other hand, the masses in France were not better. The ideas of nazism were liked there and there were French parts in SS. But the French society didn't require an autocratic regime. And the totalitarian process was not launched. It was not Hitler or Stalin or Mao who killed tens of millions. They were savaged masses that did that. But it was a dictator who called them to do it. So, the second reason is - an attempt to build an authoritarian society. That fails and the society happens to become totalitarian. The old societies had raised a pair of generations so that they were ready to solve problems by methods unacceptable in these old societies. These methods were only for outer use - with enemies of for colonies. The old societies failed to work and the situations demanded authoritarian methods to raise the states... And that mix exploded! Called to action by new dictators, these generations totally destroyed these societies. With about 100-200 millions of people by the way. Nobody knows the whole number. What is interesting, we can't say what dictator was crueler personally. Because we don't see into their heads, we see only the results. And the results are mostly the consequences of the state of the nation. And what can divide the personality of a dictator from the enthusiasm of masses? The texts of laws? The Stalin's constitution was the most liberal one in the world. Edit. I would like to underline that not only an outer war could be the reason of totality state. A failed state could lead to unresolvable contradictions in the society, then to the civil war and that - to the lowering morals of people. The same failed state can call for autocracy - and the same combination is turned on. But the example of Spain rather says that this way does not lead to so great levels of violence, and consequently, of the totality as the way with the war. China was very total, but it had also the greatest war at all - no one state had so many victims as China in the WWII, only it had a different name there. 

As for passports, AFAIK, they were introduced first in Russia by Michael I, according to ideas of an early socialist Charles Fourier. Absolute majority (peasants) had no passport and could not travel out of the district. Many people had inner passports, that allowed to travel along the whole empire. And some people got passports that could have leave visa in it. For example, the greatest Russian poet Pushkin never got such passport, and he had tried many times! It was absolutely widespread. A person without passport and out of the district where he knew everybody and everybody knew him, had to be catched by police.