Source: $URL$ Thus, from this sutta it's evident that strong acceptance of rebirth (belief that rebirth never ends or that existence lasts forever) comes from craving. Whoever has the described view of rebirth is immersed in craving. It's confirmed by the sutta. Please note that this does not mean that the self or being is annihilated after death. This belief/view of annihilation (non-existence) after death falls under the other extreme, which is annihilationism, which too must be avoided. I addressed this in the answer to this question Is the belief in no rebirth conditioned by craving? . Furthermore, I also found this sutta (PLEASE NOTE: for clarity purposes I'm quoting only the parts of the sutta where the belief in eternal rebirth is mentioned) which says that strong acceptance of rebirth should be given up: 

Whenever a being defines a line with stealing, claiming "this is stealing", believing it is fact, reality, truth, substance, not letting go of it, clinging onto it, not seeing it as it really is, that being is acting out of ignorance. The core of it coming from views: "I exist" or "I don't exist" or "Others exist" or "Others don't exist" or "The universe exist" or "The universe does not exist" or any combination of these. I'm challenging you to see reality as it really is. 

To an uninstructed mind, it would logically follow that compassion is not needed, that's why this question arises: 

What would a liberated Buddhist say is the cause of the child's suffering: the father, the child, both the father and the child or something (or someone) else? I think the answer to the cause of suffering can only be one: the cause of suffering is always within the one who is suffering. Consider a 3 year old child. His father is abusing him. As a consequence, the child is suffering. Remove the abuse and the child will stop to suffer. But, is the cause of suffering in the child really removed? No. Read the story about Mistress Vedehika $URL$ When the abuse is removed from the child, the cause of suffering is still present within him, his mind is still ignorant. Even if the child had a perfect father and perfect living conditions for the rest of his life, in such a way, that no aversion, hatred, evil words, hostility, anger, sadness, ill will and similar would arise in his mind until the moment of death, he would still not be liberated from suffering - he would still be reborn after death. Why? Because he still craves and clings, even though his life was perfect, without any suffering. He was clinging and craving. He was suffering. Furthermore, if we take the view "the cause of suffering is sometimes within me and sometimes outside me", we would make the same mistake described in the story of mistress Vedehika. We would remove the cause outside us, but the true cause of suffering would still be within us. By taking such a wrong view "the cause of suffering is sometimes within me and sometimes outside me" is like putting your head in the sand. No liberation would come in taking such wrong view. Indeed, if we had a chance to help the child or the father, we would not say to them: the cause of suffering is always within the one who is suffering. Why? Because they wouldn't understand it properly because of ignorance. The child would probably become even more hurt because the blame for his suffering would be put on him. The father's evil doing would probably continue because he would have one more excuse to cause suffering to others: "I'm not to blame, I'm not the cause of anybody's suffering". Thus, we would need to choose our words carefully and wisely. That was not the question. The question was, what's the cause of the child suffering, not what would be the best way to liberate the child from suffering. 

Inexperience. The more experience, the more knowledge. The more knowledge, the less bewilderment. The less bewilderment, the better birth. The better birth, the better life. The better life, the easier to grasp the truth about reality. When truth is grasped, perfect knowledge is attained and bewilderment is extinguished. There's nothing else to be done. Rare is birth in a human body. Big is suffering elsewhere ... Don't let this chance go by. In oneself all the truth lies. 

Read the above. The above observations can be applied to any object you desire. No matter which object you choose, you will come to the same conclusion: "if I were that object, the object wouldn't be subject to change. It would be permanent. Deathless. Immortal.". From this it follow: "if something is impermanent then it cannot be self" 

Don't try to force or control anything, observe and just note it and continue. It's not that much important how your body reacts to your meditation, but how you deal with these bodily reactions. Yes, there will always be some bodily reactions that will distract you from meditation, but the point is to not get distracted and just remain in the "present moment". With practice you will be less distracted, until you won't be distracted any more. Practice diligently and you shell rip the rewards soon. 

Arahant is a person who successfully removed the asavas. Thus, you cannot become an arahant without removing the asavas. You cannot remove the asavas by not removing the asavas. 

Desire puts you on the path leading to attainment of Nirvana. When you walk down the path towards Nirvana, you gain knowledge on cessation of desires. When all your desires cease, including the desire that put you on the path leading to Nirvana, Nirvana is attained. When Nirvana is attained, right action and wrong action is fully known. Thus, after attaining Nirvana, one still has to do right action until death in order to attain Nibbana. To do right action until death, right desire is needed. Right desire is the way towards Nibbana. Just as desire lead you to Nirvana, right desire will lead you to Nibbana. When your time comes, all desires, including the right desires that put you on the path leading to Nibbana, will cease and Nibbana will come to fruition. 

If compassion would not be needed, there wouldn't be a long debate "why compassion is needed" and there wouldn't be the answer that compassion is needed for the one who is imagined through delusion. The "one who is imagined through delusion" does not cease to exist when the Bodhisattva eradicates his delusion nor when the being for which the Bodhisattva is compassionate eradicates his delusion. "one who is imagined through delusion" ceases when both the Bodhisattva and the being eradicate their delusions. When both eradicate their delusions, "one who is imagined through delusion" ceases to exist, there is no more suffering, no sorrow, no pain, no happiness, no beings, no life, no death, no nothing, etc., thus no more compassion is needed between the two because suffering actually ceases for both of them, comes to an end. Thus, until both eradicate their suffering, compassion is needed. As long as there will be deluded beings, compassion will be needed. In the same way as verse 75, verse 76 can be interpreted. The verse that follow then has sense: 

It is not physical actions that create seeds for karma. It is volition that creates seeds for karma. When volition arises, thoughts arise. When thoughts arise, physical actions can arise. Thus, all physical actions are volitional. All thoughts are volitional. Physical volitional acts arise because thoughts arise. Thus physical volitional acts can bear the seeds of karma. Thoughts arise because of volition. Thus thoughts can bear the seeds of karma. Unwholesome thoughts create bad karma, thus it can be said that unwholesome thoughts are considered thought crime. Nonetheless, an aspirant striving to attain liberation, should not see unwholesome thoughts as "thought crime" and neither unwholesome actions as "crime". Unwholesome thoughts should remain "unwholesome thoughts", without touching our hearts and giving rise to aversion or negative emotions. Unwholesome actions should remain "unwholesome actions", without touching our hearts and giving rise to aversion or negative emotions. 

Side note: Did you catch it? For them everything is a "mind state" ... nothing is real. The mundane truth is not real. They deny materialism. In fact, they are denying this very same existence. That's why this is nihilism and has nothing to do with real Buddhism. Denial of existence is so typical of narcissists. This very same denial is actually making them materialistic (carnal). Furthermore, the existence of their very same grandiose self is making them materialistic (carnal). Because of lack of insight due to a strong sense of self they can't see this. They actually think they are in conformation with the Dhamma, neither nihilists nor existentialists, etc. and they fully believe it as the truth. Off course they will deny my claims by using distortion and prove that, actually, it's me who is materialistic, a nihilist, a liar, Mara, religious, a Christian, delusional, etc. ... but that would merely be their projection of their own issues (strong belief in non existence of rebirth, which is actually coming from their grandiose sense of self which is actually coming from a wounded self) onto me. They are masters of distorting reality by making the victim look like the abuser. To be a radical secular buddhist you have to deny existence by claiming that it's just a mind state or, if you are really clever, deny existence by claiming that existence is Nibanna. Off course this Nibanna that you claim must not be anatta, but atta - your grandiose narcissistic self ... but your listeners would think that you're talking about anatta, so no worries ... you made a big enough distortion so that you feel important, which is better than feeling ugly, like your wounded self. Jokes aside, such denials of existence stem from narcissistic wounds inflicted upon the person in his/her childhood. When a sutta is in contradiction to the narcissists grandiose views, they deny the sutta, distort it by cleverly twisting it and interpret it in such a manner to conform to their grandiose views of self which is some kind of (fake) Nibanna. If any sutta is too difficult for twisting, they use denial and distortion by raising issues with the authenticity of the sutta. Looking at secular Buddhism in this way, it's clearly evident that secular Buddhism is really a kind of religion, no different than Christianity or any other religion, because both religion and secular Buddhism stem from self-views. Off course there are other secular Buddhists who are less extreme and more open minded than presented here in this answer. Don't get me wrong, all of us have narcissistic wounds and use different methods to ease this suffering. The bigger the wound, the more grandiose can our wounded self become. By believing in no post-mortem rebirth, we actually prolong the healing process of this wound, that's why secular Buddhism is not the best solution. The best solution is to let go of all views as it was originally taught by the Buddha. I hope you now see the truth behind it all. Please note, I'm not an advocate of believing in rebirth nor rejecting rebirth nor do I think negatively about secular Buddhists or secular Buddhism. Everyone has wounds and uses whatever works to feel better. There's nothing wrong in it. With metta 

Does anyone have an explanation as to how Buddha explains the reasons as to why are beings born? What is the reason for birth? 

You cannot do it simultaneously. If you're active, you must think. With thinking, there is no meditation. Thus, no dissolving of Dukkha/future births. If you're not active, you can stop thinking. Without thinking, there is meditation. Thus, yes dissolving of Dukkha/future births. Ask yourself what is more important to you? Then do just this one thing and let the other not be a priority. Whatever you choose, either being active or not being active, you will come to not being active. Why is this so? By choosing being active, sooner or later you will get all your desires satisfied. If not in this life, it will be in the next. Or the next. Or the 100th. In this satisfaction, no happiness will be found. In satisfying your desires, you will find only happiness that leads to suffering. Constantly circling and going from suffering to happiness and vice versa. This is what satisfying desires leads to. This is the result. This is the truth of satisfying desires. Once you realise the above truth, you'll let go of desires. Thus, you'll let go of materialism. Then, you'll live your life modestly, without aquiring to much nor to little and do what is left to do: become not active. Meditation will happen. Whatever you choose. 

The "bliss" pertaining to Nibbana happens during the Arahant's life when Nirvana is attained. When the arahant dies, Nibbana is attained, which is "beyond bliss" - neither "bliss", nor "not bliss". 

Anatta states: there is no self to be found. If your view "I have no self" comes from ignorance, it is a contradiction to anatta. If the view comes from ignorance, then you hold it as true & established, and by doing that there needs to be a self for that view to hold onto it, which is a contradiction to anatta. If your view "I have no self" comes from wisdom, it is according to anatta. If the view comes from wisdom, then you have it as untrue & not established, and by doing that you're not holding onto it, thus no self is present. This is in accordance to anatta. 

You are stuck in a dilemma which is caused by your own suffering. If you lie to the hunter, you suffer. If you tell the truth to the hunter, you suffer. It's because of your suffering that you have difficulties in choosing an appropriate action. It's because of your suffering your mind can't discern wrong action from right action, wrong view from right view, wrong doing from right doing. In choosing between a set of actions and if one action from the set must be chosen, you should choose the one that creates lesser suffering to others. This is hard to do if you are not liberated from your own suffering. Your suffering would condition your decision, thus clouding your mind in discerning good from wrong. Nonetheless, you should always act according to your right view. While acting according to your right view, new knowledge will be gained and your right view would probably become wrong view. When right view becomes wrong view, wrong view will be replaced with a new right view, and so on, until the attainment of freedom from suffering. You already answered your question: 

UPDATE Suppose we have this view regarding the child's cause of suffering: "The cause of the child's suffering is the father" With such a view, liberation from suffering comes from the child's ability to have control of his surrounding environment. When he will develop perfect control of his surrounding environment, his suffering will cease. Now suppose 20 years later a bandit comes into his perfect environment and abuses him. As a consequence, he suffers. Has the child really attained liberation from suffering? No. Why? Because the child clings on his surrounding environment. Furthermore, is his environment permanent or impermanent? Impermanent. Can he have perfect control over his environment or can he not? He can not. Is worldly existence satisfactory or unsatisfactory? Unsatisfactory. How could this be the right path towards liberation? It can't and it isn't. Why? Because the child is searching for the cause of suffering outside, not within. The child had wrong view "the cause of my suffering is outside me, in my environment, in beings that surround me, in actions these beings perform on me, in actions my environment performs on me, in actions my body performs on me, in actions bacterias and viruses perform on me, in actions bandits perform on me, in actions my father performs on me, ..." With such wrong view, clinging and craving cannot be removed. With such wrong view, the Second, Third and Fourth noble truths cannot come to fruition: