You can erase the symbol and keep the statue in a high(respectable) place. Don't use it as a decorative item. Buddhist(Theravada) lay people are allowed to eat any type of meat. But your friends might be vegetarian due to personal preferences. They might also prefer spicy food since they are from South Asia. Avoid swearing and telling religious jokes. Buddhists don't say grace at the dinner table. So don't be surprised if they start having the meal immediately after sitting. 

All unenlightened beings suffer including scientists. I suppose the real question is whether scientists will ever realize the four noble truths. Unless there's a radical change in how they approach reality, I do not see that happening any time soon. The real issue is that mainstream science still does not acknowledge that there is a mental aspect to the universe. They think of the mind as a byproduct of the brain. Any scientific research done based on that hypothesis will never lead to the understanding of the four noble truths. 

If you want her to contact you, it's an attachment that is going to cause you suffering. An act of Metta(loving kindness) would be calling her once in a while and checking if she is doing well. Then if she needs help, you can help her. 

Yes, most Buddhists do believe that the Bodhisatta walked 7 steps immediately after being born and also believe in the miracles mentioned in the scriptures literally. Within this group some believe the details of miracles in scriptures word for word and others may say certain descriptions might be embellished. Then there are others who like to call themselves Buddhists, but reject all supernatural aspects of Buddhism and try to map it all to the ordinary, either symbolically or giving different meanings to the words. When that task proves too difficult, they usually say it's not the teaching of the Buddha. 

If you are a drug addict yourself, advising other drug addicts to quit won't be much effective. You must first show by example how to quit. Then others will be inspired by you to do the same. Similarly, first you should follow the path and show how it is done before preaching to others. It's not selfish. It's the most effective way of helping others for spiritual development. Doing good and practicing worldly compassion is good Karma for you. That is the path to heavens. If you do only that, you will just inspire others to follow the path to heavens. Not to enlightenment. In fact, not practicing the path is the selfish thing to do. Because the more you keep away from the path, the stronger your greed, ego and clinging to the view of self would be. 

Yes, but not necessarily for the good. ex: marrying to get citizenship, marrying for money, power, marrying to cover up sexuality etc. A good example would be a married man becoming an Anagami later. He can still live in the lay life, but girlfriend/wife will merely be ceremonial positions. He will just treat her as a sister or a friend. 

Pali scriptures were brought down by the Sangha who actively practice the teachings of the Buddha. The oral tradition and later the scriptures were verified by many Buddhist councils which were headed by enlightened monks. These councils were held specifically to eliminate alien elements. Folklore is just stories told by ordinary householders who might not even be Buddhist. ex: Hindus believe that Buddha is an avatar of one of their Gods 

A bhava"nga that flows by in a passive state when one of the five physical sense organs comes in contact with its object (atiita bhava"nga). A bhava"nga that vibrates for one thought moment (bhava"nga calana). A bhava"nga that cuts off the flow (bhava"nga upaccheda). A citta that turns towards the object through the sense door that has been stimulated (pañcadvaara-vajjana). The appropriate sense consciousness; in the case of the eye, for example, eye consciousness (cakkhu viññaa.na). Next a thought moment — the sampa.ticchana citta — which has the function of receiving the object. When the object has been received another thought moment, called the santiirana citta, arises, performing the function of investigating the object. The act (kamma) itself, especially if it was a weighty one. 

Checkout the "States of Deprivation" under the 31 planes of existence. Beings there are not necessarily evil. Rather they were born there because of evil deeds. But we do have an evil god called the Mara. He lives in the heaven called "Paranimmita-Vasavatti" Whoever holds the title 'Mara' is always evil as long as he holds that title. 

A single experience contains all 5 of the Skhandas. They make up the whole experience. Think of it as drinking a chocolate milk shake. When you drink it, do you feel the taste of milk, chocolate, sugar separately? No. You feel them all together. Consciousness is like the water they are all mixed in. Consciousness cannot separately observe anything. Observing itself is an experience where all 5 skandhas are present. In an experience, consciousness simply plays the role of being aware. When you are asleep, the ear consciousness may not be present at the ears. That's why you won't be able to hear, even if the sound hits the ears. 

You don't need a temple to be a Buddhist. You just need to take refuge(spiritual) in the Triple Gem. You can do it privately. There are lot of free Dhamma books/videos available online. If you can't meet a monk face to face, there's a community of online Sangha. 

by being courteous to her by not despising her, by being faithful to her, by handing over authority of the house to her, by providing her with adornments. 

The Buddha did not ask venerable Ananda to invite him to extend his life. He only hinted that it is possible for him to do so. 

It is from the The Great Chronicles of the Buddhas by venerable Mingun Sayadaw. Chapter 4, page 280, paragraph 3. It is preceded by the following. The Bodhishtta's Visit to Rajagaha City After becoming a recluse, the Bodhisatta, after spending seven full days in ascetic bliss in the nearby mango grove called Anupiya, travelled a journey of thirty yojanas on foot in one single day and entered the city of Rajagaha. (This is the statement made in the Buddhavamsa Commentary and the Jataka Commentary.) (According to the Sutta Nipata Commentary, however,) the Bodhisatta, after becoming a recluse, observed the Ajivattamaka sila, the Precepts with pure livelihood as the eighth, and journeyed to Rajagaha, thirty yojanas away from the banks of Anoma in seven days. 

It can! Watching the news, dramas, commercials, musical shows etc. can create bad Kamma. Seeing the no signal screen can create bad Kamma. Doing school work can create bad Kamma. Eating an ice-cream can create bad Kamma. Drinking water can create bad Kamma. Smelling a flower can create bad Karma. Scratching your head can create bad Kamma. Stretching your arms can create bad Kamma. Even if you sit in the dark and do nothing, you can still be creating bad Kamma. It depends on whether you have Samma Sati or not. Whatever you do can create bad Karma as long as your thoughts are defiled with craving, aversion and ignorance. 

No conditioned phenomena is static. This time, up to 14 realms will be destroyed by fire at the end of the aeon(Kalpa). Most of the beings are born in higher Brahma realms at the time. Those who don't make it(due to nihilistic views) will be born in a hell that is out of this world system. 

There are no Enlightened lies. Fourth precept is the one precept that the Bodhisatta has never said to have broken since he started cultivating Paramita, many Kalpas ago. Four conditions must be met to break this precept 

Give up Hinduism & any views of a God. Take refuge in the Triple Gem. Yes, you break the third of the eight precepts the moment you touch someone with lustful intent. But you can retake the Eight precepts after taking refuge in the Tripe Gem. If you wish to keep the eight precepts, avoid getting in a bed with any woman. Avoid sleeping in the same bed with your sister in any case! For meditation, try Patikulamanasikara or Satipattana. 

The current Mara was Mara Dusi's nephew back in the days of Buddha Kakusandha. So it seems that there's a waiting list in the Paranimmita-vasavatti heaven. There are some people in the world who do a lot of worldly good deeds, but they dislike and discourage meditation, listening to the Dhamma, getting ordained or anything that has to do with ending of Samsara. I would imagine such people might be born in the Mara-clan of the Paranimmita-vasavatti realm, if they can amass enough good Karma. Among them, whoever is the most powerful, takes up the title. 

No, when speaking about a monk, you should use respectful words like 'Venerable', 'Bhante', 'Reverend' etc. If you are speaking of a layman, it's ok to call 'brother' or 'sister' or any other decent way of addressing. 

Mind can be seen as having a gender. It is true that thoughts are not classified in Buddhism as female thoughts or male thoughts. But the gender conditions your likes and dislikes, which intern condition the mind (Thanha paccaya Upadana, Upadana paccaya Bhava). When you were born, your gender(physical) was not selected randomly. You were born as male or female because of the conditioning of the mind in the previous life. Generally males are less emotional, less fearful and less capricious compared females. But a female can condition her mind like a male and as a result be born as a male next life. Same goes for men who are very emotional and need lots of comforting. They can be born as females next life as a consequence. Furthermore, those who attain Jhanas are born as Brahmas who have no physical gender. So it is obvious that conditioning of the mind determines your gender. 

This is what happens when you go into deep sleep. When you don't dream, the mind falls back to the Bhavanga process. This is called the passive state of the mind. It is what keeps you alive, when there's no other thought. This Bhavanga process is the result of your birth Karma. 

Maybe according to psychology and Wikipedia. But not according to Buddhism. According to Buddhism there are 4 false views of self. 

They can influence Karma and affect Vipaka(result). ex: The reason why mangoes taste the way they taste is due to Bija Niyama & Uttu Niyama. Not because of Karma. So when you eat a mango, the pleasurable feeling at the tongue arises due to Karma. But Karma cannot make it taste like an apple, if you eat a mango. The nature of the pleasure is conditioned by other Niyamas. Similarly, they could potentially make some Karma defunct(Ahosi) by not giving them the chance to come into fruition. ex: When the world system is about to be destroyed, if you do a Karma that can only give result in the sensual realm, it could become defunct due to the destruction of the sensual realm. 

Killing for any reason is a serious offence for both monks and lay people. Monks can't cure or cook food. They are allowed only to reheat already cooked food. They are not allowed to eat uncooked flesh or fish. 

Wanting to help the bee is good Karma as it is caused by compassion. Having great sadness is bad Karma as it is caused by aversion. Thinking that killing is ok is bad Karma as it is a wrong view caused by ignorance. Completing the kill is bad Karma as it breaks the 1st precept. 

Tolerating is not the same as making friends with someone. You can tolerate a dog barking while you try to listen to something. That doesn't make the dog your friend. 

"A Buddhist whose view is materialist" can only mean someone who has just taken refuge in the triple gem, but has no idea what the Buddha taught on the subject matter. If he repudiates the teachings of the Buddha knowingly, the refuge is broken and he is no longer a Buddhist. Ajita Kesakambali was a well known materialist during the time of the Buddha. He argued that there is no such thing as alms or sacrifice or offering. There is neither fruit nor result of good or evil deeds...A human being is built up of four elements. When he dies the earthly in him returns and relapses to the earth, the fluid to the water, the heat to the fire, the wind to the air, and his faculties pass into space. Materialism falls under ucchedavada. It is one of the 2 misbeliefs that blocks the noble eightfold path. The other one being the belief of an eternal soul. Those who believe in an eternal soul can still get into heavenly realms. But those who are with materialistic views are said to be destined for hells. 

Ask yourself first if you are doing anything that irritates the person. If yes and if the fault is yours, stop doing it. Ask the person directly why he/she is treating you differently, discuss the issues and resolve them. 

They have to ask permission from the owner Deva to leave and acquire new merits. Or they can participate in the good deeds done by the Deva himself. 

Do not meditate with music. It's distracting. Go to a quiet place with the least number of distractions. There's no such thing called 'breathing'. Breathing is a concept. What you should focus on is the feeling at the nose when the air hits inside. Do not make more than what the senses can feel. All that is felt is the cold, warm, smooth or rough sensations rising and falling. Simply keep noting that. If you happen to hear something, just note it as hearing. Don't make more out of it. Same attitude with any other sensation or thought. Do not try to thinkup impermanence, suffering and non-self. That is like digging a hole in the ground, putting water to it and calling it a water well. The proper way is to keep digging until you find water. In the same way, keep noting the sensations/thoughts and the 3 characteristics will reveal themselves when the mind is matured. Here is a handbook for you: $URL$