Had they had more submarines they'd of necessity have had fewer aircraft, tanks, and other ships. Germany was severely resource limited both in raw materials, fuel, and manpower after all. So had they employed more submarines their land and air forces would have been less capable, maybe far less capable. While this may not have hurt them much against the western allies in the early stages, the campaign against the USSR would have gone bad even sooner, as would the campaigns in northern Africa and maybe even France. 

People will no longer trust banks, money becomes useless as a means of paying for goods and services as it has no value. People fall back to systems of barter for services and goods. Maybe some will accept valuables in trade for services, which they then trade on for other goods and services. In time banking will reappear, but only hard records, written on paper, will be acceptable as proof of ownership of anything. Which brings us to the linked implication, which is that any computerised system will be viewed with extreme suspicion. It is quite likely a large part of the population will demand a complete ban on computers, maybe even a complete ban on any electronic equipment, because they're afraid of them (many people already are, this would give them an excuse). 

What you're essentially doing is limiting the number of votes on any given topic to however much any voting individual wishes to pay. This will have a number of immediate effects. The poor, lower-class and disenfranchised will not vote. If they're struggling to do silly things like "eat", spending any money for something as amorphous as voting. Those on the other side of any bill that is supported by a large industry or wealthy individual(s) would also not want to waste money voting due to the cap (because votes are capped, any rich person or persons would simply have to pony up enough for half of the votes for the cap). The middle class will only vote on a handful of things that matter most to them. You may have members of the Sierra club show up for a big vote on the environment, but not much else. People will "save" their votes for something that would effect their spheres of influence directly, and ignore the rest, as investing the funds in education and retirement would be more beneficial to them. The upper class, and various tiers thereof, would still be the main target of anyone trying to legislate any changes. Instead of American-style fundraisers (dinners, capital raisers), events and entities would be places into motion to encourage those with money to waste on votes to vote for certain things (bonuses that happen right before election time, other soft-dollar movements to encourage those people to go vote). This reality would seriously warp the legislation presented towards those voters... for example, why even draft legislation to raise a money for renovating X side of town or for Y industry? None of the voters live there, or only do business on the fringes. It wouldn't be democracy, specifically, but really an argentocracy, a government by money. This is not a specifically a plutocracy because other people than the wealthy minority CAN have a say by vote-purchasing, but statistically will not in any large mass due to sheer economics. 

On the lit side, an eternal ruddy dusky sky greets those who go outside. On the dark sire, except near the terminator, you're in eternal pitch darkness, the only warmth ever reaching there coming from thermal convection, driven by winds caused by the planet's rotation. As the planet it tidally locked, there are no tides, no wind patterns driven by tidal activity. 

If by mine you mean a fixed or semi fixed single use automated defense system, they could work. If you mean a big bag of explosives that goes BOOM when something triggers the detonator, not so much. 

How primitive do you need to go? If you need to go back to a pre-spaceflight society, you'd need to eliminate all spaceflight. Which would for most people on the planet mean no more GPS navigation or foreign television and that's about it. If you need to go back to a pre-electrical society, you'd need to start killing most of the urban and suburban population as without electricity there'd be no way for cities the size we have now. This gets worse if you need to go so far as to eliminate internal combustion engines. If you have time, this could possibly be achieved by a temporary ban put in place on having children. By enforcing this only on urbanites and strictly enforcing a ban on more than 2 children on farmers, urban populations would dwindle. Go back to a pre-metal society and you'd have to effectively reduce the number of people to a stone age society level of a few tens of millions of people worldwide at most (down from a current level of between 7 and 8 billion). Pretty much the only way to achieve that is through "active measures", probably a virulent biological or chemical weapon that rapidly kills the entire population, except a few choice individuals who happen to be immune. And you'd be no different from the others whp're intent to kill all technological civilisations... So everything depends on how primitive you need to go. 

The word refers to any member of the kingdom Plantae, which are sessile photosynthesising dendriform replicators from the planet Earth. There's no reason to suppose that replicators from other planets would be divided into the same categories, or even that the same names would be used in the scientific community if they are. Thus, if you find replicators elsewhere then the answer is yes, but trivially so. Aside from that, there's nothing in the laws of physics that require the basis of an ecosystem be sessile photosynthesising dendriform replicators. The only things we can say with certainty are that the basis of the ecosystem will be replicators that depend on the largest source of available energy. On Earth, that's photosynthesis. Given the way that stars and planets are formed it does seem likely that ambient light from a star will be that source on the majority of planets, but that doesn't rule anything else out. Just keep in mind that the likelihood for life is going to be proportional to the overall amount of energy available, so whatever your alternate source is it'll have to be highly available. 

It depends on how much you want to flesh out the world economy that you're in. If it's in a "world not that much unlike our own", there's going to umpteen bazillion little pawn-style type shops... however, there's only going to be one or two that will frequently have incredibly rare or extraordinary items (IRL, those would be the Pawn Star's shop, or the Antiques Roadshow type thing). The average Artie's Artifacts will have normal things, with a single rare tome hidden in a stack of mundane ones, or a sword that is really powerful, but the shopkeeper only knows it as John Peter's (you know, the farmer) sword that was passed down from his grandfather. Like a normal pawn shop, the original owners can be coming back to retrieve their wares at any point, be they fantastic or mundane. You can have the surrounding area with nonstandard currency, any travelling marketeers that have carts full of wares may rely on bartering supplies and other things rather than trying to keep track of how much each currency requires. That allows them to have a good reason to have whole bunch of random things of various power levels on hand. You can have a shop that can move by itself. You can use the Dancing Hut of Baba Yaga as a reference, or Howl's Moving Castle, or "the Barn" from Haven, or the Witch's hut from Brave, Or the town of Brigadoon, the eponymous circus from The Night Circus novel or from the 4th season of Heroes... the list goes on. It doesn't matter if it moves on legs, wheels, tracks, a stiff eastbound breeze in the form of a mist, or simply vanishes at the speed of plot. It will plunk down outside of town, near a main road or crossroads. Perhaps they collect the wares from the passers by before moving along, as mentioned above, perhaps the crafters contained within don't realize that their wares are enchanted when the customers leave (because reasons!).