While there is little disagreement that weight should be added after a certain amount of reps is reached (commonly 15), actually getting there is a different matter. One approach, initially popularized by Pavel Tsatsouline (see this article for more info), is called "greasing the groove". Pavel claims that "specificity + frequent practice = success", meaning, one should train "as often as possible while being as fresh as possible". While this can be interpreted in multiple ways, it boils down to not going to failure on every set and doing several sets daily. Of course, you need to have an easily accessible pull-up bar for this to work. I've personally followed this approach to work from my 2 pull-ups to ~12 quite fast - I had a bar on my way to the bathroom and my rule was to jump and do a few pull-ups everytime I went under it. Sure, at the start I cheated, jumping more, not going all the way down, but I improved quite fast. Later on, I tried to vary my grip and do them more strictly. Most importantly, I never went completely to failure, just doing however many I could while I felt "strong". The article I linked to above goes on to mention that this can be applied for other exercises, although it's probably not a good idea (for fear of over-training), though it concludes that doing it with dips might be a good match (which is in-line with my own thoughts and experiences, except I don't have parallel bars handy so I couldn't test it). 

The L-sit is the progression towards V-sit, finishing with Manna, which is an advanced-level gymnastics skill (in this chart of exercises taken from Overcoming Gravity, there are only a few skills which are rated harder than the Manna -- L-sit is a "level 3" skill, V-sit is 6 and Manna is a whooping 13). Leg cramps are normal during L-sit/V-sit work, they should get better with time. It's not a weakness. 

Handstands are mostly skill work, rather than strength work (other than right at the beginning) -- you are learning to balance, to make small adjustments in order to stay upright. Therefore, it cannot replace the plank. If you are looking for ab specific work harder than planks, consider ab wheel rollouts or L-sits. Additionally, you'll want to do handstands before strength training, so that you are as rested as possible. Generally, one would set a timer for 5 or 10 minutes and do as many handstands as possible, rests included in the time; alternatively, spread out during the whole day. Daily handstand work will also allow for more progress -- skill work should never be too fatiguing. For more information on handstands, check out this thread on Reddit. 

What you want to do is use Prilepin tables, which specify how many sets of which duration you should hold for optimal (or near optimal) progress. The goal is always to have about 60 seconds total hold time; once you can do this in a single set it is time to progress to a harder variation (otherwise, you are no longer doing strength work). In the case of a plank, you might consider moving on to a one-leg, then one-arm, then one-leg-one-arm variation, or just push out your arms further and further from your body. You should also consider doing other bodyline exercises, see this pdf for instructions -- the 'fish' exercise is the "opposite" movement to the plank. For your particular case, per the tables above, you should aim for a 16-20s hold time and repeat for 3-4 sets. 

Balance is important: studies have shown it helps prevent injury (for example, this study (in Spanish)), it's useful when transitioning to barefoot/minimalist running (see this or this) and proprioception training is a staple of post-injury rehabilitation programs (this study has references to other studies to back these claims; it's itself concerned with upper-body proprioception). As I feel I am lacking in this area of fitness, I have decided to work on it. Unfortunately, I'm not sure how to measure my progress. I've heard of something called a Flamingo test - standing on one leg with eyes closed and measuring how long you can keep it up. Here I assumed swaying around is not acceptable, but what about the small muscles in my foot? I feel them working and my making "microcorrections" (which is what I'm trying after all), but am I supposed to only measure time I am standing perfectly still, or is feeling movement/twitching in my foot alright for the Flamingo test? Also, are there any other tests to measure my balance, especially once I've progressed past the Flamingo test. My current routine is basically the flamingo test, repeated 10-20 times per day, barefoot on hard surfaces. It is my understanding that once this is effortless (defined, I suppose, by not feeling any twitching in my foot) I can progress to turning my head (so as to further constrict the inner ear fluid effects on balance and focus solely on somatosensory input). I assume that by this point the flamingo test will be too easy and a different test will be needed. 

Ideally, your spotter should tell you if your forearms are in a correct position when down; if that is not possible, then use whatever feels comfortable to you (but between 22 and 28 inches). Don't use a too wide grip if your goal is strength: the shortened range of motion is sub-optimal. 

I have recently moved to a foreign country and find myself with a lack of things to do. As such, I've decided to finally follow a weightlifting program; I choose Starting Strength. It has just five lifts (only one of which is very technical) and very detailed explanations of all of them. Unfortunately, I don't know any of the lifts and I'm worried about learning them with improper form: while the book is very detailed, even discussing common mistakes and ways to correct them, this all relies on having a training partner/trainer to check your form. Unfortunately, as mentioned above, I'm in a foreign country: I don't know the language, so can't ask random people for help (well, I can communicate, but explaining the nuances of the lift is beyond me); I can't afford a personal trainer of any sort (not that I'm confident a random trainer would know them well enough) and the few friends I have here are not interested in going with me so I'm stuck with going at it alone. My question is: How can I ensure I'm doing them with proper form, if there isn't anyone to check it for me? 

It doesn't really matter much - you are lifting the same weight no matter how much (or little) you shift your center of mass by moving your legs. Excessively rounding your lower back might have other consequences, though I haven't found any references to back this up. However, keeping your legs straight will activate your abs (especially upper abs in my experience) more, which means a better workout. In fact, this article compares abs muscle activation for various exercises using EMG. In shows, somewhat surprisingly, that a bodyweight chinup activated the rectus abdominis (main "abs" muscle) the most out of all exercises. It also proves that hanging leg raises (hang from bar and raise your legs to 90 degrees) are a good abdominal exercise, too. So, for the maximum workout you could try to keep your legs at a 90 degree angle (ie. parallel to the ground) while doing pullups (I've seen this referred to as an "L-seat pullup"). This is a good, almost full-body workout, but I wouldn't do it if you are unprepared. Be careful to maintain proper tension throughout the movement else you risk injury. In short, a strict-form pullup is one where your body is in a straight line throughout the movement. [the fact that everyone does them in a certain way does not mean they are right; eg. in the link you gave, the guy in the video never actually gets his chin over the bar, he just touches it at best] Of course, if your bar is not high enough you will have to bend your legs.