Unless you can show how you've implemented what you learn in projects and more importantly how you were able to change projects for the better, you may be giving the impression that you just read what you like and aren't able to focus on things to help you in your job. Having a willingness to learn is important in your field. It is assumed developers continue to learn. Not all of them do, so I don't know how beneficial it is to bring attention to how you're better than the lowest programmers. If you find there are areas of technology in a new job, you can use your willingness to stretch your skills as a reason for seeking a new job. Look for ways to insert it in the conversation, but don't list it on your resume. 

Are you sure they're not putting more emphasis on aptitude then currently having specific skills? It sounds like you may pick up on things quickly and they're better off in the long-term having a more talented person who may take a little more time to get up to speed. Like others have suggested, take the interview. 

It's important that you are focused on being polite since you're not use to doing customer service. For the most part, everything you've said sounds fine, but the following: 

I don't suggest it. Costs for doing business fluctuate all the time. Yes, you're saving on hotels, but what if other costs of travel increase? Are you going to take a pay reduction? Travel costs compared to employee payroll have other taxes involved, so the money may not be a 1 to 1 match. You're going to have to do the math. Maybe your relatives could charge you? Don't forget to keep the receipts ;) 

For whatever reason, your boss isn't following up, so you need to change what you're doing. Indicate you don't want to be a pest, but you just wanted to follow-up on a previous request. Do it in email, voice mail, or whatever. Try and schedule a specific meeting time. Many people are busy and unfortunately, they only tend to those who push harder. Your coworkers may be more persistent. If you think you should be able to make a one-time request and a busy boss is going to organize their time to meet your needs, it's just not going to happen. Some bosses under certain circumstances are very organized and cognizant of everyone's needs. Under these circumstances, many bosses are not. Don't read too much into it until you have a definitive answer on your request. 

Do you have any previous job experience where you had to write a lot of documentation? Are you willing to write documentation? 

He took a major risk and lost. Companies and leaders too often create an adversarial situation where employees fear for their jobs. They are afraid to voice complaints. Advanced notice is rarely given for fear of being instantly let go. Your boss is the type of person who tries to make this a personal matter and has the nerve to blame you and question your character when he is just a bad leader. Be thankful you have another job. 

Since your team gets things done without doing this, you may want to reconsider how important it is. 

Always take this factor into consideration. Wait and see how others interact with this person. Regardless of the age/experience gap he may or may not like even constructive criticism. See if you can get some feedback on how his presentation went. Your concerns may not make a difference in this case. The boss may indicate some short-comings and look for assistance. Personally, I think it is a good habit to have an editor/reviewer for presentations to clients. You don't always have the time or the resources. You could offer a second set of eyes. Just because you may spot an error doesn't mean your skills are that much better. I'm sure your boss is very busy and has a lot on his plate and may not be able to put in the time and effort that you could provide. Ask around to see if it is a common practice for people to ask for presentations to be proof-read. The word may get around that you would be a good candidate for those in English. 

Getting things done on time. Do you deliver when expected? Not everyone can make this claim unfortunately. Being part of a successful team is equally important. Is a large percentage of your work unsupervised? Getting things done without constantly being reminded is important. Learning new things. How fast are you picking up new technologies? Learning them on your own is a big plus. Taking on additional responsibilities. I'm guessing you may have done this as a result of your promotion. That's an accomplishment worth mentioning. 

Besides dividing tasks into Boring and Fun, consider the level of difficulty as well. Balance the times you're most productive with difficult work that is both boring and fun. You may have to be more rigid in your planning to make sure the boring but tougher work gets done first. Personally, I don't know if you'll find much work that is fun but not very difficult. People tend to like a challenge. Regardless, work on easy, repetitive boring things during times when you're less productive and just slog through it. The only caveat I would make to organizing your work this way is if there is easy and boring stuff that is really critical to your boss. I would make sure this gets done on time with few mistakes because of the level of importance. I'm guessing TPS fax cover sheets fall into this category. 

You have to say something about it, but there may be a way to play both sides from the middle if you want to give Bob a chance. Let Bob know you are going to confirm this with the boss and give Bob the option to include his name at this time. Bob can request to keep his name out of it, but you have to let him know if the boss asks, you're going to implicate him. If the boss isn't worried about it, there is no problem and you're done. Hopefully Bob doesn't get too mad. It is more important for your boss to trust you going forward. If the boss demands to know who it is, you have to tell him. You warned Bob about this from the beginning. He appeared not to care one way or another. It is important to let team members know how this was handled. Ask your boss to give everyone a refresher on password policy. He should also indicate how this specific situation was handled, so no one goes around calling you a tattler or worse, give you a password and put you into another awkward situation. 

Tell your boss you have an offer, but you have not accepted until you told him first as a courtesy. If he chooses not to counter-offer, you have your answer. Some companies are very strict about avoiding getting into bidding wars for employees. Others will make an exception to keep a good employee. You probably have a better feel for how you get along with people at this company and your level of comfort in this type of negotiation. 

About all of these missteps have happened to me, but I don't think they were by managers I really liked. It's a narrow slice of time, but even if a manager can be on his best behavior for an hour deserves some credit. 

You need a meeting with the 3 parties involved: you, this manager, and someone in IT that can explain how it is possible you could access these data. Once that is addressed to everyone's satisfaction, you can offer to create a quote for additional work to transfer the data/fix the problem. Since they're not even considering restoring one of their own backups to find the missing data, is a sign they don't know what they're doing, so you may want to offer to consult them in even more areas on data security. 

Technical Infrastructure - can you get connected to the resources you need when remote? Will the people you work with be able to use chat and conference calling? Make sure you don't rely on paper files (You won't get a copy at the meeting, so make sure they email it to you in advance.). Management - some managers just won't feel like you're working if you are not at your desk for prescribed amounts of time. Do you have flexible office hours? That could be a start. The more your supervisor understands what you actually do, the better. Your boss may not be willing to get permission from higher-ups to let you do this because then everyone will want to do it (Anarchy). Office Politics - will the other people who don't have positions that allow them to work remotely complain? This is hard to over-come and will take a little bit of a sales pitch. Maybe you have to work off-hours or a longer day. Are you on call to trouble-shoot. Some people's workloads are driven by different phases like quarter end for finance or holiday seasons or weather related. Not all jobs are the same.