This process can take some time. You will need patience and lots of WD-40. Eventually, the post will rotate in the seat tube and you will be able to work it out. *The trick is knowing how much force to apply. Sometimes you need more than you think and sometimes you apply more than you need (which results in unwanted damage). This difference comes with experience. Oh and also: grease the new seatpost well before you put it back in - you'll appreciate it later. 

True the brakes may be an issue. The other problem you will encounter is different spacing on the hubs. Usually you can spread the fork and frame to fit. Borrow some 700s from a friend or stop by your LBS to test fit a set of wheels. You'll know very quickly that way. 

Make sure the seatpost is free of grease and oil on the outside. Turn the frame upside down and clamp the seatpost into a bench vise. Spray WD-40 into the seattube from the bottom bracket opening. It will probably be dripping rusty colored oil out the top of the seat tube (which is now facing the floor - you might want to put something to catch the oil under there.). Carefully hold the head tube and the rear stays and try to rotate the frame on the post. Work it slowly and carefully being sure not to bend the stays!* Make sure the seat post is not rotating in the vise (if so, clamp tighter) 

You'll should be fine ordering the same size as what you currently have. Just order one pair and if they don't fit to your liking send them back. You'll probably get it right the first time, but if not some online shops offer free return shipping (Amazon?). You have a better than 50/50 chance of saving yourself the hassle of dealing with a return if you order just one pair. 

The only real advantage to a compact geometry road bike is for the manufacturers. Since standover- which is the distance from the top tube to your crotch when you straddle the bike with your feet on the ground- is increased, one size of frame will fit a wider height range of people and therefore the manufacturer does not have to make as many different frame sizes. This is valuable for aluminum and steel bike frames, but pays off the most in the world of monocoque carbon frames as each size requires its own mold(s) and for higher end bikes, its own layup schedule. Final fitting is done with saddle height & fore/aft position along with steerer stack height, stem length & angle. Ultimately there is no difference in fit between compact and classic road bike geometry. Compact geometry frames use ever so slightly less material in the frame, but primarily they are just the new aesthetic of road bikes as compared to those of the 1980s era and before, and that era of bike was typically steel. 

The world is full of variation! Anacdotally, learning on a balance bike (no pedals) first, then transitioning to a pedal bike seems to work very well. This worked well for my mine and the neighbour's kids as we all seemed to transition without any major crashes. It did take some time to figure out the process of pedalling and braking. That said, my nephew received his first bike (a pedal bike) at 4, and in two weeks had learnt how to ride it on his own. He was seriously motivated watching all the other kids ride their bike. 

Strangely your wife's proportions are very close to mine, except I am a little taller. Speaking from experience, in terms of mainstream bicycle fit curves, this a somewhat long inseam for height, which means 

Treating "competitive cyclists" as this single unified group (with three subgrouping) belies some prejudices. Like all walks of life there are a diversity of people, all with different motivations, morals and life experiences. As such there is no single correct answer your various questions. For example: 

As you dial out the barrel adjuster on the brake lever you pull more cable by effectively lengthening the cable outer (aka cable housing). By pulling more cable you change the starting position of the caliper brake arm, which if extreme enough, could mean: 

What options are available in terms of types of cycling mirrors? Where all can I mount them and what are the advantages and disadvantages to each? 

Given the age of the wheel, you're going to continue to snap older spokes from time to time. Don't worry about the gauge of the replacement spoke. Assuming it's within the range of appropriate tension, as long as it pulls true there's not much to be concerned about. I have multiple wheels with some of the thinnest gauge spokes available (Sapim CX Rays) with straight gauge replacement spokes. No issues to report. 

Tighten the springs up a little if your feet are starting to pop out. Before I moved from SPD's to TIME's I had the SPD's cranked down as tight as they would go and I would still blow out of them and the scars on my kneecaps to prove it :/ The biggest thing you need to do as you tighten the pedals up is to practice clipping in and (especially) out to build up the muscle memory. Eventually you'll find yourself twisting your heels outwards even when riding flat pedals. So.. -Tighten the springs several notches, -go in your backyard where there a soft area to fall over onto (and where nobody can see you), -clip in and out a few dozen times. Repeat this for a few days. If you find yourself tightening the springs down significantly again, run though the routine again. I'm not guaranteeing that you won't fall over anyway, but in my experience this process has helped new clipless riders.