You'll generally want to get the smallest inner chainring possible, in order to maximize the spread of gears. The actual size of that chainring will be determined by your crank's BCD (bolt-circle diameter). It's impossible to say what size your BCD is, although with a stock 52t big ring I would guess that it's a road standard size, 130mm. This means your smallest available inner ring is 39-tooth. 52/39 is a modern standard combination, and 52/42 is an older standard; either will work. I wouldn't worry too much about your derailer capacity and chain slack. If your rear derailer can accommodate a 32 tooth cog, it must have a medium or long cage, both of which are capable of "wrapping" plenty of chain. The only instance in which chain slack becomes an issue is when combining the inner small chainring with a small cog on the cassette. This combination is horrid for your drivetrain, and ought to be avoided at all times. If you are worried about chain slack because of dropping a chain, that is a separate issue, largely unrelated to derailer/chainring compatability. 1) dropped chains are a fact of life. get used to "picking up" a chain using the front shifter to avoid having to get off the bike. 2) if it's a mechanical problem, your limit screws may be improperly set. 3) don't shift under heavy load. if you shift into a low gear while you're already climbing the hill, you're doing it wrong and you're breaking your parts. shift BEFORE you need the gear you want to be in. sorry for the pithy attitude, i've had a few beers and am striving for clarity. edit: if your cranks end up being 110bcd (compact BCD), you can go pretty low on your inner ring. You could even do a 52/34 (I do!), but you must accept tricky front shifting. 

I've got the Pro3s and I average a flat about every 100 miles. They're not cheap either. After I finish off my current supply of them, I'll be trying something a bit more puncture resistant... 

A common problem. I ran into 180lb weight limits on both wheels AND pedals when putting together my last bike. That seems to be the typical number, so those of us that are bigger than that need to be careful and just expect more frequent failures. Seems like everything bike related is designed for short skinny people. :-) 

Using a fixed gear develops muscles that you don't normally use on a geared bicycle. It'll take time for your body to get used to using those muscles and until then skidding will be difficult. First focus on hopping the rear wheel. When you're comfortable doing that, hop the wheel and then hold your legs in place on the landing to get a short skid. When you're used to that you can practice shifting your weight forward ("unweighting" the rear wheel) and dragging the skid out further. You must make sure your feet are in the correct position - they'll be relatively flat horizontal to the ground. Also be aware that skidding ruins tires quickly. I commute using a fixed gear and I scrupulously avoid skidding. I can stop as quickly or even faster by keeping my weight back on the rear wheel and using my leg muscles to slow down. That being said, being able to skid is a practical skill - a short "hockey" skid has saved my ass at least once from getting creamed by a car. 

My trainer came with the appropriate front stand. However, I occasionally forget to use it and it really doesn't seem to matter either way. Since I have it, I try to remember to use it, but if I didn't have it, I wouldn't bother to buy one. 

I've not had any luck consistently finding used parts online. For used commuter/entry-level stuff the best source I've found is local garage sales. For used nicer stuff try your local racing clubs. They tend to discard nice stuff, for cheap, on a regular basis as they always need the latest greatest to go the fastest. Surprisingly the local touring bike clubs have not been a great source as those people seem to hold onto stuff forever. :-) 

You will be absolutely fine to make a change like this. Your tires are wear items and should be replaced when they are worn. It depends on the rim width mostly, but you could probably go any tire from 1.75 up to 2.3 without problem. For your usage you want smaller nobs not large ones. If 95+% of your ride is road then get some with a slick commuter strip around the middle, will help you go faster on the smooth and will have only minor difference off-road. 

Interesting problem on the only triple chainring bike I've ever owned (I've never run into this problem on a double chainring ever). It has a 9-speed cassette. In the middle chainring, the middle 3 rear gears hunt around. Example, when in 5th sometimes it'll randomly jump up or down a gear. 6th, sometimes it'll jump down 1. 4th, sometimes it'll jump up 1. It'll stay in the gear you put it for the majority of riding, but occasionally it'll suddenly just hunt around a little within that specific subset of gears and then settle down again. It's been like that since brand new (2006, Cannondale with Shimano components, most notably the Flightdeck shifters). My wife just lived with it (it was her bike originally). When she crashed it (and gave up cycling), I inherited it and I also just lived with it for awhile. Finally the last couple of years I've re-calibrated the shifting a few times in an attempt to solve this issue. I can get everything spot on except for that pesky hunting right in the middle gears! Tips/tricks specifically for adjusting shifting on these triple chainring bikes? 

You won't be able to replace that freewheel with anything new you can buy on the market; your only options will be old stock or take-offs that you can find on eBay, etc. 

Now calculating the reach is easy. We know the height of the stack is 60.25cm, which is one side of a right triangle with a hypotenuse of 63cm. Knowing this you can use the Pythagorean theorem to determine the remaining side, a segment of the top tube is 18.41cm. We also know the full length of the top tube is 59cm, so the remaining segment must be 59cm - 18.41cm = 40.59cm. And that's your reach! 

Whatever it is I do I guess. I've never had one break. I don't even worry about stretch. If it's dry, I oil it, but otherwise I leave well enough alone. I don't even bother to clean my chains. 

Graphite is best, but is preventative. Once it starts to jam up, you're not going to have much luck getting the graphite in there. LPS Greaseless lubricant works well once you're at that point. Avoid silicone lubes, they make a gooey sticky mess out of locks! 

At my shop a typical "heavy" tuneup will cost about $130. We have considerably cheaper labor costs than other shops, where that might be more like $200+. That includes replacement of all the wear-and-tear items on a bike: brake pads, chain, freewheel/cassette, cables & housing. Those are things that wear out ON EVERY BIKE regardless of what the bike costs initially. This is also the general annual upkeep cost of owning a bike. There is no ratio that will be helpful - there are too many variables - but what you can do is go to your local bike shop and ask what it usually costs for a tuneup with all the wear-and tear parts replaced. That'll be your maximum cost. You'll get a more precise answer if you know what kind of bike you intend on getting. 

Most cyclocross races have tiers or classes. There's often an A grade and a B grade, right down to the Tyro or Noob class where the equipment requirements are minimal - in the order of "if you have a 2 wheel bike with working brakes, no obvious dangers, and a helmet you're good to ride in the beginner's grade" For time reasons, sometimes the grades are run on the course together, so C grade and Newbies might mix it up, leaving the course nicely chewed up for the higher grade riders. Locally there was a guy riding a raleigh 20 and the only difference was he had fitted knobbly tyres and removed the fenders for clearance. He didn't win but was not last, and he beat out nicer bikes too. You can often even ride a mountain bike in a tyro-class CX races - The only thing often excluded is bar-ends. If you're just trying out CX then go ahead and ride what you got. If you find that you like the sport then consider a better bike. 

I believe it's unnecessary except for rare circumstances (some racers may find it necessary). Front and rear do not wear at the same rate, getting a similar performing (or even the same exact model tire) is easy. It's become a best practice for cars because by the time you need new tires, they don't make the same model anymore. Mismatched tread patterns and grip levels (different rubber compound or even aged vs. new rubber) can make rain/snow handling a little squirrelly, so it's just safer to replace them all. Also, if you rotate them, they should wear at about the same rate anyways.