First of all, you will need to wash your bicycle. Besides being a virtue on its own, it will allow you to better access the bicyles's state, because some problems might be hidden behind the dirt. Now, a full set of tools to service a bicycle is huge and costs more than a home mechanic would want to invest in it. Besides, certain operations require experience beside tools. For example, your bike is full suspension, and re-pressing bearings in rear linkage is not a thing one can do in five minutes without experience. There is a smaller and much cheaper subset of tools which is enough to do ~90% of regular work, but again, you will need to know exactly what you want to fix in order to tell whether some tool is needed or not. I would recommend looking for and addressing discovered problems one-by-one. For each isolated problem, there might be an answer either on this site or somewhere else on the Internet, as there are good manuals from certain bike tools vendors. You will be able to change tires, cables, chain, cassette, maybe perform brake bleeding etc., but it will be cheaper and easier to true wheels or change pressed-in bearings in your local bike shop. Now on to the more specific things in your question. 

Any change in shock total length will affect bike's geometry and its handling properties. Going a couple mm may be unnoticeable; or maybe it will. Also make sure that you know which mounting hardware (new bushings or bearings) you need to mount it on the frame. 

Not sure about that. However, I've never found a need for a lockout, be it on the fork or a remote one, — a good fork should just work, and the lockout only takes space on the handlebars. 

Having a too wide or too narrow rim would result in a suboptimal performance or even straight unstable wheel. Another picture from 1: 

The fork contacts either bearings' balls or one of bearings' races. Balls rotate, so unless you leave your bicycle in a cellar for a year, they will not get a chance of chemically reacting to the point they stick. And if the race binds, so what, the bearing will still rotate, and if the case of bearings replacement procedure the fork still can be extracted and races removed. There should be enough of consistent grease to prevent both bearings' rusting and materials binding. That is the thing that one can control when installing a new fork, and then periodically refresh it with a new grease. 

There would be a 50% chance for a narrow chain link to sit onto a wide tooth during a transition from the small ring to the big ring. This would result in chain misplacement and immanent failure under load [thanks to @mattnz for figuring that out]. Narrow-wide is all about chain retention, while what one needs in a front double by definition is chain derailing easily and reliably. My suggestion is to have a proper double chainrings. Given that you'll be touring, you'll need to consider possibility of repairs, and finding a new regular chainring would be much easier than a fancy narrow-wide one. You can also have two front chainrings but no front derailleur. In this case, gear switching happens by hand: stop, throw the chain from one ring to another, and move on. Provided that you do not plan to use the granny gear often, it may turn out to be a viable option. 

Install a longer B-screw. There are several vendors on the market, just google it. It is relatively cheap, and I suspect one could find a working bolt with thread pitch and diameter in a local hardware store for even cheaper. Install an MTB Goatlink's equivalent which is called Roadlink. Wolf Tooth components make one, and it is not cheap. 

OEM Suntour forks are awfully terrible. Almost any other after-the-market fork would be better. I would recommend going with an air fork as the technology is very much polished now, so there is no need for coil. In the price range that you have designated, there are many decent forks, however not so many vendors to choose from, and one is clearly dominating. I would focus on getting a compatible fork in the first place; that is, all the parameters: 

I've used such wheels for some time on my hardtail. First with V-brakes back and front, then switched to disk brakes as the frame allowed both types of brakes. I cannot say that I have experienced any issues with such wheelset. My centerlocks hubs even came with plastic covers on disk mounting surfaces so that they would not become dirty when no disks are present. 

I read somewhere about a three-speed internal fixed rear hub, (hmm, here maybe?) and people were complaining that it had poor reliability. Obviously if something is not used in a big cycling sport (and has access to its R&D budgets), it has little chances for a wider market effort. 

On the first picture, if you look closely at the cable right to the bolt at the center, you will see deformation marks from the previous clamping. The position where you have clamped the cable seems to be too slack. That is, too much cable is left between the lever and the pinch bolt. To fix it, loose the cable, press the "thing" that rotates when you press the brake lever clockwise, and clamp the cable again at the new place. You may end up taking up too much slack, permanently pressing the brake pads against the rotor or drum; in this case, find a compromise position between too slack and too tight. It can be done by using the adjustment barrel at the lever, if you have one there. 

Buy a second identical headset and use only its lower race on the new fork. The headset in my case is Cane Creek 10 series. However, one top race is wasted as unused. Transition to some sort of an integrated headset which does not have a lower race. This means removing the old one (both the top and the bottom pieces) and installing the new one. However, after that changing to another fork should be as trivial as popping the old one from the steering and pushing the new one in. However, I am not sure if there are frame/headset compatibility requirements. In my case the frame is a cromoly one. 

It's not the chain but rather new chain/old drivetrain combination. Depending on how worn your chainring/cassette are, the noise may be temporary or permanent. If cogs of your drivetrain are heavily worn, it means that links of the new chain will never lie precisely on them, causing invisible but noisy movements as the chain attempts to position itself on the chainring's teeth (but it fails). In this case, your options are: 

The most important characteristic will be the seat post diameter. To determine it, measure the internal diameter of the seat tube, that is, the one which the seat post inserts into. Make sure you do not confuse it with the tube's external diameter, it is not needed. Use a precision caliper for that, your measurements must be accurate to 0.1 mm. Do several measurements and then find their average. Available bicycle seat posts diameters vary from 25.4 mm to 34.9 mm; maybe even wider or narrower posts exist. When looking for a new seat post, choose the one that has the diameter closest to your measurements. The next characteristic would be the post's length. Generally, the length you want depends on your frame size (measured as letters XS, S, M, L, XL or numbers in cm/inches). Unless you buy a super-short one, however, there is less opportunity for a critical error with length. If nothing else, then a seat post that is too long can often be cut to be shorter. But if you make a mistake with diameter, it would be harder or impossible to accommodate that post to the frame. The majority of saddles are compatible with the most of seat posts. Typically there are two metallic rails on the saddle and a clamping mechanism on the top of the seat post. In certain disciplines, like dirt jumping bikes, a saddle may be integrated to a seat post. 

Besides all the other protection measures of wrapping and padding the bike's tubes, you can make a "fake shock" of wood. That is, measure the distance between the shock's eyelets, cut/saw a wooden "stick" from a board so that it fits inside the frame, drill two holes on its ends, and mount that stick instead of the shock. The same trick is used to place wooden blocks in frame's/fork's dropouts when the frame is transported without wheels so side side loads do not bend them. The wood is an excellent material for the task, as it is firm and is easy to work on with almost any type of saw even by a person with little experience. Size tolerances can also be very wide — it won't make a difference if your fake shock is 5mm shorter/longer and ugly as hell. 

to replace chainring and possibly cassette so that all parts of the drivetrain are new and match each other; flip the chainring so that another side of its teeth which are less worn is used. This will not help if sound comes from the cassette, but I'd bet it is the chainring because cassette's wear is distributed more between its gears. Get back the old chain on and use it until your are ready to go with the option number 1. 

[A photo would help] Is tire's cord actually damaged, and does air escape from the hole? If cord is OK, «'tis but a scratch». Use sealant to cure it, it is meant to plug holes several millimeters in size, and it should be there anyway for a tubeless setup. If it is an actual hole, you can try using some sort of a tire boot, starting from those offered commercially and ending up with a multitude of DIY solutions e.g. a folded money bill. It is supposed to work with an inner tube. I do not think you will be able to continue using that tire in a tubeless mode. Given that a road tire has very low air volume, any blowup after tire boot's failure will empty it in no time. Finding oneself with a missing tire while having speed of a typical road race's descent is not the brightest perspective. I would recommend retiring that tire. 

It is expected that new braking rim surfaces, brake disks and pads are less efficient in the beginning. You need to bed-in them. Additionally, because you've changed the rim it is possible that pads need re-alignment as they do not fully engage with the new rim's surface. Watch closely if they contact the braking surface at the right angle from both sides, do that with their full width, and that they avoid touching the tire. 

Yes, but you will need to buy a replacement part that is specifically designated for your bicycle vendor, model and even model year combination as there is close to none compatibility between derailleurs. You can search the net for the words "[bicycle name] + derailleur". Some companies in some countires offer wide catalogs of compatible parts. Some of these folks can even cut a new part with a CNC machine for you. In this case, contact them and provide the information they will request. Most likely they will need photoes and measurements of the derailleur and/or dropout where it sits. Note that replacements derailleurs are relatively cheap, and even making a custom part is much cheaper than buying a new bike. And while you are at it, why not order an extra part, just for the future?