Nagasena says that the pain felt by Budha was without any cause on his part. It came naturally from some cause then present or from the will of some other person. 

There are five clinging aggregates. Here it states that one's self clings to the five aggregates. To quote: 

It is true that there is no permanent identity of self and there is no identity of self which doesn't result in suffering. Nirvana is permanent , full of blessings, and is unchangeable. We humans can reach to the state of Nirvana by following the Buddha and his Dhamma. So my question is : Why can not we call Nirvana the true self of ours? (As an example I can say that I am not form,feelings,perceptions,volition,consciousness but I am the permanent , pleasant and unchangeable state of Nirvana) 

Buddha corrects wrong way to mindfulness of death. But as far as I see , a person who wishes to live as long as it takes to chew and swallo a single mouthful , is same as a person who wishes to live as long as as it takes to chew and swallow ....The translator of the text failed to point out the difference between the mendicant's way of mindfulness of death and Buddha's way of mindfulness of death. I will thankful if someone could explain this sutta in its true essence. My question is :How should one be mindful of death? 

The point is to think positively. Think in what ways now is advantageous for rousing up energy to fulfill the urgent goal of focusing on Buddha , Dhamma and Sangha. The sutta I have quoted covers 8 grounds for arousing energy I am sure you will find the one suitable for you. 

If sabbe dhamma anatta then how is it possible that Dhamma of conditioned arising is not changing ? And is it possible that Nirvana and Dhamma of conditioned arising are the same? 

In SN 22.82 Buddha says Name and Form is the cause and condition for the manifestation of Consciousness aggregate. 

Namo Buddhaya. As far as I a understand there is no conventional self. The residual self which is present due to clinging, leads to existence of what you may call conventional self. The 'I' which you read in the sentence above is due to clinging to one , few or all the aggregates. The following sutta(SN 22.47) will help you understand better: 

I think violation of five precepts constitute bad action and keeping of five precepts constitute good action. 

Is there a name of this particular Buddha, and what is the mudra called, what does it mean, and what is in his left hand and what does it mean? 

Think of your mind like some bits of leaves in water. When life is going by, these leaves get agitated, the water shakes and you start fixating on one leaf or another. Not being mindful is being agitated, looking at different thing to different thing, being afraid or worrying or being attached with so many thoughts happening you lose track of the beauty around you. Being mindful is saying oh look at that pretty leaf, and you are paying attention to it very carefully as it floats around. Mindfulness takes practice, and longer and longer you can hold attention to the leaf. There is nothing wrong about this. But being mindful like this for extended periods is hard, because the water is always agitating, moving the leaves around. The leaves are external, they don't represent you in entirety, there is more, but you don't perceive the water because you are usually fixated on the leaves. To perceive the water is much more difficult, unless you stop the herbs from moving around. So how to calm the water? Meditate. That is why we close our eyes when we meditate, and we go to a quiet and calm place to do it. To allow the water to calm. Straight posture, eyes steadily gazed between the eyebrows. This posture allows awareness to be cultivated, and the mind to calm down and steady. Then the water calms, the leaves fall down to the bottom, and your awareness increases of the inner state. You perceive the water as it is. And you see the leaves are there, but you are not involved with them. When you practice this, it stays, and you go to the outside world and the water does not get so agitated. You can look at each leaf individually and it is much easier to be mindful. They go hand in hand and nature one another. When the water is still, you are 100 percent mindful. Most of spirituality, no matter what religion, will be cultivating awareness to some degree. Christians do it through their emphasis on love, which is the true nature of things. Hindus tend to do it through rituals that engage the senses and focus them on a higher power. Buddhists and Hindus both do that actually, and they both meditate. Islamic people do it through regular prayer. You have to find the path that helps you do it the best. Even different Buddhist schools are very different in practice, so you find the one that cultivates the best in you. There is not only one way. 

I dont exactly know about the Buddhist way but from I have read, the right way to find in which ways you are blessed and find a way to bless the tormentor. 

Buddha said that Nirvana is an end to the suffering of an individual. However if we think from a larger perspective, there is no end to the suffering as a whole. The world will get created again and new Buddha will or will not arise to help us escape the suffering. There were Buddhas in the past and there will be many Buddhas in the future but so has the suffering manifested in the past and will manifest in the future. My question is: Is it possible to envisage an end to the suffering, absolutely for all, for ever? 

As per my understanding when a person dies his aggregates dissolve(his self dissolves) and if the dead person has any cravings,clinging left for the existence then he is reborn(aggregates reassemble). Craving or clinging is personal. A person craves or clings. But death causes the dissolution of self. So I am unable to understand who clings or craves after death? If we the take the simile of lamp then my question would be: who passes the flame from one lamp to another ? My questions are :how does the clinging or craving remain when there is no person,immediately after death, to crave or cling? What remains after the dissolution of five aggregates ? 

I am planning to start meditation. As a beginner , what things I should meditate upon from the Buddha's perspective? 

I need English translation of Pali sutta Vipallāsakathā. I am mainly interested in the following part : 

I have just started practicing breathing mindfulness. At several places following is said for the breathing mindfulness: 

Namo Buddhaya. This question is regarding Anatta. Form is not considered worth identifying as Self because Form is impermanent , changeable and cause of suffering. But can we identify Form as non-self ? 

Is there is anything existing in the past,present or future which is not a phenomena ? Is it correct to say that all phenomena must be impermanent? If yes then how we know this? 

Namo Buddhaya. In this vast ocean of knowledge I haven't gained much knowledge. There are five aggregates, namely form,feeling,perception,volitional formations and consciousness.If I am not wrong, the aggregates are called aggregates because they are the sum total of many heterogenous things taken together. I am asking a very basic question here: What are these aggregates made up of? 

Once you get into the concept of the soul in Buddhism, you have essentially entered into Advaita Vedanta of Hinduism. India largely was converted to Buddhism at one point, which meant they were rejecting the Vedas, the holy scriptures of Hinduism. From a Hindu perspective, the Buddha incarnated for the specific purpose of rejecting the Vedas, because they were being abused by the priests and the teachings were being distorted. So the Buddha incarnated and presented a path in which it cultivated all the qualities necessary for nirvana, without dependence on the concept of God and Atman, which is essentially how people related to the Vedas. Then Adi Shankaracharya came to India and argued against Buddhist philosophy, by asking who is the one seeking nirvana? See $URL$ His arguments restored faith in the Vedas, and that is why India is predominantly a Hindu culture again. His teachings are essentially Buddhism with the Atma. I am not saying that you have to accept these arguments. Ultimately your spiritual path should be defined by where your heart is, and where you find your master. There is nothing wrong with investigating this path of Advaita Vedanta. Both are very powerful traditions that generally respect each other, and lead to the same results at the end. From a beginner's perspective they can seem highly different, but the longer you stay in one path you will realize that they are leading to the same place. Whichever path you choose, you need to find a genuine teacher who embodies the teachings completely, and is a manifestation of compassion. Philosophy of reality is only as important as it brings us to knowledge. Buddhism is just saying like you say, the Atma is not important. Meditate, be compassionate, that is the emphasis in Buddhism. Advaita Vedanta holds meditation to be very important, but it also places an emphasis on cultivating devotion to the divine in order to realize the Atma and the divine are nondifferent. Ultimately, the experience of Nirvana and Brahman I believe are they same. Krishna in the famous Bhagavad Gita refers to nirvana in that exact word, prior to the Buddha. You will see so much similarity in Buddhism and Hinduism, even some of the deities are practically identical, they are just drawn differently because of a different culture. They both use sanskrit and puja to deities. No need to worry or be upset about this. You can gain success in either way. Find the way where you experience the most love and devotion, that is your path. They are both excellent, respected ways. Just be careful, there are false gurus in either path. Ultimately, the truth will be found through cultivation of dharma, i.e. good qualities, abstaining from harming others, and sincere meditation. 

Namo Buddhaya. This sutta asks for development of 7 factors of enlightenment including Mindfulness and Equanimity. Development of Mindfulness is described in detail but I couldn't find any sutta describing development of Equanimity. My question is : Can you please suggest a sutta which describes how to develop Equanimity ? 

Anxiety is a kind of suffering. If we follow the path leading to cessation of suffering then all kinds of suffering will end. You should not be feeling any anxiety because there is no You or Me. I think you are (or rather we are) lacking loving-kindness. If we develop loving-kindness then it will definitely help reduce your anxiety. Cultivate the following mindfulness : 

Even if the benefits are realized in the next life, be thankful because otherwise you would have spent your time taking rebirths, many many rebirths. 

Every internal sense organ comes along with corresponding external organ. For example eye comes along with form, ear comes along with sound, nose comes along with smell , mind comes along with mental phenomenon. I am aware of the meaning of form or sight , sound , smell etc .. but I am not sure what is meant by mental phenomenon? When eye and form/sight come together eye consciousness arises. When nose and smell come to together nose consciousness arises. In both the statement above it is clear from my experience what is sight and smell. But when we say mind and mental phenomenon come together mind consciousness arises, it is not clear from my experience ,what is the mental phenomenon? Is mental pehnomenon the memory of past or the simulation of future or is it the dream or is it the speech ? There are different types of tastes ,colors ,odours, touch etc... Are there different types of mental phenomenon also? 

I guess one needs to practice the Truth in order to experience the answers directly. If you have the answers please share. 

Nobody decided. It is merely an observation that killing causes bad karma. Similarly lying is bad karma. 

The truth there is that there is no permanent , unchanging self. What is happening is Clinging to forms,feelings,perceptions,consciousness and/or volitional formations. These Clingings are not unconditional. Craving gives rise to clinging. This is the midddle way. Depending upon conditions clinging ceases. Depending upon conditions clinging arises. This is the Dhamma. To those who believe in Self it would appear Self arises and ceases which is self contradictory as self is permanent and unchanging. Morality based upon the assumption that Self and body are the same results in moral nihilism. Morality based upon assumption that Self and body are different leads to moral nihilism. EDIT: I have found another Sutta(saṃyuktāgama 297) to support my answer. Following quote illustrates the point I have been trying to make: