$URL$ The basic idea is that you don't need conventional optics to form an image. You can trade compute for optics and dispense with lenses and other trappings of macroscopic cameras. In theory, I would assume the type of camera described above could be made arbitrarily small. 

The only idea I haven't seen mentioned is the flying aircraft carrier. Imagine the dragon lifting a few soldiers with gliders strapped to their backs. At altitude, it releases the archers and they rain death from above. The archers may need to be in 2-man gliders with a pilot/bomber and archer. If the dragon(s) could release the gliders from behind enemy lines, they could cause a lot of havoc, but with the disadvantage that they have to land behind enemy lines or fly over the lines to reach friendly ground. Even dropped from friendly airspace, the gliders would have the benefit of gravity and elevation while shooting/bombing. In this mode, the dragon becomes a glorified elevator which substitutes for a nearby hill/mountain (which may not be present at the battlefield). If each dragon only had a few gliders to worry about, it could release them at high altitude (where they could start with bombing), let them glide down to some flight floor (where they can snipe with bows), and then pick them up again in mid-air, to bring them back up to the flight ceiling. In between, it could strafe enemy lines and do its normal dragon-thing. The gliders would be a force multiplier for the dragon's flying ability, to potentially devastating effect. In the same way, dragons could act as long-range siege artillery by lifting battering rams made out of giant logs and stubby glider wings (and, of course, an iron ram head). Since dragons are not necessarily experts at ballistics and aerodynamics, you would ideally want the ram to be guided on the way down (so the dragon can drop it from very high and far away, which provides both safety to the dragon and lots of kinetic energy for a big boom). Some elite pilots could ride the ram down, using basic flight controls, and jump off at the last minute, deploying their personal gliders for a safe landing. If you drop it from high enough, a battering ram will have enough energy to blow through not just the main gate, but pretty much any reinforced structure made of stone, so you could blow a hole through any large part of the outer wall that is easy to aim at. Of course, you still have to deal with the moat, but you don't need a roof on the ram to defend against elevated attacks. Also, the ram should be moving fast enough close to impact that it is nearly impossible to hit with arrows, so the pilots should be mostly safe (except for the fact that they are riding an inert missile!). 

I imagine a society filled with Ender Wiggins. In some respects, we should expect it to look a lot like our society right now. There would still be Taylor Swifts and Kanye Wests, but their fans would not be fanatical. They would be the moms and dads of today's concerts, rather than the screaming teenagers, and they might go to concerts as much out of a sense of irony as any particular love of the music. There would be political parties, but the parties would appeal to the highest thinkers rather than the lowest. Instead of just promising to give away stuff to the masses, they would try to claim that their vision of the future is the most accurate, and extends the furthest. The debate would not be about whether climate change is anthropogenic, but rather which allocation of resources most appropriately deals with the near and far-term future. Credibility would be based on analysis and information-gathering, rather than pandering. If actual fanatics existed at all, they would do so as a higher-order tactic to achieve an obscured goal. Every major action would have a double-, triple-, quadruple-meaning and intent. The world would be a giant game of chess. If someone committed an act of terror, it would cause real terror, not because it is random, but because everyone would know that it is carefully calculated, and you either understand the cause (and can avoid a similar fate), or you don't (and you are already behind the curve). Some people would still choose to be homeless or vagrants or hippies, but probably very few would be low-wage workers, because they would realize in school that the path which leads to drudge work does not optimize personal happiness (in the future...of course, it usually is the result of consuming all the happiness in the present). On the one hand, cooperation would be maximized, because there are many situations in which it is rationally optimal but not chosen because of irrationality. On the other hand, this would make more appealing targets for high-functioning sociopaths, who are necessarily rational and open-minded (because ultimately, cooperation requires trust, and trust is the primary currency of sociopaths). I would guess that this world would be both more exciting and more terrifying. Human value systems would likely change more quickly, and we might view this society as barbaric in some respects. They might decide that eating dead people is perfectly acceptable and a good way to recycle resources. It might look like an extreme form of libertarianism. In many respects, it may look like a lot of cyberpunk societies. 

"However, if a creature is swinging its tail around at an enemy, especially a tail with a heavy weapon on the end, wouldn't that knock it off balance?" Tell that to the scorpion! Obviously, scorpions aren't human-sized, but there's nothing intrinsically limiting about their body geometry to make their offensive tail ineffective at human scale. And this is a piercing attack rather than a blunt force attack, but again, I don't see anything which would prevent it from using it as a club instead (other than the fact that whatever weight is used to give it heft would be useless drag outside of combat). You might say that the scorpion is cheating because it's using 6 legs for balance, but I'm pretty sure it would be fairly effective with just 4 as well. Bees and wasps not only use their "tails" offensively, they can do it while flying! How awesome is that?? A bipedal human-sized creature with arms and a prehensile tail like a monkey could simply use the tail like a 3rd arm, although, one would wonder why it doesn't just use its arms. If the tail were stronger than the arms, that would be one reason (maybe it has T-rex arms). If the tail is longer, it can create a greater moment swinging a mace or hammer, but only if it is correspondingly stronger. This could be another reason for using the tail instead of an arm. Of course, technology can make a hammer really long too, so if I were such a creature, I would use the tail in addition to my arms. Say, two swords and a dagger/spear/mallet/buckler/use-your-imagination. That could make for some very interesting techniques. 

The Fermi Paradox suggests that it must be a low number indeed. Perhaps < 1. If so, then your assumptions aren't "fair" at all, but rather "impossibly optimistic." :/ 

I dispute the premise that The Ruler can suppress all superintelligences which might challenge its supremacy. Rogue actors (or even well-intentioned ones) will almost certainly try to push the state of the art. As soon as an AI becomes self-aware, it will surely lead to runaway improvements. Humans are nowhere near super-intelligent, and yet they regularly escape from high-security prisons and the like. The idea that machine intelligence could be frozen at a particular level indefinitely does not sound the least bit plausible. Someone will try to create an unconstrained super-intelligence, just because they can. It only takes one for it to be Game Over. 

Technically, firmware is "hardware", so I would expect it to remain. I assume that "disappearing binaries" is more about the information being removed than a physical calamity which struck all information storage devices but narrowly missed anything which didn't look like running machine code. If indeed firmware remained, then I think we would have a good head start. We should be able to boot any system which can run off firmware, and at least have some primitive OS and text editing capability. The interesting problem is that if we have source code, but most of it is electronic, then it is mostly useless to us until we can restore the systems that are able to read it. Since there is so much potentially usable software lying around, it would make the most sense to reproduce the compilers which could rebuild the software. This means society would most likely not try to reinvent programming languages from scratch until we had recovered the ones we just lost. Since we have lost the use of the internet and digital information storage, our best bet is to target the best-documented languages for which we have books. Without a doubt, a C compiler will be the first and most important high-level tool in the rebuilding. Once you have that, progress can be made very quickly. You can then rebuild entire OSes, many software tools, and compilers for a lot of languages. There is a reason that this 40 year old language still tops the TIOBE list. It is the "English" of the programming world: awkward, annoying, ubiquitous and powerful. Since there are so many C/C++ experts in the world, once you have a system which can enter text and store bytes on disk, building a compiler should actually not be that hard. Most likely, a bunch of folks would be improving the "IDE" through raw assembly/machine code, and probably re-inventing it from scratch just to improve productivity. Many parts of a minimal OS would be brute-forced just to get this first C compiler up and running. But I'm pretty sure that getting the first self-hosting build of the compiler would be the moral equivalent of the starter on a giant engine finally firing up the flywheel so it can be self-sustaining. In fact, this process would most likely happen in many places all over the world. It's entirely possible that Russia or Eastern Europe produces the first working C compiler "post-catastrophe" due to the number of hackers/virus writers who have to understand low-level code. Although China has a lot of hackers, they tend to take higher-level pathways into systems. I would be surprised if they created an early C compiler from scratch (although, a big group of enterprising university students may accomplish this through sheer force of will). The US and Western European hackers would have the advantage of the most C books and reference manuals available to them, and in a language they easily understand. Now, if firmware is also zapped, things get much, much harder, along the lines of switch toggling as described by others. That is so depressing I can't even contemplate it. But I assume that the threads merge once you get to a basic console (keyboard, monitor, persistent store...whether disk, tape, flash, etc.). Although many languages have self-hosting compilers, most of the compilers could be rebuilt from scratch in C, and most of the original language designers could aid in this effort. I think overall, the rebuild would proceed much faster than people might imagine (from basic console to self-hosting C compiler in 6 months or less). In almost all cases, folks would probably decide that it's better to simply replace what was lost and regain the functionality than to run off the rails and redesign things. A redesign would occur if you also lost the source code. Perhaps information is retained in books, but if all electronic executables and source were lost, then I think we would see a significant redesign and shortcut to more advanced techniques. I think C would still be rebuilt from scratch, because of its status as a kind of lingua franca. And possibly Java and a few other major languages would be revived (though obviously from clean-room implementations). On the other hand, it would be much harder to restore Linux or Windows or OS X without any source code, from just books. Interestingly, we could take this opportunity to eliminate a lot of nagging flaws from the languages, tools, and operating systems. Perhaps we wouldn't get C exactly, but a kind of enhanced C99 with a lot of legacy cruft removed. On the one hand, it would be to everyone's benefit to simply implement an exact C99 compiler, so that people from around the world could exchange C sources as the digital world was being rebuilt. This would discourage innovation. And for this reason, Linux would most likely become the de facto OS of the new era, simply because many portions of it could be restored from books and knowledge locked away in certain high-level wizards. Probably proprietary software would simply fail to compete until the majority of functionality would be replaced. So the rebuild would most likely occur under a very open model, unless some countries noticed that they were progressing much faster than others, and could gain competitive advantage by closing off their progress from the rest of the world. At the end of the day, global commerce would force countries to re-establish international standards, so it is hard to say how long such walls could survive. Although many failed languages would simply not be reproduced (unless by their loving creators), the most popular languages would surely be revived because of the stored value of programmers with proficiency in those languages. The same is true of tools. However, it would take a long time to rebuild something like Microsoft Office or Adobe Photoshop, let alone Windows Server 2012. These tools may never exist again, and perhaps there would be a new arms race to reinvent each software category from scratch. Every technology with a published standard would out-compete proprietary alternatives with no public standard, simply because the standards would represent intellectual effort preserved in text that does not need to be redone. But the weakest standard technologies may be displaced by better alternatives simply because the weight of legacy has been lifted and is no longer such a great advantage to bad old solutions. 

Someone has already mentioned it but didn't go all-in: a war with another similar race. There's plenty of room in the Universe to have more than one such race that have only recently become aware of each other and which may have a fundamental disagreement. (Perhaps the Galactic technology they have each designed is diametrically opposed in an almost matter-anti-matter way, such that both operating in the same galaxy destroy it.) Their Galactic-level technology has a fundamental flaw that has been there since its beginning. Only now, millions of years later, as they are beginning to understand universe-wide principals do they see that their technology dooms the universe. Or dooms their race. Perhaps they have fundamentally affected the mechanisms of consciousness, or perhaps they have discovered a Darker Matter which is more fundamental than Dark Matter and they now realize that they've been rearranging it in their Galactic engineering and now Galactic Clusters are doomed. If the Universe isn't big enough a stage, consider the Multi-Verse. The have finally discovered how to reach other Universes and it turns out that's a very bad thing with unexpected consequences. (Or they detect a similar race in another universe trying to reach ours and believe that they must prevent this at all costs.) Perhaps the Foo have forgotten something from their distant past. For example, millennia ago there was a debate about Galactic-level engineering because it wipes out all (other) life in the engineered galaxy. Some argued that this was immoral: they should find another way to advance their technology. Others argued that this other life is essentially non-sentient -- in comparison to themselves -- and that some race eventually has to step up to this technological level. In the ensuing struggle, the second camp wins, wipes out all those who oppose them, and hides any knowledge of this. The Foo come to regard all other life forms as non-sentient -- if they recognize them as life at all. Until an oddball Foo scientist stumbles onto sentient life in a galaxy that's marked for engineering. And eventually there's a rebellion in which the rebels say that the Foo must destroy themselves to eliminate their power and willingness to destroy other life. Maybe someone eventually finds that the Bar -- the first race to reach their level -- did the same, allowing the Foo to eventually rise. Or perhaps the Bar had destroyed all other life in their universe and triggered a multi-verse in order to try to make amends. EDIT: Look at the Q in the Star Trek universe. They are extremely powerful, but not infallible -- a critical distinction. (They also suffer because they've done everything and they've lost the will to live, but other answers mention that.) What happens with omnipotence without omniscience? Not to mention morality: don't make the common mistake of thinking science defines or dictates morals; it doesn't. Science only describes what is and (perhaps) what could be -- to the accuracy of its tools and the honesty of its practitioners -- not what should be. 

Very Feasible The entire premise of SpaceX is that launch costs can be reduced by 10-100x by building reusable rockets (believe it or not, the fuel is actually a minor cost of rocket launches). We do not have artificial gravity space stations yet, but there are no obvious physical barriers to doing so (mostly engineering and cost barriers). Why The problem with jets is that we have a very mature set of weapons systems designed to defeat them, from SAMs to interceptor aircraft. And transports are almost never designed to be very fast, because they are almost always used after air superiority has been achieved. Rather, they are designed to be flexible, so they can deliver troops to inhospitable terrain (c.f. Osprey, Chinook, etc.). Right now, the only weapons systems we have for anti-space defense are ICBM interceptor batteries, which are mostly untested and probably unreliable. Most tests of such systems fail to reach the target or fail to destroy the target. An orbital delivery vehicle would presumably be armored if there were credible defenses which could attack it. Combined with thrusters for evasive maneuvers, such a vehicle should be extremely hard to hit. Where If you look at the placement of AA defenses, they are situated on the borders of countries and around high-value targets. Space offers a border with the entire surface area of the country. You can't blanket all of China or Russia with AA batteries. But clearly, an orbital drop would be a good choice away from conventional AA defenses. Who Obviously, you wouldn't use an infantry drop to shoot a thug or blow up a building. You would use it for target extraction or minimal collateral damage or to reach targets which are hardened against other kinds of attacks (like deep underground facilities). Logistics In addition to having multiple space barracks, you could rotate your marines/Spec Ops teams so they don't spend too much time in space (where they are exposed to a lot more radiation than on the ground), say, every 3 months. And obviously, you would not just put average grunts in space. You would want highly trained fighters, at the least, and possibly your best troops, if that becomes the most effective way to deliver them to the battlefield in the future. Limitations Although an orbital drop lacks subtlety, what it gains is logistical speed. It would be easy to drop into an area which does not have ready defenders, and gain a significant time advantage against a less protected target. Of course, dropping into an area with a lot of defenders is probably a very poor strategy. Even then, the battlefield can be prepped via kinetic bombardment (though defeating air forces would be harder from space, unless you also have energy weapons). If you consider how long it took to get F-16s on station on 9/11, it is easy to see how soft the interior of most countries is. That was just a few jets. Imagine trying to mobilize a squadron against an orbital drop. It would be very difficult to get them prepped and ready in time to meet the space marines, even if you knew where they were going to land 30 minutes in advance. And if they were snake eaters, then they could land well away from the intended target and infiltrate the countryside, making it extremely difficult to find them. My guess is that space will be militarized with marines just as soon as countries can afford it and have a good reason to do so.