Yes, the landscape is scattered with nuclear debris. Most nuclear power plant designs will fail spectacularly with long lasting effect on the surrounding area. The notion that nuclear reactors can run for extended periods of time without human intervention is simply not founded in reality. Keeping a nuclear reaction from becoming critical is a feat within itself. It's balancing act of maintaining a state that is less than critical. It will fail within a few months to a few years working under the assumption that it is not getting it's cooling water replenished which is entirely plausible. Most nuclear power plants in the United States require are light water reactors or pressurized water reactors and require the circulation of water in order to stay within a 'steady state' of operational limits. The two failure scenarios that come into play under an unattended state both involve overheating and a change of state to critical. Other incidents occur on the timeline to critical such as hydrogen explosions but these events are essentially ancillary and aren't central to root cause. Background There are two types of nuclear reactors that can suffer from water related failure. 

In orbit, you have Kessler syndrome - doesn't even require explosives. Outside orbit, it relies on having commonly used routes. If you can find a way to accomplish this (wormholes or warp gates) then it's reasonable. Otherwise, the area you need to cover becomes quite large, so you'd need very advanced mine technology for it to be viable. The mines themselves are only that by analogy. Land mines cover a 2D surface, so it's possible for them to intersect every path, thus they can just wait for someone to step on them. With space mines this will never work, you need the mines to have their own propulsion. They must also have their own sensors to detect enemy ships and target them, so we're talking "smart mines", more like automated guided missiles. This also gets around the issue of asteroids plowing through your minefield. Every mine will have a "sphere of attack" which is a large volume (not necessarily shaped like a sphere or even a single bounded volume), bounded by its delta-V vs. the target, and where the target is coming from/how fast. So SOA depends on the target, and may not even necessarily center on the mine. When the mine detects a target intersecting this, it fires thrusters and attempts to intercept. The effect of this is that certain trajectories are precluded because if you follow them, you are guaranteed to have several missiles on you. The weird part is that while land mines define these trajectories based purely on space, with space mines you would also consider velocity (of both target and minefield - moving minefields are possible in absence of friction), delta-V and thrust of the mine/target. A military that uses mines would have access to competent statistical expertise and artificial intelligence (not the terminator kind, but the cruise missile kind) to set them right, although that's probably a given for space navies. They would decide on what enemy movements by what kinds of vessels are most dangerous, and lay the mines accordingly to get the most bang for their buck. Nimbler ships will tend to escape, and other ships if they are going too slow or too fast or in a different direction will also be unaffected. Since the mine is a fair bit of technology, you have some nuances that can serve as plot points: 

Eventually a portion of the population will survive Under extreme duress and lack of commodity consumables like medicine, food and water the society will begin to break down and governance will be an afterthought. Communication with the populace from the government will become more and more difficult. As the population seeks out other industrialized nations infrastructure they will encounter the same issues abroad in neighboring countries, a lack of petroleum products to restart manufacturing, lack of potable water, food crisis and all assortment of survival issues associated with a dystopian world crisis. The 8 million people that will require basic staples such as rice and wheat will begin to seek food for survival from their neighbors. Government control will break down and the military will be unable to prevent looting and other fear driven group behavior. Neighbors will die as groups seek to build power to control limited resources. The Swiss do not have a lot working in their favor. Other countries have a more favorable outlook especially if they have a method of mass protein creation as with cattle, poultry and pork. Wheat or rice production in a country is very favorable. France is much more well suited for this sort of situation but most of the above would still apply to them. Where the Swiss will fail 

Once again, recall that our 30 year old Englishman (let's call him Bob) could find himself in many conversations today where he would have no idea what's going on: Technical discussions between professionals, criminal slangs, various dialects and so on. But while it would be difficult for Bob to conceal that he's an outsider, if the other person is helpful it should be rare that they can't find a way to communicate (eg. speaking more clearly, slowly, without slang or in a more neutral accent). Mid-20th century onwards Up to roughly the 50s-60s, this situation remains the same. From various recordings, film, documentaries and other such primary sources, it seems like mainstream English underwent little substantial change. The accents may be a bit different, obnoxious teenagers may say "groovy" instead of "epic", but they pretty much talk in the same way. Possibly this has to do with the spread of TV, which established a sort of "common denominator" way of speaking for most of the anglosphere. After being amused by the trivial differences for a few weeks, Bob would get used to it and communicate without difficulty, and after a few months he could probably easily "pass" for a non-time traveler. Early 1900s WW1-WW2 seems like a period when spoken English begins to differ perceptibly. TV had not yet began to dominate culture, so regional and subculture-specific idiosyncrasies were common. In video, audio, and books written in an "everyday" language (either for effect or because the author was uneducated) begin to sound "quaint", and often feature expressions that seem confusing. Bob would be able to communicate with most people from Day 1, but he would frequently be confused about this or that subtlety of meaning. It would be a while before he doesn't have to say "Sorry but what do you mean by..." about commonplace words and expressions multiple times per conversation. It would be a long time before he can learn to "pass". Written English would be much easier, as evidenced by books, pamphlets and signs from this period, except for the occasional euphemism-du-jour which has since fallen out of fashion. The two world wars are handy delimiters, but I would say that this period was only really succeeded in the 50s (and maybe even 60s), and the preceding period ended several years before WW1 began. 19th century From roughly the first third (give or take 50 years, depending on time, place and other factors) of the 19th century up to WW1, I think the non-trivial unintelligibility starts. Beyond just I got the gist of what you're saying but I'm not sure what exactly that one remark meant, we are getting into frequent I have no idea what the hell you just said territory for at least the first few days, especially with less educated people from lower classes. Texts from this time are basically intelligible to modern readers, but it is clear that a fair bit of unintelligibility is lost in transcription, if you will. For instance, consider novels which try to render authentic every day speech, such as some of my Mark Twain's works. I'd conjecture that the period is associated with the Industrial Revolution, the dominance of the British Empire, and the advent of the Prussian education system (which is ubiquitous to this day). Age of enlightenment(ish) In early 1800s, 1700s, and maybe late 1600s we get written works (even on complex topics like philosophy, history, religion and science) that are pretty much intelligible, but sometimes effortful reading much helped by a good dictionary. Bob could, at worst, carry around a pad and communicate by writing, assuming he can find someone literate: we are now just before public education became common, and coincidentally literacy rates are shockingly low. Alternatively, he could attempt to speak like he would write, but there are still large differences in pronunciation, vocabulary and what is considered idiomatic. He would struggle to introduce himself to the first person he meets. If the person has some complex concerns (eg. a guardsman on the lookout for spies) I don't think he could resolve the situation diplomatically by the end of the day. If it's not weeks before he stops feeling like he doesn't even speak the same language, he should consider himself lucky. It might be a year or more until Bob is "fluent", and 5-10 years before he can pass. Once this process is complete, if he returns to his own time, he will experience a similar culture shock for several months to a couple of years. Middle ages Early Modern English, from which our current language evolved, was prominent from 1400s to late 1600s. During this time, English went from its pre-15th century form, which is unintelligible to modern speakers, to what we have now. We conveniently have Shakespeare's works, among many others, to demonstrate the nature of EME: It is very obviously on the cusp of being an entirely foreign language in all but name. Even written material is difficult to understand unabridged. An educated reader (even if the education includes reading Shakespeare!) can understand a fair bit of Shakespeare's writing, but there will still be a significant chunk which is hopelessly opaque: Too many words are simply not used anymore, or mean entirely different things. Without a glossary, it would be a tremendous effort to decipher them. We have no way of knowing exactly how people spoke day to day around this time. However, it's likely very different. Unlike the period above, you now have a vicious circle sabotaging any efforts at communication: Ordinarily, you would segment speech into words and then try to figure out the unfamiliar ones, but the pronunciation is too unfamiliar for that. Yet you can't figure out the pronunciation either, since you don't know what the words are and can't effectively look for them in the sentence! Bob is two thirds of the way to learning a whole different (but similar) language, like French. The vocabulary is different (even though a lot of words are the same, or at least about the same), the phonology is different, it's only the grammar that is mostly the same. How much does it take for Bob to become fluent in French? Let's say 6 years with instruction, well, call it 4 for EME. Of course, that is with instruction... The key event here is probably the printing press, which began spreading around England in the 1400s. Note, also, that only towards the end of this period did English start spreading to areas of the world (America) outside of Britain proper. Early middle ages We are now firmly on the other side of the hump and into "it might as well be a foreign country" area. A good, familiar example of this is Chaucer's writing. Bob can't read it. He literally can't even read the script. If it was put into a modern font (something impossible without professional help), he would not understand the words. If it was spoken it would sound like gibberish. Considering the various social aspects of this period, I would seriously doubt Bob's long-term survival. He could easily get killed, imprisoned, or otherwise get into a lot of trouble due to inevitable misunderstandings and miscommunications. If you have Bob ever managing to communicate with anyone, such as after years of trial and error, you have to invoke a stroke of luck soon after his arrival, such as a kindly benefactor who supports him for many months when he is unable to function in society. The key event is the Norman Invasion in 1066, which is when a bunch of Frenchmen invaded Britain, put themselves in charge, and didn't even bother speaking proper English. The dark ages Remember how I compared learning early English to learning French? If Bob arrives prior to the Norman Conquest, it might actually be harder. I would say that difficulty is comparable to learning a Nordic language, such as Norwegian, today. I doubt Bob would do any better than Hans or Xavier if he went this far back. The key event here is the Roman conquest of Britain, and the spread of Christianity: Both provided a host of Latin words and influence, which produces a fair bit of common ground for modern speakers to discover. However, if you go farther than that, just give up on having any intelligibility whatsoever. As far as 500 BC, I suspect it won't make much difference to Bob whether he arrives in the British Isles or China. Good luck, Bob! Wouldn't wanna be in your shoes! 

Keep our little mages in the prison Keep our little mages secure (Need a way to deal with fights between inmates) Allow our little mages to have a degree of freedom similar to the one of a regular prison. Make money using our little mages (Enough to be self sufficient would be awesome) Keep in a reasonable amount of little mages (150 ?) 

In my world, Magic and Wizards are rare. (About 1 % of the population produce magic energy) Sometimes, you stumble upon bad wizards who keeps using their awesome skills to bother people, by setting them on fire or making them fly at high speed. Those guys need to be punished but how are we going to keep them in ? Even better, how are we going to put them to good use ? My goal is to create some kind of prison that allow us to : 

Size and Use Missiles are for fast moving targets, like fighters, or light freighters. They are small enough to fit on a fighter and are typically homing missiles, with good capacity to make spontaneous turns and "drifts" in space. Torpedoes, in the contrary are much bigger and much stronger, they are built to damage capital ships and space stations. They have are fired at a longer distance and have less control over themselves. They can be mounted on bombers class ship, gunships and other "siege" spaceship. 

Whales are a terrible animal to domesticate. Their generation time is very long (5-10 years for blue whales), and a human could do only a few rounds of selective breeding in their lifetime. Although then again, rapid maturation would probably be one of the top traits selected for. Still, it would probably take more than a century. Domesticating foxes took about 50 years, and whales breed much more slowly than foxes. There's also the question of where you would keep them. Whales are large and powerful. How would you trap them? In a small, artificial pool they might get stressed from lack of space. It would probably make more sense to just let the whales roam wild and come up with some gadget to locate them. Without predators or parasites, they would quickly (well, relatively quickly) overpopulate. You can then go catch them, milk them, and let them go. The ones that are aggressive or otherwise undesirable can be killed or sterilized as a negative selection to cause domestication in the very long term. Alternatively, perhaps the embryos might be genetically engineered to be domesticated already? That would be a nice way to explain why they haven't been domesticated before as well. By the way, whale milk is very high in fat. It would be very thick and cream-like, and much harder to drink than cow milk, and recipes would need to be adjusted. Although it would work for tea and coffee. 

A portion of the population will survive but the likelihood of a large portion of the population surviving is very low. Even with outside help in today's world populations suffer great duress. The Swiss will have themselves and their very modern world will work against them as this infrastructure requires a global economy to endure the crisis. Precious metals in manufacturing, petroleum for water pumping and lubrication of hydroelectric generators, shortages of pharmaceuticals and potable water contamination will lead to millions of deaths and great suffering for those unlucky enough to survive. 

Failure Scenario - Lack of Water Both water cooled reactor types suffer cataclysmic failure due to a lack of water. Some reactors can be more robust than others depending on the design. Many reactors derive their cooling water directly from their environment using ocean, lake or river water. These reactors are prone to having their water intake ducts clogged with debris thereby restricting the flow of cooling water to their segregated cooling systems. A lack of human intervention in these reactor types can lead to failure. Cooling towers are used with reactors that are not in close proximity to ocean, river and lake water. Palo Verde Nuclear Power Plant in Arizona is one such example as was Three Mile Island. In the event of an overheating reactor in the United States the Federal Government only requires a 30 day supply of cooling water. This cooling water, called a UHS (Ultimate Heat Sink) is a finite source and dissipates over time due to a number of reasons including evaporation, steam release and lack of re-circulation of primary cooling circuits due to radiation (the water for cooling is used one time only, in some cases, due to the amount of radiation contamination of the water) As the water supply for cooling dwindles and water pressure decreases enough for flow rates to diminish beyond preset thresholds, the reactor undergoes an automatic shutdown called a SCRAM. A SCRAM event does not require electricity. Neutron absorbing control rods are held in place by electromagnets above the fissile pile and upon loss of electricity the electromagnets lose their magnetism and the rods are dropped into place bringing fission to a near halt in the core. These systems are automated and do not require human intervention, however, the continued decay heat of the fissile material continues to create issues with cooling and with a finite water supply, eventually, the reaction pile becomes exposed to air which cannot cool the fissile rods due to simple lack of density. At this point water changes it's state to a gas and becomes steam. The heat increases further and more steam and pressure buildup in the chamber. Water becomes superheated and takes on properties and attributes more akin to an organic solvent. The pressure is so high within the chamber that it eventually prevents the water from boiling. This superheated water's hydrogen bonds are eventually broken and the chamber becomes filled with superheated highly pressurized hydrogen which eventually explodes due to combustion or the failure of the reactor pressure vessel to contain the extremely high pressures. This failure has been made famous by the hydrogen explosion at the Fukushima Daiichi reactor containment vessels in Japan due to the tsunami which did not damage the reactors, it damaged generators that prevented the circulation of water for the cooling systems. The loss of integrity to the reaction chamber is the penultimate step to the catastrophe, all systems are essentially destroyed and now the fissile material can become molten and eventually melt through any concrete casements that require cooling features in order to prevent the molten nuclear pile from actually melting through it. Once this molten pile of nuclear material hit's moisture an explosion can occur sending nuclear debris into the atmosphere and contaminating the surround landscape with fallout. Mind you, this isn't a nuclear explosion it's just an explosion....but you see what the problem is here, it's called a meltdown. Conclusion Water inlets that use water from the environment (rivers, lakes, oceans) for secondary cooling systems require regular maintenance to prevent debris from clogging their inlets. US located closed loop cooling reactors require only 30 days of backup cooling water. Manual events such as steam or pressure release to prevent containment vessel explosions won't be occurring. There are disaster prevention events that require human intervention. See this IAEA root cause analysis document and salivate over it's plethora of manual events and whether staff followed procedure and a logical decision tree before, during and after a disaster. I will close this scenario with, there's nuclear waste all over the place. Other Failure Scenarios There are hundreds of nuclear reactors across the world. Educational and research reactors are sprinkled across the topography of nations. Some are mercury and graphite cooled. Others use molten salts and even molten sodium. Fast reactors requires considerable human intervention and are used primarily in naval ship propulsion and in some cases the production of electricity in Russia. There are a plethora of scenarios where these reactor types can go bad in their own unique and beautiful ways. All in all in this scenario that I put forth is feared. There are many other failure points that I have failed to mention. The list is too long and nuanced. With the framework you have presented. Here is the official US Government Nuclear Reactor Regulation Response Plan to Pandemic Notice the emphasis on staff and staff skills and manning the facility to prevent failure. With all the dead engineers it will be difficult to staff these facilities, chaos will ensue attempting to man the reactors as they slowly begin to fail one by one. So to answer your question again. Yes, the landscape is scattered with nuclear debris. 

NB: The periods I give above are very approximate. I tried to note what historical events strongly influence the change in language, but ultimately different parts of the world were undergoing the change at different rates, as were different strata of society. 

Although I would expect to find mines primarily in some sort of useful orbit. Orbiting/deorbiting is the bottleneck of space travel, and most useful space travel does it often enough. Just denying commonly used orbits to your enemy could go a long way. Failing that, mass foci in deep space (such as space stations used for resupply) would be a good place. Trying to just carpet mine all of space seems as pointless as trying to mine an open field or ocean on Earth. 

What you describe sounds pretty similar to the gods of Classical mythology. For sure, the source of their power was not usually thought to be technological, but something something magic something advanced technology... Besides that, they seem to have desired followers not out of genuine need but narcissism and self-importance, and perhaps bragging rights among themselves. You could reuse much of this mythology for your own case, assuming your "gods" have some social instincts that would justify sentiments such as pride. A less common (but adored by modern fiction writers) perspective is that gods are somehow bound to domains, and depend on followers to expand these domains. Eg. the god of oceans wants the whole planet to be flooded, since that will expand his domain and thus make him more powerful. I never got the impression that Classical people believed anything like this - at best they seem to have viewed the gods' dependence on ordinary mortals in the vein of an owners' "dependence" on his fighting cocks: There is no actual dependence, but there is mutually agreed pretense of dependence for the sake of sport. I think this just goes back to pride and bragging rights, though. Incidentally, one school of thoughts regards DC Comics superheros in a similar light: For instance, Superman is essentially like a God unto men, he does not need them, and they have little they could offer him - he assumes his guardian role and seeks humanity's approval out of dedication to his personal principles and beliefs. Then you have characters like Batman that are more nuanced. So these comics are a nice modern interpretation of the same thing. A second common trope is gods requiring either belief per se, or some other human quality access to which is secured through belief. For this you just give the humans some trivial ability which doesn't change in any way the ability of the gods to totally kick humans' ass, but is still a trick humans can do and gods cannot. For the first class, many fantasy settings simply have belief directly produce the god's power in a magical way. Since your divine power is technological, you can't really do this easily - you could perhaps badly abuse quantum mechanics and such to handwave it somehow. The second class is much easier. Maybe our mortality creates a unique motivation that immortal gods cannot appreciate, so we are capable of some great deeds that they are not, or maybe human psychology has some novel quirk that allows ideas the gods couldn't think of themselves. With the domain idea from earlier (easily produced by having each individual god's tech being different and only applicable to a limited context) is a great example: On the whole gods are vastly more mighty, but humans can do the one thing they can't - gods are bound to their domains but humans are not. Vernor Vinge's Zones of Thought universe has an example of this that I like: Advanced computation becomes more and more difficult closer to the center of the galaxy (the brain, itself a computer, apparently is not affected). The gods of the series (in fact planet-sized post-singularity AIs) can only exist on the outer rim, and hence try to get mere mortals to be their agents in places where they themselves could not function. The distinction between needing specifically belief, or service guaranteed by belief, is helpful. For instance, in Terry Pratchett's Discworld books (where gods and magic are both ubiquitous and well-known) the gods don't care much about heretics and atheists unless they "stand on top of a hill in a thunderstorm, wearing a copper hat, and yell all gods are bastards". So, not belief per se but respectful behavior, which in turn implies pride and social behaviors. This seems much more plausible for a sci-fi story absent a compelling explanation why mere belief would grant power. Granted, in Discworld gods do get power from belief, one book is even about a once great god whose name has become so obscure that he rendered powerless. In our world, nobody has credibly observed a god. So it is hard to say what would be considered realistic behavior for them. One could say that our gods have served philosophical function: Once upon a time they provided explanations for natural phenomena, later they provided the basis for moral and legal systems. Today we consider our philosophies to arise purely from our own reasoning, and all our moral and legal systems supposedly stem from axioms that we hold to be self-evident. Thus we seemingly have no need for gods, nor would the gods in your case have any niche that humanity has in the past provided for gods. On the other hand, your gods seem very similar in role to dictators: They are very powerful, and strictly speaking do not "need" any given individual. You could therefore model the role of your gods on real-life dictators, good or bad. The question is then why they would feel the need to be gods, not rulers (a trivial question, since in reality many dictators have chosen to deify themselves). Perhaps they believe that religion is a more effective way of control than politics - a view supported by the comparative longevity of religions in our history (millenia) vs. governments (centuries at best). 

I've seen an anime ages ago talking about quite a similar topic, this case, in the case of long space explorations missions. First thing they did was to modify the human genome, yup, good old homo sapiens is not satisfying in terms of needs, we needed something more economical. They looked at what they would have plenty in space. Light and radiations. So it was decided, humans will now do photosynthesis. Humans became able to do a reasonable level of photosynthesis, they still needed a meal here and there, but it was in the scale of one every week. So boom, you have already divided your needs for food supplies by about 14. Now, for you remaining food needs, you should look into insects. Yep, these bad boys are darn healthy and provide lots of proteins, they are also way more efficient in terms of needs. Grind them into powder and add your bioengineered vitamins and you are ready to go. 

Memory loses are something I would look into. The pathway may be able to transport cells, but can it transport the key to the complex activities running in our brain at all time ? Worse, I don't see how you would be able to test that on other beings than humans. They can't describe what they feel they have forgotten, sure you can teach a mice something and see if he has forget it afterwards, but will he really forgot that particular thing ?