It is hard to understand your goals and make a recommendation, because clearly you have at least some aesthetic motivations ("avoid t-rex arms"), but you also stated your goal here is strength, not mass. Personally I would go with the modified 5x5 bodybuilding program. It is very well designed, has the direct arm and core work you were looking for, and puts all of the assistance work at the end after your main three lifts. Stronglifts did a lot for increasing my base strength, but it was the modified program that really gave me the body comp I was looking for. 

If you don't find yourself up to eating something filling like oatmeal, eggs, or toast, I would suggest a fruit/protein smoothie. For instance you could quickly blend together something along the lines of: 

The Problems: Now from doing the math we can spot a few fault lines in the plan. First off, you cannot increase weight in increments of 6. You can address this by buying fractional plates off Amazon and bringing them with you to the gym. The second and more glaring issue that the math illustrates is how few workouts you have. Since you only exercise DL once every two weeks you only get 26 total chances to increase your workload. Because your target is so high and your workout frequency is so low, you are leaving yourself with absolutely zero leniency for failure, plateaus, and/or deloading. Taking these problems into account, along with your already slow progression on DLs so far, added with the fact strength gains are exponentially harder to get as you progress further, and the answer to your question is that no, you cannot reach your goal using your current approach. Next Steps: The next step for you should be to prioritize all of your goals and weigh which ones you most want to focus on this year. As other responses already noted, having too many conflicting goals will only hurt your progress. If DLs are not your priority, then find a lower and more realistic goal to match your current workload. If however they are a priority then find a way to do them more frequently, as this will give you more chances to build your strength with it, along with more leniency for failures and plateaus when they arrive (and they will). 

I don't recommend this at all. Do not rush, but instead take your time, get adequate rest, and always focus on your form. Whatever metabolism gain you get from this practice would be insignificant compared to the loss of muscle gain from not resting, or worse yet, the risk of injury from not resting enough. This is especially true when you get to the higher weights at the end of the program. EDIT: to clarify, I mean as part of the actual SS/SL program. Once you have exhausted your progressive gains from the program and have shifted focus to cardio and fat-burning then I would suggest giving this a shot. 

Whenever someone says they are looking to lose weight or burn fat, the universal answer seems to be diet+cardio. I myself am guilty of always recommending people get on a cardio program in addition to telling them to get on a proper diet. However, when it comes down to it, is there really any difference between dieting and cardio? I understand that both cardio and dieting have alternative benefits (i.e. better metabolism, more balanced nutrition, etc.), but when specifically focusing on the goal of weight loss, is there any tangible difference between the two? In my mind, a calorie deficit will cause the same amount of weight loss whether it came from decreasing calorie intake (diet) or increasing calorie expenditure (cardio). So am I missing something fundamental here that would explain why combined cardio+diet is always the go to plan, when either individual plan could also produce identical results? 

Do as many reps as possible as literally possible and nothing less. Do as many reps as possible to do while maintaining proper form. 

The circuit would be 10 reps per exercise, then move to the next exercise, with 3 circuits altogether. Now, just as important as the workout is the diet. For Daniel (with respect to preparing for Casino Royale), he was a fairly large guy so he didn't have to worry about bulking up, but rather cutting fats while building a muscular base. To quote nerdfitness.com: 

If you're going to exercise while recovering from a heavy surgery, first get your doctors to sign off on EVERY exercise you plan to do. All that being said, this should be a time of rest and recovery for you. Focus your efforts on recovery, healthy eating, and maybe start a hobby to pass the time, maybe even spend the time reading books on fitness and finding a great routine for when you do start back up... but don't be trying to lift and push your body to the limit when its at its weakest, because that only invites trouble and delays your full recovery. 

The phosphoric acid in sodas leech calcium from your body and thus weaken your bones. Having weakened bones substantially increases your risk of injury as your level of exercise scales in intensity. Caffeinated sodas act as a diuretic, which in conjunction with exercise can cause dehydration. Finally, sodas are empty calories (calories with no nutritional value), which is generally something you want to stay away from to maintain a healthy lifestyle. There are numerous studies confirming everything I've said which can be found in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition, and here are two articles from LiveStrong.com which go into more detail about everything I've covered (and more). 

The above three instructions apply just as much to recovery as they do towards prevention. If you always make sure to give your muscles proper rest between workout days and to gradually build your workout weight (even if it means doing ridiculously easy weights/reps at the start), then you shouldn't have a problem in the future with DOMS. 

The number one workout you should absolutely be doing is the squat. It is bar-none the best functional exercise you can do, and it will work out your entire leg. A second workout to consider is the deadlift which is a good supplementary exercise alongside the squat. As for arms, you're really going to want to target the triceps, shoulder, upper back, and chest to get a well-rounded and functional strength to apply in your sports. The bench press, the overhead press, and the bentover row will all build larger arms while also building necessary strength in the chest, shoulder, and back. Push ups, chin ups, pull ups, and handstands are all good body weight exercises that target these areas if you don't wish to involve barbells. As for not losing weight, that is up to your diet. At its simplest, it comes down to calories in (consumed) versus calories out (burned). Figure out what your daily caloric intake needs to be to maintain your weight, factor in the calories burned from your sports and weightlifting, and you have your number of calories required to maintain your weight. However, I recommend eating 200-400 calories over maintenance to fuel muscle growth. 

After scouring the web for resources on the subject, I have come to the following conclusions: High intensity interval training ("HIIT") programs are typically defined by a 2:1 ratio of work to rest/recovery periods, with anywhere from 4 to 10 cycles of work/rest, for a total workout session between 4-15 minutes depending on its structure ([source]). An example program would be: 30 seconds of hard sprinting alternated with 15 seconds of walking, repeated 6 times for a total workout time of 4 minutes 30 seconds. Another example would be the Tabata method (one of the more popular forms of HIIT), and is structured as 20 seconds of intense cardiovascular work followed by 10 seconds of rest, and repeated continuously for a period of 4 minutes or 8 total sets. The primary benefit of HIIT/Tabata style workouts is a substantially improved VO2 Max, compared to that of gains from moderate intensity long duration aerobic activities. Additionally, it is thought that HIIT also improves fat loss compared to standard cardio ([source]) via the "afterburn effect," although critics cite that while HIIT has the highest caloric burn / exercise time ratio, traditional exercise can provide a much higher caloric expenditure at the expense of increased exercise duration. As for specific exercises to do during HIIT/Tabata, that largely depends upon your goals. HIIT is best designed for aerobic activities such as boxing, sprinting, jumping (rope, boxes), so it is best to pick one or more of your preferred exercise and iterate between those during your 4-6 minute session. Some programs recommend barbell/dumbbell exercises, however those are not ideal because HIIT is an endurance/aerobic workout, and thus does not translate well into either the strength training or body building world ([source]). Finally, when starting a HIIT program you should be mindful of the fact that--if you are doing it correctly--the exercise will be extremely intense; so much so, people often vomit after the first couple of sessions. Due to the intensity of the program, it is recommended that you consult your doctor first, and that you incrementally buildup intensity over time. For example of the latter, instead of starting Tabata off as 20/10 x 8 (20 work seconds, 10 rest seconds, 8 total sets), you build up to that instead. For example, below is a incremental HIIT structure taken from t-nation: 

EDIT: If you want additional details on Daniel Craig's diet, here is a summary of it taken from $URL$ 

If your goal is to make your legs strong, then squats are without a doubt the best exercise you can do to achieve that goal. Squats are a universal exercise that both men and women can do with equivalent results and success, so there is no reason to be worried about results depending on your gender. Now, any exercise is better than none, so it's good that you're doing daily squats. That being said, it is definitely not the most optimal solution to building "strong" leg muscles. Here are a few takeaways for you: 

There is not enough rest. Even though the rehab portion is just stretching and can be done anytime, the abs portion has me slightly worried I might over-stress my body when it should be resting. Is this a valid concern? Not enough exercise diversity. I am concerned that my exercises might not be as balanced as they could be. What upper-body exercises should I add or take away from the program to make it more balanced? (leg exercises are off the table) 

The oblique v-up is a lot like the floor oblique crunches, except you raise your legs in the air at the same time you do the oblique crunch. The mason twist is a great all-around ab exercise, especially if you incorporate a kettle/medicine ball into it. However, you may want to avoid the mason twist because it may place too much stress on your spine. Finally, there are the side planks, which you will really feel if you hold it long enough. Like @VPeric said, squats are another good way to build the obliques, and I've personally noticed a big difference in my abs after adding in several squat routines into my workouts. 

A great deal of exercises can be effective for building muscle, but that doesn't mean they're optimal or even safe. Sure you could use crunches to build up your abs, but that would be like eating a McDonalds burger when you have a cut of prime rib already on your plate. 

Your home gym. Buy weights for cheap on ebay/craigslist. Use the park for pull ups, working out, running, etc. Use chairs for doing dips / decline push ups. Use heavy items like bags of flour for goblet squats. Be creative. School/work/affiliation gym. If you are in high school or college, there is a good chance that you have access to a gym that you can use for free during their "open session" hours. Ditto for work or affiliations like Senior Centers or Lodges which often have gyms. 

With regard to the shin pain, this is almost certainly shin splints (see wikipedia article). The shin splints most likely came about because you increased your mileage too quickly, and as a result your muscles weren't strong enough to absorb the stress from running while fatigued. The same remedies for Runners Knee apply here, so make sure you stretch, workout the whole leg, have proper footware, and so on. 

Notably lacking from your question is the amount of sleep you get. I am going to assume you are getting at least 8 hours of actual sleep (remember to include the time it takes for you to actually drift off). If you aren't getting a full 8 hours of sleep, well then my answer should be pretty obvious: get more sleep. The best compilation of advice I've found on this topic has been LifeHacker's High Energy Workday Guide. The advice is all sound, and has worked well for me. I suggest reading the entire article, but let me summarize the key points: 

Yes. But you will definitely want to invest in heavier plates so you can take advantage of progressive overloading. You won't be using the 9kg dumbbells forever, especially not for the compound presses. Rather than wasting your time by doing a massive amount of reps with a light weight, you should be sticking to a specific rep range (somewhere in 5-12) and just increasing the weight as necessary. The same can be said of the body weight exercises. Eventually they will become so easy you barely break a sweat doing them (I'm looking at you, squats). Consider loading weight as necessary to these exercises so you aren't waisting your time doing several dozen or hundred reps just to "feel the burn." For example once you can do 50 - 100 squats easy, start doing goblet squats with your dumbbell. For exercises you cannot load with weight, consider making them more difficult (add the clap to push-ups, raise the leg during dips, etc.).