I write centaurs as wild barbarians that love fighting - especially with weakling, little humans. So let's say our centaur and hero are fighting in an open, little, dirt circle in the middle of the a village. Neither of them have weapons or armor or magic spells - all they have is their fists and hooves. They several paces away. And let's assume the human half of the centaur is as strong as a football player (because I don't know how strong a centaur would actually be). How would our hero be able to win the fight? What would he have to do? 

As someone who likes working monster characters, I thought about this before. What I would do is not make their scales so super invincible. Maybe they'd be highly resistant to sharp weapons but blunt weapons that don't try penetrating could be way better than swords. Maaaaaybe a big enough battle axe could pierce through. I could see someone getting enough force out of it to break the scales. Then there's the obvious weakness of the underside not having those protective scales. Well you were saying that magic does exist in this scenario. I don't see how a dragon could defend against anything magical. I imagine if I were a dragon, then breathing fire would be real tiring. Could you imagine how winded you'd be fighting and blowing at the same time? I tried running and singing before - seriously exhausting. 

I assume that centaurs have the best combination of horse and human organs. Someone was saying that they might have horse-sized human organs too but that's a different story. But if this is what we're gonna assume, then I see no reason they couldn't eat meat AND vegetation with "human" stomachs. I think centaurs would be omnivores. It'd make sense thinking survival-wise. When they obviously need a whole lot of food/water, it'd be a little stupid for them to pick either or. Hunting game like deer could mean a whole lot of meat, but gathering could go with it to fill them up and provide better nutrition. I guess a centaur could live off of plants alone if he's some Chiron hippie-like centaur and doesn't feel much like hunting. 

So it sounds kinda like what you want is events that can be rigged. Races are an easy, obvious one. Maybe fire spitting can be an event based on distance or accuracy. I feel like taking a dive on accuracy wouldn't be too hard. I'd imagine dragons would want wrestling as an event. While I don't think dragons would have a judge scoring system to result in a time, I could imagine there being rules in place to prevent things gettig too wild: No biting or clawing or fire blowing - something competitive, but it can give an opportunity for the two to show sportsmanship I guess. 

Be a democracy or I'll shoot you?? The scenario you mentioned is very strange. The UN invading countries because then have the wrong form of government and then forces a democracy at gun point. Morally what give you the right to choose their form of government? Is it just that you have more people or weapons? Usually the UN does not do nation building. It just posts guards to try to halt ongoing violence and genocide. This always done with the consent and at the request of the country they are stationed in. This would allow those with more UN votes to conquer those with fewer and would be feared by every nation. Forcing a democracy is a terrible idea. What if they liked their king, what if there were ongoing violent ethnic tensions that were only being held in check by a brutal central government. In either case forcing a democracy is silly in the first the king will simply be reelected in the second the ethnic/religious group with the most votes will take power and go right back to oppressing the other. You also need incredible by in from the local people to have them fight against corruption and not just vote for their ethnic/religious group, take a look at the new Iraq and Afghanistan governments. 

So ... endless energy does not exist. If you draw energy from a planet's spin then you will slow it down. If a object spins in vacuum and nothing touches it yes it could spin forever but no energy can be extracted from that. Moving on lets hand wave how this energy is generated. Its on a moon now how do we get it onto a planet? The answer is lasers. You pick a spectrum of light that passes through air well and you build a laser in that spectrum and a receiving station on planet, that converts the light into what ever energy type you prefer. The simple version would be a large visible light laser and a receiving station that is a large set of solar cells. It has to be a laser (photons all moving in the same direction) to make sure that the light stays focused and hits the receiving station rather than spreading out and being lost to space. Visual light passes through earths atmosphere with little effect, and a well focused laser will keep the high energy confined to the receiving station. concerns 

The hardest threat is the classic fire breathing dragon The most dangerous characteristics of the dragon in descending order are Flight Armored body Fire breathing powerful bite claws A prepared town can drop dragons without any magic or hand waveium Take cover and pull its wings The alarms sound all the civilians hid in their basements archers duck into stone towers and the dragon breaths fire overhead. As the dragon passes by the archers aim at the massive unarmored wings of the dragon with large barbed arrows to rip up the wings. You can even attack ropes to the arrows so you can tare them out once the hit. Its mean but the dragon is trying to kill you. After a few rounds of this the dragon will have to little wing surface area to stay airborn this brings it crashing down and will prevent it from escaping. Wound it from a distance A grounded dragon can be outranged by ballista and powerful crossbows. Normally it is flying to fast to hit with powerful artillery but now its slower. You keep the ballista hidden in towers during the first phase now wheel them out and start wounding the dragon, this will bleed it and slow it down. Have fast brave mounted troops with spears and javelins harass and distract it. Finnish it Move infantry with very strong pikes and heavy insulated iron shields to slow and trap the dragon, keep wounding it till you can finish it off. As a plus once you do it the first time you have dragon hide which is fireproof that you can use the next time you fight one. 

Have a unique nervous system and muscles providing then with faster reflexes, respectively an agile body. Their brain was also capable of changing the intensity of their senses, giving them another way to experience the world. Popular examples: Chinese martial arts or Hybrid of the Ranger/Agile type fighter classes in RPGs. 

General Backstory: Humans have advanced enough that they are capable of simulating, entire solar systems that have sapiens life. Earth was destroyed not long after the singularity, because of some experiment that goes wrong in a new scientific field. Two centuries later, whatever a new scientific discovery happens, they begin their experiments in a simulated reality before they do it in ours. The problem is the total disregards of the sapiens life in the simulations by our society they are not considered people (because they are fake, created by humans) with is ironic by a society that has the technology to upload minds to a computer and laws regarding the equality between a.i. and humans. My novel: A certain enterprise simulates, a world loosely based on fantasy worlds, with creatures more dangerous than anything, including something like the dinosaurs. The world has several "species" (more like Neandertals and our other ancestors) of sapients. Each species has a specific group of modifications (that are the prototypes without the limitations that are dictated by the law, the modifications will be available in future decades) that give them the abilities necessary (barely?) to survive their environment. My question: Is regarding, the technological level that the sapients will have, I don't know how to make plausible explanations of why they are behind even the industrial revolution, of course, some extinct sapients have reached nuclear energy but destroyed themselves blowing each other. I came up with two that combined maybe can achieve what I want. The first is a protocol in the simulation that slows down advancements regarding energy technologies and the second is that the planet is very harsh, even if the sapients survive the majority of their predators and even hunt them too, there are some that are impossible (Megalodon but in the ground?). PS - I don't write English very well, please have patience with me. 

I am writing a novel, the world I am creating has ~3 (spoiler) sapient species derivated from modified humans. They are: 

Their entire body is unique because they are capable of harvest and storage the chemical compounds of a percentage of their food, utilizing them to create a variety of drugs/chemical substances, giving them a versatility that the others don't have. Popular examples: My most favorite is the witchers of the books or game franchise, but with small differences. If you think my question may be too broad think that all the sapients are of the same height, we will reduce their capabilities to the bare minimum so think that their specialties are only slightly stronger than what humans can do. No firearms.