The majority of Earth's volcanoes occur in plate boundaries. These can be at spreading ridges (green dots on the map) where they are mostly underwater, but sometimes are above the water (such as in Iceland). They can also be on convergent margins, for example the Pacific ring of fire. A less common type of volcano is the intraplate volcano, which are basically all volcanoes not in plate margins because that are inside (="intra") a plate. Hawaii is probably the most famous example, together with the abundant seamounts elsewhere in the Pacific. They are usually formed by deeper processes, with mantle plumes coming from below the lithosphere. 

Yes, and it has happened before. In the past 80 million years it happened over 150 times. The last time this happened was around 800 thousand years ago. A quick note about what a polar shift is, more properly termed a geomagnetic reversal. Earth's magnetic is such that a compass points to a certain direction. For example, a modern compass would point north. In a reversal, it would point south instead because the poles are reversed. Without going too much into detail, this occurs not by spinning of the poles but rather by decreasing in intensity until it becomes negative, thus reversing the poles. Another important thing is the intensity. A strong magnetic field shields Earth's from some kinds of radiation, for example the stuff you can see in Gordon's answer. However, a reversed but strong magnetic field is just as fine. What you should be worried about is the change in the intensity of the field, and this is going up and down all the time, quite rapidly as you can see in the following figure: 

So it is a combination of both. You find physical evidence: rocks from Earth and parts of meteorites and their minerals. You measure their isotopic composition to find their age and other characteristics. Then you make a model (or a simulation) that tries to see what has to happen in order for the physical properties to agree. Further reading: An introduction to Meteorites and the origin of the Solar System - a very accessible and interesting read. Chronometry of Meteorites and the Formation of the Earth and Moon - a more technical review, may be paywalled. 

I am not sure how the rock itself is called, but the pigment inside is most likely ochre. It is a mixture of several iron oxides. Yours seem to be dominated by Fe(OH)3 or similar mixtures of hydrated Fe3+ oxides called limonite. These are commonly known as "yellow ochre". Because the individual grains of the ochre are so small, they stick together very well. This is why sometimes it's hard to break it down to powder. But as you've noticed, adding water just turns it into a paste. It is also possible it contains clay minerals. These have a tendency to stick together when dry. One way to know if you have clay in there is to make a paste and then wait until it's dry. Do you see mud cracks? If yes, it also has clay inside. Ochre has been used as a pigment since prehistory, also in your area. It is the pigment used in a lot of rock art and cave paintings all over the world. There are three main reasons for that: it sticks, it's abundant, and it's really easy to prepare. Just mix it with water. It's also non-toxic*! As for why it occurs in this form you're finding it, I can only speculate because I don't know much about the samples or where you find them from. One probably explanation I can think about is that these began their "life" as iron sulfides, maybe pyrite or marcasite. As these are exposed to oxygen in near-surface environments, the reduced iron and sulfur are oxidised. Iron bonds with water and oxygen to form the ochre, and sulfur is washed away as sulfate. It is possible that the crust around the ochre is some sort of sulfate, maybe calcium sulfate (gypsum?). The crust can also be calcite, or some sort of silica. Some interesting reading: Ochre - The Oldest Known Natural Pigment in the World *Regarding non-toxicity: ochre is my best guess. There are other naturally occurring compounds with similar properties that are toxic. Lead oxide(s) or cadmium oxide are two that come to mind. I wouldn't eat your powder, and be sure to thoroughly wash your hands when you're done. I think it's unlikely to be those, but until you're not certain - you're not certain. 

Yes, but not directly, and it is very hard to know the exact pressure (in contrast with paleomagnetism where you can actually get a nice number). One way to do it is to simply look at the minerals you have in the rock. Some minerals exist only in a certain range of pressures. The best and most known example is the two polymorphs of carbon: graphite and diamond. If you find a rock with diamonds in it then you know that (at least the diamonds) formed at great depth. There are many other mineral transformations that depend on pressure. Andalusite is low pressure whereas kyanite is high pressure. Plagioclase is low pressure, spinel is intermediate pressure and garnet is high pressure. You can look up images of those minerals for some eye candy! Note that I'm using the words "low" and "high" quite vaguely, as everything is relative and the exact numbers are not important for this case. Another way of finding the pressure of a rock formation is by using the chemical compositions of the minerals in it. This is basically an improved version of the previous method. Instead of having a certain mineral assemblage transform to a second assemblage, we take two coexisting minerals. If we know how a certain element (for example magnesium or aluminum or whatever) behaves in a certain fashion relative to the pressure, we can measure that element in both minerals and find out the pressure. A third way is to look at a thing called fluid inclusions. These are tiny bubbles of liquid or gas (or something in between, the distinction may be fuzzy at high pressures and temperatures), trapped in a mineral when it was forming. This is essentially a tiny pressure vessel, so using all kinds of methods we can figure out what was the pressure during that time. Here's a picture of how it looks under the microscope: 

No. We already know that it is splitting The headlines suggest that the fact there is splitting (i.e. a rift) is a "maybe": "East Africa could be splitting in two", "Africa could eventually split into two continents". We already know that it is splitting. There is plenty of evidence for that happening from a variety of fields in geoscience. GPS measurements, geodesy and kinematics tell us how fast it is splitting. The type of magma erupted in volcanoes located in the rift is consistent with what you would expect in a rift (alkaline volcanism and carbonatites). We know that there's a mantle plume below the rift, which is one of the causes of the rifting. We can even see it with deep earth geophysics. The Kenya crack is not because of said splitting 

Curious by the cloud, I looked it up and found it it's a lenticular cloud, that forms because of rising moist air coming into contact with cooler air. However, why is it circular? If I would look at it from above would it still be circular? Since air moves in a certain direction, I would expect the cloud to be laminar and elongate towards one direction rather than circular. What makes it circular? 

Yes. In simple terms, the reaction is enstatite + forsterite + water = serpentine. MgSiO3 + Mg2SiO4 + 2H2O = Mg3Si2O5(OH)4 Forsterite and enstatite (or more generally, olivine and pyroxene) are common minerals in mafic igneous rocks. The formation of serpentine locks up water in the resulting solid crystal structure. You can see more examples of serpentine forming reactions on page 5 of this PDF file. 

Marble forms by several processes, not always related to a magma intrusion. Marble forms by heating of carbonate rocks. It could be magma and it could be other stuff. That said, marble can definitely have veining. More commonly the veining is the result of hydrothermal fluids, that is mostly supercritical water flowing through the rock (in veins), dissolving some minerals and precipitating others. Sometimes you can have textures like that even without any minerals that can be foliated at all. If you take interbeds of calcite and black sand (quartz + heavy minerals, let's say magnetite) and start deforming it, you will get interesting textures. Go to Google Images and type in "metamorphic deformation". 

Not quite. The lighter silica rich rocks that compose the continental crust form by partial melting of pre-existing denser basaltic rocks. When you partially melt a basalt, the liquid is richer in silica, thus it is less dense. 

The dip angle may actually vary. In artificial maps, the beds are usually tabular and not folded (unless this is a folding exercise). Natural rocks are rarely exactly planar and tabular, and their thickness also varies. This can result in different dips for the top and the bottom of the bed at the same location. Maps are not usually drawn with dip calculations in mind. The contacts are based on the limited exposures available to the mapping geologist. The contacts between rock units may be obscured by vegetation, talus, soil and even houses and roads. Making a map that is dip-calculation friendly is time consuming, if possible at all. It also depends on the accuracy of the topographic contours. As you probably know, you have to take the elevation into account in these calculations. Even if the contours are accurate, the topography may be not accurate or not spaced properly. I can testify from my own experience that the topographic map that was available to me of this area: seems like we are walking on a somewhat planar area without any steep slopes and only several meters of variability in elevation. 

You can't directly probe that deep. Our deepest drill hole was just over 10 km, and that was almost impossible (and extremely expensive to do). Fortunately, we have an indirect method of sampling rocks from 50 km and even deeper. Sometimes magma erupted from depth tears away pieces of rock from the walls of the conduit. This rock is then embedded in in the volcanic rock. Here's an example: 

This is a bit confusing because most siderophile metals are also chalcophile. Let's begin by defining what are metal and sulfide liquids in the Earth. 

Let me first correct a small misconception. Where you are talking about 'the magma ocean', you are implying that one exists. This is in fact false. There is no 'magma ocean' in the Earth at the moment (and it has been like that for several billions years). The lavas you see erupting in volcanoes are not coming from a magma ocean. They are coming from either the crust or the mantle, both of which are solid. Magma generation is a localised anomaly in what would otherwise be a solid mass. That said, the upper mantle has a section called 'the asthenosphere' which is slightly more ductile than the rest. Think about chocolate in a hot day. Still solid - but it can flow given enough pressure. The modern lithospheric plates (of plate tectonics fame) sort of float on the asthenosphere already now, and that's why you have plate movement and earthquakes and everything. The asthenosphere is quite deep - some 100 to 200 km deep below the surface. If a cosmic impact is going to create a crater 100 km deep in the Earth, no one will be left around to care about whether they will survive on the 'iceberg'-like lithospheric plates. Again - this is irrelevant. The asthenosphere is ductile in timescales of hunderds of years (at least). If you were to pick up a piece of it now, it will just be like any other rock (albeit quite warm). A magma ocean event probably occurred very early in the Earth's history (which is not going to happen again since Earth is already here), and the moon forming event also likely liquified quite a lot of the Earth. But this is not going to happen since there is no other big enough body that seems like it's going to collide with us at the moment. 

Chloride likes water. The chloride ion, Cl- really likes being in water. It's one of the most incompatible elements in mantle melts, and it readily partitions into fluids exsolved from magmas. Basically, it's enriched in silicic rocks (that are forming most of the crust) and then it's just a small step to remove the chloride from the magmas to the fluids, which then end up in the ocean or in the atmosphere (and then the ocean because it rains). Once it's in the water, it's very hard to remove it from there. Chlorides are very soluble. Sodium chloride, magnesium chloride, calcium chloride, copper chloride, and a many other chlorides are very soluble in water. Therefore, if you take any acidic water with some amount of chloride in it, and react it with rocks, it's going to leach stuff away. The fluid will become rich in all of that stuff. Particularly sodium, magnesium, calcium and potassium because these are the most common chloride-soluble elements in the crust. I would add that potassium is usually held more tightly to solid phases such as micas, so it's somewhat less mobile than sodium when bound to silicates. Sodium chloride has no major solid sink. Calcium chloride is more soluble than sodium chloride. Based on this simplistic approach, you would expect to have more calcium to be more abundant in the ocean than sodium. Thing is, it forms calcium carbonate. Whether chemically precipitated or biogenic, a lot of calcium is removed as calcite and aragonite from the oceans. Magnesium goes that way too. Sodium does not precipitate. Therefore, it stays in the ocean. 

Flow banding can occur in all igneous rocks, regardless of their composition. Any kind of molten rock that flows may eventually cause some flow banding. Sometimes the flow banding is not even obvious to the eye and can only be detected using geophysical methods such as magnetic anisotropy. Here's an example of flow banding in a mafic rocks from Skaergaard intrusion in Greenland: source This looks like a sedimentary rock, but it's in fact igneous. Those are layers of minerals such as olivine, pyroxene and plagioclase that settled from a melted magma chamber. It doesn't even have to be a silicate rock, here's a picture of natrocarbonatite lava from Ol Doinyo Lengai volcano in Tanzania: source Obviously, this rock exhibits flow banding and it hardly has any silica in it.