What happens if he forgets to change it back? Will he be able to continue to use the resources of the domain if his time and date are out of sync? Exchange, shares, even to log on....? 

I have a weird issue here. I notice about once a week the web server restarts itself. This would be only a minor issue if we were not planning on implementing an IP failover. I have checked the event logs. I don't see anything that indicates a reason for the restart. I need some help diagnosing the reason the server restarts. It happened last night at 5:00AM Last even in the log was 1 hour before the unexpected shutdown. Here is the Log for the shutdown event. Any help is much appreciated. I know there isn't much to go on yet. 

The end of those instructions talk about Firewalls... Did you check your firewall on the host? If it is on turn it off just to test if that's the issue. Then if it is the issue open the necessary ports. If that is not it think about if any other firewalls are between your host and client. Hope its as simple as that. Let us know. 

Your last comment leads me to believe it is on the ISPs end. If your settings are correct and unchanged and a reset of the equipment does not allow for the IPs to be assigned properly then contact your ISP and tell them it is an issue. To be absolutely sure it is not you. (always best practice before accusing others) You should directly connect a machine to the internet and try to grab a few test IPs from the non working range. If you can get them assigned and working on a single directly connected machine it is more than likely your configuration. If it still is causing issues contact the ISP. Hope this points you in the right direction to determining who is at fault. If it is on your end update your post with some more info about that and what you have tried and we will try to be of more assistance. But you should first verify whose end the issue is on. If the ISP cannot handle simple ISP stuff like assigning an IP range it may be in your best interest to find a new ISP. 

You can use the auto_increment_increment and auto_increment_offset settings. Each server will have a different offset value, and they will all increment enough each time to "hop over" and leave room for the numbers your other servers will generate. There's some good docs about it here: $URL$ 

Settings in /proc/sys are virtual files. To change them, you need to write to them like you would any other file, like so: 

and follow the instructions to reload apache. If it still doesn't work, add a comment below and possibly update your question. I'll take another look and maybe set up a test system. 

I just did this install myself recently. The Erlang included in Hardy is too old. Simple as that. You need to build Erlang as well as CouchDB. 

Make sure to remove the packaged erlang first. Grab erlang here: $URL$ I used R13B02-1, but whatever the latest is should work. Configure with . I compiled it without any of that and Couch died immediately on startup. I think the threads is the important one for Couch, but all those seemed like good ideas. 

I think you need to set up a display manager such as GDM. When Xvnc is starting up, it tries to communicate with a running display manager via XDMCP. That's what the option is in your xinetd file. I've set up GDM on Hardy before, and it worked pretty well. Give this a try: Install GDM if it's not already installed. Edit /etc/gdm/gdm-cdd.conf: 

TL;DR : Stopping your services is not necessary with LVM snapshots. +1 for XtraBackup. It is not required to stop the services. The LVM snapshot is equivalent to pulling the power, which means it is consistent, but the same as a crash. When starting the service from one of your backups, it will have to do crash recovery. The time needed to do this varies depending on the size of your InnoDB log files but can be several minutes. Once the crash recovery has completed, your service will be up and running again normally. By shutting down services before the snapshot, your recovery will start faster but at the cost of some downtime every time you run your backups. Also worth considering is that every time you stop services, you lose all the warm buffer pool, so you will also incur some performance degradation from having to read data into memory again. XtraBackup is designed to work with Oracle MySQL as well as Percona Server. It's a good option, though as with all things backup, test, test, and test it again to make sure it works before you find out you need it. 

Simply put you must activate the mirror from the principal server in the High Safety mode without automatic fail over. This method is great for planned outages and maintenance. It is not really beneficial in a disaster or unplanned downtime scenario as you cannot fail over without access to the principal server. I use a very low cost old computer running MSSQL express as the monitor server. It has windows XP pro on it. I am sure you can find a small computer to carry out the task of the monitor server. Something that can meet minimum requirements for MSSQL express will do fine. Hope this helps. 

$URL$ Applies to XP but I assume the issues caused would be similar. Other Idea would be that yes you must join the domain..... As you must provide proper credentials before being aloud to edit group policy. Therefore if you cannot provide those when launching GPeditor (run as administrator then specify domain credentials) then you would get that error.... Non elegant solution would be to VPN in then RDP the DC and edit the GPO using the DC GPeditor. 

I came across an AD today where the previous admin had set it up in where every AD object is in a child OU of Domain Controllers.......... 

When done for mulitple users by replacing "Kerry" with $($_.Alias) it only works for some users. Other get double or more copies of the rule, while other users do not get it at all..... Very strange. What could I be missing here? 

I want to create a Domain User that runs the SQL Service Accounts. The reason for this is that I have setup mirroring and MS recommends having the same user (a domain user account) running the services across all the the computers in the configuration to ensure mirroring will work properly. Right now in the test environment I just had them run under my user for simplicity. But now that I know what I am doing I would like to test the configuration more accurately. I am also aware that it makes things much simpler if this user is an administrator. My question is. Should I just create a simple user SQLSERVICEUSER and make it an administrator? Seems a little insecure to me. Anyone have a more elegant solution? 

The directive can be used several ways, depending on the syntax. To execute a file the way you want, you must use the full path relative to the DocumentRoot, preceded with a /. Otherwise, it's taken to be a literal message to be displayed, which is what is happening for you. Try this: 

If you really want your site on both domain names without any redirection, you can use a RewriteCond to pull out just the domain name, and it will be available to the RewriteRule as %1. 

Do you have this job in a user's crontab (Can you see it with ?) or is it in the system crontab ()? The system crontab (On linux at least, don't know about other systems) requires an additional user argument that the user crontabs do not. In a user specific crontab, it should look like: 

You have some sort of backups right? If not, do that first. Perhaps with rsync and an extra drive, rsync over ssh to another location, or a snapshot if this is a VM on a provider that provides that service on disks. Once you have good backups, run tar with the flag. That will delete the source files as they are added to the tar file. 

Hit escape and you'll get a menu of options. Go to the bottom and find the entry for entering a shell. You'll get a warning about returning to the installer, then you'll be dropped to a shell. Run to get a list of what drives have been found on the system. You should see one there that is pretty obviously the system disk. You'll want to use the one without any number on the end. Run to clear the partition table. Then restart. The installer should see it now as a blank and unpartitioned disk. 

Apache doesn't have a good way to separately log requests beyond the level. If you really want to have apache log directly to a separate log file, you could accomplish that with a custom logging script and pipe apache's access log to it. The directive can specify a program which apache will start and write log data to that program's stdin, where you could then do some basic parsing and write the log files yourself. Seriously though, just use . 

Just fyi when I look in those folders from the ForestDNSZone they have just 2 and 1 entries respectively. So obviously not in use compared to the others. I am pretty sure I understand the steps to complete this. But if you would like to provide that info, bonus points! 

When I need to bring our database down from the data centre to the office I just do the backup in MSSQL and then compress again with winrar. I bring a 4 gig DB backup down to about 500MB then I just use the FTP server to do the transfer. Even if it stops FileZilla will let you resume. Takes about 15 minutes to download. 

Thanks for everyone's input! Been a great looking glass into your configurations at your companies and your thoughts about wifi and its security. Ended up just leaving it. We just don't have enough visitors to justify publishing the password. Additionally some users bring in laptops and I would like them to be able to access the domain without a VPN. If this becomes an issue I will buy another wireless router and set it up on its own network and publish the connection information. 

Contact JMRP see if they are blocking you again. We signed up and got blocked a second time till I contacted them. Make sure you are unsubscribing the users who complain or they will block you again. 

A Remote Desktop Gateway configuration should be run on the perimeter network. This allows for risks due to the very nature any sort of remote access port exposed.... Therefore if a remote attacker were able to compromise your Remote Desktop Gateway they would find themselves inside your DC. This could be accomplished using man in the middle attacks, and/or forging the certificate to name just a couple. You absolutely SHOULD NOT install your Remote Desktop Gateway on your DC. If you have the power on the current server to put it in a VM that is better, or on another physical machine. Take a look at the following documentation. I found this very helpful at setting up a basic RD Gateway Part 1 Part 2 Here is the MS whitepaper 

This is not at all clear in the documentation. What I believe is happening here is that causes the session to read only the rows or bytes or whatever that existed when the table was locked, regardless of what size the table actually is when it gets to it. Rows can continue to be inserted into the table, but only at the end, past the locked portion of the table. 

That will cause it to skip the next rule. However, you're going to be updating it by hand from here on out. You might be able to pull off something automated with some RewriteCond magic, but it'll probably be tricky. I'm not really familiar with that, so someone else would have to help you out there. If this is only used by a small group of people, then you might be better off skipping this rewriting stuff entirely and just update everyone's working copies. is meant specifically for situations where the repos is moved and you just want to update your working copy without checking it out again. I understand there are situations where this simply isn't feasible though. 

The three addresses you listed there will work with a certificate for *.example.com. Be careful with other names you might add in the future if they have more words separated by periods. The meaning of * for certificates is inconsistent between browsers. Some will match anything, others will match only one word separated by periods. 

That's it. It clearly won't tell you how a file was changed, but at least you'll know that it did change in some way. 

Try putting quotes around in your command lines. I suspect that has spaces and those might confuse it by looking like several separate arguments. 

Also, you can loosen up on the escaping. It doesn't hurt, but it also doesn't help anything, and it makes it harder to read. 

Hope that helps. Please comment if you have questions about any part of it and I'll try to explain. Or figure out how I goofed up if it doesn't work.