I typically construct my arguments in a procedure, where one argument leads to the next. Like so; Conclusion It should not be illegal to be a racist. a. The problem with racists, is that they discriminate against other people. b. To make, being racist, illegal, would be to discriminate against racists, who are people too. (correct me if I'm wrong) c. So the only difference between the racist and the one discriminating, is which group of people they don't like. However, I have a tendency to lose track of the person I am talking to, and not making sure they follow where I am going. Making sure they agree to the first argument before moving on to the next. (this often makes them reach another conclusion than me) I am not a native English speaker, and most people I speak with aren't either, but many of my arguments piggyback on arguments I read or hear in debates in English. Often when I go on my rant, I use term completely unfamiliar to the person I am talking to, without actually knowing a good native equivalent. To combat this, I have tried asking questions instead. With the hope that the language is mutually known, and the arguments understood, like so (I'll be John); John: What is the problem with racists? Jeff: They discriminate people, and are full of hate. (sometimes people don't even want to answer the question) John: But, don't you hate racists? (might just use a similar word to hate) Jeff: Of course. John: And wouldn't it be discriminating to make it illegal, you are targeting a specific group? Jeff: Yes, but it is a worse group, being black isn't a choice, but being racist is. John: So isn't the only difference between the racist and you, which group of people they don't like. Jeff: But the group .. (the argument isn't done, but the method of getting to the same conclusion is quite different) This seems different from The Socratic Method which seems to focus on reaching agreement, and not to make a point. I tend to be quite reliant on the other person answering within what I expect. Is this questioning style of argumentation recognized, and if so, advised or not? (I am not sure this is the correct forum, but IPS also seems off.) 

*By equivalence of the systems I mean: (1),(2),(3),(4),(5),(6),(7),(8),(9),(10)⊢(1)∧(2')∧(3')∧(4')∧(5)∧(6)∧(7)∧(8)∧(9)∧(10) and (1),(2'),(3'),(4'),(5),(6),(7),(8),(9),(10)⊢(1)∧(2)∧(3)∧(4)∧(5)∧(6)∧(7)∧(8)∧(9)∧(10) and (1),(2),(3),(4),(5),(6),(7),(8),(9),(10)⊢(1'')∧(2')∧(3')∧(4'')∧(5)∧(6)∧(7)∧(8)∧(9)∧(10) and (1''),(2'),(3'),(4''),(5),(6),(7),(8),(9),(10)⊢(1)∧(2)∧(3)∧(4)∧(5)∧(6)∧(7)∧(8)∧(9)∧(10) where I have used the number of the axioms as propositional symbols and where ⊢ represents deduction by using the two rules. 

In Stalnaker semantics a conditional A↦B is true in world u if either A is not logically possible (ex absurdo quodlibet holds in the semantics) or A is logically possible and B is true in the nearest world where A is true. A↦B axiomatically implies the classical logic implication A→B. I read -in D. Palladino, C. Palladino, Logiche non classiche 'non-classical logics'- that various conditions are assumed in Stalnaker semantics, among them: 

if the antecedent A of a conditional A↦B is logically possible, then there is at most one possible world where A is true and is nearer to the actual world than any other world (literally quoting the text "when the antecedent of a conditional is logically possible, there is at most one possible world where the antecedent is true and ressembling the actual world more than any other possible world where the antecedent is true (unicity assumption) [i.e. at most one satisfying both the truth of the antecedent and the minimum distance from the actual world]"); every world is nearest to itself than any other world; if v is the A∧B-world [i.e., world where A∧B is true, I think] nearest to u, then v is the A-world nearest to u; if the A-world that is nearest to u is a B-world and the B-world that is nearest to u is an A-world, then that A-world and that B-world are the same world. 

In the context of eating meat, the argument against seems quite compelling from the viewpoint of the individual's action. I.e, would you kill a cow? If I state, that if nobody ate cows, the cow species would be worse off (huge factory farms aside*), since they would be left to nature, where predators and deceases will end most of them before their time. I don't know where to look for stats, but I take the premise (which might be wrong) that there exists many more cows today, than before human civilization. I theorize, that in general, being consumed by humans is the best evolutionary step a species can make. So is it valid to conclude that, while I would not kill a cow, I can morally justify my diet, for the greater good of cows, or is if nobody did it (in this case) a false argument? I want to distinguish between killing and bad treatment 

Now, in the case, someone has a certain perception of their situation, and you think you have the objective perception. Is it wrong to try and persuade the person to realize that their perception is actually false? More concretely, say I was making a scene, for taking offense to some joke. Now, three others are laughing immensely at this joke, and I am told, that I am overreacting and should calm down. Since overreaction is relative to the appropriate reaction, or in some sense, the expected reaction, the others perceive to have the objective perception. When they say I am overreacting, they plant a seed of doubt in my own perception, but not in an attempt to deceive me, but to enlighten me. Is this (still) called gaslighting? The intention of gaslighting is not described as being part of its definition. If this is not gaslighting, how so? If this is actually bad behavior, how so? Or is the gaslighting, but also correct behavior? I got to think of this because someone called someone out for gaslighting, and thereby dismissing what was being said. 

As Joseph has kindly pointed out, it depends completely on your level of knowledge in biochemistry and how much research and digging you are willing to do. 

I think that a thorough review of the development of language in its primitive state would be very beneficial. If, for example, one could establish a connection between an object's name and the nature of the object itself by understanding how the name of the object came about (or using any other means), this would answer your question. Certainly, the basic example giving evidence to the connection between and name and the object's nature would be onomatopoeia, that is words reflecting (primitively) the sounds (or other evident features) those objects make. For instance "buzz" reflects the sound a bee makes and it is quite evident that people created this word based on the sound they heard. This is an example of primitive knowledge stored in a word. In addition, your theory in my opinion should only be applied to "root words", that is the basic set of words from which other, more complicated ones, developed. If there is to be any knowledge stored in language, it must be stored in the main precursors. Every word must be traced to its primitive origins and those origins must be analyzed for some primitive effects in the formation of those words. Only afterwards, it is possible to comprehensively analyze each and every "generation" or addition of knowledge to those words. 

In Judaism, there is a very interesting approach to prayer. According to one of the principles of Judaism, god does not change his mind. It is then difficult to understand how one can ask god for anything! The answer Judaism gives to this question is that when one prays to god and asks him for something, the person himself changes, and therefore god is judging a new person altogether. Therefore, god does not change his mind, but since he sees a completely different person, he judges him by his new character. Similarly, perhaps when one is asking for something, he becomes more humble and thus becomes deserving of what he asking for.