GDP = Consumption + Government Expenditure + Investment + Exports - Imports My cases are: (1) If the employee is getting paid for his extra-work, his consumption would increase. (2) This employee might take away the job of someone else --and thus his increase in spending could get nullified By definition, GDP = the total value of all goods and services produced. (1) If even after working overtime, the company produces the same amount of goods / service --by definition, GDP hasn't risen at all. 

IS moves to the right (1 to 2) At B, there is a deficit in BOP, which causes the domestic currency to depreciate. This increases exports and decreases imports, which causes net exports to increase, which then causes Y to increase, which shifts IS further up (IS 3). At B, because of increase in net exports, BOP improve and so BP also shifts to the right. The economy settles at the new equilibrium C. 

Why is the intra-EU trade balance not equal to zero? Considering that the intra-EU trade data are based on common and largely harmonised rules, one might expect the intra-EU trade balance to be zero or at least close to it. However, it is worth underlining that a perfect match is made impossible first of all by the CIF/FOB approach: the import value should be higher than the mirror export value as it includes extra transport costs. 

This a highly disputed question! There is a new and interesting paper by Òscar Jordà, Moritz Schularick and Alan M. Taylor about "Leveraged bubbles". They study bubbles in housing and equity markets in 17 countries over the past 140 years. 

The first is trade diversion: preferential trade agreements, by diverting trade away from the most efficient global producers in favor of regional partners, may prove welfare reducing. Regionalism may hinder multilateralism, leading to a bad equilibrium in which several regional trade blocs maintain high external trade barriers. Regionalism can also undermine multilateralism simply by diverting limited government resources from multilateral negotiations. 

I know that the Chilean central bank intervened in 2001 twice. Has it ever intervened since then? Is the Chilean Peso a completely free float currency? 

Recently in a test I was asked to describe the modified IS-LM framework. I assumed I was being asked the IS-LM-BP model, since it modifies the traditional IS LM model by adding a BP curve. I looked up on a couple of references (Macroeconomics by Dornbusch, and Macroeconomics by Olivier Blanchard) but they have no reference to it. Looking the term up on a search engine only throws results about papers that suggest a modification to the IS LM model. What exactly is a modified IS-LM framework? 

I found a better diagram illustrating this (the diagram includes two cases: one with the BP flatter than the LM and one steeper; the points and movements marked with an asterik (*) are the ones concerned with the case of BP being steeper than the LM). (Image Courtesy of Polinomics: $URL$ 

Considering your example, I guess that it could be a contribution to show that a small increase in benefit per capita may increase fertility. Is the benefit permanent? If not, I doubt that people will have a strong incentive to get another child. Moreover, it takes time to get a new child! So, there is a time dimension issue. They cannot claim the benefit if they don't have the child! If your design allow for this, you can exploit the time dimension in case some families respond to the incentive. 

For advanced undergraduate students there is a nice, instructive and short book on The Microeconomics of Market Failures at MIT Press (2000) by Bernard Salanié from Columbia. The second revision of Introduction to Industrial Organization by Luis Cabral from NYU is a very good reference for undergraduates. The chapter 5 deals with Market Failure and Public Policy. Accompanying slides are available. 

Let's say we have a soft-drinks store. Say the store sells Pepsi and Coke. If the retailer drinks a bottle of coke from his own store, does that get counted into the GDP of a nation? Or is it only counted if someone else apart from the store owner consumes it by paying for it? How does this work? 

I'm stuck at figuring out the effect of a fiscal expansion in the case of floating exchange rate with the BP curve steeper than the LM curve. My textbook has not mentioned it but I'd like to how it'd turn out. Here's my guess: 

If not, what type of trade financing do Chilean exporters or importers get? Is it all from private banks and insurers? 

I am not sure this will answer your question, but let's me try with a concrete example using Stata and its 1978 Automobile Data in order to regress car's price on mileage (mpg). 

The Partial least square structural equation modeling (PLS-PM, PLS-SEM) method to structural equation modeling allows estimating complex cause-effect relationship models with latent variables. This method seems quite popular in accounting, marketing, and management. Do you know any good application in economics? Is this method reliable to get causal estimates? 

Yes, such imbalances or asymmetries are possible in practice and quite frequent across RTAs. These statistics simply mean that each ASEAN member exports more on average to the other members than they import from them. But this pattern is not true for all ASEAN countries. 

We consider highways to be an example of an impure private good because while it is non-excludable, it is a rival good. That is, another person's consumption (usage) of the highway affects my usage of it. In that same sense, wouldn't a fire station also be rival, at least in theory? For example, if a fire stations has five trucks for a locality, and 6 fires break out at separate places, why can't we consider this service as a rival service? 

I'm looking for an index or ranking of countries based on the availability of trade finance instruments such as letter of credit facilities, forfaiting etc. I found one by Eurmoney, but the document costs 599 GBP. Is there a free resource? 

Four-fifths of Algeria is just desert --which leaves no room for agriculture. The Algerian economy is mostly powered just by the oil industry, which contribute about ~70% of government revenues. Oil and oil related products constitute more than 80% of Algeria's exports. For example, Turkey has twice the population of Algeria but it has more than 7.5 times the cattle Algeria has. (14.2 in Turkey vs 1.6 in Algeria). So the short answer is that Algeria isn't just suited for Agriculture. 

Is there an economic theory of quitting an activity? A theory that weighs the investment costs put into something and the opportunity costs of pursuing it. I am aware of Fershtman and Gneezy Quitting in Tournaments paper that investigates the decision of quitting in the middle of a race or of a tournament. But, I am looking for a more general model of quitting something such as playing an instrument, a sport or even a job. Dropping-out from (grad)-school may obey the same investment-opportunity cost trade-off. Update: I am looking for some explicit references modeling the exiting or quitting process, even if it concerns some decisions in particular without any generalization. Edit: Here is why I picked @Ubiquitous' answer. 

Attrition. Servers may change to tipping places in order to get higher wages Higher prices may lead to lower demand by some customers. 

I wanted to verify the relationship between inflation and unemployment empirically, so I took data from the World Bank and used excel to correlate them. I got a very, very bad correlation between unemployment and inflation (from 1991 to 2016). Am I doing something wrong here? I took these two sets of indicators: (1) Unemployment, total (modeled ILO estimate) and (2) Inflation, consumer prices. Here are the links: $URL$ and $URL$ I downloaded the data from here and I studied the data for the United States of America. Is the low correlation because of the fact that the market needs time to react to unemployment rates? If so how did Phillips study it in the first place? 

I'm currently learning the Mundell Fleming model, and so from my textbook and other sources I've figured out the effect of increase in money supply and government expenditure increase for the following conditions: 

Basically, the difference is that in the love of variety approach the entry of new varieties in the market does not "crowd" variety space. So, differentiated varieties may exhibit a high or low degree of substitutability, but this is invariant to the number of products in the market. Hence, consumers "love" variety, in the sense that increased variety improves welfare. In the Lancaster ideal variety approach, entry of new varieties causes "crowding". Goods become more substitutable as more varieties enter the market. So, the marginal utility of new varieties falls as the market size grows. These two approaches have different implications for welfare of small and large countries as discussed in Hummels and Lugovskyy. 

A reference in this topic is Michel De Vroey. He published a new book on A History of Macroeconomics from Keynes to Lucas and Beyond. This book retraces the history of macroeconomics from Keynes's General Theory to the present. Central to it is the contrast between a Keynesian era and a Lucasian - or dynamic stochastic general equilibrium (DSGE) - era, each ruled by distinct methodological standards. See also a paper on The History of Macroeconomics from Keynes’s General Theory to the Present for the Handbook of the History of Economic Analysis. 

Move the IS curve to the right. At this point (B), there will be a BOP deficit because the point is below the BP curve. Thus, the domestic currency will depreciate. Exports will rise, imports will decrease and thus net exports will rise. This will have two effects: (a) this will shift the IS curve further to the right (because net exports have risen, and so Y has risen) and (b) this will shift the BP curve to the right (because net exports have risen, improving the current account balance). The new equilibrium is at C. 

Fixed & floating exchange rates (perfect capital mobility / BP horizontal) Fixed & floating exchange rates (imperfect capital mobility, BP flatter than LM curve) Fixed exchange rate (imperfect capital mobility, BP steeper than LM curve)