Based on Theravada, which is what I'm most familiar with, vegetarianism is not essential for any meditation that I know of. Even so, I've chosen to be a vegetarian. As I understand it, the Mahayana tradition tends to strongly encourage vegetarianism, but even then I'm not certain if they do it specifically to aid meditation practice. As to it being profitable, it depends on what effects adopting vegetarianism has on that person's state of mind. If being a vegetarian helps your compassion towards beings, then you might consider it profitable. For some people, choosing vegetarianism might result in no improved state of mind, in which case it doesn't matter. This also answers your third question as to why a lot of people become vegetarian after they start their path. They might have noticed that becoming a vegetarian, for them, improves their personal state of mind. Of course this won't be the only reason, but for some it might be. Try it, and see what works for you. 

It might be a good idea to first see what the Buddha said about the aggregates. For example, about feeling: 

Think about martial arts. One'd be a lot more reserved before walking into any dojo and claim that his style is the one true style. Why? because he knows that his claim will sure be put to the test inside the ring. And until he walks out of that ring alive and on two feet then all his words don't mean a thing. Just like that, the Buddha Dhamma is there for a purpose, not for mere talk. He actually emphasized that when instructing Mahāpajāpatī Gotamī in AN 8.53. Anyway, as you mentioned you have little knowledge with Buddhism outside your own sect and you're interested in how other parts of the Teaching works, I'd strongly recommend you checking out accesstoinsight.org and suttacentral.net. The "Befriending the Suttas" link is particularly useful for the Buddha's original teaching is there and treasured by all schools (the Theravada's Nikayas and the Mahayana/Tibetan's Agamas): 

As far as I understand, Buddhism doesn't constantly remind one that "all problems are an illusion". Suffering can be thought of as an emergent quality of "problems", and one of the most basic teachings, that "there is suffering" is to be found in the first Noble Truth. The Buddha taught that what whenever suffering arises (your cognizance of problems arises), it is dependent on a chain of causes and effects, which invariably links back to ignorance or misunderstanding of the 4 Noble Truths. As far as illusions go, one could say that permanence, lasting happiness from conditioned phenomena, or controllability are all illusory in a sense, but I'm not aware of any Dhamma that teaches that suffering (and thereby problems which cause it to arise) are actually just an illusion. Also, as far as I understand Buddhism also doesn't constantly remind one that problems "should be ignored". Much the opposite, the Buddha taught that there is a practice which can be applied, leading to the cessation of the suffering that you perceive from these problems. Once you acknowledge the origination of the suffering, the next thing to do is not to ignore it, but to practice in letting go of its origins. This is known as the Eightfold Path and it is to be directly applied and cessation of suffering to be experienced. There is no "ignoring" going on here, I have never heard of any Buddhist teaching that advocates ignoring or suppressing awareness of anything. Buddhism almost certainly does not say "you have nothing to care about, you should really just enjoy yourself". From my understanding, the Buddha actually taught that it is in your best interest to practice seeing things for what they are and to liberate oneself from the suffering-filled cycle of death and rebirth that characterizes all worldly existence by giving up forms of clinging and aversion. Although your questions seem sincere, practically every sentence you've written can be considered a misinterpretation of even the most basic Buddhist philosophy. The conclusions about Buddhism being life-negating, or un-applicable to true suffering on an individual level, appear to be founded on misinterpretation of basics. But I will give you that Buddhism doesn't seem to have a direct framework for tackling world hunger, war, etc on a group level. It seems to suggest that if the people acting as a cause for war, or selfishness in world hunger, dealt with their inner suffering and learned compassion, these problems might be solved. Again, I don't know if this is specifically referenced in any canonical teachings, but it seems to be a logical conclusion to me. 

but surely the why leads directly to the answer, no? common sense. my teacher once said this: all religions have a version of the same basic rules (don't kill, don't steal, don't become intoxicated, etc). now why is that? it's because those activities cause turmoil and drama, which are obstacles to gaining clarity and equanimity. spiritual goals, like any goals, are reached more easily when you clear the path to them. the more barriers you have to climb, the longer it takes to reach your destination. causing upset in your family creates an obstacle, both inner and outer. the ruminations and unhappy thoughts you will have from it will distract you from your purpose, and you family may also try to turn you from it because they too are unhappy. better to spend the time cultivating patience and sensitivity to timing. then, when the proper conditions arrive to become a monk without causing suffering to yourself and others, your path will be easier and more focused. 

Like a math or music prodigy who can easily recall their skillset through just some basic exposure to music or math, a stream-winner would be like that, if not much quicker or even instantaneous since Path/Fruit are supra-mundane skills, unlike mundane fields like math/music. There're concrete metrics to determine a stream-winner. Details are available in many suttas like AN 9.12, AN 3.87, SN 12.41, etc. (ref: suttacentral.net) 

There're many categories of nihilism: metaphysical, epistemological, mereological, existential, moral nihilism, etc. The kind of nihilism the Buddha advises us to avoid is a kind of philosophical materialism which believes that life ends in death and that actions do not bring results in future lives. This type of nihilism is also called the doctrine of non-existence since it denies existence of afterlife and of kammic retribution taught by Ajita Kesakambali, one of the Six Samana during the Buddha's time. So from what you described, you shouldn't worry too much about falling into this kind of nihilism. Just make sure to add a bit more Virya into the practice and you'll do fine. Also should check out SN 46.53 where the Buddha taught the right and wrong times to cultivate the various enlightenment factors: 

oh holy beans. I'm about to go radical here and diverge from the dalai lama's take, but I can't speak from someone else's perceptions, so here goes. a system based on ever-increasing gains from a finite thing is inherently unsustainable. and lookie! does it kinda seem I'm right? I'm fine with making a living (and more fine just living) but not with profit. because I would prefer to continue rather than dwindle from lack of food, water, and liveable weather, and prefer doing so among healthy people whose basic needs are met. the bible doesn't like profit either. it calls profit "usury." nutshell: profit is taking more than you give. profit is the essence of capitalism. you are looking to "capitalize" on what you encounter, to take from it to make yourself "bigger" if you will. my experience in Buddhism and related things is that there's no need to fret over abstract things that are basically the water you, little fishie, swim in right now. if you keep meditation, continue to refine your clear seeing of yourself and others, notice what happens when things are/aren't done, and how differences in doing/not doing get different results, notice how you feel after doing/skipping the things you do .... your views and habits will change to naturally reflect where you are at any given time. just as they change when you don't meditate, but in ways that are more random and that you may not even like. the only universe, the only sentient being, you can directly and fully perfect is you. and you are the system. whatever it is "you" are, that is what touches and changes every single part of our world, aka "the world," reality, life. as my teacher says, "just do your practice." people are all sorts of things. balance for living beings is a state change that suits conditions at the time (homeostasis). with clarity comes being more of what you are, be it student, statesman, horse trainer, layabout, kite maker, baby maker, musician, pizza guy. the title, like the name of a system, is just the moving form that contains a slice of life. as a living being you will naturally be happiest with things that support life rather than suck it dry. if capitalism furthers living, how is it against Buddhism? if it does not, how will it continue to exist? beings are expressions of life. with clarity life flourishes. systems support life or fail to. our awareness is what decides. 

Then from a supramundane dimension, all Buddhas have transcended all wrong views (not-I), all cravings (not-mine), and all conceits (not-myself) ( ~~AN 3.32 ~~ ) and as a result, all notion of sameness or difference no longer applies. 

Depends on which dimension of reality one talks about. From the mundane dimension, both Bhaisajyaguru and Aksobhya are Buddhas of the Eastern Pure Lands. And according to the Amitabha Sutra, there're countless Eastern Pure Lands Buddhas: 

The main point of paṭiccasamuppāda pretty much comes down to: "if this exists, that exists; if this ceases to exist, that also ceases to exist". And so the reason to our existence, not just mankind but pretty much all conditioned phenomena is that the condition or the root cause for that existence still exists. So in our particular case, the reason we, mankind, still exists is because the conditions to our existence, the 3 unwholesome roots of greed, hatred, and ignorance, still exist. And as long as one has not completely uprooted them, s/he will continue to wander in Samsara's 6 realms of existence.