Cash and bonds are almost identical from financial and economic perspective. Most institutional investors and banks keep much of their cash in bonds. Physical cash is becoming a bit obsolete so the notion of "hoarding cash" no longer means taking out bags with dollar bills and stuffing them under the mattress or into the safe box. Hoarding cash nowadays is pretty much moving money from equity to bonds or cash accounts, but not taking out physical bills, like it may have been before digitalization of financial markets. So in a liquidity trap you will have everyone practically "hoarding bonds". Increasing interest rates in such situation will cause even more money to move out of the equities into bonds and exacerbate deflation. That is what has been happening to Japan and arguably happened in the US in 2009 when Fed responded with setting rates to ~0 and buying back about a trillion dollars worth of bonds (QE). However, liquidity traps are hard to define empirically. Any situation where you have rates near zero and inflation near zero or deflation, can be argued to be a liquidity trap. 

As far as I know, No. While I am not sure why you would want to find non-subgame perfect Nash equilibria in an extensive form game, I am sure you would need to convert it to normal form to do it. Extensive form of a sequential game carries more information than normal form, specifically which moves do not exist within the sequence. In a normal form representation of the sequential game you have to show every possible move available to every player, even the moves that do not exist. So basically when you convert a sequential game from extensive form to normal form, it becomes another game where you then look for Nash equilibria. If you are doing a two player game where each player gets one move, you can do it in your head just by looking at the game tree, but if the game is any more complex, you would need to do it step by step, first converting it into a normal form. 

I found a footnote next to "Federal Reserve’s various liquidity facilities" part of the sentence leading to a page describing these facilities: Credit and Liquidity Programs and the Balance Sheet. It looks like a detailed technical description of QE programs Fed implemented after the 2008 crisis. 

From economic perspective, it should certainly be successful. It is hard to judge it from ethical point of view though. 

It is not always easy to make a correct judgement in real time. The state of the economy and whether there is a bubble or not is only obvious in retrospect. So media often makes bad calls, as do economists, bankers, and governments. They do the best they can, much like weather forecasters. 

While business owners are generally united in their stance against minimum wage increases, wage earners do not always prefer a wage increase. Minimum wage puts pressure on the least productive workers and puts them at a threat of being fired. For example, if a worker produces 10 dollars of revenue for the business owner, but costs him 7.50 dollars an hour, then everything works fine for both of them. If the minimum wage is increased to 11 dollars an hour, then the business owner will simply fire the worker. That is not something the worker would prefer. On the political front, businesses are usually outspoken about their intentions to lay off people in case of the minimum wage hikes. Political parties are also aware of a possible spike in unemployment resulting from minimum wage hikes. If the economy is heavily reliant on low-skilled cheap workforce, an excessive minimum wage hike would be disastrous for its growth. Also, developed and highly competitive economies, like the US, have a good portion of voting age population working for a monthly salary, which is usually way above the minimum wage. These salary-earners are consumers of goods and services produced by wage-earners, so they are generally against increases to minimum wage. 

The term I often come across is 'inefficient Nash equilibrium' or 'Pareto-inefficient Nash equilibrium'. Here is an older well cited article discussing inefficient NEs: $URL$ Here is the frequency of the term 'inefficient Nash equilibrium' used in scientific papers: $URL$ 'Inefficient outcome' is also frequently used to describe NEs that are not Pareto-optimal: $URL$ But it has to be put into game-theoretical context and specified that it is NE. 

It is certainly possible for a central bank to move the economy away from liquidity trap or deflation trap by proper signals. Signals and targets are undoubtedly effective, as this NBER paper discusses $URL$ I read an article, which I cannot find now, saying that signalling and targeting by central banks are sometimes more effective than actual policy changes. The problem is that the economy and financial markets have a huge amount of different players with different interests and goals so it is hard to predict with certainty the effect of the CB revealing certain information. One thing I have to disagree with is that signalling higher expectations would reduce real interest rates and move the economy away from deflation trap. The equation it=rt+πt+1 would be more accurate as it+1=rt+1+πt+1. If you write it like that, then you can see that signalling higher inflation expectations would also signal an incoming interest rate hike, given that any central bank has the policy to keep inflation low and stable. When markets expect a rate hike, they reduce their equity and commodity positions (sell stocks, oil, gold etc.) and move into bonds and other cash positions. This sucks the money out of economy and creates more deflation. So if the CB wants to reduce deflation, the ideal strategy would be the opposite: signal sluggish growth and prolonged low interest rates. This is just what Fed has been doing for several years now and, arguably, it has worked. I can also add, as @ChingG noted in comments, the CB has to maintain credibility and not lie. On top of hurting its reputation, the central bank board members are also liable to the government for saying the truth. For example, if the Fed Chairwoman lied to Congress, she would be breaking the law. It makes more sense for the CB disclose the true data and to interpret the information the way the CB sees fit and give the signals and targets it deems necessary, but not "hide" information. 

Terrorists are definitely rational. Each one of them maximizes their utility by blowing themselves up. Their preferences and utilities are defined by their beliefs, of course, not the reality of the situation. Their rationality is bounded, because they may not know that their beliefs are false or misguided. The open question is how bounded is the terrorists' rationality. There are plenty of works out there, which I admit I haven't read, but Inside Terrorism by Bruce Hoffman looks to be a very popular one. 

"SDR inclusion does not mean... that the renminbi will rival the dollar as an international currency, at least not any time soon. The dollar is widely used globally in trade, in international borrowing and lending, and as the principal currency for official reserve holdings (about sixty percent of global reserves are held in dollars). Importantly, the dollar’s global status is a market outcome, not the result of a decision by any international body or of an international agreement. Private investors and governments freely choose to hold dollars because the markets for dollar-denominated assets are, by far, the deepest and most liquid of any currency; because the United States imposes no restrictions on capital flows in or out of the country; because of the quality of U.S. financial regulation; because the Federal Reserve has kept inflation low and stable for the past thirty years; and because the United States is large, prosperous, and politically stable." This is the quote from Ben Bernanke's blog. Ben Bernanke is the former chairman of the Federal Reserve. 

Downward pressure on the Federal funds rate means bringing interest rates down even further (to ~0%). Upward pressure on excess reserves likely means increased incentive for banks to build up excess reserves. The part about reserves is bit ambiguous. After reading the article a couple of times, this is what I make out of the paragraph (my comments are in bold): 

It looks like a question with an error to me. I think the author of the question intended two contractionary policies for C: 'Sell bonds and increase taxes'. Whenever I do tests from test banks, I often come across errors, especially if those test banks are free. 

There are a few important things you need to consider when planning your retirement. 1. Risk tolerance. You cannot invest only in stocks, whether indices or individual stocks. Even the most risk loving investors will get stressed out when their lifetime savings drop 10% over a week amidst some market volatility. It is usually best to put a portion of the money into bonds or other fixed income assets. They usually have much lower yields than stocks so it will bring down the yield of the entire portfolio. How much to put into bonds and how much into stocks depends on your risk preference and how old you are. The older you get the more you should allocate into fixed income assets. 2. Inflation. Inflation will eat up a lot of your savings over the course of your life. Not much can be done about it. Stocks are usually more resistant to inflation so having a decent position in stocks helps. 3. Hidden costs of index funds/ETFs ETF and index providers sometimes try to hide some costs like annual fees, commissions for good performance, dividends etc. It is very important to look thoroughly into the costs of the fund you are going to invest in. So if you build a balanced portfolio of stocks (index funds) and bonds, and the broker charges are either very low or free, then your annual returns on average should be around 3-5% depending on inflation. 4% is the rough estimate of returns you can get on a portfolio that is mostly composed of index funds. There are tons of literature out there, but most legitimate sources converge on the number 4%. Here is an article from a good practical blog about retirement that I came across recently: $URL$ It has been featured on the Wall Street Journal so it seems quite credible. 

Economics have evolved considerably since Adam Smith and his ideas have been refined. I can think of two approaches to your question: Why would a self-interested individual re-invest wealth? 1) Financial perspective Whenever you invest money instead of spending it now, you get paid interest. If that interest is higher than the satisfaction from spending the money now instead of later, then re-investing is in your self-interest. 2) Game-theoretical and behavioral perspective A self-interested person wants to maximize his or her payoffs. Payoffs can differ from monetary outcomes. If I re-invest my 1000 dollars into bonds for a year I can get 1050 dollars at the end of the year. But if I give 1000 dollars to charity, I may get a lot more satisfaction from that, provided that I am an altruistic person. So if try to measure my payoff from the charitable donation, it may be worth the equivalent of 2000 dollars to me. It is in my self-interest to donate instead of re-investing then. The same reasoning can be applied to saving and spending. If it gives me pleasure to hoard money then I will choose to re-invest rather than spend. Using this approach you can justify any behavior as self-interested or rational. You can take financial perspective to explore how productive and unproductive labor relates to your question, but if you take more general game-theoretical perspective, then it will be difficult for you to even define "unproductive labor" as even piling money and setting it on fire may be considered productive in some situation. But I would take the latter. After all we should study economics to better understand the world in all its complexity, not to take the easier path. 

Learning economics can make you richer than you would be without any knowledge of economics whatsoever. So it largely depends on your background. If you were brought up in a financially savvy family and learned all of the basics about personal finance, credit, saving for retirement etc., then reading "Wealth of Nations" won't make much difference. Just work hard and follow conventional wisdom. If you want to better manage your personal wealth throughout your lifetime, I would suggest reading books and blogs on personal finance. Googling 'Personal Finance' is a good start. Again, economic theory and economic history won't be too helpful. 

China still has a lot of work to do before yuan becomes a full-fledged reserve currency. It is still not freely convertible, there are capital controls in place for Chinese citizens, the People's Bank of China (China's central bank) is not independent of China's government, etc. China's economy is slowing and the reforms that are being done are not enough. To reach growth targets and maintain social stability, the Chinese government may continue the policy of devaluing yuan to boost exports. Chinese corporate sector is certainly betting on it: $URL$ China packs a lot of political risk. It is not a democratic state with thick censorship of every media outlet. If it starts the process of democratization, it may become politically unstable with disastrous consequences to the economy and its currency. If it continues the path of one-party rule with a tight grip on the economy, it may lead to prolonged stagnation and slow devaluation of yuan. 

It will be successful in increasing economic growth. Removing benefits and giving everyone a fixed sum of money per month will disincentivize voluntary unemployment, remove moral hazard from benefit schemes, and encourage poor people to seek ways out of poverty. Also there should be less pressure on public infrastructure, including healthcare. It will be successful in reducing the number of migrants seeking refuge in Finland. It will NOT be successful in making life easier for the most poor and unfortunate. 

The short answer is No. Every single year, except 2009, for the past 55 years of continuously recorded economic history, the world has been getting richer. The -2.1% global recession in 2009 was made up in 2010 with 4.1% growth. I was just working with the World Bank's World Development Indicators, which track global GDP growth, and I double checked. We measure prosperity and growth by the quantities of goods produced. Money is irrelevant. Every year we, humans, produce more and more goods and services and that makes us richer. Not every country grows steadily though. Some countries are stagnant, like Greece, and some grow remarkably rapidly over very long periods of time, like China. Moreover, there is increasing inequality withing many countries (measured by GINI coefficient). So it is very natural for many to feel like everything around them either stands still or degrades. But on average, the world keeps getting richer. If you are in Switzerland, you may have felt the shock from recent currency appreciation. Sharp currency appreciations hammer exporters and industries reliant on tourism, which make up a large portion of Swiss economy. 

Because dollar is a major reserve currency. When a financial crisis occurs in other countries, like India, Brasil, Russia, etc, everyone sells stocks and liquiates assets to raise cash. But the cash they want to raise is usually dollars or euros. When a crisis hit the US, everyone started selling assets FOR dollars. I.e. they were buying dollas for stocks, trillions of dollars worth. This demand for cash appreciated dollar. There was a multitude of other factors involved, as discussed in this paper: Dollar Appreciation in 2008: Safe Haven, Carry Trades, Dollar Shortage and Overhedging $URL$ After Fed's relatively successful monetary policy decisions, the US economy recovered faster than the economies of the EU and Japan, other reserve currency emitters. Then it was natural for dollar to continue strengthening.