There's no universal law for what denominations of bills must be made, but there are some general guiding principles. I come up with a slightly different list than @InstantMuffin. Here's mine: 

I've always thought Spartacus made a huge mistake by not crossing the Alps and fleeing Italy. After they defeated the Romans in ... I forget the name of the battle, but the big battle they fought in northern Italy ... they could have crossed into Gaul, maybe gone on to Germany or Spain or wherever, and been free. Instead they turned south to fight the Romans some more. If they had fled Italy would the Romans have followed them? Maybe, but they could have disappeared into foreign countries, linked up with some other nation, etc. I think they would have had a much better chance at survival. Anyway, if they had attacked the city of Rome itself and won, they could have massacred the inhabitants and looted the place. What happens next? If they managed to trap the leaders in the city when they captured it and killed them all, conceivably they could have destroyed the Roman Republic and Italy would have descended into a period of anarchy and dissolution. At that point the "Spartacans" could conceivably have taken over a block of land and started their own nation. Or they could have become a permanent bandit gang raiding the peninsula indefinitely. But frankly I think the more likely scenario would be that they would have to then promptly evacuate the city, or they would be trapped there by the Roman legions -- as they were ultimately trapped at Rhegium. With no real economic base, they could be easily starved out. So if they loot the city and then leave, sure, they cause a lot of destruction, but unless we assume other changes to the history, in the end they are still defeated. Rome would be rebuilt, and history would be little different. Maybe, possibly, once in control of Rome, instead of demolishing the city they could hold it hostage, negotiate and dictate terms. But what terms would they demand and realistically get? Once an agreement was made and they left the city, how long would it last? When they defeated the first legions sent against them and the Romans were afraid they would march on Rome, they were in an excellent position to dictate terms, almost as good as this hypothetical. But nothing came of it. So in the end, I think it would have made little difference. 

I'd say it all depends on the culture and ideology of the two groups. If the second group comes from the same nation or a friendly nation, and they have compatible social, political, and religious ideas, then I'd think they'd be welcomed. If they had incompatible culture and ideas, like the first group are Israeli Jewish libertarians and the second group are Iranian Muslim socialists, there's likely going to be conflict. Of course groups that were in conflict back on Earth might not extend the conflict to a new planet. If, say, both groups were fleeing oppressive governments, the fact that those governments hated each other might have little to do with the colonists views of each other. They might see each other as fellow freedom-loving refugees. Conversely, differences that seemed trivial back on Earth might be seen as important on the new planet. Or there might be new conflicts, like if the leaders of the two groups have a personal conflict. If there's no fundamental reason for conflict: It seems likely that a colony ship would carry at most thousands of people, not hundreds of millions or billions. So odds are that they are occupying a very small amount of land and using a tiny percentage of the planet's resources. There's little reason for conflict over living space, etc. The newcomers presumably are bringing at least some tools and supplies which would surely be welcome. At the very least they are bringing new skills: with a small population, it's likely that some skills are unrepresented or poorly represented. If they don't get along but don't hate each other enough to fight to the death, they have a whole planet. The new group could easily settle some place far enough away that they wouldn't even see each other without going to some effort. (Well, one could imagine a planet that is all barren desert except for one small area, or all ocean except for one island, etc, so that living space really is limited.) Consider the colonization of the Americas. When a Spanish colony encountered an English colony, there tended to be violence. But when new English colonists arrived at an existing English colony, they were welcomed. 

Hmm, seems to me that it's pretty obvious that dragon-like creatures are biologically possible, because we know that they used to exist. We call them dinosaurs. "Grow to the size of a mountain" is pushing it, but some dinosaurs certainly got very big. Big enough that a person might describe them as "the size of a mountain". "Lizard-like appearance." Yes. Reptilian, anyway. "Able to fly." Well, you run into a square/cube problem if you want a very large creature to fly: The mass of a creature increases with the cube of it's size, but the surface area of its wings only increases with the square. As lift depends on wing size, in practice it appears that living creatures, at least those using the sort of biological processes that we are familiar with, run into a limit here. Among real dinosaurs and dinosaur-like creatures, there were some that were very large, like diplodocus, and others that were able to fly, like pterodactyls. But none that were both very large and able to fly. "Breathes fire." First we should ask exactly what that means. Do we mean specifically something like the fantasy picture of a dragon, spitting flame out of it's mouth like a huge flamethrower? There's no creature alive today that does anything like that. Though of course that doesn't prove it's impossible. There are creatures like the bombardier beetle, that sprays a combination of chemicals out its rear that makes a little explosion. Beetles are tiny, but if you scaled up the quantities of chemical, it might make a nice little explosion that could be called "breathing fire". In any case, it demonstrates that the principle is not impossible, but in fact exists in a creature that we can observe today. The bombardier beetle has a complex collection of chemicals that enable it to spit out this little explosion without blowing itself up or setting itself on fire. It doesn't seem implausible that a different combination of chemicals on a larger scale could make a more "impressive" fire. 

Perhaps there are two issues here. One is, Do we consider other species or kinds of creatures to be "just like us" in some important ways? The second is, What do we call the creatures who meet the criteria for like-ness? The answer to the first question is surely that yes, it is possible that people would. Science fiction stories routinely portray intelligent aliens as "fellow intelligent beings", with both sides taking it for granted that the others deserve to have "human rights" (or whatever you want to call that concept). The second question is just a matter of definitions of words. If there were such things as elves or if some day we do meet intelligent aliens, it stands to reason that we will need a word that describes the human species, and we also need a word that describes any kind of intelligent beings. Whether "human" would be reserved for our own species and another word used or invented for the larger group, or "human" would be used for the larger group and another word used or invented for the narrower, is impossible to say. 

I've often thought that seemed pretty implausible. Well, elements of it are plausible. A death ray -- a laser or phaser or whatever -- that works by burning someone up would likely affect a person's body but have very limited effect on the air around him. Consider what happens when you open a hot oven to remove, say, a cake. If you touch the sides of the oven, or a metal baking pan, you'll be badly burned. But you aren't afraid to be touched by the hot air in the oven, even though it's the same temperature as the metal pan. Air is so much less dense than metal that even though it's the same temperature it contains very little heat, i.e. very little actual energy. If he's standing on dirt or rocks, the heat ray wouldn't have much effect on them either, as the heat conductivity of dirt and rocks is also pretty low. If he's standing on a wooden floor, I'd expect the floor to catch fire, or at least that there'd be a circle around him that becomes charred and blackened. If he's standing on a metal floor in the starship, I'd expect the floor to become hot and everyone standing near him to at least have to be dancing as their feet are burned. Likewise, if he was sitting on a wooden chair, I'd expect the chair to be burned up along with his body. If a metal chair, it should at least be glowing a nice cherry red. If a plastic chair, it if doesn't burn it should at least melt. But I presume the real reason is that the producers are trying to maintain a PG rating. If someone really invented such a death ray, I suspect that what would really happen when you used it is that you'd burn a hole in the person you're shooting at, and he'd have burned guts falling out of his chest and in general be a pretty ugly, grisly mess. Or if it could really vaporize a person, that it would leave charred stumps of arms and legs behind. That would have been way to ugly to show on TV in the 70s and 80s. Maybe today it would be acceptable. But still, they probably don't want to show the heroes killing people in an ugly way. When the hero kills someone it usually has to be neat and clean. Also, I'd guess the special effects for believable burnt leg stumps is more expensive than a glow and the person disappears. Personally, I often wonder how when a person is thrown back in time or travels to another dimension or whatever, he's always transported with his clothes and whatever he was carrying, but he never seems to bring along a chunk of the ground or the floor or anything else around him. I recall one science fiction book I read years ago -- forget the title -- that had the hero thrown into the future by being caught in a beam from some experimental machine, and the author threw in a line about how he was lucky that his whole body was caught in the beam, but it did leave behind the heel of one shoe. I suppose as the physics of such things is all made up, one could invent some equally made-up explanation. 

Wow, I don't know how one could possibly say. Maybe forever. Why were they so far behind Europeans when the Europeans arrived? Their technology appears to have completely stagnated. When Europeans reached the interior of Africa, the people there were still living pretty much as they had for thousands of years. It's not like they were a few years behind Europe and catching up. They'd gone nowhere for a long time. If Europeans had never arrived, would the Aztecs and Incas have started moving forward at some point? Maybe. Maybe not. What causes some cultures to have technological progress and others not? Historians debate that endlessly. Reasons suggested include various aspects of the culture, environment, religion, genetics, etc etc. 

I think this is in the category of problems that should certainly not be ignored, but which is far from a cause for panic. Right now, the amount of human-created space debris appears to be slightly less than naturally-occurring meteoroids. So basically we've doubled the problem, which I guess is bad, but it's not like we've multiplied it by 100. The total amount of space debris is not that great. Using the NASA report that HDE226868 helpfully linked to, today there are about 10 objects of size 10 microns or greater per cubic kilometer of space, and one of size 100 microns or greater. It's not like any object in space is being pelted with debris. Orbital debris cleans itself up naturally. Orbits tend to decay, and then the object falls into the atmosphere and, usually, burns up long before hitting the ground. In practice: To quote NASA's website regarding space debris and the International Space Stations: 

The big catch to one world government is: What happens to people who don't like the laws of that government? In the present world, if you don't like the laws of the U.S., you can move to Canada, or Iran, or wherever. But if there was only one government that ruled over all human beings, that if you don't like it, you're stuck. What happens when this government becomes tyrannical? With many nations, if one nation gets too oppressive people start fleeing to other countries. If it's bad enough that people decide to rebel, they can often get support -- sanctuary, weapons, etc -- from other countries. But if there's only one nation, then presumably it controls all the police and all the military. Any rebellion could be ruthlessly crushed. And please, don't tell me that you'll ensure that this country remains free and democratic by having rights protected by a constitution. Words on paper do not enforce themselves. Governments violate their written constitutions all the time. Less dramatically, many countries means that there are many laboratories to try out different laws and customs. We can see that, for example, Greece's approach to taxes and spending didn't work. Germany's approach to green energy didn't work. Of course some results are endlessly debatable. Which is working out better, Denmark's approach to drugs or Singapore's? Etc. If there was one world government, the leaders could enact a policy that sounded like an obviously good idea to them, maybe even to a majority of the people, and if it turns out to be a disaster, the whole world goes down the tubes. 

Sure, on a truly long mission it stands to reason that situations will come up that were not anticipated before the mission began. If this is the first ship of its type, presumably the crew will find that things that sounded good during development aren't working out so well in practice, etc. I build computer systems for a living. Every experienced software developer has seen things that sounded good on the drawing board and that looked good in testing turn out to not be so good in practice. (The Windows Registry ... cough cough ...) Most big software projects don't really have an end date. You deploy version 1, let people use it for a while, then you see the sort-comings and start working on version 2. Presumably some amount of customization would be built into the system. With a Windows application, you can normally re-size the window, re-arrange toolbars, and have all sorts of options. But the average user can't re-program it. You're allowed variation within fixed limits. Even if the technology progressed to allow much broader customization without reprogramming, you would surely want limits on this. As someone else mentioned, you probably don't want to allow a user to remove danger warnings because he finds them annoying. You don't want someone to be able to remove functionality with no way to get it back. If, as seems likely, users have to communicate with each other about operations tasks, then too much customization can mean that they can't meaningfully discuss how to do a task. I've often run into the "well, hmm, but it works on my computer" problem. It's possible that in the future, computers will be like the computers on Star Trek, where you can just say, "Computer, calculate the power output of our engines using this new fuel we just got from the Klingons" and it will do it, even though no one has ever programmed it to calculate power output or given it any data about the new fuel. In real life, computers can't just invent new algorithms based on vague English descriptions. In my humble opinion, if a machine is ever invented that can do that, it will have little resemblance to current computers. Creating an entirely new display is not something that the average crew member will be able to do in 5 minutes. It will be a task requiring skilled programmers. In practice, it seems to me that if a starship was really built that would be sent off on a trip lasting many years, and this ship had a large crew, that there would be some number of programmers included in the crew who could update the ship's computer systems as necessary.