On one practical side: be mindful. Meditate daily. Understand that the suffering and joy derived from your appearance is impermanent and doesn’t matter much. It is wise that you seek to reduce this attachment, but don’t do it from a place of aversion and anxiety. Accept your current way of thinking, and be patient and compassionate with your self about making a change. On a deeper side: reflect on the fact that you are a bag of meat and organs. There’s a great talk from the Buddha about this, see if you can find it. Try to see things more clearly, more objectively. Understand that your body will gradually deteriorate and decay. Be ready for that. Of course you can take care of it, but understand that the body is not YOU, but a mere vessel with an expiration date. Priding yourself of your body is no different than doing it with your car or house. It’s just a mere accessory. This answer doesn’t have a clear solution but hopefully will point you to the right direction to find a solution yourself. :) 

I think it’s possible to eat in moderation and be overweight. I’m not saying it’s possible to become overweight, but rather, to maintain your excess weight. Two factors come to mind: 1) monks don’t really have a physically active lifestyle. That makes it harder to lose weight. 2) different foods have different impact on your body weight. I would guess this monk is not eating a sugar-free, whole plant based diet. Is he? Buy finally, and most importantly: ask them yourself. From what you described, I gather they are pretty wise people, so they won’t get offended by the question. 

The discontent goes the other way: It is not how much you own and can still keep them in possession that makes one content. 

How do we know exactly that a "no pain method" of killing is painless? Because he / she / it wouldn't get a chance to scream, shout, weep, cry and twitch due to the fact that the nervous system is first shut off before vital organs are? And: if so, would you do that to yourself? It is not only the screaming, crying, suffering from pain, etc that show the fear of death, but that moment when "you are not in control and forced to leave your body into the unknown". If a kid is disallowed by his parents to have chocolate after 6pm (regardless the reason), would then be OK if he melted the chocolate and make a hot cup of chocolate instead? If not, why would painless killing not be a killing? Your "intention" (thought / sense) is unaltered - to kill, "different" only by a method with which you justify yourself. It "is" not about whether or not a being would become human through re-birth by being the judge yourself, it is about you accumulating the "debt" and ending a life that has its "duties" and its destiny through re-births. Let just make a very rough example that a cow was re-birthed from someone in the previous life that had done vicious crimes and deeds. So it, in this life, has to farm all day, subjected to torment such as being milked daily and forced to see its own newborns (calves) being taken away and slaughtered. And in the end, without getting a chance to "rest", it itself got slaughtered. You come along and take this cow in, without making it to do all of the above and treat it pretty well until its time is up. You would then be "clearing" its debt and at the same time you produce a good cycle. That is all this is about and that is - Compassion. The fundamental. It is hard to grasp for others, because they got so used to of thinking of "profit and margin" - I do something good, I earn a point in my Karma Bank with interest. I did something bad, I lost Karma points and thus the interest. Compassion and Karma is unlike capitalism. Everyone has it - Compassion, but it is "covered" by our senses (desires: taste, lust, selfishness, touches, perceptions), thoughts (judgements, clinging, biases etc). And once one finally grasps it, one would try to benefit all beings without the "self" and without thinking of Karma before or after doing something beneficial to other beings. 

I think that, in the zen soto tradition, the answer would be the famous word of Dogen Zenji: "あるがまま" (read: arugamama) which kind of translate as "things are so". Zen encourage a radical acceptation of "things as they are", and it is believed that through this radical acceptance of "things as they are", right here, right now, a deeper and non-intellectual understanding of life can be reached, one that words can't describe. Therefore such question can not be answered. The Buddha himself simply remained silent when such metaphysical questions were addressed to him. 

I undertake the training rule to abstain from killing. I undertake the training rule to abstain from taking what is not given. I undertake the training rule to avoid sexual misconduct. I undertake the training rule to abstain from false speech. I undertake the training rule to abstain from fermented drink that causes heedlessness. 

In my understanding sexual misconduct would be to abuse or molest someone, going against his or her will, putting you body in danger etc... I don't think you broke any of those. Now I think personally that if nobody was hurted there is no reason for you to feel remorse. There is no "moral" properly speaking in Buddhism, so there is no "guilt", it is more about wether you want to follow a practice leading toward liberation of suffering and if you want so, Buddhism ask you to follow a set of comportemental rules that are necessary to walk this path. 

Perhaps some day when you have "mastered" this, you could guide others in the West regarding Buddhism and share with them your experiences so that their starting path would be easier. Who knows, perhaps by that time you will have learn a bit a new language, too, by taking part in these Temples and with your translation ability, you could help other beginners even better. 

Back to the foot: When one is discontent or irritated, it is normally shown in his actions, facial expressions and body movements. The eye twitches, a sudden fist pump, the foot moves, hugging the head etc. But isn't doing all that a form of discontent? How many times do we see others, who in a very uncomfortable situation, still cast a smile on his face, but when in fact he is affected by the situation and thus discontent? Yes, they are there everyday. And are they content, just because he still smiles when he normally shouldn't. So, it is not about the fact that you decided to go for a walk or move a foot that shows that you are discontent - because they might be of another forms. 

Back to someone who is skilled in weapons/war etc: There is a saying: "The very instant when one decides to drop the butcher knife, is the instant he can become to be a Buddha" So it is not that his skills are "bad". It is the "sense" (intention) and creates the cause (weapons and war). 

As we know, in soto-shu we don't count nor observe the breath during zazen. I would like people who have a long experience with zazen meditation to explain if they consider that counting and observing the breath was helpful to progress in their meditation practice or not. Should a beginner start with counting breathing rather then go straight into shikantaza practice ? 

Most schools of buddhism advise to live a balanced way of life. It never says there is no meaning or purpose in life. Indeed it remains silent for this matter but encourage to accept things as they are which means also of course accepting to live! Don't run away from life, look deeply at it, accept it, and love it. Which means also means to accept yourself and others as they are, assume your responsability toward them, treat them with compassion and treat your body and mind correctly. 

Is there any scientific studies that have observed through different bias the differences and similarities between those three type of meditation? For exemple difference in EEG or brain plasticity in long term meditators, or various psychologic-cognitive tests that would give different results depending on the type of meditation. 

First don't assume too quickly that you thoughts aren't a distraction, the mind is very tricky and the more you will practice the more you will be aware of your lack of awareness, which is a good thing because you will start being conscious of being distracted by deep thoughts processing underneath your immediate attention and driving you off the focus of your breath. If you have no sensation around the nostrils don't be upset it is normal, just keep your attention there, remain equanimous and most of all don't crave or avoid any sensation you encounter in this area. The sensation can be anything don't look for a specific one and accept it as it comes. If you have unpleasant sensation on the nostrils, then focus on it without avoiding it, if you have pleasant sensation focus on it without being attached to it or craving for having it back when it goes away. Being conscious of the impermanence and remaining equanimous, meaning that you don't start craving our avoiding the phenomena you experience is absolutely fundamental in your practice. Once you develop this tendency your focus will increase naturally. This is called the Right Concentration : Samma Samadhi. Keep applying yourself like that and your attention will become sharper and sharper.