This is almost certainly a mistake. Applicants have an expectation of privacy for all sorts of very good reasons, for example if their current employer finds out they are job hunting the consequences are more likely to be negative than not. Let's say you take one of the names on the list and find the person (or even find someone with the same name but not actually the same person). You now have the capability to do all sorts of unethical things from tipping off their current employer to threatening them to slashing the tires on their car on the morning of the interview. I'm sure you wouldn't do those things. I know I wouldn't. But what about all the other people on that list? How desperate are some of them for this job? There's no way to know. Personally I'd already be taking this as a reason not to go with the company (if they are this careless with your personal information here then what else can't they be trusted with?) although probably not enough of one to cancel the interview. I'd most likely politely notify them of the mistake and wait to see how they respond. If they apologize and say they are doing something to make sure it doesn't happen again then all well and good. If they get defensive or make excuses or whatever then that's another point to consider when deciding whether to pursue a job with them. 

I agree with the other comments that the last 2 weeks on the job is rather late to be doing this, however... Rather than bringing up the emails at all I would recommend just mentioning to her as a bit of feedback that "soft skills" are very important if she wants to progress her career and see if you can recommend some people management courses or even better if your company provides training get her signed up for some. The emails are a symptom not a cause so rather than addressing the symptom go to the cause. They need to learn how to communicate and work with other people effectively. For all we know those emails would be great if sent to the right audience, without seeing them we don't know. The key skill is being able to send the right message to the right people and that is what the person you are describing needs to learn. 

Assuming they want to learn then get them onto an introductory course for the technologies/languages/etc you are using. It doesn't have to be fancy, just something to get them started. Company money is much better spent getting someone who is a professional teacher to professionally teach rather than shoehorning you into the role. Personally I learn much better by doing than by having someone tell me. Programming is a craft and a skill, not a matter of rote memorising. You should do that with them too. Don't get in a meeting room with them and talk for hours. Get out the computers and do some real programming. Start small, really small. "Write this little app", "tweak this little script". Simple changes with a defined start and finish that should only take a few hours. The first few times sit down with them and walk through the process. You could even consider pair programming or similar. Have them shadow you for a day and start off doing the work, but each time you shadow have them do more and more of it while you give advice and in the end just watch. Nothing but experience is going to give them experience. So the best thing you can do is give them that opportunity while at the same time providing guidance and protecting the company from any potential mistakes. 

First, are you sure they are making a mistake? Perhaps you were tasked with evaluating the technical merits of the two solutions - but who was looking at the other aspects? There could well be compelling business decisions and factors that you are not aware of. Those factors have outweighed your technical recommendation in this case. Check the cost of the two packages, training, support. Even just the advantage of something more established in the marketplace. If after evaluating all of those things you still think it is the wrong decision then put together a reasonably short document describing why and then ask for a meeting to discuss it. Make sure you are non-confrontational. Do not ever say it's a "wrong" decision. Say you have these things that concern you about the choice and you want to discuss them. Go through the reasons and for each one either see if it is a good reason to switch, or if not see what can be done to mitigate it. Then you come out of the meeting with either a mitigation plan to work with the new software as well as you can - or you come out of it realizing that actually your reasons aren't that compelling - or you have a compelling reason that the CEO has to accept is compelling. Honestly you're taking a risk doing this though so you had better make very sure that your reasons are compelling. And no, from a business perspective "haphazardly written" is not compelling so long as it works and your developers don't need to support it. 

I stayed with my first employer for 8 years, it was no problem at all when looking for a new job. However the key thing was that I was not in the same role for those 8 years. In fact in my CV I broke down my employment over that time as though it was 4 or 5 different jobs. By doing so I showed how I moved on and progressed from being a junior developer hired straight out of university through to steadily more and more senior roles. I may have had one employer for 8 years, but I had more like 5 jobs over that time and for each one I was able to put my job title and a description of what I was doing, what I learnt, and how I built on that for the next role. I only finally moved on when I could see few options for progress within that first employer. 

The simple answer is: No. You cannot completely avoid office politics. However, you can avoid a lot of the worst of it. Don't worry about what other people are doing, don't try and undermine them or bring them down. Just focus on your own image. If you build up your own reputation to be good at your job, perform well, be reliable, etc then you are not a tempting target for people to use as a scapegoat. So long as you are then careful not to get pulled into things you can remain mostly free of the fray. The problem with avoiding all politics though is that it doesn't take two to tango in this case. If someone decides to target you then you are now involved whether you like it or not. The key to success is making your own position strong enough that you are not likely to be attacked, while at the same time not making any enemies of your own. Which is a form of office politics again. By making sure that my contributions are visible, that I'm helpful and friendly, and that I don't ever pull other people down then in most places I've worked I've been able to remain completely free of the political side. That only hasn't worked in one company where everything was going to hell and everyone from upper management on down was desperately finding someone to blame but the culture there was so toxic that I didn't want to stay long and I moved on. 

Asking the question is a good idea. You should always ask, and in fact I don't even go to interviews without knowing that they are offering inside my salary range. If they aren't willing to offer what I'm willing to work for then continuing is just wasting everyone's time. The one thing that might have been a mistake though is this: 

On a purely practical note, lying is likely to get discovered. In the modern connected age a quick Google may well show your last job, in which case this now looks far worse as it immediately shows that you are hiding something. You should also considering that lying on your CV or in your interview if it is discovered can set you up for immediate dismissal. Some companies have a policy of doing just that even if you have since proven yourself to be a valuable employee. You are in an awkward situation but it is not lost yet, however all you can do is put the best face on it that you can. Without lying give the bare minimum information and the most positive spin on it that you can. For example "there was a culture of bullying that I found unacceptable." is true but also far less worrying than "I called the police to my workplace and my boss fired me for it". If you get asked for more details about it you can just say that you prefer not to go into details and don't think it would be a good idea to start dropping names but a person you were working with threatened you and one of your female co-workers with violence and the management was not doing anything about it so you left to avoid a situation where you felt unsafe. 

Basically he shouldn't just write off his scientific background and his maths knowledge - he should look for jobs where those will be a positive benefit and help him stand out from the crowd. 

I can give you a note of hope here, my dad did exactly this. After being a teacher for over 20 years the stress and government interference finally became too much and he decided to leave at a similar age to your friend. He'd been doing a lot of hobby programming over the years, was very strong in a number of languages, and he went after jobs where his specialist experience would be useful. He found a job fairly quickly and from there went on to have a successful programming career. Your guy has a masters in mathematics. That's great. So he should look for roles where that is important. 

So I was reading this question, nodding along. Thinking "that sounds quite annoying, but not too serious". Then you gave the specific example at the end and I was frankly shocked. That wasn't a bit of flirting or attention. That was pure sexual harassment, he was very far across the line! But none of your description up to then really portrayed that. If you went to your boss and said only what you said in the first half of the post then I can understand him not taking it too seriously. Go to the boss with this specific example written down with date, time and what he said. Collect a few more examples if possible. Say "this is what is happening. In the company of others he is persistent and annoying. Whenever he gets a chance to catch me alone I'm being sexually harassed." Hand the list to your boss (take a copy first for your own records) and tell him what you are dealing with. Unfortunately you will need to make a stand here, even if you would prefer not to. Hopefully the list can speak for itself though so you do not need to. Then make it clear. You cannot tolerate this situation any further. Either this behavior stops now or you will have to consider your options. If you do not feel comfortable having any further contact with this person then specifically request that. Hopefully this will make the CEO take notice. If not then you have the evidence you need to involve a lawyer. In a fair world you should not have to leave a job you love because one idiot is ruining it for you but it may come to that. All I can suggest is that you try a written complaint first, then evaluate your options from there. 

Focus on why you want the new role, not on why you want to leave the old one. For example as a technical person you may say that you feel that your technical skills are more valuable both to you and the company and that having tried management for a few years you have discovered that you got more satisfaction from applying yourself technically. Ask what you can do to move back into the more technical direction. It's possible that a "sideways" move into a more technical or architectural role would actually be just as good for you as a "demotion" move. If that's not feasible then saying you'd be happy to move to an [insert desired level here] role and realize that would mean a change in your package. 

I've run into these clauses a few times. On one notable occasion the contract the company gave me to sign basically claimed ownership of everything I created (whether short stories, stack exchange answers, artwork, anything) while employed with them whether or not any company time or materials were used or not. In other words I could spend my holiday writing a novel on my own computers and in my own time and the company would own it! In every case I've refused to sign a contract with any clause beyond a simple "no direct competition" one and had no problem getting that. In one case they kept saying "yes we'll sort that out" and after two weeks they still hadn't so I crossed out the relevant clauses, initialed the crossing out. Signed it with a note saying "except for crossed out clauses" and gave them that as my signed contract. They accepted it although I'm not sure what the legal standing of it is and whether that would vary from country to country so if in doubt talk to a lawyer. 

They should not be. The employee "James" (assuming their description of events is accurate) did exactly what they should have done. Of course it's possible that James was rather ruder or more abrupt in the moment than he later was when describing it to you. In that case then possibly he was out of line. i.e. the difference between "sorry, I can't let you in without a pass or code" and "get lost sucker" is pretty large. Having said that, even if James is completely in the right - some people are petty and vindictive. It's entirely possible that this manager will decide to take things personally and attack James over it. It would be worth logging the incident in detail now. Note down the time, the location, and what happened. If there is CCTV you could even record that. Now should the manager start making life difficult for James he will have ammunition to take to HR and/or use for legal action should that become needed. Escalation like that isn't likely, but some people are just petty and vindictive enough to do it so it's worth having some coverage in place.