I read that it is actually a disadvantage to hold off eating especially after a high intensity run. Here's a Google books link that features the sept 08 issue of Runners World with an article about post run recovery. (page 50) 

Usually measuring tape and a weighing scale is enough to take your progress measurements. Body fat percentage measurements would be more useful for someone overweight trying to slim down. If you're asking for a guide on how much body fat percentage you should maintain, here is a table of typical body fat amounts table from Wikipedia. 

Running long distance doesn't mean you have to automatically go with neutral (pronation) shoes. First, find out what kind of pronation you have and by how much THEN select your shoe type. Here's a link to a guide to choosing your running shoe. 

Will keeping my belly "tucked in" or taut help strengthen my abdominal muscles? Are there any negative sides to doing this? I used to do this in high school but gave up doing it when I started working and the sedentary life kicked in. 

I believe you what you're looking for is how to improve your fast twitch muscle fibers. From bodybuilding.com: 

You had the right idea with high-intensity exercises, they develop the fast twitch fibers while low-intensity endurance exercises develop the slow twitch fibers. Here are some tips from an eHow article: 

The best way to go is to wear whatever feels comfortable. But these are what I generally see at the gym: Upper: t-shirts or tank tops Lower: shorts Moisture wicking gear is a big plus especially if you sweat a lot, but not a requirement. Shoes: comfortable sneakers. 

It doesn't matter if your body gets cooled down during swimming. What matters is the number of Calories you burn during any exercise. Fat loss happens when you expend more Calories than you take in. Simple as that. Swimming is actually a very good Calorie burner. According to NutriStrategy, swimming at a leisurely pace for one hour can burn 354 to 558 Calories depending on your weight. 

Perform sets of short sprints twice a week in addition to your regular workout routine. Maximum effort sprints over distances between 20 and 50 meters give your fast twitch muscle fibers a fantastic workout. Add one or two session of longer sprints to your weekly workout. Going all-out for more than 50 meters is extremely tiring, so run these sprints at around 85 percent effort for the best results. Focus on quickness and fluidity of motion. Make time for weight training. Research studies show a direct link between maximum strength and overall speed, so using heavy weights to make yourself stronger will beef up your fast twitch fibers. 

I've just had a really nasty pain in my side, on the pelvis/pelvic girdle. It feels like it was related to some core supportive muscle. While it's mostly resolved within 72 hours, I'm curious what I probably did to myself. Background At the start of this week (Monday), I went back to finish some heavy physical (manual) work I hadn't done for many weeks. Over a 2 day period, it included a considerable amount of reaching into an awkward (hard to access) location, and digging out clay soil/gravel and pushing in replacement clay, at a very awkward angle. The ground is covered by beams about 18 inches apart, and I needed to get about 2 feet below them and dig there. For part of it, I could get down between the beams, but for other parts I needed to reach from above or from awkward angles from adjacent spaces. The shovel was a small handheld one, so it wasn't that heavy, but the force to push it into the ground, or hammer soil into place, and lift it out at awkward angles, was quite a strain. By that I mean that for part of it I was having to hold the (quite small!) shovel backwards in my hand and dig backwards, for other parts I was resting over a beam on my stomach/pelvis tilted head close to vertical to reach down to where I needed to get. I was also quite considerably twisted mid torso while doing this, both to reach where I could work, and when moving, or lifting, or dumping the soil out of the hole, and this meant I was twisted while either exerting force or trying to move - so the poor positioning and twisting and reaching were dynamic while moving loads and exerting force, not just static in between them. I also had a small amount of heavy lifting, which I did properly (ie not putting spine and back at risk). There wasn't much like of this, but it required muscles working in difficult/unusual directions and I knew it would leave me aching for a day afterwards. Pain The day after finishing (Wednesday?), I got a pain I've never had before, in a location I've never had it before either. It felt like it originated at the top of my pelvic girdle, about halfway between my left side and spine in my back. (I'm right handed if it matters) 

Because spinal pain can be nerve related or mislocated, there's a chance the issue was elsewhere, but I don't think it was. It didn't feel like it was related to muscles of the spine as my back itself didn't hurt. The sensation was stabbing and eye-watering. It was quite similar to how a sharp cramp in the calf feels. It stayed local in the pelvic area, so I didn't feel pain in my spine or close to my spine, or in other places on my back or hips or leg. It seemed to be very closely related to core supporting muscles, because when I was sitting on a chair, and my body automatically used the front and back torso muscles to maintain an upright sitting position, the act of that muscle group automatically tensioning to pull my body a bit more backwards was when it really hurt most. Over about 48 hours, more than a few times, it took time and effort to get up from lying in/on the bed, to try and find a way to get vertical that wouldn't cause that pain. But if I walked slowly and tried to keep my torso vertical (and avoid that automatic self-correcting movement), it mostly wasn't a problem walking around or working. I found myself holding my back slightly tilted forward at the pelvis in a way that made me think of the lumbar posture associated with spondylosis, but I knew that was just accommodating the pain and wouldn't last more than a few days. To get out of bed, I moved my legs across and off the bed, to help me tilt and raise my body from a prone position, which made it easier. There was also a slight pain from the matching place at the front of my pelvis, but that felt more like a "reflection" of some kind of the original pain, if that makes sense - not an actual or second injury site. If I had to guess, I suspect that the opposing muscle group may have been under unusual load or strain as a result, and suffered somewhat? I only very rarely use painkillers but this one was severe enough that I dug up some old co-dydramol and an ibuprofen for any inflammation, to handle it, without hesitation, which helped. I did the same the second day as well. After 2 nights (about 48/72 hours after the pain started) (Friday) it began to diminish to feel more like a bad battering or bruise, so it's pretty much ignorable now. What injury did I actually do to myself? 

periodisation which Jim Stopani explains very well in this program ($URL$ or German Volume training (40kg*10*10) (Google: German Volume Training for more info). 

Typical lifts to explore :Deadlifts, good-mornings, back sqauts, front squats, and hamstring curls. Careful when doing deadlifts concentrating on back position and with squats watch knee position. Often back pain is also caused by flexibility issues that can usually be traced to tight hamstrings. Try yoga if you think could be a contrabuting factor. Good luck 

That said I cannot stress enough how careful you should be with your knees. Ligaments grow slowly and take longer to repair than muscle. I seriously advise you to see a medical proffessional and enjoy some low impact and "easy on the joints" sports. Swimming, cycling (not off-road), etc. I have a friend who tore a ligament and it is something I would urge you to avoid. 

I would suggest doing a 21-15-9 complex with the rope and something else to build up general fitness. A good workout would be for time. 21 double unders (or 60 single unders), followed by 21 burpees 15 double unders (or 45 single unders), followed by 15 burpees 9 double unders (or 20 single unders), followed by 9 burpees If you can do this in around 8 min you can add another exercise. Both skipping and burpees tend to help with general fitness. They're also reasonably safe and don't require much equipment. 

Strengthen the posterior chain (back, hamstrings, bascially the backside of the body). Lifts (deadlifts and squats) teach you how to recruit the correct muscles (usually glutes) and handle off center loads. 

The power variations (power cleans and power snatches) involve landing in the power position (with your legs above 90 deg), like a half or quater squat. That said however I am not a medical professional but I would avoid the O-lifts in general. You usually land up putting yourself in dangerous situations during the learning process. I would stick to deadlifts and barbell rows. They're both very good compound exercises which sound a bit safer for you condition. Consult your doctor and please be careful with the deadlifts as well. It is a good exercise but can be dangerous if carried out with bad form. 

I'm assuming from the tags that your goal is bodybuilding (massbuilding) with little emphasis on strength. If that's the case you need to eat healthy meals and get enough rest. I know this is hard as a student but training takes a huge toll on your body and treating it well will improve your performance and reduces the chance of you getting sick. Goodluck and happy lifting 

Typically when I get back in the gym after a long period I typically start with high volume (light weight) for 2 weeks. For example 40 kg bench press (4*15). Followed by either