I am reading WILLIAM AND MARY by John Van Der Kiste 2008, 2011, in which he relates William III's reluctant plans to remarry after Mary II's death. This was to ensure the Protestant succession after Anne's death, as well as a future Stadtholder, particularly in view of the young Duke of Gloucester's precarious health. One of the "candidates" was Louise Dorothea Sophia, the daughter of Frederick of Brandenburg. Van der Kiste discusses the protocol when, in 1696,William travelled to the Rhine to meet Frederick and the prospective bride. Initially, neither Frederick nor William would sit down, each reluctant to take the only great armchair. Kiste goes on: 

According to Wikipedia ($URL$ the House of the Vettii brothers had two atria, one specifically for slaves. 

Actually, I think the main challenge she had - pace Tyler Durden - was when Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands. No one at the time saw a female PM as a potential war leader - even a little war, and assumed she would opt for negotiation. She didn't. And, whilst I'm in the 50% that loathed her, she was subject to sexist abuse - "hitting people with her handbag" , "grocer's daughter", cartoons with iron spikes for breasts - which no male politician would have experienced. 

Actually, in 1938,for most Britons, anywhere East of the Rhine was "a faraway land" of which they knew nothing. Only the rich travelled even to continental Europe; most people took their summer holidays in Margate or Scarborough - my parents had their honeymoon in Slough! The Commonwealth - particularly, I'm afraid, the white Commonwealth (Australia, Canada, New Zealand) were different, honorary Brits who shared a common language and, to an extent, a culture. India and parts of Africa were "ours", and the US was a kind of errant child with which we had a love-hate relationship. But Eastern Europeans were "different", speaking strange languages (most Britons didn't even speak French!) and having no connection with Britain. And, while it's true the Royal Family was largely German, George V had done an excellent job rebranding it as quintessentially British - changing the name to Windsor (you couldn't get more English!) and portraying the Royals as middle-class Britons writ large. The Empire, as it was then, was ours, sharing a sovereign, language and trade links. Eastern Europe, by comparison, was foreign, confusing, and nothing to do with us. 

I am left-handed, and never experienced this problem with dip-pens or fountain pens as a child /young woman, since the hand is below the current writing line. The main problem is not being able to see what you have just written. Some left-hander do adopt the "over the top" grip illustrated, I never have. However, it was not just in the Soviet Union lefties were forced to write with their right hand. My mother, born 1920, was, and even in the 40s/50s it was not uncommon - I started school in1954/55 and suspect I was among the first cohorts allowed to write with my left. George VI was forced to write with his right hand, which may have contributed to his speech difficulties in adulthood. Given the history of imposing right-handedness, and the "sinister" connotations of the left - still prevalent, I believe in the Islamic world - it may well be that writing with the left hand was simply not an option until modern times, so no adaptation was needed. 

A personal opinion, which I admittedly cannot back with sources atm, but I suspect it had as much to do with the "rise of the individual" during the Renaissance. Writers, artists etc are largely, though not entirely, anonymous before that. The Reformation emphasised personal salvation, an individual relationship with the Divine, and the individual, as opposed to the group, community, caste or class, began to step out of the shadows - cf Hamlet "What a piece of work is a man!" Earlier, the individual was simply not important, so why would s/he be painted? 

This is purely anecdotal, but in her autobiography "The Past is Myself", Christine Bielenberg, an upper-class English woman married to a German doctor during the Third Reich, narrates her busband's experience of torture. Being on the fringes of the German resistance to Hitler, she says that they noted that when some activists were arrested, a slew of further arrests almost always followed, leading to great contempt for those who had apparently betrayed their fellow resistance workers. Her husband, Dr Pieter Bielenberg, was eventually arrested himself; as it was near the end of the war, with Germany facing certain defeat, Bielenberg was able to "name-drop" members of the British Establishment known to her to engineer his release. On his return, Dr Bielenberg confided to his wife that he would never again criticise anyone who "cracked" under torture, saying, (I quote from memory) - "You don't know what they can do to you!" As stated, this is anecdotal, but suggests that torture can be effective. $URL$ 

My 6th great grandfather BIOGRAPHY of an AMERICAN SOLDIER AND SAILOR Nathan Jacques We question whether the individual records of Bonaparte's army, would furnish a parallel to the following simple but effecting narrative with which we have been favored in manuscript by a valued friend. It was written some time since; and we are informed that the subject of it died in consequence of a fall. Such narrative brings vividly before the mind, the toils and hardships endured by the men who achieved a Nation's liberty. Memoirs of the Life and Adventures of Nathan Jacques, of Rhode Island - "He was born in Narangansett, in that State, on the 11th of September, 1739. In 1757, he enlisted in Capt. Green's company in the Rhode Island regiment, commanded by Col. John Whiting. They went by water to New York and Albany, and lay that summer at Fort Edward, and were there when William Henry, on Lake George, distant 16 miles, was taken by the French. At the end of that campaign, they were disbanded, and returned home. In the spring of 1758, he enlisted in Capt. Samuel Rose's company, in the Rhode Island regiment, commanded by Col. Harry Babcock, a very gallant officer. They went by water to New York and Albany, and joined the army assembled at Fort Edward, under General Abercromby of 16,000 men, British and Provincials, to invade Canada. They marched to Fort William Henry, and embarked on Lake George, in the morning in whale boats and batteaux: lay on shore on the west sided of the Lake the first night and landed near Ticonderoga the next morning. Some skirmishing soon took place with a reconnoitering party of the French - in which Lord Howe, the second in command, was killed. The next forenoon, they attacked the French lines - a breast-work of logs, with an abbattis. The action lasted until the middle of the afternoon when they were repulsed with great [missing] and retreated hastily [rest of line missing] couragements. The Rhode Island regiment was in line with the British the whole day; their Colonel was shot thro' the thigh, and was carried off the field by Jacques and two others - and then he resumes his station in the ranks. The army after this defeat returned to their boats, and recrossed the lake that night. About half the regiment were then dispatched to join a body under Col. Bradstreet, on the expedition against Fort Crtaraqui, at the issue of the river of St. Lawrence from Lake Ontario; this detachment was commanded by Major Wall - and Jacques was among them; they took and dismantled the Fort and brought the prisoners, artillery and stores, to Fort Stanwix, and spent the remainder of the summer there. In the fall they were disbanded, and he went home. In the spring of 1759, he enlisted again in Capt. Roe's company, and he forgets who was their Colonel this year, his company went to Fort Stanwix, and was employed in carrying provisions to Fort Oswego. The regiment was discharged in the fall, and Jacques spent the winter working on the Mohawk. The next spring, 1760, he enlisted in Capt. Christopher Yates' company, in the 3d battalion of N. York Provincials, Colonel Rosecrant's - marched to Oswego, there joined the army under Sir Jeffrey Amherst. Thence by water, and took Oswigotchie - and thence to Montreal, which also surrendered - afterwards his battalion returned to Oswego, and thence to Schenectady, where they were discharged. Jacques remained on the Mohawk that winter working among the farmers - and in the spring of 1761, he enlisted in the same company and battalion, and went and employed the summer in enlarging Fort Oswego, there having been only a small Fort there before. In the fall they were disbanded, and he spent the winter at Coohnawaga, on the Mohawk. In the next spring, 1762, he enlisted in the British 4th regiment, commanded by Major Arthur Hamilton and in the company of Capt. George Coventry, and was drafted into the Grenadier company, commanded by Capt. Bradstreet - went from Albany to New York, there embarked on the expedition against Havanap, was actively employed in its reduction - and afterwards returned to New York.- Soon after which they were ordered to Halifax, whither he went with them, and remained until 1770, when the regiment being reduced to 39 - to a company - and about to embark for England, he in order to get his discharge purchased it at the expense of five guineas, which he had borrowed, and spent a year afterwards working, to raise money to repay the loan; this he thought a hardship, as many of the men were discharged freely; and he attributed the exception of his release, and that of some other able bodied young men, to avarice in the officers, taking advantage of their good condition to extort money. After having paid his debt, he returned to Narragansett, and married; and supported himself and family as a laborer. In January 1775, he entered as a sailor on board a merchant ship from Newport bound to Jamaica; from whence she went to Savannah in Georgia, loaded with timber, to return to Jamaica; - but when on the point of sailing, five British men of war arrived who took them, it being soon after the battle of Lexington and he was put on board the Raven sloop of 14 guns - which went to Cape Fear, in North Carolina, and anchored off the river. At night he left them and swam ashore, near a mile - went to Brunswick and Wilmington - got a pass, and a passage by water to Philadelphia, where Congress was sitting - and finding they were enlisting men of the continental ship Reprisal, Capt. Lambert Weeks, of 16 guns and 132 men he entered and sailed on a cruise. At Cape May, they found a vessel driven on shore by a British cruiser, and endeavoring to protect her, the captain's brother (a lieutenant) being sent on shore with a party, was killed. The Reprisal then returned to Philadelphia, and took on board William Bingham and another gentleman, to carry them to Martinique, where Bingham was to reside as agent for the American armed ships. They took three prizes on the passage - on approaching the harbour of St. Pierre, the British ship Shark, of 16 guns, came out and engaged them; they fought three half-hour glasses, when the Shark sheared off, a great deal damaged; but the Reprisal did not receive a shot in her hull. They went into the harbour of St. Pierre, and landed their passengers - and soon after the Shark came in on a careen. They sailed the next morning for Port Royal, in the same Island, and thence to Philadelphia; and in December, 1876 [sic], sailed to carry Dr. Franklin to France - landed him at Painbeuff, near Nantz - lay there near a fortnight, and sailed on a cruise in the Bay of Biscay; took five prizes, amongst them the Swallow Packet, from Falmouth for Lisbon, of 16 guns, which fought half an hour; lost a man and four slightly wounded, carried her into L'Orient, and lay there several weeks - hove down and repaired the ship, and the Captain went to Paris.- They sailed again, and cruised in the Irish and English Channel - and round the Highlands of Scotland - and having joined near Scilly two American Privateers, they cruised in concert. They took 25 prizes - sunk fifteen of them after taking out the men and stores - and manned and sent into port ten, which all arrived safe. On their return to France, off the Land's End of England, saw a man-of-war, who gave chase - they separated, and all finally escaped; but the Reprisal, being singled out as the chief object, was so closely pursued as to throw her guns overboard, and hardly escaping, reached St. Maloes; where she re-armed, and receiving back all her men from the prize, sailed for Boston.