Essentially you just triggered a massive volcanic eruption in Antarctica. The air and debris blasted out would fall back down so there will be no significant losses there. The explosion and resulting volcanic activity will melt large portions of the ice on Antarctica, although looking at Iceland will show that volcanos and ice can co-exist. Depending on the size of the eruption global effects could range from nothing to a full on volcanic winter dropping temperatures by several degrees and impacting crops around the world. So really you can let it have as big or as small an effect as you want it to have. To add more detail - and keep in mind that we have no idea how a "null gravity" area would actually work so this is just one possibility. The question described the bubble of null gravity descending underground by 50 miles. The crust even under a continent is 20 to 30 miles thick. That means that you have a 100 mile across area of crust that is now weightless, under that you have high pressure liquid rock that is normally held down by that crust. The high pressure liquid will try to "squirt" out as all the rest of the weight of the crust pushes it down, forcing the rock to bulge outwards at the center. Tensile strength of rock (especially considering multiple layers, existing fault lines, etc) is unlikely to be enough to stop it from then starting to split apart along those lines. So you now get the situation where the crust in that area is propelled upwards through the null gravity area, propelled by a jet of liquid magma. That will then spread out and as it leaves the null gravity area start to fall back down to earth. How high it will go depends a lot on how long the null area remains and how much everything gets accelerated before gravity starts to apply again. The mixing of the snow and ice with the magma will also have some interested pyrotechnics but is unlikely to be as dramatic as 100 miles of crust breaking apart and flying towards the sky propelled by a jet of molten rock 50 miles across. (Note that this entire process violates all sorts of energy conservation laws which is one of the problems with null gravity). 

Effectiveness 10/10. Move further from the sun, you get less incoming solar radiation, so you cool the planet. Practicality 0/10. Planets are heavy. More specifically, the energy needed to increase the earth's orbit would be absolutely astronomical (all puns intended). The solution used in Futurama as you describe it is also utterly impractical. The atmosphere would stop the engines from doing anything except generating more heat into the atmosphere (the exhaust has to actually reach escape velocity and leave the planet for it to change the orbit) and the amount of mass you would need to throw out is extreme. You would also need to fire your engines once per day or have some sort of very fast moving gantry for them since otherwise the spin of the planet would cause it to cancel itself out. Also if you wanted a circular orbit instead of an elliptical one you would need to do two course corrections. One to switch into an elliptical orbit to rise away from the sun then another to circularize that orbit once you were at the desired distance. 

Science would proceed exactly the same as it always does. It isn't a system or a set of rules or anything else, it's a process. You make predictions and theories about the world, you test those theories to see how true they are, you try to improve them. That will work just as well no matter how the universe works so long as it is not completely arbitrary. As to how your researches and priests would react - that's down to how you want to design your world. Priests may embrace research as better understanding the gods, or they may resist it. They may perform it themselves or excommunicate those who perform it. All of these behaviors are possible. 

Things that scare us tend to be things that recently (in evolutionary terms) we had reasons to be scared of. The darkness may hide predators or unseen traps. The cliff edge might be unstable and cause us to fall. The tight space might cause us to get stuck or unable to breathe, etc. Individual people might have more or less reaction to them but there is a genuine reason to fear. To answer this question then you need to look for things that would be scary for an air breathing mammal but not for an aquatic creature, or the other way around. Some examples, scary for aquatic aliens but not for us: 

Either of those things might make it valuable enough to be worth importing the food etc. The size limitation is hard to answer because it depends on just how much the location is worth. If there is enough reason for enough people to be there then surprisingly large. Certainly thousands of people. 

Moving away from fantasy towards reality then actually there have been some serious real-world investigations along these lines. $URL$ 

My point being that you don't need to have a real objective cost for someone to start drumming up fear on it. Lets say there is a shortage of a certain element - immediately politicians can start blaming the space industry for taking that element away from earth and making everyone back home run short. Whether it's true or not politicians love having someone to blame. 

Most of this has been covered by the other answers, however one thing has not been touched on. Who would be affected by this? Poor people? Not really. They have no cash reserves anyway. Rich people? Maybe. They tend to have their money tied up in fixed assets though. It's all in shares, property, etc. Everyone in the middle? Ahh, that's the problem. Everyone with savings. Everyone trying to save up for retirement with a pension. Everyone who has enough money coming in to put a bit aside for a rainy day, but not enough to buy investment style assets. Those are the people who suffer. I don't see this being a popular policy move... 

In Fae mythology iron is very harmful to them. They cannot stand to be near it (in some versions it even harms them) and their magic does not work on iron or on anyone holding iron. If a Fairy was captured by a town full of humans and placed in the center of an iron cage she would be completely helpless. How could her friends free her from this trap given that: 

The biggest hazard here is actually fear, fear of whatever wiped out people the first time around. Who is going to leave the safe and shielded city to go out to the farms and provide food? Can people prove to them that it won't happen again? There's a lot of infrastructure outside of cities. Power generation, factories, waste water treatment, to name just a few. Even if your generators are still working and still inside the city you need fuel for them. Your water supply almost certainly gets piped in from outside. You can expect martial law, poverty, riots and hardship. I would expect the majority of people to survive, but it will be a lot fewer than the original 20% of the worlds population that survived the initial catastrophe. 

A giant mirror, sail or similar placed in space between the sun and the planet could reduce the incoming sunlight. 

Backups :) With that much energy to spare everyone will be backed up at multiple different location. If someone does flip out and take out some people then they die and their backups never get used - whereas everyone they did hurt gets restored from backup. It's like Stack Exchange, Wikipedia, etc. If everyone can edit how come it isn't vandalized? The answer is that some people do try, but there are more people fixing the damage than doing it and tools have been provided to mitigate (protecting questions, etc) or repair (roll back, deletion, etc) the damage. 

I think you're missing some knowledge here, since what you are asking about is called a binary star system and they are extremely common. Your planet can orbit the pair around their common center of gravity (the Barycenter), or you can have the binary pair further apart and have your planet orbit one of them. The second case sounds like what you want. Note that nothing in space (even planets) orbits around something else without also causing it to wobble. The earth orbits the sun, but the sun also orbits the earth. The only thing is the huge mass difference between the two means that the earth moves much more than the sun does as a result. 

There is a word for what you are describing: Terraforming This has been explored a great deal both in science fiction and in realistic scientific research, most noticeably the idea of teraforming mars is a very popular one. There is a breakdown on the martian proposals here: Terraforming Mars The main obstacles are atmosphere (you need enough of it), magnetosphere (to protect from solar radiation) and temperature (you need liquid water). Even once you have managed to supply all of that (for example a sustained bombardment of icy comets might provide a start on an atmosphere and orbital mirrors might increase the temperature) you then need to get the balance of various gasses right. This is where the various plant/bacteria mixes come in. A series of different life forms each introduced at the right stage to bring the atmosphere closer and closer towards the desired form. It's a lot of work, you are talking centuries or longer and a massive investment in time and energy. 

Larger or tougher ships may have more powerful generators or larger capacitors, which means the damage they can take is larger. If incoming damage is less than the generator output then the shields will never drop below 100%. 

Counter-intuitively I don't actually think it has to have a major effect. You already have the situation where some people are better at some things than others, this just increases that tendency. People with control of earth would tend to end up in jobs working with earth such as mining, earth moving. Control of metal would go to blacksmiths. Control of fire would lend itself to fire fighters, or pyrotechnics (fireworks displays), or the army, etc. This is no different from people with the right talent ending up as blacksmiths, or hunters, or archers. You would have some people trying to go against their talents and struggling in a field they are not suited to but as in the real world most people would naturally fall into a career that lets them use it. The major thing to think about is actually how society would view these talents. For example is someone with a metal talent automatically apprenticed to the blacksmith. Is there a air talent guild that controls the weather and all air talents are required to join, etc. You could build a convincing society that has guilds controlling each talent and essentially ruling the world, but also an equally convincing monarchy with the relevant talents recruited into the army. Anarchy, republic, even democracy. People are people whether talented or not and will tend to act the same way they do with any other resource or ability. 

Once you reach a certain technology level males are essentially obsolete. Testosterone and increased physical prowess is irrelevant when all combat comes down to ranged weaponry and engineering. Beyond contributing DNA we are not at all relevant to reproduction either. You would not need to advance beyond our current technological level much to be able to take stem cells, convert them into sperm cells, then inseminate an egg with them. So you have a hypothetical future society where, couples (or singles, or multiples) form a relationship and decide to have children. Sperms are generated from the paternal partners (or taken from DNA banks) mixing their DNA appropriately and selecting for compatibility, desirable attributes, etc. (Of course they always select for female at this point too), the egg is artificially inseminated then implanted. This results in a biologically human (but heavily selected for intelligence, attractiveness, etc) entirely female population. It would be theoretically possible to have a male baby but if someone did that it would most likely be considered shocking and the child would cause a stir wherever he went. 

The trick to "killing" the tornado isn't nuking it directly, it's about breaking apart the cycle that feeds it. It's by nature an unstable system so injecting energy into the downdrafts or cutting off energy from the updrafts would be the way to go about stopping it. Unfortunately the storm systems are just not well enough understood to say just how much energy is needed, but it's far lower than that contained in the storm. A relatively small amount of energy in the right place will have effects right across the process. However putting more energy into the wrong place would actually make the storm stronger, such as by fueling the updrafts.