Related to Raditz_35's answer: There is a superadvanced race that is able to manipulate space to build what is in effect a cavatron that can process a whole star at once (Obviously it's working on something other than an electric current!) They haul the machine to stars that are just about to die and toss them in, the matter is scattered across space by it's charge and atomic mass. They scoop up everything of value. They do not consider the fluorine of value. (For those who haven't heard of them: You ionize the input material, subject it to a fixed voltage, deflect it with a magnet and catch it. The deflection is based on charge/mass, so long as you are precise enough and the buckets are placed appropriately it's quite capable of doing things like U-235/U-238 separation--and with a machine a good engineer might be able to build in his garage. We aren't buried in engineers building nukes because the power requirements are incredible--we even tried that route in the Manhattan project, it was abandoned as impractical.) 

I don't believe this is possible. We already have "unsinkable" ships--flood them and they stay on the surface. (They are not used more because of cost and size limits.) Even if you replace that water by something considerably lighter the same thing could be done. The basic approach is to use enough materials that are very light to build your ship such that it doesn't rely on air below the waterline for buoyancy. While it wouldn't be strong enough picture a ship made of styrofoam. You can't sink it. (Note that once we have enough space-based industry expect to see this in widespread use on Earth. Metal foam is considerably stronger than the same weight of pure metal and it can be made lighter than water. It's just that it can't meaningfully be made other than in zero-g.) 

Jay has a lot of good things, I'll add to it the end-timers of various stripes who will see it as an indication they must win their battle against evil before the end. Also, there will be a lot of people that see no reason to go to work anymore. Also, I would expect to see a major uptick in high risk activities. You're only risking a year and a half rather than a whole lifetime. 

I can see only one way this could possibly happen. The basic problem is that deflecting it still leaves it on a hyperbolic path--if you get rubble it heads back out into deep space. To actually capture the object means you need a far greater velocity change than is needed for deflection. Thus you need some scenario that causes major overkill. The only way I see this is they guide some smaller object into the path of the big one. The deflector object will be chosen by how much energy it will take to get into the right spot--a large object that needs a small deflection might be chosen over a smaller one whose orbit doesn't work well. 

Land a large nuke outside the server building. It's got a sign on it: 30:00 minutes until detonation, wipe the Stack Exchange servers to prevent this. The timer is counting down. 

And now for a ridiculously big approach: Build a ring around the equator. This is supported by a large number of towers. The ring is spinning well above orbital velocity (use a maglev setup, but there's a second one on top) and exerts an outward force. This is made equal to the weight of the tower beneath--thus the towers are actually hanging from the ring. (Yes, there are mountains and oceans in the way. I said this was ridiculously big--you're going to have to bore some mighty tunnels and build some pretty impressive deep sea constructs.) Once you have this ring working do it again--this time on top of the existing one. Repeat until you're out of the atmosphere and can put your launch track on top of the whole thing. As each ring takes the load of it's layer you don't need an insanely strong tower. I have not performed a full analysis of this but it's not needed to see that it works: Consider the extreme case with an infinite number of rings and an infinite number of towers--the materials strength requirement drops to zero. Thus it simply comes down to the required spacing. While this is a vastly more complex engineering project than either the launch loop or space fountain approaches it doesn't have the insanely powerful turn-around magnets those approaches need. You can duplicate or triplicate all the power elements so that if there is a failure the whole thing keeps working. As for the comment about the lack of hard science: 1) What's the force on the ring? You have an outward force between anchor points that matches the inward force exerted by the anchor points. Infinite anchor points = zero distance between them = zero force on the ring. 2) What's the force on the towers? The mass between a ring and the one below. Infinite rings = zero distance between them = zero force on the towers. Obviously, neither can actually be infinite but they can be large enough that there's no big materials issues. As for the Orbital Ring video in the comments: He's talking about building it in space--something not permitted by the question. I'm talking about building up from the ground, although the basic concept is the same. Note that his ring doesn't work--note my point #1 in response to the hard science gripe. You can't anchor that in only one point without the use of super materials. 

Look at how missiles and torpedoes work these days: Missile: Fast, maneuverable but subject to defenses. Torpedo: Slow, big boom, not very maneuverable, almost invulnerable other than to being spoofed. Now, for space use: Missiles: High energy devices, they leave an obvious trail--in the absence of electronic warfare the enemy will always know exactly where a missile is unless it's been drifting for a while. They rely on speed and electronic warfare to get through to their targets. In general the warheads will damage but not destroy the target. They are highly maneuverable, able to engage fighter craft. Torpedoes: Low energy devices. They come in at speeds little more than the vessels speed, relying on stealth to get through. Purely passive target seeking, although they can get target updates from the ship that fired them. They're shipkillers, if one gets through it's likely to destroy the target ship. Because they're slow the enemy can choose to turn tail and run and will generally get away, albeit at the cost of being forced out of the battle. They are not maneuverable enough to have any chance against fighter craft. 

Humans routinely experience a loss of more than 15% of the available oxygen in a matter of minutes with no harm done. It's called flying in a plane. Note, however, that it looks like there might be a relationship between long term lower oxygen levels and depression. 

No. Everyone has been dismissing the neutron star's gravitation as irrelevant because gravity is gravity. Unfortunately, in this case it isn't. The goldilocks zone scales at the square root of the luminosity. Neutron star luminosity: Around 1 millionth of the sun ? Earth's orbital radius: 150,000,000km. Neutron star goldilocks zone: 150,000km. Now for the killer: The Roche limit. 2.423 * radius * cube root (density/satellite density) radius: around 10km density: low bound: 3.7E14 g/cm^3 ? (Note: I converted units here) satellite density: 5.51 g/cm^3 (Earth) density ratio: 67,150,635,208,711 cube root: 40,645 2.423 * 10km * 40,645 = 984,828km Oops, a planet that's warm enough gets torn to pieces pronto. (Not to mention that you have a year that's measured in minutes.) 

1) No orbits: 1a) That means no atoms, no chemistry. 1b) That means no planets to live on. 1c) No orbits. Galaxies would collapse into a supermassive black hole. 1d) No orbits. Galactic clusters would collapse into a supermassive black hole. 2) Temperature is motion. Motion dies away--everything very quickly cools to absolute zero. 3) Everything at absolute zero means ordinary stars can't exist. Fusion could still occur once the pressure gets high enough. That means degenerate matter (if electron degeneracy means anything in a world without orbits) and the normal thermal regulation doesn't work. You would have dark bodies that simply sat there until they reached 1.41 solar masses and then detonate in a bang that would outshine a supernova. However, the mass thrown off by the detonation would soon stop and then fall back due to gravity. The light of the supernova would fall off much faster than normal and the star would soon reform, albeit slightly lighter. It would detonate again when enough material had fallen on it, each subsequent detonation would be a lot weaker than the previous ones as the material went up the periodic table. They would eventually cease when the star had been replaced with a great iron ball. Note that no mass escapes, the interstellar medium remains as it did after the big bang. Planets can't exist because there's nothing to make them out of. 

I would be shocked if homo sapiens exists 100My from now. Either we will have done ourselves in by then or we will have advanced far beyond what we are now. There are a bunch of very stupid things in our genes, I would be very surprised if we haven't cleaned up our genome by then even if we have done nothing else. Fixing the flaws will make an organism that can't breed with Mark 1 humanity and thus it will be a new species, not Homo Sapiens. In practice I think we would be many species by then as some groups decided to make changes that others didn't want to do. That's assuming we are even biological entities by then. 

I think you're looking at this wrong. You can have gas giant life without having to deal with extreme temperature or pressure. While the cores certainly have both (and are almost certainly incompatible with life--I don't see how you can have complex structures in degenerate matter and the cores have a certain amount of degeneracy) the outer edge of the atmosphere is obviously both very low pressure (the next thing to vacuum) and low temperature (all the gas giants have low surface temperatures.) That means there must be spots with reasonable pressures somewhere between the surface and the core and there must be spots with reasonable temperatures, although it doesn't prove that both will exist in the same location. From looking at terrestrial life it's obvious that life can tolerate quite a range of pressure--AFIAK there's no environment on Earth with liquid water and no life. Life exists at the bottom of the ocean. (It's pretty barren down there due to a lack of food but not completely barren.) Thus I find it all but impossible that there isn't an altitude where life can exist. Since the only surface of a gas giant is going to be awfully high pressure this point is going to be in the atmosphere somewhere. You'll start with microscopic life that gets tossed around by the atmosphere. Some will be unfortunate and go too deep and die but so long as the reproductive rate is high enough that won't kill it off. The next order of life would have to be a very thin balloon of hydrogen (it's not going to have a lot of buoyancy as it's in a hydrogen-helium atmosphere.) Conceivably higher life that worked on soaring could develop but the gulf from floater to soarer is going to be awfully hard to cross. If this gap can be crossed you could even go to intelligence. (See Robert Forward's Saturn Rukh) I think the biggest problem for such life is obtaining the building blocks. Hydrogen and helium will be very abundant but there's not a lot else and you basically have to have carbon to make life. (The sci-fi standby of silicon doesn't work at anything like Earth-like temperatures at least, although AFIAK it hasn't been completely ruled out in other temperature realms. The basic problem is that it doesn't like to form complex molecules. The heart of carbon-based life is long chains of carbon atoms with various things stuck to them. In Earth-like chemistry at least such chains made with silicon don't work. What you find in nature is Si-O-Si-O type chains--but once you add your bits to the side joints you have made a molecule that has a considerably lower energy state by coming apart and attaching the side chains to the oxygen. If such molecules can exist at all they are generally known as explosives.) 

I don't think most of these shapes create any advantage. Some are clearly inferior---anything sloped provides some support for a pyramid that a straight or inverted wall does not provide. As others have said, World War Z movie zombies (not the book zombies!) are the greatest threat, anything that can stop them can stop anything else. Jerusalem almost got it right--simple, tall walls. Their mistake was not making it tall enough to defeat a pyramid attack. I disagree about defenses--the wall should mostly be a passive defense. If you're using weapons you can run out. Another 15' on the Jerusalem wall would have stopped anything short of a huge mass of dead bodies that the zombies simply climbed. I would also be looking at trapped breeches. For example, let them into a cage--when the cage gets heavy it's anchors let go, it falls down on a huge mass of spikes--when it falls the breech is sealed. It falls to a point that's underwater and accessible to ocean wildlife--let them come in and eat the zombies. When it's been cleaned up enough it's counterweight lifts it back into position. (The spikes are only underwater so even if the zombies offer enough resistance that they don't go all the way through and stop it's fully dropping it's still in a position for them to get eaten. 

As has been said, language won't survive. Thus, don't use language in the first place, use pictures. I would a bunch of pictures made out of a pair of metals that won't corrode--not plating but images that go all the way through the metal. Once you have enough pictures to explain you can use a more compact coding scheme. You can never predict what's going to happen to any given time capsule so you make a lot of them. Put them in varied environments, including on the moon. I wouldn't put things in orbit because anything put high enough up to last 50,000 years is going to be awfully hard to detect. Make it big enough to be spotted and you're asking for it to get smashed. 

Your bomb powered rocket just might be able to reach space. It has no hope of reaching orbit. First, energy. From Wikipedia: Energy density of TNT: 4.6Mj/Kg. Energy density of H2: 142Mj/Kg. Unfortunately, this doesn't count the weight of the oxygen, that's 8x the weight of the hydrogen. This gives 15.7Mj/Kg for the total energy of your rocket fuel. You have 3.5x the energy in the rocket fuel (and in practice the different is greater as the rocket exhaust is lighter molecules which translates into more push for the energy.) Furthermore, when you set off that charge the energy that goes down does nothing about pushing your spacecraft. Getting 50% out of it would be very optimistic. Now we have a 7x difference. Given an equal mass ratio that means the bomb-powered rocket can only do 1/7th the velocity of the LH2/LOX powered rocket. Since the rocket equation is exponential and already climbing very steeply by the time you reach orbit your bomb rocket simply can't be made big enough. The reason behind Orion is the 100,000x greater energy from fission than from LH2/LOX. Lose even 90% of the energy and you're still have 10,000x the energy. If you want a cheap rocket for your story I suggest looking at the Sea Dragon. Crude in comparison to anything that's gone to space but it's so much simpler that it might be cheaper anyway. (Remember, the fuel costs of a Falcon 9 launch are probably under 1% of the cost of the booster.) Just take a big pressure tank with a hole in the bottom that feeds into the engine belll. No big fancy pumps or the like, just a valve. The "Sea" part of it's name is that it was so big that it could only launch from the ocean rather than from a pad.