Under Armour makes a line of Heat Gear shirts that are quite good in the summer; they're so light, they feel almost like you're wearing nothing at all. (I saw two sorts on the racks, and the shirts labeled "green" feel like they're made of a softer and more comfortable fabric. (I got them in yellow.) They're polyester, so they wick well. The short-sleeve shirts are inexpensive; the mens' tee-shirts go for about $25. The ladies' shirts go for significantly more, my wife just got the mens' shirts and they're fine for her. 

I've been using the same bike lock for a number of years now (one like, but not necessarily exactly the same as, this one). I noticed today that when in the locked position there is quite a bit of jiggle to the bottom bar. This may have always been the case to some extent, but either it's gotten worse or it's just the first time that I've actually ever thought about the implications of it. Is this a security weakness? Does it suggest weakness of the lock to any sort of attack more so than if there isn't a jiggle? Correction: The lock I actually have is this one. 

I'm planning to make my own panniers out of a set of army map bags -- these are small bags, about as large as a small front pannier, with a rigid back. The hooks I'm planning to use attach to the bag with two screws and nuts. I'll have to drill or punch a hole in the canvas and packing to get them to stay. How can I seal the holes so that the bags will stay fairly water resistant? 

You have a few options here. You can get a two-legged kickstand. These are primarily used with heavy touring loads, but they will help stabilize the bike when parking with an uneven load. The two legs fold up into each other when you disengage the kickstand. You generally cut these with a hacksaw to shorten them to the appropriate length. I used one for a while: 

You could easily throw a pair of shorts on over your jeans. It would look silly, but it'd get the job done. 

I typically eat Powerbars or gels like GU if I need more intake on the bike. Additionally, I have a electrolyte mix like Cytomax in my water bottles which keeps me ingesting salts and calories. Bananas are also great, though I eat so many post-ride that I typically don't eat them on the bike unless it's a really long ride. If you're slowly eating throughout the ride, I see no reason to need a "quick boost". 

I have a Mavic Aksium Race rear wheel. The freehub was working and felt gunky. I opened it to clean it (it was dry with some gunk and a bit of rust stains) and reassembled after lubricating with Finish Line's Dry Teflon Lube. Now the freehub turns freely both ways. And better than before cleaning. I opened it again to remove any lubricant and cleaned again. Not luck. I can clearly hear the pawls working well, but they won't ever engage, even when I turn it really slowly and wait for them to do so. I have also tried switching the pawls. The side to side play around the nylon bushing is less than 0,5mm. I have verified how I have reassembled it twice and have maintained such hubs dozens of times. I don't have anything here to compare with, but if I was aksed if the pawls look worn, I would say yes. My guess is that the pawls and freehub itself are worn out. But the question is: how can a dirty worn working freehub can be cleaned and turned into a non-working clean worn freehub? Thank you! 

At the end of one particularly hard road racing season, I felt pretty tired as well. I decided to take about 3-4 days completely off the bike and by the end of that I felt good again and ready to go. If you haven't even taken that off you might try. Also be sure to eat right and get enough sleep if you're not. But everyone's body is different. Attempting to build form back up "from the beginning" seems like a strong initial reaction if you haven't tried more simple R&R first. 

I run my little bike repair shop and a customer came to me with a bicycle with Shimano's Dual Control setup: $URL$ Braking was extremely poor, and although we couldn't see oil escaping, I was eventually able to confirm that both calipers are letting oil go around the pistons. The levers themselves show no problems. He would like to replace only the calipers, if possible, because he likes the Dual-Control levers. I'm thinking about two possible issues: - Connecting the line: is that the same connection since that time? - Oil flow: Does, like with the short and long cable pull "standards", the amount of oil pushed from the lever and the pushed surface in the caliper have different combination or does it simply not matter from a fluid's mechanic perspective? Thank you. 

You have two options, essentially: You can either carry each day's clothing on every trip, or store clothing at work. Carrying clothing daily If you're going to do this, you'll need to find a way to roll up your clothing so it's not completely wrinkled. Be aware that even packing clothing in the most wrinkle-free way possible will still not keep it as fresh-looking as when you pull it out of the closet. Many business travelers have found that the best way to transport clothing is to roll it. Do some searching, not on bike sites, but on business sites, and you'll find videos that get into this in more detail. But the gist: Fold along seams, then roll your clothing. The parts that must be least wrinkled (shirt collar, for example) should remain on the outside. You can also experiment with rolling around a towel, leaving some extra towel at the end and then rolling that around the bundle. This will become your clean-up towel at work. As you're showering at work (or taking a sink bath), hang your clothing up and let it hang up a bit. Allow a little extra time for this. It's worth noting at this point that many people continue to sweat even after they stop exercising, so you may want to wait ten to fifteen minutes before showering. (Riding gently for the last mile or three can also help.) There are special cases that hold clothes, but they all (to my knowledge) involve folding them. I think that this will invariably crease the clothing. Storing clothing at work If you have a spare closet or other space where you can leave clothing hanging at work, this is a great option. Consider doing a half-commute on Mondays, carrying the bike and clothing in, then riding home. On Friday, reverse the process. If you have a space like this, you can also leave shoes there, and possibly even a travel iron for touching up clothes (if you want to look particularly sharp). You might consider leaving a spare outfit at work in any case. I always worried that I would forget, say, underwear, or a belt, so I left an older set of clothing in my locker. If your work doesn't have a space like this, look into nearby gyms. Some gyms will let you use the showers and locker room for a small fee, one that's smaller than a gym membership. Some larger businesses even have gyms on-site for employees. 

Here is the explanation to what happened: The freehub bearing had been moved outside for about 2,5mm. When reassembling the hub, the body wasn't sliding as far in the axle as it needed to. Thus, the pawls were not centered in the notches and not engaging. But, I did replace the freehub body and pawls first, and they were engaging. However, when placing a great force, one pawl eventually gave up and broke at an angle. Being able to see the angle of the fracture, I eventually deducted that the new pawls and freehub were engaging at an angle, so one end of the pawl was falling in the notch, while the other end was "higher", outside the notch. I starting thinking about reasons for the pawls and notches not being aligned, which amounted to having the freehub not sliding far enough, and finally compared online pictures of the freehub bearing with what I have in hand. It was obvious that it was not pressed properly. After pressing in, the old freehub and pawls were installed and everything started working perfectly again, even the clicking sound got familiar again. 

Most bike screws are 4, 5, or 6 mm allen bolts. Any bike shop will also have these in stock. You could probably hunt up some stuff in your local hardware store, just bring your bike along. On the net: 

A cool paint job looks great, but if you ride at night, nobody can see it. Reflective tape can be an inexpensive way to decorate a bike, and it's pretty cool-looking: $URL$ There's a lot you can do with spoke lights for a truly "illuminating" experience.