As noted by Conrad Turner, the approximate shape of the Earth is an oblate spheroid, though it is so close to spherical that you would be pretty hard-pressed to see the difference without precise scientific equipment. This web page has some pretty good information on this topic that you might be interested in. When we talk about this shape, we are generally speaking of the land and sea. Gas in general has the property of not only having fluid shape, like a liquid, but also having indefinite volume. Gas expands to fill the container it is in. The atmosphere is not contained per se. What keeps it from simply expanding all the way out to the moon is Earth's gravity. But this means that faster moving air particles get further away from the surface than slower ones before being pulled back by gravity. So where exactly is the edge of the atmosphere? The outer-most layer of the atmosphere, the ionosphere, is very thin, and the further out toward space you go, the thinner it is. Where exactly its edge is, and what shape it has is... complicated. Anyone who wants to make any authoritative statement on the shape or height of the edge of our atmosphere will have a few other authoritative statements to argue against. While the exact shape of the atmosphere is difficult to define, it's pretty safe to say that it is not exactly spherical due mostly to the planet's rotation, and solar winds. The Earth's surface is also not exactly spherical due mostly to the planet's rotation, and tidal forces. Even if the entire surface was covered in water, rotation would flatten the planet's shape ever so slightly. And even if our rotation became tidally locked with the sun, and the moon... um... went away somehow, the tidal forces of the sun, would distort the spherical perfection ever so slightly. But laying all of that aside, the Earth is still probably closer to a sphere than most ball-shaped objects you have ever handled, whether you measure the "edge" of the atmosphere, the land and sea, or whatever. 

I'm far from an expert in this, but I have a reasonable guess at an answer. The White Dwarf page on Wikipedia describes what would probably happen. It seems that the WD would consume mass from the companion star until it can either sustain fusion, or fuse so much so quickly that it explodes into a Type 1a supernova. 

(Emphasis mine) The idea that the core is "rocky" or composed of metallic hydrogen is still unknown. Determining more about this is one of the objectives of the Juno mission currently in orbit. We may obtain better models of Jupiter's internal structure in the coming years, but at this point we just don't know. 

Yes, the orbits change massively over time. For example, Earth's eccentricity (how close to a circle the orbit is), its axial tilt (what causes seasons), and precession (which direction the Earth's spin axis points) change on these huge cycles, tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands of years long. They are caused by the pull of the other planets, mainly Jupiter and Saturn (since they are so huge), as well as the physics of inertial reference frames. These are known as the Milankovitch cycles. Here is a neat video explaining what each of the cycles are in detail. That video is about Earth, but the same concepts apply to all the other planets too, just on different amounts and timescales. An asteroid hitting a planet would technically change its orbit, however how much is questionable. An asteroid a couple km across would barely nudge the Earth since the Earth is bigger by many orders of magnitude. It would also destroy everything on the planet, but thats another story. Way back in the solar system's formation, when Thea hit Earth (theoretically) it was much closer in size than the Earth, so no doubt that it caused a much more significant shift in orbit. 

This is not an answer that stems from vast cosmological knowledge and experience, but from an intuitive mathematical understanding of stochasticity. I would point out that stars do not have the visual appearance of stability or a predictable nature. They are churning, belching balls of nuclear plasma. On a macroscopic scale, I would expect stability to look like smoother surfaces or uniform activity. Any object that you might describe as "constantly exploding" or even "on fire", or particularly, "undergoing nuclear reaction", I would ordinarily say involves an element of chance. The flare and CME activity of our Sun is governed by a roughly 11 year cycle. But it's not exactly old faithful. The activity of the Sun follows patterns, but they are noisy patterns. However, even though stars are the very image of chaos to our view, it seems that they are actually quite predictable. One reason is that they live in a vacuum. Literally. Or very near a vacuum. Particularly since your question eliminates consideration of external interactions, we are talking about stars like ours, surrended by mostly a lot of nothing. So when plasma erupts out of the star at less than escape velocity, we know that ultimately that plasma is coming right back home to the star. It's not going to smear onto some other object. And the goop from other objects isn't going to smear onto the star. Second, the time-scale of a star's evolution is enormous. Imagine watching a timelapse movie of our Sun where each frame of the movie shows the average (mean) appearance of the sun over 100 eleven-year solar cycles. Now you would see something that looks quite smooth, stable. And you could watch that movie of a stable glowing ball all day long without seeing any dramatic change. (Assuming 24 frames per second, watching the movie all day long would take you through 2.3 billion years of the Sun's life.) Because the timescale in question is so long, the bubbling, churning, and exploding we see on our timescale amounts to unfathomably insignificant blips in a stable, predictable, burn process. In general, any stochastic (random) event reproduced enough times, in the same way (with the same kind of randomness), will lead to stable, predictable outcomes. A man has solar panels on his roof. Some days are sunny, and some are overcast. Some days the panels get covered up completely in snow. But over the course of a year, we can still predict approximately how much power his panels will produce with about 98% accuracy, assuming there is no external influence, like the house burning down. So yes, excluding external interactions, if you know the total mass and composition of a star at conception, it makes sense that the chaos and noise of the atomic fireball would have a net zero effect on the outcome. 

xkcd also shows an approximation of what it would look like if you tried to take a picture of an average desk from orbit. It is just a smear of colors, devoid of any discernible detail. I tried attaching the pictures here, but SE doesn't like the png files for some reason and I don't have time to do the file conversion. Just check out the first link to see what it looks like, plus a more detailed explanation of why. 

It does appear to depend on the mass of the companion, and whether they actually collide or merely pass close. If they didn't form together, it is unlikely that they will be captured in each other's orbit later on, so the WD might just pass through the system, disrupting planets as it goes but leaving the other star unharmed. There doesn't appear to be a one-size-fits-all answer here. 

An answer to your question is not known at this time. From the Internal Structure section of Jupiter's Wikipedia page, 

If you're like me and you just want lots of interesting facts about space without all of the academic level of complexity, you may enjoy watching the Crash Course Astronomy series. There are a lot of other good resources on YouTube, such as Deep Sky Videos or Deep Astronomy. If you want something more fun and interactive, may I suggest playing Kerbal Space Program. I've learned a lot about how orbital mechanics, aerodynamics, and engineering just from playing this game. There is a question on the Space Exporation Stack Exchange that does a good job of covering how much can be learned from playing. 

There is an accepted answer already, but there is a couple known cases of a star we know has gone supernova, and yet we can still see it. This source describes one such unique circumstance. The star that exploded happened to be in a galaxy that was behind another massive one from our point of view. The alignment was just right such that the light formed an Einstein Cross. The light from each point on the cross takes a different path to get here, and each of those paths are different lengths. Thus, the different points on the cross show the star at 4 different times in its final years. The Space.com article I linked was written in 2015. Scientists first noticed the supernova in 2014, and each image of the supernova arrived within a year of when it was first noticed. If I'm understanding that article correctly, as of now (2017) all of the images of that supernova show the supernova aftermath, and not the star beforehand. However, there was a period of time where we could see the star both pre and post-supernova at the same time. You imply in your question that you are focusing on stars within our own galaxy. I don't know of any such situations of Einstein Cross events closer to home that let us do this. 

Simple answer is yes. It will take light from an explosion that happened 1 mya at a distance of 200 Mly, about 199 million years to reach "us" - not that any of "us" will be around then. The speed of light is the fastest speed we can get information from anywhere in the Universe. There's nothing special in asking about what happens to that star after that light starts out on its journey here. The fact is, we can't know, until we are able to gather more light from that same source. So, that star would appear to explode if you were looking up at it 199 million years from now (keeping in mind that both the Solar System and the Milky Way are also moving through space, so the exact time it takes the light to get here will be different than the time it took the light we are now seeing from that star to have gotten here.) 

This is more of a question of human perception, than astronomy. I was going to answer your question with this: "One, it just needs to be close to Earth." But, I decided it wasn't THAT funny. Anyway, stars are essentially point sources as far as our eyes are concerned. Typical visual resolution is about 0.02° or 0.0003 radians. Assuming from horizon to horizon is 180° (or π radians) that calculates out to roughly 10,000 stars. I'd probably increase that by 50% or 100% to be sure. You do understand that you can't line stars up side by side, I hope. There's no need, its about the angular distance, not absolute distance between them, that matters. They can be light years apart as long as they appear to be within about 1 arcminute of one another, our eyes will see them as a single object - subject to the psychological aspects of keeping color and apparent magnitude roughly uniform as well. 

xkcd worked this out! It was part of a related question: what if you pointed an infinite power laser in random directions, how much damage would happen? I'll try to summarize the parts of his analysis relevant to this question. If you choose a truly random direction, you'd have about a 50% chance of hitting the Earth. For the times you don't hit Earth, 89,999 times out of 90,000 your beam will pass out of the Milky Way without hitting anything. The objects you have the highest chance of hitting are the Sun or Moon, but the odds of hitting either of them is about 1 in 180,000. He goes on to show that your odds of hitting one of Jupiter's moons is about 1 in 1 trillion. Hitting a star is even harder, "even if you aim for the core [of the Milky Way]." He doesn't seem to have worked it out to the level of individual photons hitting individual hydrogen atoms, but given that space is mostly empty anyway the angular size method he uses should be a reasonable approximation. 

xkcd already did the math on this one! Like Gauti's answer, xkcd also links to this question on Hubble's website. Hubble moves too fast for its minimum exposure time to be able to focus on anything on the surface. He goes one step further, linking to this article on Bad Astronomy that points out that Hubble frequently points at the sunlight side of Earth to help calibrate its WFPC2 camera. 

I'd use a visual here - just tape some Lego people to a basketball, then explain that down is to the center of the basketball, and it only looks to him that there is a "universal down" because he too is standing on a much larger basketball. For someone that young, and for people of any age, a demonstration like that will make more sense than any explanation.