(I'm going to generalize to "projectile" here, since what you're asking for seems to be a missile-type device in a bullet form-factor.) There are two big problems you need to solve: First is tech - a guided projectile needs a lot of tech to work. First off you either need some sort of sensor suite to "see" the target (and thus know what to do to hit it), or a comm suite (so the gun or other external observer can tell the bullet where to go). Plus, you'll need some sort of computing platform, and most importantly, a thrust system to change the direction. Oh, and all of this needs to be able to compensate for a rifled bullet spinning at an absurd rate (Google tells me that an M4 carbine's bullets spin at a couple hundred thousand RPM), and any changes to direction will need to happen very fast (since bullets travel at hundreds or thousands of feet per second). To be clear, I am absolutely hand-waving the entire "how do you tell a spinning bullet to move 'left'" problem into super-science land. The second problem is that you need to fit all of this into the projectile itself, and that means you're making a heavier bullet or a more fragile one. A 50cal bullet is only about six-inches long, and there's no empty space in there. Something is going to need to be sacrificed. But amusingly, there is something closer to what you're thinking of - gyrojets. Played with in the 60s, they're essentially really small missiles that are fired from guns. You shoot from a gun, but they fly like a missile (little fins and all). While they were impractical back then due to technology, new improvements in radio control could be what you're looking for, if you're more interested in "guns that don't miss" over "bullets that don't miss". 

Well, building on ideas from others, I now have my own thoughts. New zombies are made by being bitten. Presumably this because of something in the zombies' saliva. The commander could collect zombie saliva (I'm not quite sure how yet) and give buckets of it to his archers. Before firing they dip their arrow heads into it. When the enemy soldiers become infected they are near their own side so they attack them first. The only problem, as has been pointed out, is that this will result in huge numbers of zombies wandering about even if our side wins. They may be worse than the original enemy. Therefore we have to devise a zombie trap. This could be a deep pit. There is a pole in the middle to which is tied a live enemy. The zombies are attracted to him but then fall into the pit. 

Training This is similar to dealing with psychological warfare in general. Training is needed and this has to be done through realistic simulation. If you have friendly gods who are willing to help, they could create practice illusions for your warriors. If not then humans must do their best with lights, mirrors and costumes. 

A note, though - except for point 1 (edit: and 4), I wouldn't expect any of these transports to be manned. The life-support costs are atrocious, and space travel is notoriously "straight". I would expect unmanned cans that are radio-controlled to get them going, they drift through the stars, and get picked up (and radio-controlled in) at the other side. 

At this point, the only people awake are your people, your casualties are the guards plus any tech who didn't want to go into SA, and so long as the authorities planet-side aren't tipped off, you're good to go. 

First things first: you would see a drastic decline in technology at the strategic level, because military commands would happily EMP their bases every three days in order to maintain privacy. (And likely a large swatch of the neighboring countryside to increase the time it takes new snoopers to invade). On top of that there's going to be All The Jamming. You name it, they'll have made sure it's running. There's zero electronics in my war room. (Also, I expect you'd see several of these "CAMP LUDDITE" bases so that old fashioned HUMINT doesn't steal your secrets). (Second aside: the description doesn't quite cover how fast these guys are. If it's possible to secure Air Force One, replace the press seats with food supplies, and have it stay airborne to constantly outrun the snoopers, expect that to happen.) Second: anything planned isn't going to be on computers. It's going to be in people's heads, spoken quietly inside your warded spaces, and orders will most likely be written down, sealed (and possibly put inside EM-blocking envelopes) and hand delivered. (As well as old fashioned code books). The goal of secrets and encryption isn't to hide forever, just until you need to. So war is going to be based around moving very quietly, and then very fast. Decisions and conversations will be held in secure locations, and then any information that leaves will be cryptic and the bare minimum. Soldiers will be expected to follow orders near-blindly, because if the enemy finds out things the same time as them, there's no need for them to know where they're going until they need to be there NOW. 

Talk fast (literally) If there's a stargate, there is a good chance that there is a civilisation also. An Earth year gives you time to explore before you return and set up camp next to the stargate. Find the locals and make friends with them. Any civilisation will have its own means of time keeping so your priority is to synchronise your time with theirs. Then perform the necessary conversion and allow a good margin for error. As others have pointed out, you have only your body to rely on and most bodily functions are variable in periodicity. Therefore you need to know a constant. Solution You need to prepare before your travels but that's only sensible for any gate traveller. 

Land The problem would come if the creature cannot be loose inside the shell. Propulsion could be achieved by changing the centre of gravity - perhaps by moving water around in a special vesicle. Water Spherical shells would be terrible on water. We've all seen those plastic balls with people inside going absolutely nowhere. If they are underwater however then there are definite possibilities. 

On Earth? A few zipposeconds (I haven't done the calculations) plus 8 minutes. When you see someone in the daytime, the light comes from the sun, bounces off them and then into your eye. You would trace the light beam back to the person. In other words, you would 'see' them. You could then trace the light back to the sun but you knew it came from there anyway. The same with anything else that you can see. You can only go back to the source of illumination. There aren't many perfectly reflective surfaces in the universe so usually this is two steps - one to the object being observed and two to the original light source. Photons are created when they leave the light source. They don't have any history before that. Nothing would be different. We already do see back in time. 

I don't think you need to wake all your mutineers up for this Think about it - you don't need the ship to go somewhere else. You don't need the people to do anything they weren't already doing. All you're trying to change is the circumstances when you arrive. (Borrowing some aspects from Dan's plan above) So your constraints are: 

The key point is What does everyone actually know? - and then controlling what they learn and how they interpret it. I don't live near Philly, so anything I'm going to hear about this will be via news reports. I'm literally only going to know what the media tells me. Easy-as-pie in this world of gag orders and national security letters. On the other extreme, anyone close enough to get a clear look at it was likely in the blast radius and thus not in a position to talk to anyone. In the middle are folks who would have saw the streaking light coming down. (Think of that meteor that hit Russia a few years back - even the folks who had cameras pointing at it just see a bright something coming down, then big boom). You simply call it whatever you want it to be called - meteor, nuclear attack, whatever your sneaky government masters want to spin it as. (And even from a kilometer away, you're not going to see much detail, particularly at speed) You mention that satellites caught details. While I think you're overestimating what a satellite can capture (relative speed is a bit of a bitch in photographing things in orbit, especially unexpected things), most of your serious cameras are government controlled. The rest are corporate, which brings us back to government nastygrams telling you that you had an unfortunate data outage, and you have NO IMAGES FROM THAT POINT OF TIME. Now, you just have a disaster scene, and it's pretty easy at this point. Lock down the area, close the roads, send in FEMA and the nuclear guys and everything else. Rig some gadgets to make clicky noises and declare an emergency evac. Get everyone out. Meanwhile, a bunch of MIBs in hazmats happily take care of the "suspect material". To sum up: 

My opinion? Given the stated scenario, magical males would be culled or heavily controlled upon first use of their powers. Why? Firstly, we must address a few issues: 

The Union have a simple and powerful solution to this problem: biological warfare. Based on the provided information, it would occur to me that there is nothing to prevent the Union from releasing a plague-like virus or micro-organism upon the Pantheon worlds, then entering light-speed travel until the released strain has become inert or has died out completely. Because it is biological, removing oneself from an infected planet to another planet does nothing more than act as a vector for infection, and is a greater threat than a solution. Secondly, unless the Pantheon has the ability to instantaneously track an object moving faster than light and then teleport aboard it, they have no means of retaliation available to them if the Union continue to travel at FTL speeds. 

Cooperative Casting If the setting contains an option to allow multiple persons to work together to complete a spell, it diminishes the importance of strong individual casters. To justify keeping a strong individual mage, this option would need to be removed from the table entirely. Comparison of Power We need a comparative ratio of female mage to male mage power. Without putting out the math as the previous posts have done, I will make this argument: the ratio point where acquisition of male mages is so extraordinarily high that it is not optimal to seek male mages, as I will cover in the next part. Risk versus Reward Analysis Let us say that a male magician is powerful enough to justify expending resources to acquire and retain. I would argue that there is no commander who would willing depend on such a figure. Justification: 

People close enough to positively identify what it is are dead. People in the neighborhood to get a good look are busy trying not to be dead, rather than walking a kilometer into the blast zone - and can be easily sent elsewhere "for their safety". Anyone beyond that only know what you tell them. 

I'm sure someone has tried, but they would run into multiple problems in short order. 1) How do you prove he's making them? They're exact duplicates, after all. Even if you trace serial numbers, you'll find that they're in your system as authentic. 2) Where do you serve him? He's not a resident of your country, and if there's a government at the North Pole, they don't have treaties with anyone (and if there's a boss, it's probably the Big Man himself) 3) Better yet, how do you serve him? Not like anyone's gonna catch him during his yearly trip (heaven knows NORAD has been after him for years with no success), and your GPS ain't gonna get you to the Workshop. 4) I suppose you could try him in absentia, but what country wants to admit that a foreign national does millions of home invasions every year and the government is powerless to stop it? 

A planet however could be different. If the planet was made entirely of gold then you could use it as the basis of your currency and measure it in grams of gold. It would be a super version of Fort Knox. More likely is that the planet has some other valuable mineral resources. However unless the planet is made entirely of that mineral you can't talk in terms of mass. The planet will have an estimated value. Nobody knows the actual mass of the mineral reserves - they put a notional value on it. The planet or parts of it can be bought and sold. It could therefore be used that way. The downside that you mention in your question comes if scientists discover that the mineral reserves were vastly overestimated. The planet will suddenly lose its value and the currency may crash. 

Question In a world where spirits were known to hide in corners and come out at night to cause trouble, how would this affect architecture? What about cupboards, beds, refrigerators, carpets, etc? In particular I'm trying to work out how large buildings would look both from the inside and out. Can anyone suggest good ways to conserve materials - rectangular rooms are after all quite efficient from a packing point of view. Clarification You can consider a spirit to be a sphere of diameter from 1cm - 100cm. They adhere to a corner at two or more points on their surface by flattening themselves slightly where they touch. They are unable to deform themselves very much however and always retain a roughly spherical shape. They can however extend pseudopodia at night to form limbs. These limbs cannot be less than 1cm across or longer than 1 metre. A pseudopod forms part of the volume of the ghost so the sphere diminishes in size accordingly. They only have pseudopods when they are moving around at night causing mischief.