A quick note on pannier racks: I switched from a rucksack to panniers in my second undergrad year, and I must admit that it wasn't incredibly useful at first. Carrying a few books and lecture notes, a rucksack is only inconvenient on the bike if you're cycling more than a few miles. But then when you arrive and get off, you're probably spending a few hours carting that bag around lecture halls and libraries, which is much easier with a rucksack than a pannier bag. In short, there's a trade-off. While you're on the bike, if you've heavy cargo (such as groceries) or a long distance to travel, it's much easier to make the bike carry the load in panniers. But when you get off, if you're walking around, a rucksack is easier to carry. Some pannier bags have shoulder straps to make that easier, but I find with my Ortlieb Back Rollers the straps are too much faff. You can also find pannier bags that transform into rucksacks, but I've no experience with those. Having a rack on the bike means that even if you think a rucksack is the best option, you can change your mind later, or have both and use them at different times (e.g. panniers for shopping, rucksack for lectures). A last quick note: if you can't afford to invest in a fully waterproof rucksack or panniers (they're a good investment when you can!), keep a plastic bin bag in them to stop your books getting wet in the rain. Also, you might want to stuff a plastic bag under your saddle, so it's handy to keep that dry when it rains. You don't want a damp bum distracting you in lectures, or inviting speculation on your nights out. 

If I'm going out in the evening and don't want to carry a big pannier bag or rucksack, I keep my lights and whatever else in a small 'man-bag'. It's like a smaller version of a messenger bag: about 20 x 15 cm on a shoulder strap. I try to keep it towards my back rather than under my arm, to stop it swinging around, but invariably it slides out (especially on right-hand bends) and towards my front. If I leave it, it dangles under my chest and rubs on my knees as I pedal. What can I do to keep it in place? I've tried shortening and lengthening the strap, and I've used it nearly empty or quite heavy, and it doesn't seem to make a difference. 

Yes, they do, and that's what the groove on your rim is for. If your brake pads are properly adjusted, they wear a rut in the rim, giving it a concave shape. This process is imaginatively described as "concaving". As always, the late Sheldon Brown has written on the subject: look for the heading Rim Issues. When you can't see the groove in the rim any more, it's due for replacement. If the rim is full of ridges before then, it can be smoothed by a specialist using a special kind of file, but I don't imagine this is really worth it any more. As others have said, the brake pads themselves aren't responsible for the wear: they're pretty soft. But the penalty for this softness is that they're not so good at shifting any grit that gets between the pad and the rim. On a car's disc brakes, most grit gets removed quickly owing to the hardness of the brakes, the faster spinning, and the immense pressure, but on bike discs and especially on rims, any grit will stick around for a while, wearing gouges out of your rim. Fine particles can embed themselves in the pads to continue to wear the rim down. This also means that the rate of wear depends heavily on the conditions you habitually ride in. If your bike is an all-year commuter bike it'll see more rim wear than a fair-weather bike. That muddy, off-road shortcut you take will be taking its toll as well. Worse yet is a proper mountain bike that's always ridden off-road on dusty and/or muddy trails. 

I'm a utility cyclist. Usually when I ride, I wear good outdoor shoes that are waterproof and hard-wearing, so it's OK if they get scuffed on pedals or splashed with mud or oil from the road surface. (Proper mudguards help a lot but still aren't 100% effective.) On occasion, I go to an event in formal dress, which entails wearing black, polished leather shoes. It's a lot harder to keep these clean and shiny. If I've a long ride to get there, I'll usually wear some shoes that are better for cycling and keep my black pair in my bag. But if I'm only riding 10 minutes to get to an event in town, having to pack a second pair and change them is a lot less convenient. Is there an easier alternative? A plastic bag over the shoes, secured with elastic, would keep them clean, but not (I fear) protect them from scuffs; besides, I'd be afraid of slipping when I put my foot down. Any other ideas? 

I got this trick off the Internet about ten years ago. Can't remember where, I'm afraid, or I'd credit the source. Imagine that your feet are really hands, and that you're not pedalling, but winding yourself along some kind of rack-and-pinion track. Picture it, feel it, and keep that motion in mind as you pedal. Our hands are much better equipped for the right kind of push-pull motion than our feet, so thinking of winding with your hands primes your motor cortex to keep a consistent amount of force round the whole revolution. Stay vigilant: if you notice yourself going back to piston-pedalling, just think of hands again, and you'll soon make it a habit. 

N.B. I don't wear polystyrene hats, so please don't post a comment or answer trying to convince me to wear them. 

If you're riding in race kit, then you can use one of your jersey's rear pockets for this purpose. Putting the sunglasses away is really easy, but when getting them out again it can be a little fiddly to open the arms with one hand, the first few times you do it. You can even share the same pocket with something else, as long as it's not keys or a water bottle. For race kit or light everyday clothes, you can hook one arm into the front of your T-shirt, shirt, jersey, jumper, etc. like a tourist does when walking around. You need to be confident of how stiff the arms are, but unless the sunglasses are wont to swing open on their own, it's perfectly safe. I wouldn't recommend trying it on a heavy jacket with a zip front or metal buttons, mind. This is probably not a useful suggestion for you, but some rucksacks have chest straps to keep them stable on the move: it's usually possible to stick one arm of the glasses vertically through part of this assembly, such as the loop where the fastening is attached. If it's a snug fit, you can safely keep your glasses there even if the arm swings freely. 

Every year I marshal a family ride organized by my local cycling campaign. As it's targeted at people who don't cycle long distances, the main job of the marshals is to offer help to people with mechanical problems, as well as to give them confidence they're following the right route. To make us more visible among the huge crowd of bikes, we carry flags, like this: 

First, I'm sure you've already considered this, but for future visitors: don't get into this situation. If you're at all unsure of your brakes, stop riding until you can get them fixed. Brakes don't just stop working for no reason. Most cyclists should never experience this. Second, are you sure you have to stop right now? If you're on the flat, you can come to a gentle halt just by sitting up in the saddle (to make yourself less aerodynamic) and waiting a minute. This is certainly preferable except in an emergency. If it really is an emergency, and you must stop in the next few seconds to avoid a brick wall, cliff edge, boiling lava, &c., do the following: Manoeuvre to somewhere it is safe to do so, and then put your weight on one side so that you fall over sideways. You need an empty space a few metres long (depending on surface conditions and speed) to be sure you won't hit anything. If you're on a road, hitting a high kerb at an angle should help you land on the footpath. If you're in parkland or countryside, a hedge or bush is a much better option than a drainage ditch. Be careful that even though you know a fall is coming you don't tense up: keep your joints loose and tucked in. Even at a fast cycling speed, if you stay frosty and alert you should be able to walk away from a deliberate fall like this with some bruises, no broken bones or head injuries. 

There are two risks to turning your hydraulic brakes upside-down. The brake system isn't filled to overflowing with hydraulic fluid: there's likely to be a small air bubble. Normally, this sits at the highest point of the system: the oil reservoir at the brake lever. There, it's not compressed by the piston when you brake, so it can't interfere with braking. If you up-end your bike, air bubbles might travel through the system to the brake pads. If they don't manage to make it back up to the reservoir before you want to brake, you might find your brakes are squishier than usual. 15 minutes is perhaps a pessimistic estimate, and it's not that much of a risk unless you get on your bike and right away need to brake very hard. The other potential problem is if the seals in the oil reservoir aren't quite tight. You might not notice in normal use, because they're at the top, but when they're at the bottom of the system, the pressure might let some brake fluid seep out. If you notice this happening, stop turning your bike upside-down, and make sure to check that you still have enough fluid to brake properly. If it keeps happening after you've re-tightened the seal, you may need to change the rubber grommet(s). Often rubber seals are dissolved over time by the oil, and stop doing their job properly. As others have said in the comments, you'd be better off avoiding the need to turn your bike upside-down. Find where the water is getting into the frame and seal any gaps. Some bikes already come with holes in the bottom in case they need to drain, and you might consider adding your own. 

I tried repainting my plastic mudguards (fenders) using automotive spray paint. It went on easily and covered well with two coats, but it has no abrasion resistance at all. Within a few weeks my paint job was full of holes where I'd parked the bike leaning on something, and where I'd D-locked the front wheel. Is there a kind of paint more suited to this task? 

They also help a little with publicity, as passers-by always stop and ask us what the flag is for and where we're all going. (The design of the flag itself is irrelevant: the one pictured here happens to be the county flag of Northumbria, but all the marshals have random flags.) Is there a way to improve on this design, removing one or more of these problems without making the marshals less visible? HV jackets just won't cut it: you can't see one HV jacket in a dense crowd from more than about 20 m away. Besides, some normal cyclists wear them, which could cause confusion. Rigid flags won't work either, even if they're shorter: there are parts of the route where even the riders have to duck under low branches. 

I painted my mudguards bright red to aid visibility, but it doesn't actually help that much. The thing that worked best for me was attaching a small pink teddy to the back of the pannier rack (like truckers do to their radiators). It's eye-catching even in a crowd. It's less good at Cambridge station, which is an extreme case, but works well in a long row of racks because it sticks out the back where it's visible as you approach the row. I only don't do that any more because I bought a rear light that mounts there. If you're coming back to your bike after dark, you're better off with unusually placed retroreflectives. Most car accessory shops sell rolls of retro-reflective tape in various colours, and you can get sheets of stickers which you can cut to shape. I always put a white triangle on my steerer tube where it's visible from the front, and a red stripe down my rear mudguard. Since you're probably carrying your bike lights anyway, just turn on the front one and play the beam along the row. Your own bike will wink back at you. 

They tend to fwap people in the face. Most of the ride is on cycle tracks, and if a wind blows from your left, the flag flaps out to the right, taking the whole width of the track and inconveniencing oncoming riders or pedestrians. The bamboo canes sometimes snap if we go under low signs or tree branches too fast. Part of the route is lined with high brambles. If the flag rubs against the brambles, they tug at it, pulling the bike off-balance (and this can snap the cane too). If you stop riding in a tail wind, the flag envelops you and you can't see anything until you start moving again.