There are two big mistakes that most amateur runners make. They go too hard on their easy days, and not hard enough on their hard days. This usually means they don't get as much out of their speedwork as they could, and they don't go easy enough to really get a good recovery. For the average runner targeting a 5k, they can usually get by with 30ish miles a week. Add another 10-15 for a 10k, and 50+ for a half marathon. I advocate a time based program with 3 short runs, 2 medium runs and 1 long run per week with a rest day. The long run for a half marathon program should be anywhere from 1:30 to 2 hours. Your medium run is 1/2 that, and your short runs are 1/2 your medium. So say that you have a long run currently of 80 minutes. 2 medium runs of 40 minutes, and 3 short runs of 20 minutes. Your 5k race pace is right under 6 minutes, so I wouldn't be going much faster than 7 to 7:30/mile. That brings you to a little over 30 miles at 7 min pace. Every couple of weeks, add a couple minutes to your short runs (So if you add 2 mins to the short run, it will add 4 to the medium runs, and 8 to the long). Keep that progression until you get to 50ish miles per week. Once you get to that point, you can keep the mileage, and start adding speedwork. There are two types, interval and threshold. Interval is short distance, long recovery, done at faster than race pace. So for your 5k, current race pace is 6 minutes, or 1:30 per quarter mile. A good interval set would be a mile or two warmup, and 8-12 x .25 mile at 1:15 or 1:10, with 2-3 mins rest between each quarter, and then a mile or two warmdown. If you easily make every quarter, then next time lower the time (So 1:05-1:10). If you make most of them and then start missing by a few seconds, you're in the ballpark. This type of workout is designed to increase your top end speed (race pace). The second type is threshold work. This is longer distances, done slower than race pace but somewhat near it, shorter recovery. So again for your 5k, a couple miles warmup, then something along the lines of 8-12 1/2 mile runs, at 1:40-1:50, on 20-30 seconds rest (This is also called on the 2:00, as your run time + rest = 2 minutes). Again, if you make them all, or miss, adjust times accordingly. (Although, if you could go out now, and do 12 1/2 miles on the 2:00, you should probably have a better 5k PB). Threshold workouts are designed to increase the time you can spend at or near race pace. Rest, nutrition and hydration are key elements, but those vary from individual to individual, so you will need to experiment with what works best for you. And, don't be a slave to your schedule. If you go to do a workout and you truly are just dead, don't be afraid to bag it and take a rest day. Learn what your body is telling you, sometimes it's just "I don't wanna", other times you really need that rest. For the racing, especially the short distances (5k and to some extent 10k), you need to be able to both take it out fast, and bring it home fast. If you get into the quarter mile sprint for position on a 5k and that kills your legs, that's something you need to train for. Same for the finish, if you just can't get your legs to move faster, you either paced it just perfect or went too hard. But you should be able (most of the time) to summon a last 2-300 meter dash for the finish. 

That's going to be heavily course dependent, unfortunately. If you have a wide, well packed trail, times are not going to be much different than they are on a track. If you get a typical European x-country course (Many USA cross country courses, esp at the high school level are not much worse than golf courses), then you're fighting rougher terrain, and often worse footing due to mud/water/weather conditions. That's where your time difference is, and why the exact same course in different years can produce wildly different times. A course on the road is not going to be much different in times regardless of weather, unless you are at the extremes of the scale (very hot or icy footing). A road race at 75 Fahrenheit on a mild day won't produce times much different than 50 degrees and raining, where an off road x-country race will be a much greater difference in those two conditions. Some of the benefits to running off paved roads is that it's easier on your feet (impact), gives you a more thorough workout because you are having to work on balance more, and is generally much more interesting than running on streets. The downsides are that you are more susceptible to injuries sustained by mismanaging the terrain, tripping on a tree root, sliding in mud, things like that. Just as an informative, cement is the hardest surface to run on, followed by asphalt, then progressing from hardpack dirt on up the scale. Most modern running tracks are of a spongy type surface that is more forgiving than asphalt is. 

Interesting question. Personally, I don't think that neural training would specifically help with hypertrophy training, except in a general sense, which I'll explain. You can train neural pathways to the point where they approach the speed of a reflex. I'd have to dig up the studies, but they tested reflex transmission time against transmission times for martial artists doing various activities. You can get very close with highly trained individuals doing repetitive tasks. But, a faster transmission speed won't really facilitate hypertrophy, as it isn't causing a higher amount of stress to the muscle tissues, they are just a nanosecond or two quicker in responding. Muscle memory {hereafter MM} (which is a bit of a misnomer, since it's not stored in the muscle) is probably a better fit, but is somewhat independent of neural transmission as far as speed is concerned. Muscle memory is attained through many many repetitions of a task (Such as reaching for a doorknob. You can find a doorknob in the dark because almost all US doorknobs are a standard height.) Where MM would facilitate hypertrophy in my opinion is in better execution of a task. A neophyte in the gym is going to wobble around, their bench press won't groove in the same "track" so to speak for each rep, things like that. That takes away from the quality of the work being done, and you get less out of the workout. As your muscle memory grows, you get more out of the work being done. What I completely don't know is if neural improvement would lead to better recruitment in the fibers, my blind guess would be probably not, as IIRC recruitment is a function of the type of exercise, but it would be an interesting avenue to explore. 

Your body will absorb nearly all the protein that you consume in a meal. Depending on the source, your body will absorb anywhere from 1.3g per hour on the low side (Eggs come in around 3g/hour), up to 8-10g per hour on the high side (whey protein). (Unfortunately, I do not have access to anything but the abstract rather than the full study). Protein stays in the digestive tract for quite a while, which leads to the full (or nearly so) absorption of ingested protein. The study also appears to address other factors in excessive protein consumption, such as excreting the excess nitrogen and other wastes associated with protein digestion and utilization. However, I cannot confirm since I don't have a source for the full article. In the abstract they suggest a maximum safe upper limit of: 

The main role of the arms in sprinting is to stabilize the torso and provide drive forward, especially in the start (Which is critical in 100/200m races). This stabilization allows power to be transferred through the center of mass in an efficient fashion. Since you've got to be able to oppose a significant driving force from the hips and legs, you need the strength in the arms to do so, as well as in the abdomen, lats, etc. There is this writeup, Sprinting Mechanics that also suggests that the arm swing doesn't necessarily contribute to horizontal motion, but contributes to the vertical drive component. It also cites a couple of studies that confirm the role of the arms in stabilization (Hinrichs et al., 1987; Mann & Hermann, 1985). 

Also, if you are using a machine, there are recommended ways to set up the machine (rotating points on the machine in line with joints in the body, etc), that may make a difference as well. In that case, see #2. 

Other than bracing your midsection, you shouldn't be using abdominals at all in that exercise unless your form is very poor. The abdominals main function is to either curl the upper torso towards the hips, or to curl the hips towards the chest. The big violator in either of those exercises is usually the lower back extensors, as people lurch backwards to gain momentum, mostly because they are trying to use too much weight. To minimize extra muscle involvement and place the most stress on the target muscles, use proper weight and strict form. Your upper body/torso should move minimally during the exercise. If you find yourself having to use your body to start/complete the movement, then you are using too much weight. Don't fall into the trap of having to have as much weight as possible, lower weight with strict form is much more effective than huge weight using momentum. 

For endurance and eventually speed increase, 25 minutes, six days a week would be better than 50 minutes 2-3x per week. The best advice I've ever seen for running is: Run. Run lots. Mostly slow, sometimes fast. One of the best programs I've seen for running comes from a triathlon and cross country coach that I've talked with a few times, and it's 3:2:1. Say your longest run is 30 minutes. You should have 3 runs of 10 minutes, 2 runs of 20 minutes and one run of 30 minutes, with one rest day. The generally accepted way is short, medium, short, medium, short, long, rest day. So since you can already do 50 minutes fairly easily at an 8ish min/mile pace, I would feel that you should be able to do short runs of 25, medium of 50 and throw in the long run of 75 minutes, of which you will either need to slow your pace down some, or walk a bit here and there. This gives you a very solid aerobic base, doesn't overstress you and allows time for recovery. Speed comes from consistency, and the day in, day out repetition and build. With 7 months to prepare, I would spend the next 2 months doing nothing but working the 3:2:1 program and getting your long run into the 2 hour range. Once you are there, for the next 2 months you can work on adding some things like strides in your medium length runs (Strides are things like 30 second periods where you pick up the pace substantially, repeat 8 or 9 times during the run), and brief higher pace periods. That should take you to about 3 months out, and your long run should be in the 2-2.5 hour range. You shouldn't need to do more than that, although at this point you could try a 20 mile run (Although at 2.5 hours, you are already close to 20 miles at an 8min/mile pace). You don't need to do too many of the 20 mile attempts (maybe 1 or 2, mostly to work on nutrition and hydration), you're already doing enough weekly distance. For the next 2 months, for one of your medium days, do a dedicated speed workout, such as 1-2 mile warmup, 8x800m substantially faster than your normal running pace, and 1-2 mile cooldown. In between the 800's, get enough rest that you can make the next 800 interval. So if you are at a 8:00/mile workout pace, your 800's you should try to make in 3:00-3:30, rather than 4:00 pace. Keep up with some of the strides and pickup type additions to your workout. About a month out from the race, start a slow, progressive taper, so that you come into the race rested. Unfortunately, tapering is somewhat of an art form and very individual dependent, so nobody can really tell you what is best for you. It does sound counterintuitive, but the greatest speed increases will come from consistency, not always pushing the pace. Most amateurs make the mistake of pushing too hard on their easy days, and not hard enough on their hard days. Oh, and I'm not sure what your height/weight is, but if you have any excess weight to shed, the general rule of thumb that I've seen borne out over the years is that you get around 3 seconds per mile faster for every pound less that you weigh (Taking into consideration that every person has a point at which weight loss actually hinders performance). 

Don't do that. At least not before you workout. There are two main types of stretching that should be used by most people, static and dynamic. (There are others, such as PNF, ballistic and others, but these two are sufficient for most people). Dynamic is motion based, you start with motions that mimic what you are going to do, and go from small to large in amplitude. So, leg swings, knee lifts, arm swings, etc. For jogging, I'd simply walk for 5-10 minutes at an increasing pace, until at the end of that 5-10 minutes you are at your goal pace for the rest of the workout. For the stairs, leg swings and knee lifts. Static stretching is the typical "bend and pull" or "reach and hold" kind of stuff. This should never be done as a warmup, only done afterwards on warm muscles. It's easy to strain, tear, avulse and otherwise harm muscles and tendons if you do static stretching on cold muscles. Ballistic stretching - This is the "bounce bounce bounce" type of stretching people used to do all the time. Don't do this either. There are specific instances where it is useful, but these are very sports specific and should only be done under the guidance of a knowledgeable coach/trainer. As far as the "machine", I would have to see a picture of it and how it's constructed before I passed judgement. I've seen a ton in my time in martial arts, and many don't support the legs/knee area correctly to promote the correct stretch, plus many don't use the machines correctly. In any case, it's also nothing you should be doing beforehand. If there isn't movement involved, don't do it to start. It's very possible that your stretches beforehand are causing or contributing to the intermittent knee pain.