I tried the GoPro for a while and there were several things I didn't like about it, or where I felt it fell short. I'm now looking at buying one of the "tough" cameras produced by almost all of the major camera manufacturers which have several advantages over something like the GoPro or the ATC3K. Things I didn't like about the GoPro are... - The weight on my head when used on the helmet (could cause my helmet to shift). - No screen, so you can only review footage once transferred to the computer. Transferring also takes a long time. You can get an add-on screen now, but this will add bulk and weight. - No zoom, so for instance the wide angle cannot even show red-light runners, as the lights on the far side of the intersection (perpendicular to my direction), are too far away to show up on the video. - Menus are difficult to use and you have to remember the abbreviations they use. - The square shape is bulky. I didn't try it strapped to my arm because it would be too uncomfortable whilst cycling. - The handlebar mounts are kind of bulky and can be fiddly to fit. - It interfered with my wireless speedo when mounted right next to it (the speedo numbers went haywire). - Enclosure can fog up requiring the purchase of, and fiddling with, anti-fog inserts. Olympus, Panasonic, Sony, Canon, Nikon, Fuji and Toshiba all produce "tough" cameras that are resistant to water, shock, dust and so on to varying degrees. Of course the models vary but typically they have these advantages over the GoPro or ATC3K 

Because of the wider BB Shell, Shimano may expect the frame's seat tube will also be wider and therefore recommend a slightly longer spindle to allow for front derailleur clearance on a wider seat tube. The 1mm difference in chainline due to a 2mm difference in spindle length is almost negligible for most riding, particularly for bikes with a derailleur. 

My relatively new Garmin GSC 10 Speed/Cadence unit has started losing connection to my Garmin 500. I'm assuming that the battery is running out, since I'm still using the original that came with it. I have done about 35 hours of riding. So I am wondering: how long should a CR 2032 battery last? I know this is a little subjective and will depend on ambient temperature and to a lesser extent speed and cadence for transiently illuminating the LED each pedal stroke/wheel revolution. But generally, how many hours can I expect to get from a battery? 

crazyguyonabike.com is a set of forums and blogs for long distance trekking by bicycle. I have seen such requests there before. The Regional: North America forum is a common place for people looking for riding partners, discussing routes, etc., across North America. 

I think it depends on several factors, as you note. If there is no traffic (car or bicycle), then just stop (if a tree falls in the woods...). If there is car traffic only, then move as far to the right as to can to be safely out of the way. If there is bicycle traffic, then it might be worthwhile to move completely out of the bike lane to avoid hindering other cyclists. 

I don't trust drivers, particularly the ones here in California. Riding alone, not it a group, makes me harder for drivers to see. Helmets are basically disposable, so I don't mine gluing a mirror to mine. I don't care about looking like a dork. I do that frequently enough in my regular life that time I spend on a bike is a drop in the bucket. 

I'm building a wheel with double butted spokes, 2.0 mm at the ends, 1.8 mm in the center. The Park Tool Spoke Tension Meter has a conversion sheet to determine the tension in spokes of different diameters. My question is which scale to use: 2.0 mm or 1.8 mm. Logically, I think that I should use the 1.8 conversion, because the center of the spoke is 1.8 mm diameter. But the entire length of the measured section is probably not 1.8 mm, because it is tapering to 2.0 mm at the ends. The answer to this question suggests there is some acceptable variation, so I was thinking about aiming for somewhere in between. 

I've snapped a chain twice. Once the chain was very heavily worn and it snapped at one of the factory links, the second time it was also heavily worn but it snapped at the Connex Link which I may have re-used (I can't remember if I did or not). Both times I was heavily on the pedals, taking off from the lights, and it is not a pleasant experience. Based on this I'd recommend 1. Get a chain wear indicator. (Sounds like you have one now) and check the chain regularly and definitely replace it before the chain wears out. 2. Don't re-use master links. Replace them when you replace the chain. Also note that some can be installed the wrong way (The Connex link is like that, make sure it is installed correctly). 3. For chains with a connecting pin, don't break the chain in the same spot twice. 4. Use a proper bicycle chain lubricant. Things like WD-40 can just dry out and prematurely wear your chain. 5. Don't continually break and re-connect the chain. Use a chain scrubber if you want to clean it, rather than breaking the chain too often. Although I've given up on the chain scrubber now, I just wipe the chain down with a rag, lube the chain, then wipe off the excess and ride. Doing this after rain helps keep rust off too. I carry a compact chain tool and a Connex connecting link, just in case. But I'm more vigilant about checking my chain wear and replacing the chain now, so I shouldn't need it. 

You should secure the cassette lockring removal tool with the quick release skewer or axle bolt, just enough to hold it in place (although some removal tools don't have a hole in the middle for you to do this). This means you can use more force without fear of the tool slipping. Then use a long handled wrench (spanner) and chain whip. A box-end wrench (ring spanner) will give you more purchase. Otherwise use a vice in place of the wrench (spanner) and just turn the chain whip counterclockwise when looking from the side of the wheel not fixed in the vice. When using the wrench and chain whip, if you can't push the two tools toward each other to remove the cassette, you can inflate the tire fully, and go for the most mechanical advantage by having the spanner and whip handles forming a v with angles of about 120-150 degrees. Then push down on both handles. This does run some risk of damaging your wheel though, so only try this as a last resort. You can also try putting the chain whip on the larger sprockets for more purchase. 

I use a mirror (a CycleAware Reflex) because, as others have said, it allows me to see what's coming behind me. Where I ride, the "bike lanes" are little more than poorly maintained pavement on the side of the road. So when it is safe, i.e., no traffic, I ride to the right in the roadway. I tried bar-end mirrors and glasses-mounted mirrors, but I didn't like either one. It did take some trial and error to get the mirror correctly oriented on my helmet, but now I get a good view of the road behind me. I've gotten fairly used to glancing back to see what's coming, so there are never any surprises. In fact, the other day in the grocery store I caught myself trying to look in my mirror to see if there were any carts behind me. I decided long ago: 

Despite changing hand positions often and switching to more "cushiony" gel gloves, I'm still experiencing intermittent numbness when I ride (sometimes I get tingling and sometimes not). Are certain types of handlebar tape likely to help? The tape on my bike is several years old. I see gel and cork tapes (and those that claim to be both gel and cork), neither of which I have tried. I realize that I don't actually know what the real purpose of handlebar tape is (perhaps that's another question). It might be that it is only for helping you keep a grip on the bars when they get sweaty. 

My wife and I recently rented a tandem for a day. I found that, because everything needs to be communicated -- starting, stopping, changes in cadence, shifting (which might cause changes in cadence), etc. -- we were talking continuously. This was good. What I would like to have is a simple, efficient vocabulary for communicating the essential information. Does this already exist in the same way that riders communicate on group rides? While I realize that we could just make up our own shorthand, if someone has already figured it out, that would be better. 

Through-axle hubs have a larger inner diameter to accept a 15mm or in some cases 20mm spindle, so many of them can be purchased with adapters that accept a 5mm spindle and fit in a 9/10mm dropout (QR usually have a 5mm spindle and fit a 9/10mm dropout). For example Hope have conversion kits for their hubs that allow you to use their hubs with an older quick release (QR) fork $URL$ 

Sheldon Brown makes a point about different spindle lengths being to do with seat tube diameter, when listing Shimano BB sizes. He says, 

If the quick release hub is truly a 9 or 10mm quick release hub then no. The diameter of the internal hole where the spindle goes through on these hubs will not accept anything larger than about a 5mm spindle, which means it is not possible to use them with a 15mm spindle that threads into the fork or frame. 

Looking at this and your previous question, and to answer whether you should be throwing good money after bad, the big question is how much riding you expect you're going to do. You may not know that yet, but what is obvious is that the more regular riding you do, the more you'll spend on maintenance. If the bike is old, you may find the bottom bracket bearings worn, the headset bearings worn, the hub bearings worn, the rims worn (if you have rim brakes), brake pads worn, cables in need of replacement, derailleur adjustment / replacement required, the wheels in need of truing, and so on. These things can be tolerable if you do only a little riding, but if you become a regular rider, you'll probably want to replace or fix a lot of that stuff. It may benefit you to go to a shop to have it looked at and they can assess the things that need replacing, before they go ahead and do anything. Try and find a shop that focusses on the type of riding you're doing. I'm mostly a commuter so I go to an urban commuting type shop. The road racing focussed shop near me will do it, but they don't have quite as much patience for me.