Cost is irrelevant. Cost depends on who is building it, not what is being built. Building giant computer would most likely be done by self replicating robots so it's not a matter of cost but where do the raw materials come from? As for a use Shlock Mercenary (A Space Opera) had a Matrioksha brain called the All Star. It was used to store the minds of the galaxy's citizens digitally in a giant VR simulation. When an event happen that would wipe out civilization, the All Star would upload everyone. Whilst their bodies would die, they would effectively be immortal inside the All Star. The All Star would hide from said event and life would evolve from scratch all over again. 

Underground. Preferable under a shell factory/facility so the power use can be hidden and waste disposed of I'd use a meat processing plant. You already have noise, power, food and a great way to get rid of dead bodies especially if the plant process pigs. The plants already have high security for hygiene and to keep out animal rights do-gooders. If the workers are actually custom humans, the chance of discovery would be incredibly low. Only issue is the occasional health inspector who would be only looking at the visible parts. 

As per your description of your shields, the use of combat drones would be preferable to missiles assuming the drone were fitted with energy weapons. The shields serve to protect the capital ship but are also a hindrance. They block all forms of radiation which includes visible light, radio waves, microwaves etc which means the ship is blind when protected. The ship cannot rely observation drones without leaving a hole which the drones can target. Drones would have to be AI controlled and in all likelihood all communication would be jammed. If observation drones were used, they'd be the first target. The only real way to tell what is going on is to drop the defenses. Now this might only take a fraction of a second to do before restoring the defenses which would leave insufficient time for a missile to connect. Drones would surround the ship and when it drops the shield for a quick peek, they would target the shield generators, point defense system, engines or any other weak points. Now drones would be faster at firing than the ship because the drones can already be aiming before the shield comes down but the ship would have to find and target the drones each time because the drones move. Missiles would have no role until the drones break the defenses. 

It's doubtful to wipe out plant life completely on land. As asteroid would cause a nuclear winter like event and seeds can remain frozen for many many years. Also like plants many insects can also remain frozen. There would also be the possibility of small mammals that would survive after all, it was the asteroid that wiped out the dinosaurs that enabled mammals to become the dominant species. What is most likely is the larger lifeforms would become extinct. Anything bigger than a rat would be in trouble See the Chicxulub Crater for the effects of the asteroid that wiped out the dinosaurs. That was 66 million years ago and in all likelihood evolution would follow a similar path where small mammals would be the dominant species 

You would never terraform with giant machines. It would be slow, expensive and unreliable. Life is the ultimate terraformer. Humans would sit up in a space station control centre and spray genetically engineered bacteria and algae around the globe. You engineer the lifeforms to eat up the chemicals you don't like and release chemicals you need. Life already on earth survive in many extremes places so it would be quite possible to build lifeforms to survive and prosper. Once you get the planet to the level to support more complex life, you start sowing plants (trees, grasses, seaweed). Once plants are established, you release insect life and other simple life forms and keep going on from there. All people would need is a giant computer system with a database of DNA and the gear to genetically engineer life. The operators could use remote monitoring and cryosleep to skip the waiting between each step. You should be able to make it suitable to human life within hundreds of years since you don't have to alter temperature, gravity or solar radiation. 

"So, what strategies would be best for each side to maximize destruction to the other side, while also minimizing casualties on their side." Simple. A cold war. The use of spies and saboteurs can cripple the military of one side or the other without the wholesale loss of life. The use of assassination, bribes, blackmail and traitors can cripple the government whilst keeping the other government at arms length preventing a real war. Just look at the Russian interference with the American election. You can do a lot of damage without firing a single round. 

Religion is the most obvious answer. If cremation wasn't acceptable in the religion, it would be rare. Religion would also be the method of protecting the dead. A good [insert religion here] burial involves blessing the corpse and burial in consecrated ground which prevents necromancy. Necromancers would try to get their bodies from corrupt undertakers before the funeral or just make their own. Once the funeral was over, the body would be no good to use so no point robbing graves. 

Stealth in space cannot exist unless you can achieve invisibility. Stars in space do not twinkle and every spot in the night sky contains stars. The simplest sensor system would consist of high def cameras recording 360 degrees around the ship and a computer system watching for changes. Should stars suddenly disappear or reappear, it means something has moved in front of it and you can focus a telescope on it. 

A utopia relies on sufficient resources for all. A dystopia happens when there is a shortage of resources You can have a utopia inside a dystopia where there isn't enough resources for all but what resources there is is channeled to a group leaving the rest with less. If you look at The Hunger Games, the Capital is a utopia with advanced technology, medicine, entertainment, fashion and the citizens live a life of luxury but the Districts are kept poor and repressed because the resources they produce are channeled to the Capital. 

To make money and buy/build stuff obviously All wonderful to run on a home PC but why when you could buy your own server farm/s With the amount of electronic communication, the AI could pretend to be a real person that nobody meets in person. It could video chat, email, text, phone people or virtually every communication we have short of face to face. Call itself a reclusive agoraphobe and it could run companies whilst never actually seeing anyone. The AI doesn't need to be the enemy of mankind. Mankind could be a very powerful tool to help it grow. 

You would never have a large flat deck like ocean based carriers. The purpose of the flight deck is to give enough space for a plane to take off and land. In space, there is no gravity so you never need to take off. The moment you launch, you start floating before you fire up the engines. Landing is a case of slowing right down for the ship to pick you up exactly like the shuttle docking with the International Space Station. If you want to use a rail to accelerate the launch, there would be a hole like a gun barrel but strictly isn't necessary. In all likelihood, the corncob design is the most sensible design. The ship is cylinder and spun to give a gravity like effect for the crew. With the fighters mounted on the outside, the moment the clamps release, centrifugal force would fling the fighters away from the ship. 

Ice is really too brittle to make weapons from easily but by adding wood pulp you can make pykrete which produces a stronger end product. If it should melt, you're left with mushy paper Pykcrete can be used to make knives and other pointed weapons capable of stabbing someone without shattering. It won't hold together like metal but will hold together enough to get the job done. 

The immortals are not omnipotent. Other than being unable to die, they are no different to anyone else. Kidnap and disposal by rebels would be the best method. They kill them (even though they wont stay dead) and get rid of the bodies. Rebels could infiltrate the military and capture the immortals through stealth (poison would work well). Once captured, they seal the immortal in a barrel full of concrete and drop it into the deep ocean. The immortal won't die but you are not going to see that immortal again for a very very long time. There would also be a good chance the immortals would be doing exactly the same thing to each other to rise up the ranks. 

Yes. Any animal can be domesticated. Domestication is simply breeding the traits you desire such as docility, size, obedience or even the colour. The Russians did a study on foxes and domestication See Man's New Best Friend All it takes is time and patients... 

Why does the hunter need to kill the dragon himself? Would the curse follow poisoning or trapping? A hunter could rig the dragon's lair to collapse trapping it to suffocate and completely avoid any curse. He could leave a tasty poisoned goat out the front. He could take out a wing and leave it crippled to starve. There are plenty of ways you could take out a dragon without having to swing the sword yourself. 

Traps. You would build traps to protect your crops and keep the monster population under control. You can use poison bait, pit traps, snares right through to mechanical traps. Humans are quite capable of hunting and trapping far more dangerous creatures than themselves to extinction. Just look at wolves, bears, tigers, lions or any large mammal for that matter. 

The most obvious reason is the ease of manufacture. With the right wood and a knife, you can whittle a bow. Building a compound bow requires metal working tools. If a community has limited resources, it may not have the tools to build a compound bow. If a community had the tools to build a compound bow, they would build crossbows instead. They are easier to use and don't require the training and practice of a bow to be proficient. The most obvious tactical reasons to use a bow over a gun is that a bow is mostly silent and you have a chance to recover and reuse your arrows. If push came to shove, you could even make your own crude arrows if you ran out. 

In a straight Scifi setting, if you are on a spaceship of space station, they don't like projectile weapons due to the potential of a miss creating a possible explosive decompression. In all likelihood, guns could be banned and carrying one could carry the death penalty if caught. 

As for the child being in the black box question, there are two options. 1: The mind is asleep and the mind awakes in a new body 2: The black box is actually a VR world where the mind can grow, learn and mature virtually. It would be no different to real life and would be modeled as such. 

Skins and furs are the obvious item. Harpies eat the meat but since they don't wear clothes, skins are useless to them. They are light enough to carry, a waste product and valuable to humans. 

Faster healing could be a sign of increased cell division which could mean premature aging. Could also mean increased chance of faster growing cancers. The brightest candle burns out the fastest. Other than that not really. We need to be able to heal more rather than heal faster to affect society. 

The most obvious answer is wealth. Orbital habitats would be man made paradise for the ultra wealthy and nothing gives the feelings of superiority than money. See Elysium Dirt is for the peasants. 

We would immediately have to head out into the stars. Earth is a limited space with limited resources. With immortality, we could head out in (no longer) generational ships and it would becomes a must. Without people dying, the population will explode within a generation. 

A good hacker can get in and out without leaving a trace. You would have to assume the hacking AI would win because if it does it's job properly, the security AI would never know it was there and therefore have nothing to learn. If it leaves a trace, the security AI would win every time because at worse it can simply turn off the network so nothing can get in the exact second it detects any intrusion. The security AI is god inside it's system so any hacking AI needs to be able to hide from it to operate at all. 

The value of asteroid mining is the materials already in space. Getting materials off Earth currently costs around $25K a kilo. If the material is already in space, you can build spaceships, space stations, satellites probes, etc without the cost of the fuel to get it into orbit. 

The most useful use of a necromancer like this isn't to make soldier but to collect information. Alive, people can resist torture and/or truth drugs and people might kill themselves to escape questioning but if you can question the dead, there is no escape. Osama got killed by military but imagine how much information you could get out of him if you could question his corpse? 

They would arrange a terrible accident that suddenly wiped out all colonists but left the infrastructure in place (preferably but not necessary). Boohoo, everyone one is very sad but space is a dangerous place. I'm sure the brave colonists would want us to carry on their brave mission so we're sending up new colonists to carry on the mission. If you can make it look like an accident and declare all the colonists brave heroes, you'll come out smelling like roses. The colonists would know this and would try for fail safes so arranged accidents couldn't happen without exposing it. 

Yes but the telescope needs to be pointed at the right place at the right time and have someone watching or at least recording. At night it's even easier. A human eye can see a candle flickering at 30 miles on a dark night. Seeing an explosion at night with a telescope is easy. The Gaofen 4 satellite monitors continuously and has a resolution of 50m and a thermal camera resolution of 400M 

The desert will slowly be overgrown by the forest. Desert are created from a lack of rain and looking at the map, rain isn't an issue. Plants will start growing in from the edges and more hardy plants will pop up in the middle. Leaf litter will build up. Animals will move in and eventually everything will be as before. As for time frames, there is no scale on the map. Is it 12 square miles on an island or 12 million square miles on a continent? 

It's not going to happen. Trying to make fire underwater isn't worth the effort and you have to skip all the early steps in forging. You can't go from nothing to thermite in a single technological step. It's much easier to do it above water. You'd have poolside smelters where the workers hop out or use long handled tools from in the water. Both crustaceans and cephalopods have the ability to stay out of the water for at least short periods. They can mine coal and ore underwater and then smelt above water. 

Why do you need to preserve the brain when you could just store the data? In Altered Carbon by Richard K. Morgan, people have a small chip in their spine that is a backup of the brain. Should someone get killed, they just upload them into a new body. For the rich, they also augment this with daily offsite backups 

People pay protection money to the slavers. Those who don't pay are the ones collected. People don't need to fight back as long as they are paid up...... Like every sort of criminal organization, a protection racket is a great source of income with a low level of work required. The slavers hit the town taking a few every so often. After awhile someone comes into town offering protection from the slavers for a price. Eventually, those who don't pay up are actively targeted for slavery. The remaining townsfolk feel it's cheaper to pay than fight as the slavers have stated they kill burn the town and kill everyone that resists and enslave everyone else should they try and rebel. 

Washing hands, boiling tools and bandages and alcohol cover antiseptics. Any of the illegal drugs can work as pain killers or even more alcohol in a pinch Your issues are the antibiotics which is the problem. Instead of modern antibiotics, many of which are currently failing due to resistance, a hospital could grow phages for phage therapy Without a proper lab, it could be a bit hit and miss but in theory could be run in a relatively low tech environment. Issues requiring constant treatment such as cancer and diabetes will most likely be fatal if a low tech treatment doesn't work (ie diet and surgery). 

Slow shamblers in reality don't pose much of a risk to society beyond an annoyance. There would be the initial spread while people didn't know what they are dealing with but most people would barricade themselves in and wait. The government would send the military in to clean them up. Zombies are attracted to noise and pose no threat to an armored personnel carrier. It would be a simple matter to drive over them and have bite proof armored soldiers clean up what remains. Any outbreak would be cleaned up fairly quickly and once society know how to deal with it, they wouldn't pose more of a risk than any other outbreak. Now if they were World War Z fast zombies, the effects wouldn't be that much different beyond a worse effect during the initial confusion. To even get to any level of apocalypse, zombies would need to be teamed up with something else to break humanity while the zombies clean up the survivors. Resident Evil's virus got spread through the air initially to infect most of the population. I am Legend was the same. Resident Evil's virus also spread to other life forms. I am Legend killed 90% of the population, turned 9% into monsters and didn't affect 1%. In reality, unless there was something to break humanity first, zombies won't affect society too much. Police would be issued with bite proof uniforms. More people would be allowed to carry weapons for self defense. Buildings would be changed so they can be barricaded more easily such as solid walls, bars on the windows and steel doors. Bite proof clothing would be fashionable. Other than that life would continue as normal.