Personally, as a Hindu myself I am skeptical of V. Subrahmanya Iyer's characterization of the Mandukya Upanishad, but I am still interested in his quote for its own sake. Empirical science focuses on what the mind experiences in the waking state, i.e. information about reality that is gleamed through the senses and, I suppose, through introspection of one's own mind. But my question is, have there been any thinkers who have formed a theory of reality which takes into account not just data from the waking state but also what the mind experiences in the dreaming state and the state of deep sleep? I should mention that the reason V. Subrahmanya Iyer characterizes the Mandukya Upanishad in this way is that he interprets it as making the argument that just as in the waking state we find that all the objects in our dream are not there anymore, within a dream we find that objects of the waking world are not there anymore, so both objects in the waking world and objects in dreams are equally unreal. But are there other thinkers who have used our experiences in dreams to form other conclusions about reality? 

Phillip Pullman, author of the His Dark Materials trilogy and vocal critic of religion, is a supporter of panpsychism, the doctrine that consciousness arises because every inanimate particle actually has some measure of consciousness. He said this in an interview: 

Now under Feser's definitions of possibility and necessity, step 3 makes some measure of sense. But then I don't see how step 4 is valid. Here is what Feser says (while justifying step 5): 

I understand the first three conditions; the first two conditions just specify a true belief, and the third one is a straightforward counterfactual conditional. But I don't understand the fourth condition. What kind of conditional is that? P is true, so this can't be a counterfactual conditional. And it's presumably not a material conditional, because the material conditional "If P then S believes P" is trivially true given the first two conditions. So what is the point of the fourth condition, and what does it mean? Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank You in Advance. 

Motion, defined as the actualization of a potential attribute of an object, exists. The actualization of a potential attribute of an object cannot be caused by that attribute, because only what is actual can cause what is potential to become actual. Therefore, the motion of an object must be caused by some other object. If that other object is itself undergoing motion with respect to some attribute, this motion must be caused by some yet another object, and if that object is in motion then that motion must be caused by the still another object, etc. The immediate efficient cause of something is simultaneous with it, so we have an essentially ordered series of causes existing in the present moment. But essentially ordered causal series cannot go on forever. Thus the sequence must end with an object which is not being moved with respect to any of its attributes, an unmoved mover. And Aquinas defines this as God. 

My question is primarily about step 3 (although step 4 will also enter into the discussion later). If possibility and necessity are being used in the standard way we use them today, for instance in alethic modal logic, then it seems to me that step 3 is simply false; it is fallacious to go from "for any time t, it is possible for X not to exist at time t" to "there exists a time t at which X does not exist". After all, you can have a situation where X existed at all times, and yet it was possible for X not to have existed at some time t. So at least on this interpretation of the terms possibility and necessity, Aquinas' argument seems invalid. But Edward Feser, in his book Aquinas, claims that Aquinas is using the terms possibility and necessity in a different way: 

The argument as I understand it (with the help of this blog post by Edward Feser) goes roughly as follows: 

It is possible to represent simple statements involving possibility and necessity in alethic modal logic and possible world semantics. But consider a statement like "It is possible that it is impossible for you to go to Walmart without crossing the Interstate." If you blindly translated that statement into alethic modal logic, it would be equivalent to "it is impossible for you to go to Walmart without crossing the Interstate", which is obviously very different from the actual meaning of the statement. The problem is that the two instances of the word "possible" correspond to different sets of possible worlds. The statement would translate into possible world-semantics as "There exists a possible world x, which has a bunch of different possible subworlds which all share the same road configuration, and there exists one such subworld where you go to Walmart and do not cross the Interstate." So my question is, is there any system of modal logic that allows for nested alethic modalities like this? And is there a version of possible world semantics that renders such statements meaningful? What I'm envisioning is that you have a bunch of possible worlds which differ on not just what simple (modality-free) propositions are true and false, but they also differ on what possible worlds exist or don't exist. Impossible world semantics may be relevant here. Ideally, I'd want a system that can represent not just two nested alethic modalities in one statement, but rather arbitrary numbers of nested alethic modalities. For instance, statements like "There is a possible world where there are no possible worlds which satisfy the property that there exists a possible world such that..." 

Some things are created and destroyed. Therefore, some things are such that it's possible for them to exist and possible for them not to exist. If it is possible for something not to exist, then there must be a time at which it will not exist. If all things are such that it's possible that they do not exist, then it is possible for there to be a time at which nothing exists. If it is possible for there to be a time at which nothing exists, then there must be a time at which nothing exists. 

My question is, is Pullman correct in saying Wordsworth, Blake, and other poets of the Romantic era were in support of panpsychism? Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank You in Advance. 

In the beginning of that quote, Feser is just casually stating step 4 as if it's obvious. Now if we were to adopt a modal definition of possibility and necessity, I agree that step 4 makes a lot of sense; in modal logic the statement "for every object X and for every time t, it is possible for X not to exist at t" doesn't imply "there exists a time t such that it is possible that no objects exists at time t", but it's not that big a leap to go from one to the other. But under the definitions that Feser adopts, it's not clear to me at all that step 4 is true. How can you go from "Every object has a tendency to stop existing at some point or the other." to "All the objects collectively have a tendency to go out of existence simultaneously at some point."? So to sum up, under the standard model definitions of possibility and necessity, step 3 doesn't make sense but step 4 does. Under the definitions Feser adopts, step 3 makes sense but step 4 does not. So what definitions is Aquinas actually relying upon? And whatever definitions he adopts, what is the justification for steps 3 and 4? 

My question is about the reasoning involved in going from step 2 to step 3. What is the justification for step 3? Why can't the actualization of a potential attribute of an object be caused by an actual attribute of the same object? If that were the case, then I don't see how the infinite regress argument could possibly go through. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank You in Advance. EDIT: My understanding of Aquinas' First Way is based on the works of Edward Feser. Here is a discussion of the First Way from his book The Last Superstition. 

As I understand it, Parmenides and Heraclitus were two pre-Socratic Greek philosophers whose views could not be farther apart. Parmenides believed that all change is illusory, and that there is just one indivisible entity which exists in reality. Heraclitus believed that change was the only thing constant in life, and that nothing maintains its existence or identity for longer than a moment. Yet it seems that they both had one belief in common. In Plato's dialogue "Cratylus", the eponymous figure Cratylus, who was a follower of Heraclitus, claims that it's impossible to utter a falsehood: 

So my question is, was it common among Ancient Greek philosophers to believe that uttering a falsehood is impossible, given that two philosophers as different as Parmenides and Heraclitus apparently both believed it? Do we know of other philosophers who believed it? Or is this just a strawman that Plato attributes to various interlocutors in his dialogues so it can be knocked down? 

My question is, what is Aquinas' argument for step 4, i.e. for the notion that humans have a natural desire to exist forever? His argument for step 4 is given in bold, but I'm not really able to understand what he's saying. First of all he says "Hence, those things lacking knowledge, in whose principles there is a power of keeping themselves in existence forever so that they remain always the same numerically, naturally desire to exist everlastingly even in their numerical self-identity. But things whose principles have not the power to do this, but only the power of perpetuating their existence in the same species, also naturally desire to be perpetuated in this manner." I don't know what "numerical self-identity" and "existence in the same species" are. But in any case, whatever this statement means, he seems to think that it implies that those who have knowledge of eternal existence have a natural desire for eternal existence, and those who only have knowledge of existence in the here and now have only a natural desire for existence in the here and now. Can someone explain Aquinas' reasoning? 

In the Summa Contra Gentiles, Thomas Aquinas presents many arguments for the immortality of the soul. Here is one of them: 

Suppose you know what someone's goals are, and how much they value each of their goals. Then if you observe their behavior in a given situation, how can you understand why they acted the way they did? If you ask someone in who subscribes to praxeology, along the lines of Ludwig von Mises or Murray Rothbard, it's my understanding that they would say that "Introspection is a good guide to human motivations, so just ask the person what was going through their head at the time, and that will explain how their actions were an attempt to achieve their goals." On the other hand, if you asked a mainstream economist of the neoclassical school, like Steve Landsburg in his book the Armchair Economist, they would say "Rationality is a good way to explain human behavior. Just look at what would maximize the person's success at their goals, given the resources they had at their disposal, and that's what they'll generally do." My question is, has anyone made any arguments concerning which approach has more explanatory power, or more broadly which approach is more accurate about human behavior? Has any empirical work in psychology or behavioral economics shed light on this issue? An economist of a Keynesian bent, for instance, might well say that neither approach is very fruitful, and they may well be right. But I'm interested in what's been said about the merits of the two approaches relative to each other, not their absolute merits. Any help would be greatly appreciated. Thank You in Advance. EDIT: Just to clarify, here's my basic question: suppose you know for a fact exactly what someone's actual goals and desires are, and then you observe them doing a certain action. Then which is more likely to be the reason why they did the action: A) their self-reported reason for doing the action, or B) because it was the rational thing to do, given their goals and circumstances? Even if you think that both A and B have low probabilities of being right, which one has a higher probability of being right? 

In his famous Summa Theologica, the Scholastic theologian Thomas Aquinas presents Five Ways to demonstrate the existence of God. Here is Aquinas' First Way, the argument from motion: 

I thought I'd add a similar answer about the dominant Ideology of the Democratic Party, known as American liberalism. Like American conservatism, it was formed from two strands: 

In his famous Summa Theologica, the Scholastic theologian Thomas Aquinas presents Five Ways to demonstrate the existence of God. Here is Aquinas' Third Way, the argument from contigency: 

The Mandukya Upanishad is a philosophical text found in the Vedas, which are among the most important scriptures of Hinduism. Here is what V. Subrahmanya Iyer says in a foreword to a translation of the Mandukya Upanishad: 

Classical liberalism, the philosophy formed in the Enlightenment by thinkers like John Locke, Voltaire, and Rousseau, and providing the driving force for both the American Revolution and the French Revolution, which states that the autonomy of the individual should be maximized, and the individual should be freed from whatever institutions are preventing them from reaching their potential, be it the Church or the State. Progressivism, a populist reform movement in the early twentieth century, espoused by Presidents like Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson, and grounded in Protestant moralism, which sought to make government both more responsive to the plight of the people, for instance using Constitutional amendments to deal with social problems like alcoholism and using government force to quash monopolies, and at the same time more representative of the will of the electorate, for instance instituting more democracy like the direct election of Senators and ending the corruption of Machine politics in the cities. 

There are two principles that unite these two philosophies: A. The belief enunciated by Hayek (in his essay "Why I am not a conservative", which despite its title was one of the driving forces behind the development of modern conservatism) that in the Anglo-American context, traditionalism is a fundamentally libertarian impulse, because America at its beginning was founded on the idea of liberty (and to some extent England was too if you consider the Magna Carta), so if you try to preserve the institutions and spirit that America had at its founding, then you'll inevitably end up preserving liberty. B. Fusionism, the belief enunciated by Frank Meyer in his book Defense of Freedom, that the promotion of virtue in society, which is the goal of traditionalism, is best achieved by promoting freedom, because if you're forced to be virtuous then your acts are not truly virtuous because you're not the one responsible, so in order to have true virtue we need to allow people to freely choose whether to be virtuous or not. Those two beliefs are what made people believe that traditionalism and libertarianism depend inexorably on one another, and's what gave rise to the ideology that we call American conservatism. Of course, this is all just abstract political theory, but in 1964 it finally became a powerful enough force in the Republican party that they chose a conservative to be the Republican nominee for President, Barry Goldwater, who suffered such a profound defeat in the election that Republicans didn't nominate another conservative until Ronald Reagan in 1980. And conservatives have dominated the party ever since. Also, I should mention that there have been two changes to conservatism since its founding by National Review: conservatives have become more interventionist on foreign policy (because they see it as the best way of ensuring that liberty and the American way of life are preserved), and they've also become more accepting of the fact that the welfare state exists (they've come to the conclusion that it's a losing battle to keep trying to abolish Social Security and Medicare, so they advocate more modest changes like benefit cuts and privatization). To reflect these two changes, associated with Irving Kristol and his followers, people often refer to the current ideology of the Republican party as "neoconservatism" rather than just "conservatism".