Looking at the dropbox file it appears to contain a route, rather than a track. I suspect something went wrong when you exported the file. If there are options on what to export, then you want to export the track rather than the route or waypoints or anything else. This Wikipedia article on GPX has more details on GPX files which might help.. 

It's worth noting that these cases, while serious, appear to be rare. The first case report describes 2 cases, and the 2nd case report a single case. The 2nd case report notes "To the best of our knowledge, this has only been described once before, and this was in the non-English language medical literature." The third case report describes a freak occurrence, I searched for news reports of similar incidents but was unable to find any (just drowned dog walkers). Unless you're a professional racer then the pedals you use are purely down to personal preference. You shouldn't feel that if you don't use a particular piece of equipment that you're somehow not a proper cyclist. 

Aside from the legality question, it's probably worth pointing out that many cars automatically lock the doors once the car starts moving and don't unlock them until the engine is switched off. 

The decision to put bicycles in the same category as horse drawn carts seems perfectly sensible given the era in which it was made. While the situation on the roads is now very different, cyclists should still be classed as vehicles rather than pedestrians for the reasons given in the other answers to this question. 

Finally, there are statistics for average annual traffic on every major road in the UK. There's an interactive map here. 

In general, it probably wouldn't make any difference. The particular driver might improve their driving, but it's difficult to see how this would have a wider impact. 

If you opened someone's car door you could be committing either Dangerous cycling or Careless, and inconsiderate, cycling. (Road Traffic Act 1988) There's also the offence of Assault to consider. (CPS guidelines) 

There are extra risks associated with being physically attached to the pedals, however the risks are probably quite small. I found the following articles on Pubmed: Two cases of acetabular fractures sustained during competitive cycling 

Generally speaking, Saturdays and Sundays are quieter than weekdays. The Department of Transport collects various statistics on road use. This table (TRA0307) shows average traffic by time and day of the week. 

I really like it, it's comfortable to wear and I love the way it looks. I'd say the ventilation was good but not great. It's certainly enough for the conditions I ride in - the temperature is rarely above 25°C and humidity is generally somewhere around 60%. If the temperature and humidity you ride in is a lot higher, then you probably want something with a bit more airflow. 

In the UK, the law that says cyclists are vehicles rather than pedestrians pre-dates the automobile. The specific pieces of legislation are: Highway Act 1835 

For the UK there are traffic statistics available. This graph from the 2015 Road Traffic Estimates shows the general trend for cars. 

The primary position ("taking the lane") is in the centre of the moving traffic lane (the blue arrow in the picture below). 

The London to Brighton Bike Ride organized by the British Heart Foundation is the largest UK one, probably the largest in Europe. That has 27,000 participants. 

These allow cyclists to get ahead of motorists without jumping the red light. For junctions without an Advanced Stop Line you'd have to weigh any benefits of clearing the junction against the potential legal consequences, the likelihood of increased driver hostility and the risk of colliding with a vehicle jumping the lights from another direction. Personally, I don't jump red lights. On the roads I cycle on I think it would be more dangerous than waiting for them to change. 

In a review of the Porsche RS bike in The Guardian the reviewer suggests that car manufacturers simply don't have credibility as bike manufacturers: 

I'd check the following: Quick Visual Inspection Look for obvious signs of damage. In particular look at the wheels, tyres, handlebars and pedals. Really you're just checking that everything is pointing the right way. If anything doesn't look right, pick a different bike. As You Get On Stand next to the bike, grab the handlebars, and push the bike forwards as you walk alongside it. Check both wheels rotate freely and listen for any unusual sounds (rubbing, grinding). Pull each brake lever in turn and check that the brakes operate correctly (you should be able to lock the wheel). Spin the pedals backwards and check that they rotate freely, listen for any unusual sounds. Straddle the bike. With one foot on the floor, put most of your weight on the bike and check the tyres for underinflation (look for bulges at the bottom of the tyre). Start cycling slowly, check the brakes again. Check the gears operate smoothly. Off you go... 

It's also worth remembering that the majority of cycling accidents occur at junctions. It's relatively rare for a car to drive into the back of the cyclist. 

Not much. There's £316 million over the next 5 years to fund cycling and walking infrastructure. That's a tiny amount compared to how much countries like Denmark and The Netherlands spend. 

There was a test event on the Hadleigh Farm Mountain Bike course which will be used for the 2012 Olympics. There are various photos and videos of the event which show the bikes being ridden: Videos on YouTube Photos from The Guardian Photos from Cait Elliott From looking at these: 

Yes, but only in fairly extreme cases. According to this article, cyclists who regularly cover more than 186 miles (300km) per week are likely to have fertility problems. If you're not doing that kind of mileage then I don't think you've got too much to worry about. Edit: I've just found this essay - Great balls of fire and the vicious cycle: A study of the effects of cycling on male fertility According to this essay there is some evidence that cycling long distances can cause fertility problems in men, however it is far from conclusive. Nerve entrapment, trauma or increased scrotal temperature are potential risks for the male cyclist. 

The highway code has some advice on First Aid on the Road. It says: 1. Deal with danger - the cyclist was on the pavement and the van was parked, so you did this. 2. Get help - an ambulance was called, so you did this. 3. Help those involved - you didn't move the cyclist and you kept him comfortable, so you did this. 4. Provide emergency care - you don't mention what injuries the cyclist had, but it sounds like you didn't need to do this. I don't think you missed anything crucial, assuming the cyclist didn't have serious injuries (e.g. heavy bleeding). 

There are some statistics available from Great Britain for Contributory factors for reported road accidents. Below are the 2014 figures for Pedal Cycles, the first column is number and the second is percent. 

Buy an electronic key finder. Attach the keyring part to your bike, when you want to find your bike you press the button on the remote and the keyring beeps and flashes. Range is 40 meters which should easily be enough. 

Adopting the primary position makes it easier for drivers to see you and also prevents drivers from overtaking you. It should be your normal riding position. The secondary position is about 1 metre to the left (right in the US, etc) of the moving traffic lane but no closer than 0.5 metres to the edge of the road. The secondary position should be used when it will help others without impairing your own safety (e.g. wide roads where it is safe for drivers behind to overtake you). 

There's also this table (TRA0306) which shows average traffic by day for different road types and different vehicles. 

There are detailed tables of traffic flow available. There is also geographical data available in the form an interactive map. This isn't broken down by time of day, but should give you an indication of which roads generally carry more traffic. If you're interested in when is the safest time to use the roads, there are statistics on road casualties by hour of day in this report (page 153 - Reported casualties by day, road user type and hour of day). 

or road markings that say TRAM ONLY. If cyclists are allowed on that particular section of tramway then it will be indicated by a sign, like this above or below the tram sign: 

Highway Code rule 300 - You MUST NOT enter a road, lane or other route reserved for trams. A road or lane reserved for trams will have signs like this: 

You can make out manufacturers names on many of the bikes and in some cases on individual components if you're particularly interested in those. Edit - a few things I picked up from the commentary on the 2 races: 

The obvious answer would be to get some Cycling Jeans, i.e. jeans specifically designed for cycling in. These have reinforcement and stretch in the right places and often have other features such as deep pockets, a loop to carry a small lock and reflective strips. Levi, Rapha, Muxu and Swrve all make cycling jeans, so there's a fair amount of choice. 

No. Cycling while holding something in your hand is inherently dangerous. You have much less control over the bike and you can only operate one of the brakes. You can buy various contraptions for attaching an umbrella to a bicycle. There's also the Uberhood: 

If keeping a 2nd pair of shoes at work isn't an option your best bet would probably be to get overshoes. 

There was a post on this subject on The Guardian Bike Blog. I think there are a couple of issues with drafting random cyclists: 

References - Effective Traffic Riding (British Cycling), Cyclecraft There are two cycling positions - primary position ("taking the lane") and secondary position. These positions are relative to the moving traffic lane: