No exercises will automatically improve imbalances. It is important to work on the specific imbalance one might have. For instance, if someone is kyphotic they should certainly put more of an emphasis on rowing type movements to improve the strength of the back muscles. Doing the same amount of pushing and pulling work will not yield any change in the issue. Form also plays a huge role in the fixing of muscle imbalances. Two examples where this point can really be seen would be the row and squat. If a person performs a row while in flexion, they will not be helping their body get back to extension as it should be. As for the squat, not hitting parallel would not help the imbalance between the quads and hamstrings. Since only when the lifter is squatting down to parallel do the hamstrings really come in to play. 

I dont have access to a barbell, yet i still want to try and do deadlifts, so i was wondering if anybody knows how to explain to me the proper technique, or maybe even refer me to an article or video that may help. I have spent almost all day trying to get some info on this, but for the most part they all explain the right technique in regard to a barbell not a dumbbell. 

I am a house call personal trainer. I go to my clients' homes and train them there. I bring along the equipment which consists of a foam roller, a mat, valslides and resistance bands. At first I would have my clients use the bands to perform overhead presses to work the shoulders. The problem is that they would always complain about the buckle or clip is irritating them on their backs and upper arms. This is a valid complaint. I also noticed that the bands do not make a good substitute for free weights for this particular exercise. I have tried it myself and it felt all wrong. Instead I decided to work their shoulders by doing side and front raises. I figured that since I have them doing rows and pull downs which work their rear delts, plus I have them doing push ups which work their front delts, I can have them do side raises to work the sides. I recently stumbled upon an article that stated that these exercises cause more harm than good. I am at a loss really, and not really sure how to proceed with training the shoulders of my clients. Any help would really go a long way! 

There's a lot of weight training movements that can improve hamstring strength. I think a great one to get your legs back into condition collectively would be barbell squats and leg presses. Proper form is KEY if you want to activate your hamstrings. Make sure you keep all your weight in your heels and off your toes. 

In my personal opinion, I think you get a better contraction when you arch your back and activate more back muscles. To add to this post, another big mistake is to start swinging the bar down when you go up in weight. 

Look up Pitbull from strength cartel. He competes at 160 weight class and moves unbelievable amounts of weight. He's probably just as strong as Rich Piana. If you want to get strong, You should look into power lifting routines instead. I know you mentioned Rich Piana who is a bodybuilder. His goals aren't to get strong but to get big. Calorie surplus does help ALOT too. 

This is a loaded question. First off, Everyone's body responds differently to different rep ranges. I'm going to give your a broad answer and say all rep ranges are good. The reason is because you never want to let your muscles get into a routine. Another point to be made is that heavier weight recruits more of the muscle to perform the movement. So doing 6x5 is technically better for building muscle than 4x12. I like heavier weight and lower reps on compound movements like bench press and rows, but I add more reps on isolated movements like bumbell flies for inner chest and preacher curls. 

Some men carry fat in their lower chest as body fat goes up(this applies to myself). So I notice I lose alot of lower pec definition when I'm bulking. You might fall into the same category. I like wider grip dips to get that lower contraction. You could set up something like that at home with some chairs. 

Generally speaking, back pain that occurs due to sitting is linked to either tight hip flexors, tight thoracic spine or both. The best way to remedy these is by going through some mobility drill during your warm. An example would be doing some thoracic rotations for your tight upper back, and some hip flexor stretches for your tight hips. I would also adivse you to do some core activation exercises during your warm up. This can be achieveed by doing a 30 second plank. The reason for this is that when your hips get tight, your core becomes more mobile than it should in order to pick up the slack of the tight hips, so be simply doing the hip stretch you still wont tighten the core, and this can lead to tight hips. In short, yes you can and should run, but not without going through a good warm up. For a more in depth explanation on this approach known as the joint by joint approach, click on this link. 

Actually we have some fairly massive muscles such as our abs, traps, and calves which are made up mostly of slow twitch fibers. Now with that established i think i can answer your question. You asked if big muscles are always piles of fast twitch fibers. Well most muscles are, but like i mentioned those 3 muscle groups are not. Now the way that we train these muscles is by doing a lot more reps. For instance the abs and calves are muscles which are usually trained to failure, the reason being is that in order to make them bigger or stronger we must go after the slow twitch fibers which require more reps. The traps too are muscles which require more reps, meaning if say somebody usually does only 1 to 5 reps per set, like in a case where he is training for strength, he will still do somewhere close to 15 reps for his traps. So what im saying is, yes we do workout those muscles differently, we do more reps. By doing this we will not lose muscle as you pointed out in your question because that only happens if your endurance training, but if the muscles is made up mostly of slow twitch fibers then doing more reps is not endurance training . 

I had a similar problem with elliptical machines for cardio training. My leg muscles became very used to the movement so it became hard for me increase my heart rate. I realized that there are two points of power to make the elliptical spin: from your legs pushing on the pedals, and from your arms pushing and pulling on the handles. I was very dominant with my legs so I tried to focus more energy on pulling and pushing from the arm handles. This definitely changed the dynamics for endurance resulting in my heart rate jumping in a short amount of time which was my goal. In short, you can adjust the amount of energy you are using from your legs to your arms or vise versa to add difficulty depending on your current strengths. 

If your trying to move up in weight, try this. 15 reps at 10 lbs(This is your warm up set to get your form straight and wake up the muscles ) 10 reps at 15 lbs (This set adds a little more resistance but still light enough to maintain form) 6 reps at 25 (go all out on this one and see try and maintain form. ) If you did the last set ok, repeat the 6 reps at 25 lbs. The point of these rep ratios is to get your muscles in tune with good form. Once your muscles are warmed up you can start really lifting hard. keep adding to the reps on the last set and soon you'll be doing 25 lbs for ten reps. 

This is a tip. I'm terrible at waking up so when I lift at 6am coffee or pre workout does wonders for me. Also stretching is very neccesary when lifting and running in the morning. Save yourself alot of injury and grief. 

Both cardio and weightlifting play vital roles in weight loss. Weightlifting helps as you mentioned, by building muscles which in turn burns more calories over the course of the day even when you are not in the gym. Cardio on the other-hand is a great way to burn calories in bundles in one workout. Your problem seems to be that you only have 3 days a week that you can get to the gym which doesn't allow to work cardio on the days that you are not lifting. Because of the above I would really recommend doing HIIT type workouts. High intensity interval training allows you to burn a lot of calories while you workout and also build some muscle which will help you burn calories even when you are out of the gym. Now obviously this won't build as much muscle as as would a regular weightlifting session, but given the fact that you have a goal of losing FAT and not WEIGHT and only having 3 times a week to workout I think that this is your best bet. 

If you have the option of getting a little more sleep before doing a workout, then that is obviously ideal. If you don't have that option, then it's a judgment call on your part to see weather you feel up to it or not, but regardless it should be a light workout. 

Every time I do front squats my knees hurt the next day. Well I shouldn't say hurt, but I certainly feel some discomfort in them. I know that without a from check video it would be hard to say what is causing me this mild pain, but perhaps there are some common errors that people make that I should be more mindful of? 

Your optimal grip is that perfect medium between to close and too wide. You'll know it's the right grip because you'll feel a dominant chest contraction. If your grip is too close you'll feel it in your arms. If your grip is too wide you'll feel it in your front delts. Close grip bench press is great for triceps. It works well with the incline variation too. Wide grip bench press is very dangerous. It puts too much direct tension on the front delts that don't have alot of strength in the bench position. This can cause a tear in the delt or a rotator cuff injury. This is a very serious injury that you don't want to ever deal with. SO.... depending on what muscle you want to target, inter change a regular grip and close grip. You'll know when your grip is too wide when you start feeling pain in the shoulders. 

I think the rate of muscle loss would be most affected by diet. The body would have to stay catabolic to decrease the amount of muscle loss. This is such a great question. I think to really find the answer to this, you would have to look at the cellular level of the muscle fibers and see if there are any differences between muscle composition in professional powerlifters and bodybuilders. 

Break up your muscle groups up and do legs on Friday so you'll have a couple days to recover before you hit the court on Tuesday. Playing volleyball with sore quads sounds like torture. 

Your protein levels are usually low after a work out. same with everything else. So your body absorbs pretty much everything(almost everything) your put in it. Look up post work out meals and nutrition. Optimum Nutrition makes a protein specifically for after workout shake. It's called Hydrolized Whey. When your protein levels are low your body can go into a catabolic state so it's important to re fuel to stay anabolic. 

Eating well under your recommended levels can also be a reason for not losing weight. The body needs a certain amount of calories to simply carry out its daily activities such as breathing, digesting, and keeping up with your physical activities. Every person has an amount of calories required each day to maintain their current weight. People who gain weight are usually eating more than they need to and people who lose weight usually eat less than they need. Let us assume that your recommended daily intake for maintenance is 2000 calories. If you would eat only 1000 calories a day you would essentially be slowing your metabolism down as opposed to the intended goal of speeding it up. The reason is because the body is not getting enough fuel to survive and as a result cant afford to expend energy by burning fat, so instead it saves up as much as it can which leads to stagnant weight loss. In extreme cases the body even begins to feed on muscle tissue to survive, so people may even see the numbers on the scale drop but it is obviously not the number they are looking for. The correct thing to do in order to lose weight in a safe and effective way is to eat only about 500 calories less than the RDI (recommended Daily Intake). I should also mention that the RDI takes in to account your activity level, so if you do exercise then depending on how often and how rigorous you work the more calories you must consume to maintain your weight. There are calculators that you can find online that can tell you how many calories you should consume on a daily basis. $URL$ This particular one will ask you for your age, gender, and activity level. Once you have that info put in it will tell you how many calories you should eat to maintain your current weight and also how many calories you should eat to lose weight. I dont know how accurate it is, but it is certainly a good place to start. Once you know basically how many calories you need, you can then pay attention to your results and then tweak the amounts accordingly. If you are not losing then you know you should be eating a little less. If you are losing then you know you got it right and so on. Another thing worth mentioning, and with this I will conclude, you should pay closer attention to your waist line rather than paying attention to the scale. The scale tells you how much you weigh, but it does not single out your fat. It includes bone density, muscle mass, water, and finally fat, so when you see the number dropping you cant be certain what it is.