I would not have guessed you could deplete O₂ or saturate CO₂ but evidence that you can. You compared to a tent. A typical backpacking / climbing tent design is different. The walls and ceiling are breathable with a rain-fly over the top. Even a 4 season tent is breathable. 

Define dirty. The question says potable. The stuff that will hurt you requires very fine filtration that I don't think is feasible using natural elements. Filters for protozoan cysts and bacteria typically filter to 0.2 microns Yes you can filter larger particulate matter (e.g. dirt) but that is not (typically) the dangerous stuff. Is Water Treatment Even Necessary? Q: Why do I need to treat water in wilderness areas? A: Regardless of how pure water may look, any water source on the planet could be tainted with microscopic waterborne pathogens—disease-causing pests that, if ingested, could cause severe diarrhea, cramps, vomiting and fever. Recent research, though, suggests that wilderness water at higher elevations is much cleaner than previously believed. Some experts argue that the blame for intestinal infections is more often traceable to preexisting conditions and lax sanitation, particularly unwashed hands. Q: What's in wilderness water that can affect me? A: Three groups of waterborne critters are most commonly linked to water-related illness: 

Basic materials have not changed that I am aware of. The basics are carbon steel and stainless steel. All steel has carbon but they seem to use carbon steel to designate it is not stainless steel. Stainless steel resists corrosion (rust). Low carbon is softer (less brittle). The alloys are pretty standard. knife-blade-materials The number of knives over $100 has increased. Benchmade has very few knifes that retail for less than $100. If your knives are sharp they should perform like current knifes. Not steel but ceramics are getting more popular. They hold an edge but are brittle. Limited number of ceramic pocket knives. Mainly used in the kitchen for vegetables. CCB 

First of all you need to control what is life threatening. Control the bleed. Lay them down and elevate the wound if necessary. Apply sterile dressings (or the closest thing you have to sterile). As it continues to bleed apply more dressings. Blood goes through a clotting process and if you pull the dressings it has to start over. Then assess the situation. Get them comfortable and warm. Give them something to drink. Ask them how they feel and if they are on medication. Clean the wound is secondary at this time. Make a long term plan. If are going to extricate and get them to a hospital in a few hours then only clean and dress if you have the materials to do it right. If it is going to be longer than 24 hours to get professional medical care then clean the best you can. If you used everything you have sterile then boil some clothes. Even if you don't have an antiseptic you have soap. You will find products call first aid antiseptic. Good old soap is better than whiskey. It not realistic to carry the volume of peroxide required to irrigate a wound in the back country. If you have a wound like that then you need to make plans to get them to a medical facility. You don't have a big rush. You are not going to have a serious infection in 48 hours. Just a cut cooking is not likely to be life threatening. Control the bleed with a dressing. Clean with soap and water. Then some antiseptic if you have it. I don't see using whiskey unless you don't even have soap. Let it dry and apply the best dressing you have. If you are out of sterile dressing then boil some clothes and hang them out to dry. An up to date first aid kit can mean a lot of stuff. Build your own and take a first aid class. American Red Cross has a wilderness first aid. Ony in the back country would you be in a situation of longer term care. No off the shelf first aid kit is going have the volume to control a major bleed and that is what is going to kill some one. 

Your urine will be darker. You'll get a headache. You'll get a bunch of symptoms like lethargy and confusion which others are more likely to notice. You'll feel thirsty. 

You might consider boiling it up with some berries, (suitable) plants or pine needles. In terms of treatment tablets, there are neutralisers to sort the taste out, but they are not perfect. For a double solution, you might want to try those effervescent vitamin c tablets. Orange is nice. 

If you are sweating in your sleeping bag all night then the insulation level is too high. Try wearing less or no clothing as well as your ventilation solution. 

Dehydration occurs when there is more water going out or being used than is going in. Additionally, if you're drinking too fast (more than a litre an hour for an average adult male), you're not absorbing the water and so it doesn't count as going in. Confusingly, dehydration can also be classified loss of water, loss of electrolytes or loss of both. To add further confusion, electrolyte imbalance can be too high or too low. In one sense the electrolytes can be lost through something like sweating, and in another, the concentration can be too high due to lack of water. It's generally the electrolyte imbalance that causes you the problem and to the symptoms of dehydration are really the symptoms of electrolyte imbalance. For completeness, the electrolytes we're talking about are: 

I would not advise putting wet socks anywhere near anything that's preventing you from getting cold if it would generate a risk of hypothermia through decreased insulation or increased heat conductivity. Using your body heat to dry socks is dangerous in cold conditions as you're taking heat from yourself. With this in mind, you should use an external heat source to dry your socks. This could be a fire or as you mentioned, hand warmer. Socks can also dry in the wind, so if you can arrange for them to be exposed to wind whilst being protected from rain then that will also work. As you mentioned, water can also be extracted using an absorbent material, such as a towel. You would have to decide which is more important to be dry at the time. Greater efficiency can be gained by an arrangement where water has a good route for escape and does not pool. 

Many clouds are below mountain level Common Cloud Names, Shapes, and Altitudes The lower are typically cooling of air and not limited to an inversion Stratocumulus Clouds (“The low, puffy layers”) can typically be detected from the ground That is a climb safe cloud 

As for raw cardio stairs or stair trainer. Or running, walking, bicycle. Include some walking with a fully loaded pack to get you body used to bearing the weight. Search on "altitude training". There are altitude training masks but not everyone agrees they are effective. There are altitude training tents, rooms, and even sleep tents. A gym near you may have an altitude training tents, rooms They reduce the oxygen to simulate altitude. The idea is to get your body to produce more the oxygen carrying red blood cells. There are drugs to produce more red blood cells but not something I would advise. Don't - it can kill you. Before cyclist got good at it many died. If you can spend just a one or two days at elevation with some light excise before going high your body will adjust. Look up signs and treatment of high altitude pulmonary edema before you go. If you are crossing a pass maybe sleep in the valley rather than on top of the pass. 

If you have an entrance big enough to get in out it seems to me that would be more than enough ventilation even if it is partially blocked with pack(s). Think how much circulation you get in something the size of a house just by opening the door. For years in scouts for the winter camp out we would make snow caves and never had vent holes. Climbing I have dug into a side hill and never made vent holes. But I do see references to vent hole(s). Ventilation and let moist air escape. For moist air to escape then place a vent hole on the top (at least 2"). If you want vent(s) then no harm other than a little bit of cold air. Not that dependent on number of people. As you need to increase the diameter the volume of air increases by the cube. So you have more air per person in larger quinzee. Ideally the floor level should be a bit (6"+) higher than the outside to facilitate circulation. Cold air will settle and flow out. Stand a pack up in the middle. Since you are producing heat there will be natural air circulation. CO₂ settles but there is enough natural circulation that should not come into play. Snow blocks to seal off the floor at the entrance is not a good idea. That would trap the cold air. They could also freeze in place and block exit. If safety is of course an issue and it shouldn't be a gamble then mostly blocking the entrance is clearly a bad idea. Entrance should be down wind but even then wind will create some circulation. Have a stick or ice axe next to you to poke a hole if it does collapse. Go for like 12" - 18" wall width. To much wall width would make a collapse that much more snow on top of you. Built properly they are pretty strong. 

When doing my PADI open water course, including all the stuff around pressure groups and calculating maximum depth times by hand, I was told that I should always do my deepest dive first, and go shallower in subsequent dives in the day. When doing things with the pressure tables, that seemed to make sense. Last week, while diving with a computer on a liveaboard, the PADI qualified instructor who was also the dive guide repeated the same thing. When diving with a computer, does the "do your deepest dive first" rule still apply, and if so why? Or can I just rely on the dive computer to calculate how much time I can safely spend at each depth on each dive, and go to whatever depth on each subsequent dive makes most sense for the conditions? 

I'm currently in a French overseas territory, and almost all of the dive centres and clubs here use the CMAS system. Whenever I've booked in for a dive, the dive centre has looked at my PADI qualifications, asked a few questions, and put me into an appropriate dive group for the day. They seem to have always put me into the right group, so they at least seem to know the equivalence! However, when I've been chatting with other divers (non-instructors) before and after dives, they've not known how to match my PADI level to their CMAS one, and nor have I for the reverse. This has made it tricky for us to recommend other dive sites to each other, especially ones in different countries, as we haven't known if the standard would be suitable or not. Is there a well known approximate equivalence between the PADI and CMAS qualification levels? 

On my last couple of dives, I've noticed that my feet tend to float up during the 5m / 3 minute safety stop. It seems to be more of an issue when doing a safety stop using a line to ascend, but I've noticed it to a lesser extent when floating freely for the stop. During all of these dives, I've been wearing a weight belt. I believe it has always had the appropriate amount of weights on it (varying depending on the tank or wetsuit worn), and I've had no problems achieving and maintaining neutral buoyancy during the dives. During the main part of the dive, I don't have issues with my feet floating above me. Is there a common reason for why my feet may be floating up during the safety stop, and is there a way to avoid it? 

Something to be aware of is that many of the above symptoms are also associated with thing that can happen outdoors such as heat stroke, hypothermia, sleep deprivation, malnutrition and low blood sugar. So to answer the question about "needing salts", you'll be looking for: 

The foam inside the mat prevents heat loss through convection which would be the case with the air if there was nothing to prevent it moving. This forms part of the open cell vs closed cell argument for sleeping mats. 

Foraging is NOT looking at a plant and deciding if it's edible, nor is it looking in a book at a plant and then going looking for that plant. It's not possible to learn all the plants and it's not possible that all the plants will be in the area you forage. Foraging is about confidently identifying some edible plants. The two main components of this process are slow and steady learning coupled with an understanding of habitat and how plants and fungi feature and interact there throughout the seasons. I recommend not buying field guides initially. Books are good for reference, but overwhelming in the early learning phase. Set realistic goals based on the amount of time you spend outdoors. Try something like this: $URL$ When you get a bit more confidence, take yourself on a Fungi Foray, they are always good fun. Watch out for Wild Food courses, especially those that lay claim to you "learning 30 plants". Nobody learns 30 anything in a couple of hours, let alone remember it a few months later. Get involved with your local Bushcraft community, they are always good for knowledge sharing. Try some of the groups on Face book like Wild Food ($URL$ Good luck, take it steady and have fun. Steve (pro survival and wild food instructor) Marvell 

When we get cold vasoconstriction occurs. This prevents the blood at the extremities being subject to heat conduction away from the body. This is not an adaption, this is a reaction. The body emits heat all the time because the body working and but wants to remain at constant temperature. If the ambient temperature is such that we can lose this heat, we won't get hotter. If it's such that we lose more because it's cold, we will get colder. Sleeping bags keep us warm by insulating us from the outside world. We would not want to be totally insulated or we'd just get hotter and hotter. Rather, we need the level of insulation to be such that the rate at which we are losing heat is the same as the rate at which it is being conducted and convected away. This is why we have higher insulation in the winter where rate of heat loss to the environment is higher.