The gravitational region around the planets isn't hard to calculate, sometimes called the Sphere of Influence, sometimes called the Hill Sphere. They're calculated differently but they define pretty much the same idea. The actual long term stable region is somewhere around 50% of the Hill Sphere. A gas giant like Jupiter simply doesn't have a large enough stable region that it has gravitational control of to have it's own Kuiper Belt or Oort Cloud equivalent. Also, proximity to the sun and the gravitational stability of the trojan points is a factor. What actually happens with a Sun-Jupiter system is that the stable regions are the trojan points and (because of Saturn) the Cis-Resonance orbits but not trans-resonance (Saturn is too big and too close to Jupiter, so it disrupts trans-resonance). Jupiter's crowded Trojan points and Hildas (mostly Cis-resonance) are a little bit like it's kuiper-belt equivalent and that's a result of the sun-jupiter system, the sun being dominant and jupiter, a thousandth the mass of the sun, but large enough to be dominant among the planets. It's worth pointing out that at Jupiter distance from the sun, the solar system is quite a bit more crowded and has largely flattened out into a plane, unlike the Kuiper belt, so it's not a real comparison to the kuiper belt, but that's where orbiting objects tend to collect, cause those are the most stable regions. The Kuiper belt and Oort cloud aren't really regions as they encompass the entire sphere around the sun at certain distances. It might be possible, I would think, for a gas giant in the right situation to have something like it's own Kuiper belt and Oort Cloud, but it would need to be hugely distant from it's star and far from other large planets and preferably quite massive. The limitations would still be no more than 1/2 of that planet's hill sphere, but it's theoretically possible, I would think, under the right circumstances. Even so, such a situation, the Trojan points and trans and cis orbitals might still be more common than any possible kuiper belt or oort cloud equivalent, so I'm just speculating that it might be possible. I'm not 100% sure. 

I think the other answer is correct on migration, but there's a flaw in the way this question is asked, which should be addressed. It's also worth looking at the formation of Jupiter as well. One of the rules of planet formation is that angular momentum remains largely constant. Granted, some angular momentum gets transferred into heat, and some gets lost for any material that escapes from the system and a tiny amount is lost in the escape of thermal radiation (that's a bigger factor with stars than planets). But these tiny variations aside, we can generally say that angular momentum of the contained material is conserved and not all of that falls into the planet. Some remains in orbit around the planet, as moons, a ring or a dust cloud. Stars empty out their closer-in orbital regions fairly quickly. With planets, that happens much more gradually, so Jupiter likely retained an orbiting nebulous sphere of ice, dust and smaller debris for some time, even after it's moons began forming. The standard model for Jupiter's moons is that it may have gone through a few generations of moon formation, forming within the orbiting cloud of debris and in time, falling into the planet, while new moons formed and over time, the orbiting disk and gas thinned out. Based on this model, Io is believed to be part of the latest generation of Jupiter's moons formation. From Wikipedia link above: 

I agree with Adrian's answer. If you look at the moons orbit, in a very real sense it orbits the sun maybe more than it orbits the earth. The Earth/Moon system orbits the sun at 30 KM/s, the Moon orbits the earth at about 1 KM per second. Both orbits are reasonably eliptical. The entire solarsystem orbits around the center of the Milky-way, so orbiting more than one center of mass isn't unusual. Orbits can exist within other orbits, within limits. The orbital limit is sometimes referred to as the Sphere of Influence $URL$ If the moon was a bit more than twice as far as it is from the Earth as it is now, the Earth might lose it. 

Aside from the fact that it's 81 times easier to move the Moon than the Earth, so, in such a scenario, the Moon could be moved too with an extra 1.23% of time/money/energy, so, it really would make sense to move them both, not just move the Earth and risk losing the moon or worse, crashing into it. But (lets credit the need to save 1.23% to a congressional budget committee) and just move the Earth, as you propose. Would the Earth lose the Moon? . . . It depends, but not necessarily. The first, idea to get out of the way is that there's no gravitational string connecting the Earth and Moon, so if the Earth was accelerated fast enough (say, launching millions of very high velocity rockets off the same side of the earth at the same time) there's no attachment that would pull the Moon with the Earth. This is one of those scenarios where the rubber sheet analogy works quite well. Accelerate the Earth and the corresponding gravity well moves away from the Moon and the Moon moves corresponding to the decrease (or increase) in the slope of Earth's gravity well, so the Moon's velocity carries it relative to the new slope. But that's the argument for a single acceleration. For multiple gravity assists, you have to account for the moon being in different positions so the relative movement wouldn't all be in the same direction. Asteroid Gravity Assist - how close to the Earth? A passing asteroid would affect both the Moon and the Earth, but for optimal Earth movement, you'd want it pass within, say, a few thousand KM of Earth's surface, outside of the atmosphere but much closer to the Earth than the Moon, where it's gravitational tug on the Earth would be over 1,000 times the tug on the Moon at closest pass. The entire path wouldn't be a 1000 to 1 ratio, but with a close enough pass we can effectively say the Asteroid is giving the Earth a much larger gravitational tug, where the tug on the Moon is somewhat negligible. In effect, moving the Earth's orbit but not moving the moon's orbit nearly as much. Asteroids passing that close would be inside the Roche limit and probably would begin to break apart, but that wouldn't change the gravity assist or be a problem for the Earth if the velocity was sufficient to pass through and not remain in a near-Earth orbit. If it was a single asteroid of high mass with a near-Earth pass that effectively moved the Earth but not the Moon, Then any of your scenarios are possible. The Earth could be moved sufficiently where it could be pulled away from the Moon (a change in velocity of about 1,500 km/hour in the right direction would do that) or the Earth could be pulled into the Moon (a change in velocity of about 3,600 km/hour), or the orbit could be sufficiently jiggled where one of those two scenarios would happen eventually if not right away. To change the Earth's velocity that much, with a single asteroid pass, you'd need that asteroid to be, (if my math is right), a few times the mass of the Moon, and an object with that mass passing within a few thousand KM over the Earth's surface, lets just say that would be a bad idea for a number of reasons. - so, it's better to do it the way you suggested. Many asteroids, over a long time. Many asteroids - what would happen to the Earth-Moon system Each asteroid, passing within a few thousand km of Earth would move the Earth slightly, but as the Moon moves around the Earth, many of those movements would cancel out. They would move the Earth towards the Moon when the Moon was on the same side of the Earth as the asteroid, and away from it when the Moon was on the opposite side. Similarly, eccentricity could be increased or decreased. There's no one answer as to whether the Earth would lose the moon without adding up the position of the moon and averaging it out. Moving the Earth could be timed, where, in effect the Moon would be carried along with it. This works both ways too. We could move the Earth's orbit by properly timed thrusters or explosions on the surface of the Moon, sometimes moving the Moon away from the Earth, sometimes closer, but gravity assists are probably easier with less energy involved, as Jupiter could be used to accelerate the asteroids, which would reduce the energy input needed. The net effect is that you can move the Moon with the Earth, or the Earth with the Moon, but pushing on just one of them. That's possible with gravitationally bound objects. So, depending on the timing of the asteroid gravity assists, you could create any of your four scenarios, but without specific timing, there's at least a pretty good chance the Moon stay with the Earth. The 2nd scenario, the Moon getting tidally torn apart, that would only happen if it got very close to the Earth. 

For now, our detection of atmosphere is very limited and only to large planets very close to their stars, but, the article says they're working on that with bigger telescopes on the way, so maybe in a few years we'll get something on that for habitable zone planets. exoplanet atmosphere detection On radio-waves and worth mentioning, visible light, I couldn't find a good article, but if an alien planet shoots a message towards us in a tight beam - then, I'm sure we could detect that, provided they shoot a big enough beam, But could we detect another earth with our current output? I don't think we're close to that kind of detection technology. (and if I got any of that wrong, I welcome correction). 

One way to look at this question is to not think of the Moon orbiting the Earth but look at it as two bodies orbiting each other, then it becomes obvious that orbital velocities of two objects around each other does affect the orbital velocity around the star. The Moon and Earth both orbit the barycenter between them, which is inside the earth, but in the direction of the moon. The moon orbits the barycenter about 3,640 km/hr (slightly slower than it orbits the Earth I think), so the corresponding earth's movement for 81 times the mass is an ellipse 1/81st the size, giving the Earth an elliptical orbital velocity of about 45 km/hr, which, being in an elliptical motion is a vector addition of velocity and so it's only about plus or minus 45 km/hr at full or no moon, when the motion is relatively parallel with, or 180 degrees opposite to the Earth's motion around the Sun. see picture: 

So the idea that stars were like our sun was popular and perhaps even accepted, for over 100 years before the size and brightness of stars was first accurately measured. 

The sections of your book are brief and I understand your confusion. The most important aspect is the difference between the 3 kinds of moons. Impact moons, Moons that formed with the planet at the time of formation and captured moons. Impact moons (like our moon, or Pluto's Charon) can be quite large compared to the planet. Charon at 1/11th Pluto's mass and our moon at 1/81st the Earth's mass are the 2 largest ratios of satellite to central object in our solar-system (ignoring small binary meteor/asteroid/comet systems). Gas giant planets are unlikely to have impact moons because of their gaseous atmosphere. It's much less likely to blow debris off a gaseous atmosphere in such a way as it forms into a new moon. Moons that form with the planet (Formation moons) - I'm not sure that's a term or not, but I like the term. Many of the Moons in our solar system likely formed with the planet. Jupiter's Galilean Moons, Many of Saturn's and Uranus' Moons. The nature of a spiraling disk of matter is that it all doesn't end up in the center, but a percentage of the material, due to angular momentum ends up in far smaller, separate units orbiting around the center-mass. Explaining why this happens is very mathematical and above my ability, but all coalescing bodies, whether stars or planets, have an angular momentum. (see fun video here). Not all the material gets caught in the center of mass, but some form into orbiting satellites. The ratio of mass between planet and moon of formation tends to be very planet dominant, hundreds or thousands to one. "Formation" moons need to orbit in the same direction that the planet rotates, though, theoretically, a giant impact could reverse a planet's rotation, so there may be rare cases where the planet rotates in the opposite direction, but in that case, the Moons would still orbit in the "right" way. Wrong way moons are rare and are thought to only be possible via capture (or giant impact), not formation. Captured Moons It's difficult for a planet to capture a moon. It might seem easy that a massive body would capture moons left and right but the mathematics of gravity doesn't work that way. As an object falls towards a massive body like a planet it gains velocity and the gained velocity helps it accelerate away from the planet. In a simple 2 body Newtonian system, capturing a body into orbit isn't possible. The object is either already in orbit, or it can't be captured because there's no force slowing it down. A capture is only possible if there's 3 bodies and 2 of the orbiting bodies interact, making the capture possible, or if there's some kind of atmospheric drag or orbital debris that slows down the new object as it passes by the planet. There's also, I suppose, relativistic effects that make capture possible, but lets not go there. None of that is really important. What is important is that capture of an asteroid is very difficult and it happens rarely and when capture happens, it's usually with a very eccentric orbit. Triton, because it's a wrong-way moon, capture is the most likely scenario because a formation moon can't be a wrong-way moon and an impact moon, like a formation moon, also needs to orbit in the direction that the planet rotates. If Triton was captured (most likely scenario), it's relatively high mass to most moons in the solar system would make it dominant and as it's highly eccentric orbit was circularized over time due to tidal forces with Neptune. It now has a nearly circular orbit, but it's wrong way orbit and it's eccentric to circular orbital change over time, wrecked havoc on the other moons of Neptune and cast out a lot of the. It's the reason Neptune has comparatively few moons. In any system with multiple orbitals around a central body, there's greater stability if all the larger orbitals move in the same direction and in roughly the same plane and if they are mostly circular. A large body (Triton is very large for a moon), orbiting in the wrong direction with presumably a very elliptical orbit would cause chaos among the Moons around the planet. Another property of a highly elliptical orbit is strong tidal variation that stretch and squeeze the moon, heating it's insides. Triton no longer has those tidal forces because it's orbit is nearly circular, but when it was captured and it had to have a very elliptic orbit, it would have experienced tidal heating and volcanic eruptions as a result. Over time as it's orbit circularized this tidal heating decreased to the point now where it's very low. It's worth pointing out that it might be difficult to tell if a moon is captured or was there at formation if it orbits in the expected direction due to orbits circularizing over time. Triton's wrong way motion is strong evidence that it was captured. Mars' 2 tiny moons are thought to be captured and several of the smaller gas giant moons were probably captured. That's the basic explanation anyway. Hope that helps & corrections are welcome if I made any errors. I'll try to add some links later to make this answer a bit better and clear up some of the wordiness.