As you said, the monks should not eat outside the morning hours, lay people should also not eat outside the morning hours when they are keeping the eight precepts. I would say you should also meditate with empty stomach, a tea is fine. I'm not aware of anything else for lay people. 

I would like to comment on a few points: There are hundres of places in the suttas where the Buddha said that something was wrong or didn't make any sense, it is not that "anything goes", not at all, sometimes he did that using examples, a nice one was when the Buddha came across a trible, in this trible when someone dies, they used to turn the person facing the skies and call his name, screaming, they believed this way the person would see Heaven and go up there, the Buddha said: "Suppose I throw a stone in a river and scream "come to the surface!" will it come? In the same way the person you go up and down according to kamma, not because someone is calling him" Buddhism may not be so imperative or black and white as other religions, take the precepts for example, Buddha said we should refrain from doing A, because the consequence B will lead you to suffering, in other religions you will probably read: you shall not do that, end of story. I'm noy saying buddhism is better or worse, just different. Finally, Nagarjuna was a great buddhist, but his texts have different weight in different traditions, meaning we all deeply respect him and Milarepa for example, but the level of devotion changes. 

It gets really hard for me to meditate when there is something really important happening in my life, something that triggers overwhelming emotions such as fear, anger or total despair. Avoiding them is not a solution, they don't simply go away. I try the usual method to deal with them (seeing for what they are and repeting "fear...fear...fear..."), but it seems those big emotions and events can block or even stop my meditation. I'm 100% sure I'm not the first one to face this "challenge", so any advises on how to deal with it would be great. 

I have seen different answers to that question, so I assume it varies from school to school, is it right? I am not talking about donations to the Sangha as a whole, like a fund, but giving cash to a monk. 

I have heard from a Buddhist monk that hungry ghosts usually return to their familis searching for food, which makes me believe they have easy access to memories of their previous life. Some hell beings also know what they did to deserve their punishment (according to what I have heard) so they have access to memories as well, I'm assuming devas should know it too. Apparently only Humans and animals do not remember previous lifes, is there a reason for that in the teachings? 

Yes it is very normal, just try to remember that we meditate to let things go... let go of control, let go of stress, just be there concentrated in one single point If you see yourself thinking too much on how you are breathing, remember to repeat to yourself "thinking, thinking, thinking...", you need to remind yourself not to follow thoughts, pain or control things, for tranquility meditation you need to let it go, your body knows how to do it! Keep trying! :) 

Currently I follow Theravada tradition, however I have been many times to NKT temples/meditation sessions and I also did a retreat with FPMT in Nepal (traditional Tibetan Buddhism that follows HH Dalai Lama), so I have been there... Yes, there are some disagreements and controversy, but I will not write my opinion on the controversy as I want to respect all followers of Buddhism. If you search on google or youtube you will find many pages and even a BBC documentary about it. Most of the controversy is about the worship of a "Dharma protector spirit", the Vinaya in NKT and about their leader that claims to be a Geshe and FPMT doesnt seem to agree with it. My experience: In NKT temples I only found nice people and a very kind monk, but I left because of the library: 100% of the books there were written by their leader Geshe Kelsang Gyatso, that bothered me, I was looking for the suttas and the words of the Buddha, but could only find Geshe K. Gyatso, sometimes it made me feel like being part of a cult, so I left, but I repeat: I only found nice people there, no regrets. My experience with FPMT was very good, the library was vast with many different authors, but again I left because I felt like Tibetan Buddhism was mixed too much with local culture and other religions (astrology, shamanism, tibetan book of the dead etc...). But once again: Only found nice people and great monks. In Theravada I found what I was looking for, but do not take my opinion as something right, I do believe every path to Buddhism can be holy, it is more about what feels right for you. 

There is a Buddhist Centre close to me that charges circa USD8.00 for Dhamma talks, in one hand I don't like the idea of any religion charging people because poor people will not be able to participate, but on the other hand things are expensive here and they need to pay the bills, my country is not Buddhist at all so running a centre here only on donations must be very hard. So, from a Vianaya and Buddhist ethics standpoint, is that allowed? 

One thing that is very easy to see in Buddhism is how respect is important. Respect for books, statues of Buddha and monks. At the same time we learn that attachment and aversion are bad things. Can't this respect for monks and traditions (sitting in a lower place, not pointing, etc) become an attachment to rules and reputation? At the same time, can't the disrespect for such rules become aversion? 

Is it possible to have a romantic relationship without attachment? Just based on pure love and with equanimity? 

I know this is very common among Mahayanas, specialy in Tibet where they search for their old teachers (Lamas) all call them Rinpoche. Is this also a practice in Theravada Buddhism? 

I was planning to visit a centre, so first I checked their webpage, I thought they are a lit too pushy when it comes to donations, asking for money in a very explicit way to pay their bills. OK, let me be fair, they have bills to pay and utilities can be expensive sometimes. I have more experience with Mahayana (eventhough I follow Theravada now) and in the two centres I have been to, I have never seen similar thing, so it makes me wonder, why? Maybe their funding structures are different, more robust, I dont know... Is there anything in the Vinaya that can help? What are the limits when it comes to asking for money? 

Many people claim they feel better, like a strong relief, after letting the anger out, so they scream at the open air or punch a sand sack. Of course I'm referring ONLY to cases where there is no other person involved, so I'm NOT talking about punching a person or yelling at someone! I know the Buddhist view on anger is to see it for what it is and let go of it, but some people see it as suppressing the anger and keeping it in, so they claim that letting it out is a better way to get rid of it. It works for them. So, is there anything wrong with that from a Buddhist's standpoint? 

When making good Kamma, there is a clear Buddhist element on it, for instance: If you give food to a Paccekabuddha you will receive greater benefits, suppoting the Sangha creates more merit than supporting another organized group. However, when receiving the vipaka (consequences) of the good Kamma, things get confuse... some results of good kamma are wealth and beauty, things that will only make it harder for one to renounce the world, things that essencialy create attachment, so looking from that side, I believe one can argue that the results of good Kamma in the human realm have nothing to do with Buddhism, being born as a humble person, in a poor Buddhist country, not necessarily beautiful, would be a better result from a Buddhist's perspective! So, are the results of good Kamma something dangerous and misleading? Or did I misunderstood it? Is it dangerous to create a lot of positive Kamma constantly? Any discourse mentioned it and how to deal with it? 

I'm not sure we will find that in the pali canon (per haps in Abidhamma?), but is there any thera/senior bikkhu that wrote about it? Is it related to past lifes or any special power of the mind? 

I know it is very common these days to associate Chakras with Buddhist meditation, but I couldn't find anything that supports that in the suttas. (I haven't read all suttas) Did the Buddha himself taught about Chakras or has it been incorporated later in some parts of the world? 

I think we should differentiate Buddhism from New Age movements, they may share some goals (happiness), some tools (meditation) and some teachings, however they are very different in some key aspects, usually the ones related to money, intoxocants, sexuality and "enjoying life" (generally speaking) There are new age gurus and teachers trying to reconcile the Buddha's teachings with our modern society and other believes, some of them attract a lot of people, I do respect them, but I don't see it as "New Age Buddhism", I see it as "New Age movements with some Buddhists teachings inside". 

I guess the amount of change depends on where you were, you may feel a big impact if you used to be a very anxious or greed person for instance, very focused on work, money, career, selfimage etc.. what meditation can do is realign your priorities, it makes you give up or at least not care as much for wordly concerns. Just try not to mistake the feeling of "this is not so important" for "I'm now a robot", because you will realize that a few things are really not so important and this can shake you up a little bit, but as I said it doesn't mean you are a robot, it is just that your priorities are changing. In addition to that, meditation calms the mind, so if you do a lot of meditation you can feel more relaxed. Hope it helps. 

I'm planning to visit Thailand, so I would like to know some simple local "rules" to interact with monks respecting Theravada tradition, I want to avoid behaving like a tourist that (not intentionaly) breaks the protocols, also I want to maximize the experience there, so I will list some specific topics: 

According to a precept it is forbidden to integrate a person under 20 years of age into the Sangha. Is that correct? So are the young monks, not monks, but something different? 

Buddha meditated for days under the bodhi tree. Does it mean he sat and did not move for days? Or does it mean he did normal things (like drinking water, urinating etc), but in a total meditative state? 

According to Buddhism the same good or bad deed has different results depending on who you are and the person being affected by your action, a few examples: Giving food to a Buddha x Giving food to an ordinary person. Lying and cheating if you are a monk x if you are a lay person. Killing your parents x Killing ordinary people. Ok, it does make sense, but the question is: Is there a simple logic behind it? Depending on the impact in the world per haps?! And what kind of force understands that you are doing the good/bad deed against a different (not ordinary) being? 

Curiosity can lead to desire (for knowing something), attachment and therefore suffering. Also, questions based on pure curiosity were left unaswered by the Buddha On the other hand, curiosity is what makes us evolve, so is it good or bad? How should one sees it? 

The Buddha, apparently, said we should not do dana if the offering harms you or someone else. I have heard this teaching and I would like to know if: Is it true? Where the Buddha said that, which sutta? This teaching (if true) seems to contradict the story about the Buddha giving his body to a hungry tigress in a previous life, or not?