So they don't exclude that variance in pro-social behavior may depend on the experiment/context. Saying that this type of money-envelope experiment invalidates other/prior experiments with different setups and measures seems thus unwarranted. And another potential issue is that the Dutch study did not consider who the poor were stealing for. Was it to feed their hungry children? Because, again from laboratory studies, that makes a difference: 

On the other hand, the number of refugees (no IDPs included) for 2016 is only about a 1/3 of that total number (22.5 million out of 65.5 million), so only 0.27% or so, comparable in the graph above with the mid-1980s, before IDPs started to be accounted for. So Goldstein is roughly correct on this issue. Do keep in mind though that stopping would-be refugees from crossing borders in the first place is a growing trend, so the number of people with actual refugee status could be equally a iffy comparison across time if the goal is to use this number estimate something else (like the magnitude of world conflicts or stability of world order, etc.) So Goldstein may not be entirely correct that world order is just as it was decades ago because the number of refugees is just as it was before it was harder to become a refugee. (You haven't quoted this part of his argument, but this why he is ultimately upset by the UN claim, see the finlay "Why it matters" section in his write-up). Quoting from a paper on the spread of recent border restrictions: 

For starters, -1 to the question because the quote/concept being attributed to Goebbels usually implies he came up with it, or at the very least that he popularized it. You've interpreted attribution as a more trivial, journalistic attribution "has he ever said that", after acknowledging it's a common phrase. Goebbels clearly did not come up with it. Upton Sinclair used it in his 1917 The Profits of Religion: An Essay in Economic Interpretation. Quoting the text: 

In fact it goes on for almost a full page just on this, which I won't fully reproduce here. And if you like this line of argument, David Barash has a whole book about it "Out of Eden: The surprising consequences of polygamy" (OUP, 2016). However, I'll note/quote from a long review of that book that 

The Wikipedia page about urinary incontinence (UI) you link to has a link to another about stress incontinence (SUI), which has this pathophysiology/definition: 

And contrary to what is claimed in the comments below, but also contradicting Sayres (2014) [not on the plausibility, but on the factuality of the non-demographic explanations], Poznik et al. 2016 (to which Sayres is a co-author) say that demographic bottlenecks in the last few thousand years are enough explanation: 

In (my) comparison, looking at the 2016 CDC data for incidence among the general population, chlamydia and/or gonorrhea account for 497+146 = 643 cases per 100,000 people, so a prevalence of (new cases) of only 0.64% in the general population. So the incidence in the porn industry appears way over the average for the general population. And finally emedicinehealth.com notes that some STDs (AIDS, neurosyphilis, and genital herpes affecting the perineal area (perineal neurosyphilis)) as a cause for overflow incontinence (which "occurs because the bladder is too full and urine passively leaks or overflows through the urinary sphincter"), but it doesn't say anything about the link between stress incontince [which it does discuss] and STDs. So, despite the fact that STDs seem much more prevalent among the US porn industry workers (than in the general population), it's still not clear that porn work is a risk factor for SUI... because while some forms of incontinence are caused by some STDs, I couldn't find a source discussing the association of STDs with SUI. My guess is that the Twitter comments pointing to "the clap" did so because ghonorrea symptoms include frequent urination, but the latter is not the same thing as SUI. 

The Guardian article also talks about Trumps' weight in comparison to athletes of similar height but this probably even less relevant health-wise because differences in muscularity are apparent and thus so is the body fat percentage. There's an AOL article which seem to clarify the 6'2" vs 6'3" as 6'2.5", and it also says that Trumps' physician suggested he lose some weight: 

Also, whom the poor were (thinking they were) stealing from matters, in my opinion. In the Stoop experiment, the money was addressed to a middle-class Dutch neighborhood. So the poor (selected from social housing in the same city) were less likely to be "compassionate", money-wise about those likely richer than them. Would the result be the same if the money were addressed to a cancer-fighting charity? Or to a poverty-fighting charity? Or to some kid in Africa? It is actually known (granted from some laboratory studies) that 

It's hard to tell how something like that translates to a big scale like in a country or between countries. Uncharted waters. However countries putting political (and ultimately military) pressure on others is not unheard of... so who knows, maybe it applies. They do mention some (obvious) caveats: like "negative peer pressure may result in retaliatory action, especially when it is perceived as illegitimate, a phenomenon that has been observed across many cultures. Thus, peer enforcement can turn prohibitively expensive if peer pressure ends in a chain reaction of retaliation." Vendettas and so forth. And a "second caveat is that the success of peer pressure relies on effective monitoring of peer action". And in the same behavioral corner, there is a very recent experimental paper proposing that education/information is effective in producing voluntatry substituions to cleaner alternatives. They provide a quantifiable comparison between education/information and a Pigovian tax in a certain experiment involving consumer decisions in a supermarket setting. (I'll have to read it beyond its abstract to say more, and it's a pretty long paper.) 

There are quite a few other studies out there about life expectancy past infancy, but most such studies do not exclude violent death later on... so not strincly what your professor claimed, although they may be interesting in the wider claim of cracked.com etc. See Griffin (2008); the numbers are generally lower, but not by a whole lot. There is one caveat to this mentioned in Griffin: 

The papers emphasise however that the exact skill value depends on the definition/assumption of beginners’ behavior. Another way to tackle this problem is experimentally as in the accepted answer, but do note that the NBER paper discussed there is using a proxies for skill past winning and measures derived from that (like rankings), so it is measuring more of an autocorrelation (past winnings predicting present ones). What's more important (see figure 1 in that paper) is that the cash structure of the tournament is highly convex, so won 30% more money doesn't really mean would win 30% more games. So, a slightly older paper has results I think are worth mentioning. "Quantifying Skill in Games—Theory and Empirical Evidence for Poker" analyzed two on-line Poker sites' data and came up with this summary: 

And an article dealing with retail 18650 batteries found inconsistent behavior with the theory in some cells: 

Finally, does any of this overall part (or subsystem) counting matter in economic terms? I think the answer is no, because a 95-page UBS comparison of internal combustion and electric vehicles never mentions total (or component/subsystem) part count as an economic advantage (either way). It does mention moving/powertrain parts though (extensively): 

So let's take the research paper from at OP's post at face value. This is the the authors' table summarizing the antioxidants found in tobacco smoke: 

One more study performed in the Netherlands as part of a 2017 PhD thesis on LFP batteries by Li D. found results (pp. 139-140) somewhat similar to Batteries2020 (hopefully it's not the same data). Again discharging at 20C ambient temp, the DoD had little overall effect (under 5%), but this gets more pronounced at higher temps... but there's also an interesting inversion when one considers energy throughput loss rather than just cycle loss because cycling with a smaller state-of-charge window extracts less energy per cycle from the battery. In terms of energy throughput loss, discharging from DoD 0% to 100% was less detrimental than discharging from 70% to 100% above 40C ambient. At 60C ambient all partial discharges fared worse than a full discharge in terms of energy throughput loss. 

As for the rest of the substances in that table, acrolein is an irritant. Carbon monoxide should be familiar to most. Probably the only thing there with a known therapeutic effect is nitric oxide, but even then, its effects are complex and dose-dependant. The poisonous effects of CN, CO, and NO share a common pathway in the inhibition of cytochrome c oxidase (COX), a mechanism in cell respiration, although the inhibition by NO is reversible. So even if these components can function as antioxidants, this is basically a smoke and mirror exercise by associating a list of substances mostly with no health benefit with a word that most people think as good because the usual, dietary antioxidants talked about in the press are vitamins (C, E) and their precursors like beta-carotene etc. And even for those, the story is not always "more is better". Also according to some recent research, isoprene ranks first among the contributors to a theoretical cancer hazard index in tobacco smoke (using animal model, I think) while acrolein and hydrogen cyanide overwhelmingly account for the non-cancer health hazards. 

I think the "more" part of the (title) question is difficult to answer. You need a metric for "more". Several papers have used the metric proposed in "On a relative measure of skill for games with chance elements": a scale of 0 to 1 for the skill element, calculated as 

Maybe. Free-falling in a swamp and on his instructor saved one client (David Meek) in a tandem jump, but the instructor (Jim Horak) died... although not right away. It took hours for them to be found by emergency services in the swampland. The fall was from 15,000 ft; the primary parachute tangled, and the secondary failed to deploy. Also, Yulia Yevdokimenko, survived falling into "a swampy river with the depth of 0.5 m (1.6 ft)" from 800 m (2,620 ft) after her parachute failed to open. One of the earliest cases of survival recorded in some detail (mentioned in a review paper): 

The only thing (nearly) certain is that the amount of press coverage this paper received is going to result in more papers on the topic. As an aside, before this study was puplished one economist argued on this blog that Pokemon Go should be subsidised, because it has positive externalities in fighting crime and obesity. I guess now they'll have to argue/decide on the balance. Aside to the aside, the effectiveness of AVGs (active video games) in reducing obesity isn't very clear so far ...although some physicians have argued that Pokemon Go is different enough to have more potential in this respect. Coming back to the study in question here, it's a good thing they didn't extrapolate to worldwide deaths, because in a commentary on two other US deaths by Pokemon Go, we find that 

(It goes on to say that a 12v battery can also cause a fire in the case of a short, something I think is undisputable.) I've heard of these alleged deaths from 12V batteries before, but I can't recall the source right now. The aforementioned book is something I found in 3s on google. Here is another one: 

One more thing to note is that some environmental/developmental factors affecting ADHD are known, in particular prenatal exposure to tobacco smoke. So potentially such factors could explain some/more of the geographic variation as well, although whether they do, I don't know. 

Some newer data is reported in the DoD Software Factbook v1.1 (sample of 208 projects from 2004 to 2011, but most were from 2008 to 2010) Their results: 

The amount of original info is alas limited to that last quote and there's no direct citation for the NBC report... but rather to Timothy Unsworth, The Last Priests in America, (NY: Crossroad, 1991) p. 248 In addition to the book edited by Plante, the paper quoted in the accepted answer cites a newspaper column by Plante in SF Gate... which alas gives no figures on prevalence of homosexuality among the clergy. So the paper cited in the accepted answer, despite being peer-reviewed, appears to have come up with that range of numbers by a somewhat strange indirect synthesis, not directly from the sources it cites. Anyway, my best guess from all this is that Penn & Teller figures (20-50) are approximations to the numbers (23-58) from this NBC report... which I don't have first-hand knowledge of. 

the original source cited in the paper for this case is the 1977 edition of the Guiness Book of World Records. It turns out the paper is talking about Sarah Ann Henley. 

An intriguing explanation of the geographic varioation within the US is found in a 2013 NYT article: 

This article does not specifically say that cobalt can be confused for a rare earth, but since lithium can... Furthermore, a blog on the site of the Union of Concerned Scientists says that the confusion can include cobalt: 

So yeah, there's no limits to abnormal psychology. And this post-coital dysphoria can happen to women too. But to refocus on my question: 

Andreoni, Nikiforakis and Stoop devised an improved version of the Scandinavian money-envelope experiment, which they ran in a Dutch city, and it didn't find the opposite effect, but failed to find a difference after adjusting for some confounders: 

There's substantial data on project characteristics in the paper (two tables: one for area/requirements/platform/customer and one for the development practices involved; both tables are a bit large to reproduce here), but the authors did not conduct any regression analysis to test if any of the characteristics explain the variance in a statistically significant way... for this sample (and in this paper). They did do something like that in a companion paper for a smaller/pilot [sub-]sample of 29 US projects: 

So again a claim of some potential mental improvement. If we go as far as simply emotional improvement, I'm guessing there's some, and probably more from sex than from masturbation, simply because even interacting with a pet or animal can improve mood. I also found some anecdotal evidence in the opposite direction 

... but that's less reassuring prevention-wise given that some Pokemon Go accidents involved drivers swerving to avoid pedestrians who were playing the game. It turns out however that there was one brief report (in a JAMA journal) on nationwide US incidents, to the extent that Twitter and the news are representative: 

Assuming that sleeping with head under blanket increases CO2 levels, you can find plenty of studies on the more immediate effects of the latter, e.g., 

And as far as the anticipated global warming is concerned, that's bad news as well, i.e. an increase in drought is predicted for most areas of the globe that presently have high population density. 

These don't quite jibe with dying from 1.5V DC source, hand to hand. Of course, unlikely doesn't mean it can never happen, but claims of extraordinary events require substantial evidence to be credible. 

Obviously HCN is very toxic, causing tissue hypoxia which (at non-deadly levels) has quite a few manifestations including neurological, respiratory cardiovascular and thyroid defects. But if you want to get its full antioxidant "benefits", you're probably better off inhaling it apart from tobacco smoke... just from that analysis alone. I'm not seeing HCN vaping being very popular though. What about isoprene? IARC says there's no human data for it but 

Since weight varies a lot more than height over time in most people, I think it would much more difficult to confirm Trump's current weight... 

And regarding ASSB (accidental suffcation and strangulation in bed), it's generally considered a risk factor for infants, but dimishes drasticly after 6 months of life. So I think that discounting the self-published survey, most of the inferences in the original question here can be chalked up to jumping to conclusions from seemingly plausible mechanisms, but not supported by available evidence. 

Anyhow, my question is: where's the evidence? I'd like to see some case reports (even if just in the mass media) that exemplify this death by electroshock from 12v battery. Also, let's exclude ingesting batteries, because then even 3V can kill you (and probably 1.5V as well, but I can't a find a case right now) through internal hemorrhaging etc. caused by the electrical discharge burning tissue. The usual context of the claims about (high-amperage) 12v batteries (car, solar power etc.) typically precludes the swallowing scenario. 

The paper quoted in the accepted answer cites its info to a book edited by Plante, which actually gives the info as 

Among the references cited in that IMF paoer, I found the 2015 ECFIN brief "Measuring Fossil Fuel Subsidies" by Bárány and Grigonytė fairly illuminating in this matter. (To establish authority, ECFIN briefs "are occasional working papers by the European Commission’s Directorate-General for Economic and Financial Affairs which provide background to policy discussions".) Note to moderators: the source explicitly allows reproduction (hence the large quotes) as long as its origin is acknowledged. All bold/emphasis is mine, added for the TLDR people.