Your society doesn't sound feasible with the currently existing characteristics of humanity. It implies that humans have evolved/been culturally programmed to care much more about certain things than they currently do, and simultaneously to care about much less about other things. 

It depends on what type of prosthetics those are. If we are talking about prosthetics (as opposed to enhancements) similar to today's and yesterday's ones, which while helpful, still mostly leave person less able than one with all limbs, then one of the answers can simply be cultural bias together with government policy. For example, a very real case. When the Iron Curtain fell, many of my countrymen, as they went to West Europe for the first time, were surprised to see on the streets lots of handicapped people. In the USSR, you could see them in public quite rarely. It was not because there were less handicapped people in the USSR. It was because there were no facilities anywhere that enabled them to move around easily. For example, the USSR never thought to provide street curbs in its towns with ramps. The only places where you could find ramps where at hospital entrances, where they presumably were installed for the benefit of stretchers and ambulances. There was no overt discrimination of people with disabilities, but they did usually only got the means to scrape a living, not to lead as full a life as possible. One of the side-effects of this was that since people with prosthetics and in wheelchairs were a rare occurrence, most people on the streets didn't feel comfortable around them and didn't know how to react to them. So they were ignored a lot -- a hurried glance that skips over and pretends to watch something else. 

The main issue is maintaining secrecy. Therefore, whatever they do, they need to acquire enough knowledge of the external world to safely pass routine communication and inspections in their chosen area. The obvious job would be the courier service regarding which I only have a couple notes in addition or what others have written: 1) I disagree that they should go into bulk transportation - it would still probably pay more to deliver confidential documents or expensive items rather than go for bulk items. 2) Their main benefit is not speed because they can't deliver faster than it is physically possible using fastest normal means without endangering their secrecy. Their main selling point is security during transportation. Apart from the courier service one of the more interesting things they could do would be precision teleportation, which doesn't care that much for distance, as much as for the ability to place the right thing inside another solid thing at the right place. For example, think correct placement of remote explosives in mining operation, or similar. If they gain enough knowledge of geology and mining operations, they could literally save millions of dollars by teleporting stuff inside mountain without drilling hundreds of meters of rock. For majority of operations though, they would have to educate themselves to a quite high level. 

Premise: bio-tech golden age where "wetware" is the new IT meta, organic AI that can interface with our standard computing technology. In this context, I'm imagining a future technology that would regulate data flow between the brain and external binary data. Hyphal sheaths are a key element of mycorrhizzal fungi structure: filaments called hyphae sheathe tree roots, like a sleeve, and regulate nutrient uptake and distribution (among other functions). Fungal brain parasites are common as dirt: I'm imagining an engineered fungal parasite that would be planted in the host brain and translate binary data into neural data, sheathing neurons, nerves, weaving into sections of the brain, with a "plug" to jack into, à la Existenz/Matrix for full sensory simulation or man-machine interfacing. Just looking for opinions and criticism to make this as credible as possible in a sci-fi setting maybe 100 years down the line. 

There are many interesting phenomena in nature that, combined, could be said to contribute to a complex technological function. Take electrocytes in electric eels, sonar functions in bats and cetaceans, bees and migrating birds can read the magnetosphere, and some creatures take it a step further: "the elephant nosed fish detects its favorite food buried in the mud and muck in the pitch of night with an electric field it generates through its tail and senses it with its elongated chin." Just to say, the building blocks are there to create a radio emitter and receiver organ, or at least something to manipulate the electromagnetic spectrum. You just need to create the evolutionary path that will lead to this outcome. 

Asked a similar question recently (more geared for Sci-Fi) on reddit and got an interesting answer from a biomedical engineer. In answer to my initial question, about growing plants into specific shapes: You'd essentially need to invent new biology and put it into a plant to get it to grow into really specific shapes. CRISPR changes genetic material, so its ability to definitely produce a single 'outcome' or 'phenotype' depends on how heavily that outcome depends on genetics, instead of environmental factors. Plant shape on a macro scale is heavily dominated by environmental variables. With regard to incorporating or using different sorts of molecules, this would be much more doable, though it'd still depend on the specifics. It would be moderately difficult, but within the realm of current science, to engineer a plant that can produce a protein that can sequester metal ions, for example. You'd need to additionally engineer some other components of the plant, making sure that the root system is permeable to the metal ion, that the protein is produced in relevant parts of the plant and cell, etc. When I asked specifically about fast-growing plants: I'm going to go with no, I don't think it is possible. Or, if it is possible, it'd require something more fundamental than gene editing. The time scale you're describing butts up against the speed at which cells can generate the material required to divide into daughter cells and grow to a similar size as the original cell. Most of the constraints that you'd have to 'engineer' around are things like diffusion, so I don't really see how gene editing would help much. Pretty fast growing bacteria can divide in 20-40 minutes -- you'd need many rounds of division to go from a seed to a tree, and clearly that involves more complex cell types (and eukaryotes generally take longer to divide, yeast take maybe 1.5 hours). None of that accounts for the differentiation that would need to occur, etc. 

Much of what you propose have been imagined in communist utopia sci-fi, such as by Strugatsky brothers during Soviet times. Very interesting read, their stories set in "the Noon universe" -- a time when much of what you propose (post-scarcity, no private property, etc.) is imagined to have happened. Translated to English as well, I think. In general, however, your world presupposes tightly knit communities, which care enough about each other to do all the things government is tasked with doing. It is not impossible, however, it seems that historically such communities have been limited by size -- people seem to need to know each other personally to care much about them. Indeed, while we sometimes support charities and similar activities, vast majority of us spend most of attention on our beloved ones, relatives and similar groups which make up the inner circle of our world. Post-scarcity may change that, but still any person has at least one limited resource, as indicated by some of the other answers: his attention. Nobody of us can care about every of the 10 million things that make up our world. We select and we ignore the rest. We have government explicitly so that we don't have to worry about a multitude of things ourselves. We have rewards for those who choose to bear the responsibility of governing. All these things seem to be lacking in a world of yours. 

As far as I understand the local time is slowing down for the traveller when travelling at near light speeds. So we could imagine circumstances at which possibly the time could be speeding up for Earth, but slowing down everywhere else, like for some reason the rest of the Universe was going near light speed and our patch somehow managed to slow down. Otherwise, as others said, we wouldn't have a frame of reference against which to see if things are happening faster/slower. However the implications might be unsustainable for life, insofar as we are talking science-based. I rather think time might be somewhere inside the fine-tuning constants, whose current values are what is permitting universe to exist in its current form. If speed of light alters, for example, the universe may just collapse. Or explode. Same about speed of chemical reactions or other things.