While a picture is discouraged on resumes because HR doesn't want to see it, I am not sure it should be avoided on your website. If you didn't include a picture it would be fine, they would probably not even notice. A version of the resume that HR finds because of the link in the PDF file of your resume doesn't accomplish much, especially if the emailed one is more appropriate for the position. The PDF format makes sure they can read it, print it, download it or email it. Will the potential readers of the site be able to access the site. Some work locations ban access to some social media. 

There is a difference between telling somebody you barely know about a job opening and recommending them for the position. If you knew them well you could recommend them, but in that case you are giving their application a bump because you are vouching or their skills/experience. Telling somebody you barely know is not much different than telling a young adult in your neighborhood, that you haven't talked to in 5 years, that your company has an opening. You know very little about their applicable skills but you want to give them help in finding a job. 

If the information isn't in the resume or cover letter it doesn't help get the interview. Once you are in the interview they will likely ask why you are leaving. The reason for leaving is valid. But the comment about rejecting the doesn't seem to help. Unless there was an additional obligation involved in accepting the offer: 

It is both usual and unusual at the same time. I have watched many great offers of money, promotions, additional training, better shifts that are only available when trying to convince an employee not to leave. Sometimes the employee would be a great loss to the company if they were to leave, other times they are not so great but their timing would be very inconvenient for the company. I have also witnessed employees never receive a counter offer. I am never sure if it was not the right time for the company to make a counter offer, or if they knew it was never going to work because of the reason the employee was leaving. What I have noticed is that the less tangible offers are generally made when they are just trying to delay the employee, or they expect the employee will not press for the promised to be fulfilled. For example "we will send you to training class next year"; or "the next time there is a hole on day shift you will be the first person we consider for the slot". Next year only brings excuses. I have also noticed that generally the employee that accepts the offer to stay, doesn't last long. If they were really ready to leave once, they will be ready to try to leave again. They may just accept the offer to get a bump in pay, but never stop looking; or maybe their perceived disloyalty to the corporation poisons the working environment. Most managers admit the last minute offers are generally not successful over the long term, but keep doing it because it can have a short term impact and on occasions long term success. 

Yes. If they are doing a background check, and they ask about it; you will of course tell them. So they will find out. If they ask and you lie about it you put your job at risk. 

I know of no way to find out. Some people have asked for a copy of the letter. But some question if that will work because the offer letter is sometimes labeled confidential, and the employee would be reluctant to show it. There is no database of offer letters. There is no way to call a toll free number to check future employment info. Employees are also afraid to show the letter, or even reveal the company name for fear the current boss will call up the new company and spread lies about them. 

You don't have to leave to see what others will pay you. Apply to some interesting positions or companies. See if you get an interview or an offer. The search may result in determining that you like where you are, or that you really want to switch jobs. You will probably be asked why you applied, but you should be able to give a sufficient reason besides "just looking". Also posting your resume on LinkedIn, monster... will get some inquiries. 

The last day you are in the office is Wednesday November 22nd the day before a paid holiday. That is the time they will collect your badge, office key, parking pass, laptop, credit card; and have you submit the final time card. Thus ending your employment. They don't want to try and get these things from you after your last day in the office. They don't want you to still have a key after you are no longer employed. If they are the source of your health insurance plan, that last day in the office may also be the last day you can use the health insurance. Though some do have policies that cover you to the end of the pay period or to the end of the month. The good news is that many places must pay for unused vacation, and even those that aren't legally forced to pay it, do so anyway. So if they give you credit for unused vacation you will be paid for Friday. My advice to employees calculating their last day of work: Understand that what the company can do, may not match what you want them to do. If asked my advice before giving notice, I would have expected the company to insist on the last day being the day before the holiday, just to make sure they don't have to figure out who will be there to perform the out-process on the Friday after Thanksgiving. 

Every cool sounding perk you have been offered has been because tech companies have found they keep some tech employees in front of their computer for more hours. Offer food they stay through dinner; offer entertainment they hang around on weekends because it is fun. They have found that the expense is treated as a business expense but you don't pay taxes on the benefit and it can be cheaper than extra pay. Giving you a place to a stay may save you money, or only commuting time. Of course if you move 100% into the corporate housing you may find it impossible to easily move out again. Getting a new job would require an immediate move. Is crunch time experience valuable experience?: Yes. Is extensive death march experience valuable?: not so much. Extract yourself from the excessive overtime, and extensive use of the cool perks. Determine what rights you have to overtime pay, and if you should be getting it, request it. And it might be time to look into positions with other companies. 

Start looking now for an outside job. If they pay isn't right, or the job description isn't perfect, then keep looking. Get less picky as the year goes on. At the end of the year you will be in one of these situations: 

This is one reason why a rule-of-thumb is that the billing rate per hour has to be 2x the pay rate of the employee. Charge 50 per hour but pay 25 per hour. There is one other possibility. They are short on cash. They know that business is slow during the holidays. They will conserve cash by forcing most employees to take vacation, and contractors to stay home. This was don't an unusual situation in the Fall and Winter of 2013-2014 in The United States. The Government shutdown meant that contractors didn't get paid; and many contracting companies forced employees to take vacation in late December. Because none of this was planned, the contracting companies were unprepared for the gaps in work; therefore some families had less income during those gaps. 

Most of what you plan on including in your cover letter sounds good. I would caution you on one aspect: the discussion of the masters thesis. If you are applying for a position as a recent graduate, it might not be the time to point out to potential employers that you are already planning on going back to school. They may worry about how long you plan to stay with their company, especially if you start talking about a program that can realistically only be done full time, or in another city. They will be worried that you might have applied to that program already and will quit as soon as you are accepted. The fact that you have started thinking about it isn't bad, in fact they might even ask about future education plans during your interview. Not mentioning it in the cover letter could be key to getting that interview. 

All are reasons. There are probably even more. The only way to know which ones apply is to ask. Letting you take a laptop home means that on a snow day you can't say I would have done work, but I don't have X on my computer, or I had no way of checking email, or I couldn't VPN. But with the laptop you get paid if you work, instead of having to take a day of vacation. After you ask, and they tell you why, you can still decide you don't want to have it at home. In some cases you can keep it at work, and only take it home when you need to. Of course that doesn't help you if the reason you are home is due to an emergency. You also have to decide if the reason for not wanting to take it home (potential loss of work life balance) is big enough to put up a fight now, before you even take the laptop home. 

What they offer, and why they offer it, is because they have found they need to offer this type of help in order to attract the number and quality of employee they are looking for. If they can find enough candidates that don't need help, they will not offer help.