FWIW, it is much easier to conceive of plausible beyond general relativity and Standard Model physics that would allow for FTL communication than it is to imagine any plausible means by which FTL travel would be possible. For example, one fairly mainstream (although minority) school of thought on how we can solve the unsolved problem of quantum gravity in physics is called "loop quantum gravity." In loop quantum gravity, the very concept of "locality" is an emergent phenomena. Fundamentally, in LQG, there are a bunch of points in space-time connected to a bunch of other points in space-time, and when those form networks that cluster together, you get an emergent sense of locality based on the average number of hops to get from points with close connections to point A to points with close connections to point B. But, nothing in loop quantum gravity prevents a few stray connections between space-time points from connecting directly to point C which has an average number of hops to reach point A that is much, much greater than point B. One possible connection to this concept in quantum mechanics comes from the propagator function for the photon. You see, in Quantum Electrodynamics (QED), the probability of a photon going from point A to point B at a certain time in the future, is determined by considering all possible paths from point A to point B, including paths upon which the photon travels at slightly less than the speed of light or slightly more than the speed of light, although the greater the deviation from the speed of light, the less probable it is that a photon will take that path. If you only consider paths at exactly the speed of light when calculating the probability that a photon will end up at a particular place and time in the future, you will get the wrong answer. One "realist" interpretation of this empirical fact about the photon propagator. Photons really move a fixed number of hops per second, but it reflects the LQG concept that locality is emergent and that the distance from point A to point B reflects merely the average number of hops across space-time points that it takes to get from point A to point B, even though different paths may actually involve moderately different numbers of hops, and in highly improbable circumstances, very different numbers of hops. Thus, fundamental particle sized wormholes, rather than being the exception, are the fundamental nature of space-time from which an apparently continuous and smooth apparent space-time emerges because the number of hops involved in any macroscopic trip from a point A to a point B is so great that the law of averages obliterates any apparent distinctions due to random variations in the number of hops necessary to cross a particular small distance. Since these non-local connections are ubiquitous, finding local ones that connect to distant places in the universe isn't necessarily so hard. But, the problem is bandwidth. A non-local connection could support only one fundamental particle (such as a photon) at a time. This works great for communication but is lousy for moving solid, macroscopic objects. 

Where there was once Canada and the U.S. (except the U.S. Virgin Islands), there would now be 13 sovereign units of varying sizes. The hot, long lived military insurgency conflicts would be in the five places where state boundaries weren't followed: eastern Washington State and Oregon, rural Nevada, the panhandle of Florida and Virginia, except to the extent that they were cleanly brokered political deals. 

Landforms like this can be aeolian (i.e. created by wind), alluvial (i.e. created by water) or glacial (i.e. created by movements of large masses of ice). For example, there is a line of hills that run across the midwest (south of Columbus and north of Cincinnati in Ohio) that is a terminal moraine where a glacial dumped debris it scraped up when it melted at the front of the advancing glacier. Viewed end on, a terminal moraine can look like a single peak. Craters and masses of atypical substance in a planetary crust can also be created by extraterrestrial impacts (e.g. meteors and comets). For example, suppose at a very large iron meteor hits a planet long in the past burying itself deep in the earth and then erosion by wind and water gradually erode the area around it, voila, you have a mountain. It may not be a really awesome mountain by the standards of places that have volcanic activity. But, in a place where everything else is pancake flat, it could still be pretty impressive. As yet another possibility, you could also have a very tall, bushy tree with a deep root network the starts the foundation of the mountain that gradually collects dirt that ossifies over time. The pile wouldn't have to be botanical either. The white cliffs of Dover are an accumulated pile of seashells that could take a mountain shape if carved by rivers on either side. Also, while it isn't clear if you merely want no volcanic activity or really mean no tectonic activity, colliding tectonic plates can create mountains that are not volcanic: 

There are absolutely cultural differences in naming innovation. For example, in the United States, African-Americans and Mormons are much more likely to innovate in naming children or using innovative spellings, while some middle to upper class New Englanders and Southerners like to repeat names generation after generation (African-Americans who aspire to rising in social class also often do this). Hollywood stars also tend to innovate (e.g. Moon Unit, Dweezel). In general, name changing innovation is associated with alienation or a desire to be distinctive from a conventional culture. Among American Hispanics, boys are more often named to preserve cultural heritage, while girls are often named to sound as "American" as possible even though these names are often common American girl's names from a few decades earlier (e.g. Jane instead of Ashley). Indeed, "American" sounding but somewhat outdated name are common for almost all immigrants to the U.S. who have girls born in the U.S. Many cultures and ethnicities have a relatively modest canon of acceptable names (codified in many European countries by law) that are considered acceptable in an ethnicity. Proper names for people that are strongly identifiable with ethnicity date to at least the Bronze Age - some proper names are well associated with particular ethnicities even when the language spoken by the people of that ethnicity is lost and its linguistic family is unknown. Some names initially limited to very innovative naming cultures (e.g. Briana) can go relatively mainstream. Baby naming is also driven by fads (for example, virtue and flower names for girls have gone in and out), long term trends (women have been poaching previously distinctively male names and making them androgynous, such as Alex, and even feminine over time, such as Laurens), and popular fictional character names. And, current events or derogatory uses that develop over time can make names less common (e.g. Hitler, Jezebelle, or Melvin have become disfavored). It is also fairly common for grandparent generation names to be revived after having become too cliche for use in a parent's generation). 

But, neither Europa nor Jupiter are as big as a moon around a gas giant or a gas giant can get. The maximum possible mass of a gas giant before it ignites into a brown dwarf star is 11-16 times the mass of Jupiter and the diameter if Jupiter is as big as a gas giant can get (adding mass would only increase it density). But, a moon around a large gas giant can get as large as the planet Neptune ("surface" gravity 110% of Earth's) or Uranus ("surface" gravity of 88% of Earth's). And, while Jupiter has 60 moons, nothing in the laws of physics (ideally helped along with a little orbital engineering) prevents it from having fewer, larger moons than it does. It would be tricky to figure out how to keep any of the planets from colliding into each other for a very long period of time, but not impossible by any means. It would be more realistic, however, to have six more or less habitable moons and at least a dozen or so more small moons that were not habitable. With larger moons, the gravity and atmosphere problems can be solved. The right rotational speed on its axis and right tilt of its axis and atmosphere combined would moderate the temperatures greatly. You would need the gas giant to be much closer to the Sun, or it would have to actually be a brown dwarf rather than a gas giant, however, to make the moons sufficiently warm. Their speed of rotation around Jupiter respectively would have to be fast enough to prevent the moons from getting too cold when they were in Jupiter's shadow relative to the sun (although terraforming with a particularly thick atmosphere could also help with this issue), if you want to avoid the very strange and possibly unstable dynamics of having the entire system on a huge axial tilt relative to the star around which it orbits. The ring of rocks and minerals wouldn't be very habitable, but there would be no problem with having one, and indeed, you would expect one. 

And meat and dairy and fats, all of which usually have animal sources, make up almost exactly half of the average American's diet. 

Periodic intense flooding. Controlled waterways like canals and dammed rivers tend to accumulate more silt than they should. One way that this is alleviated in dammed river system is to open the flood gates of the dams for a week or so, every year or two, to flush sediment that accumulated during slow flow periods out of the system. Seasonal flooding is one of the reasons that the Nile River never clogged up. An explanation from the High Country News can be found here. A scholarly assessment can be found here. A blog describing the High Flow Experiment (HFE) can be found here. Of course, not all of the sediment flushed out of the sand sinks in the canal system would end up out of the system entirely. It would also create sand bars and beaches further down the system. The amount of sediment that accumulates would also depend greatly upon the material the canal was built with and its texture. A solid lining for the canals with a "slippery" texture is going to accumulate less sediment than one with sandy earthen walls with lots of nooks and crannies for sediment to accumulate in to start sand banks and the like. Another option, not inconsistent with this one, would be to have dead end spurs where sediment was intentionally diverted through natural water flow, to keep the main channel clear. Sediment is often good soil for crops, so it has value out of the canal. 

But, while everything he says is true, I think the conclusion doesn't follow automatically because 273 K and 760 mmHG pressure are not reasonable assumptions for the Moon. While the Moon's gravity could not sustain an atmosphere at close to room temperature on Earth, it could sustain a cooler atmosphere that was still warm enough to have gas form oxygen. W = 3kT/2 where W is average kinetic energy, k is the boltzmann constant (=1.38x10^(-23) J/K or 8.617x10^(-5) eV/K) and T is temperature (K). W = m*v^2/2 where m is the molecular mass and v is the average molecular speed. So basically temperature in kelvin is proportional to speed squared. To reduce speed to the 5/6th of Earth speed necessary to allow the Moon to hold an atmosphere, you need to reduce temperature to 25/36th of 273 K, which is about 190 K (i.e. about -83 °C). This is Antarctica winter cold, but not uninhabitable and is above the freezing and boiling points of oxygen. The freezing point oxygen (O2) is 54.36 K (−218.79 °C) and the boiling point of liquid oxygen is 90.19 K (−182.96 °C) at 101.325 kPa (760 mmHg). The average temperature on the Moon (at the equator and mid latitudes) varies from -183 °C (about 90 K), at night to 106 °C (about 379 K) during the day, which is an average of 235 K, just a bit over our 190 K target. The existence of an atmosphere itself would probably buffer these extremes of temperature, preventing oxygen from going to liquid form a night, but the problem would be that the daytime temperature would cause the temperature to exceed escape velocity. So, the real trick would be to see how to control the temperature on the Moon to prevent it from rising above 190 K or below 95 K or so. Thus the real issue is how to prevent about 50% of the solar energy that currently reaches the Moon in the daytime from doing so, ideally in a manner that shifts that solar energy to the night. The most obvious way to do that would be to get high winds going from the light side to the dark side at a sufficient speed. On Earth, the distances are too great to accomplish this, but the lunar day is much longer (29 days, 12 hours and 44 minutes) and the Moon's circumference is about a quarter of the Earth's. So, if you could get winds going strong in the atmosphere and reduce the average amount of solar energy penetrating the atmosphere by about 20% plus a little more for a buffer (perhaps by somehow increasing its albedo, e.g. with the right kind of clouds perhaps by inserting water vapor or some other highly reflective colored gas), you could get a stable atmosphere on the Moon. It would have to be very cold, but it could otherwise work. So, rather than magnetic fields, you might need vaporizers to create clouds and fans to keep the air circulating fast enough, rather than any kind of artificial magnetic field.