This not proper. If you are responsible for the code then you deserve to be part of design decision. Even if you are shot down on every detail you should have a say. If they characterize as "slight refactoring" and you say it is not slight and breaks stuff then clearly there is a major disconnect. At a minimum they should explain to you how this "slight". Maybe you are missing something and maybe they are wrong. This is not how to manage a software team. This not how to manage software design. You have couple problems: 

If you can't commute that far 4x a week then you simply need to tell them that. In a very polite way mention you thought you had the option and had disclosed to them you wanted to work in the main office in the first interview. If they strong arm you then you may have more reason not to work for this company than just the commute. If they do strong arm you and you need the money then maybe take the job and look for another. When you find one resign. I would not feel guilty about resigning if they changed the rules last minute. I worked for a company that had a policy a transfer 50 miles away not a transfer and sure enough I got that transfer but it was a position that was good for my career. 

What you have is valuable to the company and I don't think you have legal or moral obligation to turn it over. Certainly you cannot sell it of give it to another party. I would not give the code to them based on weak severance. It is easily worth like 1 year severance to them but what if they come at you rather than pay? It is clearly a poorly run company - I would not count on rational decisions. 

Risk analysis It is not worth putting your job risk If you cannot get into a PhD without a LOR from company then so be it Most PhD candidates went straight from academia If you cannot get in based on academia LOR than not likely an industry LOR will put you over the edge 

Most likely tax or legal. It can be categorized as X today. The new pension plan may have stricter rules in the future and may have a grandfather clause. The new pension plan is beneficial to the company compared to the current. The people to implement are not busy right now. 

They are frustrated as they want to see screens up front. In my experience that never goes well. But if that is all they can understand and are paying by the hour then OK. I don't want to piss UX people off but they can come up with designs that are difficult to code and are brittle. I have written custom controls for just a tweak compared to controls that come with the framework. 

If he asks what it would take to keep you then yes tell him. Otherwise let them make a counter or not. In your resignation state you are leaving specifically for money and like your current job. I would wait until you have a formal written offer before telling your boss. And I like the answer from LindaJeange of starting with you have a job offer for more money that you are considering. But I would still wait until you have a formal written offer. 

It is work and you have been there 3 weeks. Focus on work. Limit socialization to breaks and lunch even if others socialize during work time. Get established as a worker. 3 months in or 1 year in you can start joking around during work time. If there is a lunch room that is a good place to socialize. 

You got out of scope. Your stated assignment was "security analysis for one of our new software products". You were not tasked with resolving with security issues. You were not really even tasked the pointing out the flaw. Rather writing a report. You could have possible diffused this with "I was tasked with writing a security analysis by X. I had some questions and X referred me to you. At this point I am just trying to get clarification for the report." When it started to get abusive you should have just walked away and talked to the manager that assigned the task for advice. 

It is also hard to get fired from a State Government job. Tell him flat out you cannot get the work done in that amount of time. If he tries to fire you or put you on a PIP (Performance Improvement Plan) he will (well should) have to prove you are under performing and compared to your peers you are not under performing. 

Take 10 days one at a time. Not a big deal. No rule you have to perform your duties to the best of your ability. 

Remember you are representing your company. In college we had a company come in and state they only take the top 10% of any class and was only in the top 15%. You had to have a 3.4 just to get in my college and from there they graded on a curve. Then it was just silent and he asked if I had any questions. They did that to everyone not in the top 10%. I said no questions - why did you not put that on the sign up sheet. He said because they won't let us. Several if not all the students complained to the recruiting center. Even students in the top 10% said they did not want to work there based on that. The company was Exxon, it was 20 years ago, and I am still telling that story. 

Legally your boss probably cannot dictate what you do or not outside work hours. But if you are in "at will" employment your boss would be free to fire you as commented by Justin Cave. If he is asking you to sign a petition that is really pushing it but still probably not much you can do. Is he using business time to try and shut down a tasting room? Does his boss know about this? I would kind of lay low as this is someone with power that feels strongly about this. He can't cover the door every day. Just slip in one day after work when the boss is not looking. 

I think there are some good answers here but I would like to address "LinkedIn as a personal tool" Yes LinkedIn is a personal tool but it is their business and their business name. You put their business name on your LinkedIn and they have rules about how they want their business represented to the public. You may not like the rules but you are using their business name. Yes it makes it more difficult for employees to express their capabilities but they are not interested in helping you find yout next job. I know you are not going to think this is same but a low level grunt working for a baseball teams posted that he thought some trade was stupid. He was fired. They had a rule about disparaging comments about the team. An employer can have rules about how they want their company represented to public. Your company does not want outsiders to know about the inner workings. That is a reasonable position for your company to take. It is pay check. 

HR probably requires a background check that takes X amount of time. Manager Y can let you start without completion of the background check and manager Y wants/needs you now. If you fail the background check then you are out of a job but manager Y still has a job. Manager Y does not really care if you are out of a job. Me, I don't want to work for manager Y. If you have nothing that would fail a background check then the risk is low. If you have never been arrested, no drug problems, no financial problems, and are not associated with any questionable groups you are probably good. I had a friend take a job and then lose it because she had a prior DUI and they could not get (economical) professional insurance on her. And yet they never asked her if she had a DUI. So I would be careful. Me I would tell them then fine - you can wait for the background check to clear or guarantee me 12 months pay even if it fails. True story. I was doing consulting work for a US Federal agency and had card key access to a secure data room. A year into it they finally got around to a background check. I told them I was on site every week to come see me at work and they said no has to be at your home. So then like 4 months later I had a week off and they did the background check. I passed the check and the contract ended two weeks later. 

There are three things lunch, after work, and gifts. To me to expect an amount on gifts is just not fair. But not participating is also putting you at most exposure. Here I think you need to go with your gut feel. Dinner is what can get expensive and to me more optional. If you say out of my budget then it could come off as they are spending frivolously. I would just decline with thank you I have plans. Lunch you can also decline with I have other plans. You can ask the place and just say I don't really like the food there. They may figure out you don't like food at expensive places. Here accept a few lunches as you feel comfortable for the socialization.