Keep your back and legs straight. Continually check yourself to make sure you haven't sagged. Keep breathing normally. Don't hold your breath. 

There are established ways for externally measuring virtually every muscle group in the body, most of which require little more than a flexible tape measure. Based on this page: 

Muscle soreness after exercise is a very common symptom of a strenuous exercise, and is usually indicative of a "good" workout, i.e. one in which you've stressed the muscles to the point at which they will grow stronger. The cause of the soreness is currently unknown. Previous hypotheses involving lactic acid and muscle spasms have been demonstrated to be incorrect. You can provide temporary relief using warm compresses and gentle massaging of the affected muscle, but the soreness will persist until about 72 hours. The best thing to do is to stick to a regular routine; soreness is notably worse the first time a muscle group is significantly stressed. Note that while continuing to exercise will stave off soreness, overstressing can lead to sprains and tears. 

No - tennis shoes are going to be slightly heavier and have more material/cushioning around the sides. They are meant for stability and lots of side to side movement. Running shoes are lighter and are built for forward movement. You will experience aches of all kinds of you do jogging/running in tennis shoes at any amount of frequency more than about a mile a day. 

A friend asked me once if eating a banana was a good post-work out snack, to which I gave him a knee jerk reply of "any fruit is a good post work-out snack". I've conditioned myself in to thinking this because I've often heard and have experienced myself that having something that consists of simple carbohydrates (e.g. the natural sugars in fruit) that is also nutritious after a workout is a great way to start replenishing your body. But is fruit really that great post-workout by itself? Should you combine those simple carbohydrates with something else post-workout beyond water for rehydration? What about proteins and fats post-workout (either immediately or within 1-2 hours of finishing)? Are all fruits created equally in this context of being a post-workout snack or are some better than others? Let's assume that by "workout" I mean something between 30 minutes to 1 hour where your heartrate is averaging over 70% of your maximum heart rate. If that doesn't narrow it down, perhaps answers may describe what workouts are a post-workout snack of fruit desirable and which ones aren't. 

Is there a "typical use" for kettlebells? Given my goals (fitness & muscle mass increase), are there any kettlebell exercises that would better suit me than 

I have a desk job which involves a frankly ridiculous number of phone meetings. As a generally hyperactive person, I take advantage of my wireless headset and pace back and forth, do dips using my office chair, go to the restroom, etc. I recently had the idea that, once each meeting, I would do 10 pushups, something I can do without difficulty. My thought was that if I do this each meeting, I would end up doing somewhere between 60-120 pushups over the course of a day, with about 30-60 minutes between each "set". My question is, would there be any benefit to "working out" like this? Given that each set doesn't stress the muscles so much, would the compounded fatigue have any benefit? 

Regarding whether to know if you are eating too little, I can often judge this by my energy level at any given time... especially toward the end of a strenuous exercise session. If I'm entirely more lethargic than I'm used to being that means I either got too little sleep or probably didn't have enough calories available. Since sleep is rather easy to track it makes it easy to determine if this is a nutrition problem. This is terribly simplifying the task of nutrition, since you also need to consider proper balance and quality of food, but it's a simple enough metric that you can play by ear. Now, as for knowing if you are hungry or not, often times the signal for hunger is similar to the signal we receive when we are dehydrated. What I'd suggest doing, and what I do, is to immediately drink around 16oz of water the minute I start to feel hungry and crave food. If 30 minutes later I am still hungry, then I allow myself to eat, otherwise, I chalk up the craving to dehydration. 

One of the aspects that the Starting Strength book emphasizes a good deal is that the wrists should be straight when doing the squat (see point 3, as well as the wrists of the guy in all the cartoons on that page). My problem is that my wrists always look like that of the guy in the image to the right on that page; they're severely supinated. In order to straighten them out, I have to either (1) move my hands farther out, which causes them to be bent inwards; severe "yaw", if you will, or (2) push my arms really far back, to the point of stressing my shoulder blades, and usually by the seventh rep my back actually hurts from the stretching. Does anyone know of any stretches I should work on that will make this exercise easier? Thanks! 

However, with any pulling motion be sure you achieve a full range of motion. A full range of motion here implies extending your arms to the point where you feel a stretch in your lats and pulling as far as you can to the point where your elbows/shoulders are back as far as possible (your chest should poke out broad at the end of each rep). This ensures your lats receive the maximum amount of contraction and extension and gives them the proper work. Otherwise your biceps may be performing a larger percentage of the lift than needed and steal from your lats. Also, when doing bench/incline presses, your lats work at the very base of the lift when you use a full range of motion (bar/dumbells all the way down to your chest). Be sure to push with your lats as much as possible on your initial movement up. 

Preface: this is anecdotal, and I Am Not A Doctor™ When I first began doing squats, I noticed exactly the same thing. I never had it as bad as you, but I did notice that on my way home from the gym, while walking to the bus, I could barely get the strength to continue walking, and if I tried to run I would almost collapse. The main cause is probably that the quadriceps, the muscle group being worked out by the squat, is so essential for begin able to stand upright. With that muscle almost completely exhausted, simply standing upright is effected via synergists and stabilizers, which are nowhere near as good at keeping you up. That being said, that level of exhaustion should not last very long. If the problem persists, definitely talk to a doctor, preferably a sports medicine specialist or orthopedics specialist. 

When it comes to knees, your only real safe bet is something in the water. Don't rule out water sports because you can't swim. You can try water volleyball, for instance. There's really no sport worth playing/doing for the purposes of weight loss that isn't going to be somewhat rough on your knees. Probably the only high intensity sport you could get away with here is doubles tennis on a very well maintained clay court. 

"Women weaken legs." -- Mickey from Rocky I I've often heard and have been told from coaches even that one should abstain from any sexual activity, irrespective of whether it is manual or with a partner, before an athletic event. Is there any physiological reason for this advice or if said advice is being given only so that the male athlete stays mentally focused. Are there effects on testosterone levels that are significant enough to affect athletic performance? Does sex really make your legs weak? Is the effect of sex/orgasms on athletic performance even measurable due to other variables like nutrition, sleep, mood, etc. etc.? 

The barbell wrist curl and/or dumbbell wrist curl can greatly improve your grip. Personally, I find the barbell wrist curl to be easier to execute correctly, but both will work. 

Is this true? Based on the answer to the first question, is it worth it to complete only half the prescribed regimen? 

The rest of the stuff isn't as necessary. You can do dislocations using a broomstick, and non-compressible soles won't be an issue until you're doing serious heavy lifting. Chalk may be useful if you're really pushing yourself with deadlifts and cleans. 

Following the Starting Strength workout and reading Ripptoe's "Clarification" follow-up article, I'm realizing that nutrition is a very crucial component to weightlifting. However, the Starting Strength book dedicates only a single page to this topic, where he recommends that kids drink one gallon of milk a day. As an adult, I can barely drink two cups of milk without destroying my stomach; his treatment of the topic is hardly a good resource for most adult amateur weightlifters. I've seen sporadic postings across the internet on how to properly eat for bodybuilding, but nothing particularly comprehensive. In my mind, a "comprehensive" discussion would entail: 

Those are popular in American football but would just as applicable to racquet sports. As for lifts, you want anything that encourages explosion from an athletic position - box jumps, squats, cleans, dead lifts. Make sure those are part of your lifting routines. 

I'd also recommend doing a high rep sets of Good Mornings with no weight for extra lower back work around the house. Good mornings hit both the lower back and glutes/hamstrings. Everything back in that region of your body is connected very tightly so good glutes/hamstrings are just as important to lower back strength and stability as your lower back muscles are. 

If you are dealing with racquet sports, you really need to be able to sprint quickly in very short bursts of no more than 15 yards (often shorter) at a time with the ability to recover and change direction quickly. With that said, going out and sprinting as hard as you can in a straight line for 40 yards (like the much ballyhoo'ed speed test for American football) isn't going to be very important for you. What you need to focus on first step quickness (getting you going in correct direction as fast as possible) and hip explosion (makes sure you achieve maximum acceleration once you are moving in a particular direction). Improving your acceleration to your top speed is going to be more important than increasing your top speed. For actual running drills to improve this I'd recommend: 

Planks are an excellent way to build up your "six-pack", as well as numerous other muscle groups. Follow the link to see an image of what it looks like. It's ridiculously easy to do, and can be done anywhere, at any time. I do it both as part of my workout routine and as a short pick-me-up while in the office. Two points to remember about the plank: 

I'm considering buying a good set of dumbbell weights (pro tip: get them on craigslist) and a bench so that I can work out at home. However, I'm a big fan of the squat, but I don't want to have to also buy an olympic weight bar and plates. Are there any exercises that can be performed with dumbbells that are mostly equivalent to the squat? Thanks!