Everywhere is fine, where you have pretty fast internet. Why? Well, conquering that planet in a traditional way is mostly impossible without destroying way to much stuff. So consider this: Set up a specialized cat video web service and place sublime suggestive Orders inside. After you finished a survey about "who likes what cat videos the most", you can switch your suggestions from general friendliness to specific actions, especially "adopt a company selected cat for your home". With your financial reserves, you could easily set up homeless animal shelters everywhere, and now your suggestive videos suggest all humans to venture to your shelters and adopt one (may work with dogs too). These cats than have been bred to pass a special affinity to you food only to all childs. And they are kind of... fertile too. And they are trained superior in charming themselves into the hearts of all humans nearby. Now wait some cat-generations an suddenly you have a world full of people that own a cat of your bidding, which carve on your food and know how to look half-starving if they do not get a constant supply of your food. And of course you can always fall back to implementing enhanced harmony distribution devices into the cats to make people more friendly in general... you could modulate the purring by unharmful genetics engineering to be even more relaxing for a start. or make cat-poop send out pheromones that trigger happiness-hormone-production in the humans disposing it. Wait, that could backfire. And suddenly you can press whole countries to your bidding, just by shortening the supply of your cat-food, if they do warlike stuff. Every warmonger would consider his actions, if his beloved fur-ball start looking sad. I would say, this makes you effectively to the worlds most powerful person. Goal reached. 

I first wanted to ask this with a comment, but it may contain part of an answer to your question. But first, there is the question I wanted to ask with said abandoned comment: So, how does the vehicle-combat work in your world? May sound dumb in first place, but note that the general doctrines may say: "We charge the enemy with blazing guns", or "the one who hits first will win" or "the one who can take the most hits without fainting wins"... okay, these are more medieval doctrines, applicable to armies marching against each other and engaging in open field battles; consider the good old armored spearhead and stuff like elastic defenses, rolling artillery barges and so on for a modern thinking army. Now why am I bringing up this? Because the design goals may greatly differ from "clashing each other until one side retreats" to "exploit a weak spot in their defenses and cut off reinforcement". First one would ask for slow but sturdy constructs which know how to fight in tight formation while staying in the generals line of sight, while the last one will call for highly mobile units that can operate at their own even beyond visual range of each other. Pondering this topic for some time, I would go this far that your magic bug tanks seems to be more suited for the first one, while tracked vehicles would be more suited for the second task. More thinks to think off: vehicle emissions and signatures (heat and noise); will armies in your universe use guided weapons (while they may use magic instead of computers for task like this), are smoke-screens a proper way to break the line of sight or can the magic look through (and is there magic to counter the look-through?). How the airforce may come into battle? Giant fireflies? You will face a humble speed and lift-limit if you are going for bug-like flight instead of the aerodynamic way of the mundane planes. Which isn't a bad thing, after all chopper and other forms of gunships are slow but hard to take down while packing a hell(fire) of a punch. What about the ballistic weapons accuracy? Observe latest Russian tanks, which are pretty flat. As an Armed Assault player I can attest: that is pretty nasty. Sitting in you Abrams and watching shells glancing away at these nasty little turrets is the worst thing that can happen in that case. But a bug-like vehicle, while having great ground clearance, will offer a wider cross-section. Wait, that isn't true: you can glue an incredible flat body at the legs. Still, when this thing wants to carry a proper weapon, there might be a limit. The firepower-height award will stay at the tanks side. Even the commonly used building materials and designs will go a long way to provide an important insight on how stuff might work. I'm talking about military installations. Its a feudal world, but this does not mean everyone lives in a castle. Do they deploy WW2 like bunkers or not? Equally interesting: what are the firing distances your weapons do work best at? Or their maximum reach. Will artillery be more like in the medieval time, or do you work with firing tables, artillery spotter and counter battery fire? Muzzle velocity (and accuracy, as stated above) is interesting, and of course the stuff your bug-tanks are made off. 60tons of bug shall not pass a single bridge, but may wander through rivers unimpressed (as long as it does not cave in), but 60 tons of bug-tank can either be a incredible well armored shell or a huge transport like unit... or behave like an armored train. of course, if you can have a dozen 60cm mortars with high mobility (the Karl Granatwurfgerät wasn't pretty mobile for example), no fortification would suffice to protect. If you bring enough shells, even a mountain will fall. How big are operative ranges, how far a bug-tank should be able to walk with one full fuel storage whatever? How far a campaign will be driven before the supply falls behind? How likely is the option to fix such a bug-tank in the battlefield, or after the battle? Will they "die" if hit badly, or will the magic fly out, leaving behind an empty machine shell? Speaking of magic - are there any means to "harden" your bug-tanks to avoid having the enemy using exorcists freeing your bug-tanks of their magic soul (if it work this way), or can they be taken over due to magic means, can you employ ban-circles on the battlefield to trap these guys, can you... infuse them with a demon to make them run amok? And so on. After all I should do real work here :D And again, the question from the beginning, I asked several other people here which asked something like you (sadly most just kept ignoring this): How does the combat work in your world? If you answer this, a better vision of how the bug-like vehicles would perform could be made. Everything else is comparing known features of walker-bots with tracked vehicles, which has been done way to many times with the conclusions the other answers already offer: fine in heavy terrain, bad at running, worst in cross-section and maintenance of propulsion system. 

I might not be able to add much to the answers of @subrunner or @Aify, but you should take in mind the... Zeitgeist. What does it mean? When you offer such an approach of conflict solving to the population of earth (this earth, not a similar on as described by the Opener), they would laugh at you. At least now. Now fast forward half a century or more, and you have a population where even the elder people spend a considerable amount of their life playing video games. That's the generation which witnessed the shift from 16bit (or even 8bit) pacman style video games to something that will go way beyond even Ocloset Rift or what its name may be. Now these elders may value each others skill with simulated whatever. May start with two grandmas which beat all their grandchildren in candy-crush and end with former eSports Champions who made their living beating others with FIFA. At this point it can be reasonable to except two people to solve their conflicts using a game. Add another century and a fine simulation of a war would be able to influence even high ranking military officers, but still no one ever would give up their home because someone else simulation said so. And now shift the point of view to something unexpected for this kind of question: Pokemon. It may had been made for child entertainment, but after all its about a world where a battle between two people is used to determine something. In our wold no one ever would throw his cat at the dog of its neighbor to determine if the apples at the estates border belong to the one or the other one, while in Pokemon this would be the way to do this. To make your question feasible you need to create a world where this kind of simulated conflict resolution had been used for a loooong time and is widely accepted as the proper way to solve anything. While a real war will still be something not entirely solved by this, its much more likely that the people there would accept a solution made this way, and even give up on - say... - an big source of oil. But with a civilization that honed their physical combat for over 5000 years and just recently reached the point where simulated combat is something that might offer an insight or two about a possible conflict... very unlikely. 

Most of the others did point out correctly what will happen to superstructures that are made out of erodible building materials 4000 years after construction: they'll tend to fail somehow. Especially if you want to move around whole rooms. Even materials from this day wouldn't stand the test of time... except if you manage to build this out of highly corrosion resistant plastic (maybe). So I'll offer this: The crazy labyrinth powered by door opeing explorers approach You can go for a crazy labyrinth approach at a less mass-intensive scale. I saw the slab-setup AndyD suggested, but you can go even smaller and just make the doors highly irritating. Use a single axis to rotate two doors at different levels, but have one's open setting be the others closed setting by having the corridor at the other level passing by in right angles. When you manage to make a closed door look like the wall of a room, your explorers would close the opening in the strange-room (tm) they went through a hour ago by opening the door-to-dead-end (tm) they met now. Going back and... wasn't there a door? Combine this with hard-to-notice-changes-of-level using long winding corridors and make two rooms look alike; when they come in they might think they where here already (except for the clever ones who leave glowing light stick lying around). Combine these two, so they will make the long-winding-corridor winding in an other direction if a door a level below was opened. lead them in a third room that looks alike the first two and repeat as long as possible. If you feel cruel-some some make the level-separated doors detach when pushing in the other direction. Even more mean: have such a double-door blocking off an other double-door, so the strange-room (tm) with the used glowing light sicks lying around inside can't be exited through that wall where everyone agrees that was a door when they entered. Speaking of closing off walkways - its hard to pull a stone-wall-door when it fits perfectly into the wall, because you can't grab it properly; doors employed in such a way make fine fake-walls. Okay, one level of mean door-play I still have to offer: use that two-level-door to push a stone wall until it falls through a slit in the bottom. Now that's a sure way to keep anything from escaping ever, but its a one-use-device. You can use this for more indirect effects, like having an underground river flowing over due to being blocked off and drowning anybody inside your labyrinth. Sadly, the whole idea could be exploited by not pushing these doors to their maximum opening positions, so maybe whole 90 degree turns should be avoided in favor to ... 30 degree turns. Just enough space to have a curious explorer fit through.