I am currently leaving my job. I have a short period of notice and I've put my employer in a uncomfortable spot. When I did this, he quickly asked me if I had a reference for him. Refering someone for an interview, especially if it's a good fit, is something generally apreciated by employers and ease the tensions. It is possible your employer is so angry that he may react irrationally (you have to figure this out) but most likely he will end up respecting your decision and accept that you help him to find a replacement. 

I don't think it is a very important fact for them to know, so I wouldn't mention it. Either they already know that fact because they remember you as a potential recruit, either they don't and recalling them you applied several times may make them think they had reasons not to hire you before. Instead, use your knowledge of the company for a good, targetted cover letter. Insist on your motivation and explain why you applied several times before. 

I had the same issue when building my CV, and solved it using a "speciality" line. Typically, your job title would look like 

I'd say in case you are accepted, just respect legal period of notice and politely say goodbye to your old team. It's never easy to quit a job in this situation, but it's part of a company life to handle turnover. I was in the exact same situation few weeks ago : working in a small team, quitting, lots of planned work etc. but they found a promising replacement even though they had high expectations (finding quickly a cheap autonomous dev ready to work overtime). It's advisable to finish in good terms, by extending the notice period as much as your next employer would accept and/or suggesting a competent replacement if you know any, but thinking about yourself is higher priority. The company will recover. Good luck for the interview ! 

I applied for a position at an institution that's basically the same as the one I currently hold at my job now and they offered me the job today. They low balled me and then when I said I'd need the weekend to consider they called me back and just matched what I was currently making instead of offering me more. At the initial point in time when I applied I was confident that I would take the position anyway for the same amount of money just because it has some slight perks but I was really sure that I would get offered 50k, which is the top of the range for the position. I currently earn 48k and was offered 45k. I was a little surprised to have been offered less than what I currently make because my would-be supervisor was telling me she would need to contact my current boss to get some general information like my current salary so HR could offer something competitive. And now, I think since I was expecting to get offered 50k so confidently (I mean hell it's only 2k more than what I currently make, surely HR departments base their salaries on what someone currently makes?) that it hurt my ego a bit and now im not as sure about taking the job, even though, it has some other incentives. For example they go to a 4 day work week for around 3 months out of the year, during the summer. And i'd have my own office finally. And my boss would actually be someone who values my opinions and inputs instead of brushing me off because I am young. And the last benefit I was considering isn't really a guarantee but there's the possibility of actually getting to work more closely with the IT department at the new employer, and helping them or even doing side projects with them, to get me actual experience for a "real" IT job. But that's just what they said when i interviewed, it could turn out to be quite the opposite. Time is not exactly on either side for the employer or for me. Since they waited until the last minute to do everything I have until 9 AM tomorrow to have a decision because the position needs to be put to the board(it's a community college)so they can approve it and they don't meet but maybe 4 times a year. I was hoping to use this to my advantage. My would-be boss is someone that I very lightly know from a past conference and because she participates in a listserv that I'm a member of. I was thinking of calling her and telling her that HR is pushing a hard bargain and that, while I would really like to work for her, I really need a slightly higher monetary incentive to justify the switch. I'm just not really sure what the best way to approach this whole ordeal is because I am inexperienced with salary negotiations as I have only had 2 professional jobs so far(I am 24). I would like to work at the job I have applied for but it is hard to justify the lateral move in my mind because I expected to be more appropriately compensated for my experience since they really need someone(literally the HR person who called me today said that they called with the "counter" because "Well, we need you. ". The other issue with this is if I ask my would-be boss to "bat for me", and, she is declined, and I decline the position, I end back up in an awkward position with my current supervisor who was in contact with this other employer as aforementioned. The other week my boss told me about how if my job description changed drastically because I took on more responsibilities that she could go ask for more money for me. Well, usually my boss is just blowing smoke out her ass so I place too high of a value on that statement. I mean, it's a nice gesture, but, those aren't the things you plan on in life, you know? You don't make plans around empty promises people make. So I'm afraid that if I don't get the salary I want, and I decline the job, that my boss will be cold towards me. Thank you for any insight you can offer. 

As others answer provided, there is no such thing as being unprofessional for checking the documentation especially considering you are junior, especially considering programming is vast and there is always a detail you can forget and you have a mission for your code to be correct. There is however cases I would consider being documentation abuses. I have a collegue who is sometimes unable to come up with his own solution about a given problem. Therefore, he sometimes proceed on checking the web about how to solve his problem. Last time, for example, he checked how a web framework was architecturing validators and error counters because he had a seemingly similar feature to design. This is a case where what you are looking for is far too abstract for the Internet to help you. Worse, you could find solutions that seemingly fit, but in fact don't, because they are applied to a different use case. By trying to grab some premade code/architecture/pattern he would have more or less injected code in our base that may have worked, but would be hard to maintain because written by someone else for a different purpose. I don't look the documentation often because I write code that uses mostly core language features (no framework) and I am gifted with a reliable memory when it comes to code, but I do use the doc everytime I'm stuck on something trivial. However, if I'm stuck on something higher level, the good thing to do is to seek help from a more experienced collegue, you will get a much better answer. 

"Selling oneself cheap" is only negative to some employers, not all, especially considering they are the ones to pay. On the positive side of things, showing it hints that the applicant is someone that like to help and get jobs done, has a business sense, don't overvalue his time, and appreciate his field of work. I think it will be viewed as a positive thing applying for a subordinate position, but might look odd applying for a more executive position where it can be regarded as a lack of self-esteem. 

I currently work an in an exempt position. Much like you, the idea was really off putting and at times I wondered if it was worth it. So far I'm 6 months in and usually average 45 to 55 hours a week. Of course there have been times when I've pulled 80 hours a week, but this is usually when things go wrong here. I can't speak for you experience, but in my small IT environment my manager is more interested in my time management and project progress. If I am required to work longer to meet a deadline then I do. If not then it's 8 hours a day for me. I pretty much use my 8 hour work day to be as productive as I can be, then there is no reason for anyone to ask me to stay late unless something is wrong. I average 50 hours a week because I come in an hour early before anyone gets into the office and the distractions start pouring in.This give me a solid hour of uninterrupted coding which can go a long way to keeping me within reach of my deadlines. Add to that, I cut 30 minutes from my lunch because I don't know what to do with an hour for lunch, and I don't really Which doesn't bother me. Again, I can't speak for your situation but in my experience it's not as scary as some stories claim that it is. It will be a matter of learning how to manage your time at work so you don't have to stay late. You'll have to judge your environment for yourself and make the call.