1 seems wrong. Looking at the original thread, it seems to me that the error was ins supposing there was an object such that it was the set of all things. The original argument argued that either (i) the universe caused itself or (ii) it was caused by something else. Not (i) because a thing can't be the cause of itself. But not (ii) either, because if this other thing would have had to not be part of the universe, but by definition everything is part of the universe. So options (i) and (ii) look like the only two possibilities, but we also see that neither of them can be true, because they both contain contradictions. Hence, the original poster concludes that must have popped into existence out of nothingness. There's several problems with this argument. At least one problem is that creation ex nihilo isn't the only conclusion compatible with the falsity of (i) and (ii). For instance, the universe might have been eternal. But there's another real problem with that original argument, which breeds a lot of confusion. This second problem is that the universe is not a real, concrete object, rather it is an abstraction, like numbers or sets. Think of it this way. Imagine I have two apples on the table. Now because there are two apples, it is true that there is a of the apples on the table. I can give that set a name, I can tell you how many members it has, and so on. But the set of the apples doesn't have a cause--you don't have to push or pull on any matter to make a set exist, the way you have to exert some force to get a statue, or a baby to exist. Abstract objects are strange in that way. So too, the universe began to exist when the first real concrete object began to exist, just like the set of the apples began to exist when the apples were put on the table. There is still a problem--what caused the first concrete object to exist?--but now we don't have the strange apparent contradiction between (i) and (ii). Clearing up this confusion might help making sense of some of what puzzles you in your other points. For instance, in 3 you say "Logic appears only in space-time (logic is based on axioms that do not require proof - they came from observing events happening in time, therefore time and logic can be considered as inseparable and logic to be seen as part or by-product of time." This doesn't follow. The fact that the universe does not contain contradictions is an a priori metaphysical truth. The fact that we learn logic as adults, that our knowledge of it is based on experience, etc. doesn't not show that logic itself is somehow based on experience or that it is subject to the laws of physics, etc. I don't know what to say about the last three points except that you seem to be thinking of "dimensions" along a spatial metaphor. A two dimensional figure looks like a line from the third dimensional perspective orthogonal to the first two dimensions. And you're then inferring that this process could be iterated higher and higher until we somehow consider the whole universe from some absolute perspective. But it isn't clear that this is possible. Time is a "dimension" in the sense that many formulae in physics include a parameter to measure change over time, but it wouldn't follow that somehow it is possible (for some mind, even a nonhuman mind) to adopt some fourth-dimensional perspective orthogonal to the three dimensions of space, let alone that there would be some fifth-dimensional perspective orthogonal to that and so on. I hope this helps clarify your thinking on these difficult, important issues. 

It depends on what meaning we give to "akin." If it means "similar," then the answer is yes, it is similar to believing in magic. If it means "the same," then the answer is no, it is not the same. 

I find most of the OP's statements to be "half truths." By definition, an "Omnipotent Being" is not subject to our natural laws. Although an Omnipotent Being could create the whole universe as it currently is, in a smaller time interval that we could imagine, He chose not to do so. Apparently, He chose to just provide the energy required so that the universe would "form (create)" itself. Matter did not exist, only energy. As the space around the energy expanded, the energy experienced a "cooling" effect. As a result of this cooling effect, the smallest "particles of matter" were created. As the result of further cooling, larger particles were created, and because of expansion and gravity, the rest of the universe was created. God is not made from the "purest matter," He is made of pure energy, and he used some of his energy, to create the universe. This is why we can say that we are made in "his image and likeness." Matter can in fact be "destroyed." It is changed into energy, per the equation, E = m c^2. The old notion of matter not destroyable was based on chemical transformation, not on nuclear transformation. Science has created matter. The process is called fusion. As explained above, the big bang, was the release of energy, which through space expansion, "turned into" matter. So, the big bang was the origin of matter. In conclusion, matter can be (and was) created, it is not infinite, has a starting point, and it exists! 

So the idea here is that what we're giving is an analysis of the folk concept--which might be illuminating insofar as that folk concept might be confused, imprecise, or otherwise defective. Then the philosophically interesting bit is creating a more precise, more perspicuous concept which takes over the important explanatory roles from the folk one, hopefully preserving enough of common sense for the solution to make sense! 

No, the idea of gettier cases is that knowledge can't be justified true belief, because you can have a justified true belief but lack knowledge. The reason that the beliefs really are justified, is that the procedure the knower uses would generally count as providing a good justification in ordinary circumstances. Usually the fact that your watch says 9am is good justification for the belief that it is 9 am, etc. The problem is that justification does not guarantee truth. I can have a justified belief that simply fails to be true by bad luck. But since justification is a different concept than truth, I can have a true belief that is justified, although the fact that my belief is true is not grounded in the actual justification I have for that belief. That's Gettier's insight. 

Yes, it contradicts itself because, if "all things are possible," then it is possible for nothing to be possible, thereby contradicting itself! 

The first part of your statement, "impossibility of regress," is false. Although there might be regressions that are impossible, there is at least one that is possible. The one that is possible, is the one that depends on (is a function of) time. If you regress to the point where time does not exist (stops, ends, etc.), then the regression goes to infinity! If the first part were true, that in itself would "be God," because it could be used to prove that anything (therefore everything) exists! 

I would like to offer my overly simplified perspective, in the hope that it might contribute to the understanding of this subject. Matter is as defined by/in physics. Mind is made up of two parts, 1) neurons (a type of matter), and 2) information (retained and used by the neurons). In regards to subconscious mind, the best analogy I can offer is a main computer that has several microprocessors. The main computer is responsible for the "conscious" aspects and the micros are responsible for the "subconscious" aspects. There is, of course, a method for the micros to communicate with the main via priorities and interrupts, so that the main can take over, if a micro malfunctions, or "can not handle" the given situation. From this, it should be clear that the subconscious is handled by semi-autonomous processes (information) "running" in/by neurons (matter). 

The rationale is simple---the material conditional has the truth table it does in order to provide a truth-functional logical connective that would let us represent the modus ponens and modus tollens inferences from natural language. More formally: 

I don't see what abandoning bivalence is going to get you. Modality is about how a sentence is true or false--is it necessarily true, or just contingently true? I'm not saying that a trivalent modal logic can't be created, just that I don't see what the motivation for such a system would be. That's a first question you'd need to answer. The next thing you'd need to do to create such a system would be to offer a semantic theory that fills in the ellipses here: Box x is true iff ... Box x is false iff ... Box x is undefined iff ... Using that semantic theory you would then need to prove which syntactic rules of inference were valid in your new system. This is just the general procedure when introducing new modal systems. You can find examples of the procedure in any introductory textbook on modal logic. 

Choosing one profession over another because you will make more money, cannot be unethical. There is no obligation for one to sacrifice ones potential benefits, for the benefit of others. For doctors (lawyers, mechanics, etc.) with different competencies, it would be unethical for the less competent person to charge the same as the most competent person. If you don't have the aptitudes to be a doctor (lawyer, etc.), and you cheat or "pay" to continue and get a diploma, just because you will get your "investment" back, that would be unethical ( on several grounds). 

The only way your main question makes sense is if you add "Why does (my awareness that) all of existence take place through my subjective point of view?" In which case, the question is pointless (there is no other way it could take place). If you insist that the question is correct as it is, then you must be confusing your awareness of... with existence itself. 

I think what your author is doing there is writing the X on the line (rather than in the region) in order to show that we're not certain which side of the line it falls on. The first premise guarantees us that there's an object a that is an M but not a P. Is a also an S? We just don't know, therefore we can't put our X either in the region where S and M overlap, nor can we put it in the region where we don't. We compromise, therefore, and write the X on the line to show we aren't sure. 

Now how are these three positions related? Well, to my knowledge every single pragmatist is also an empiricist, although the converse doesn't hold. Nominalists tend to be empiricists and vice versa, because one of the reasons to be suspicious of universals, as nominalists are, is that it's hard to make sense of how we could ever come to know them, given that we don't experience them. Pragmatists, I would suppose, would tend to be nominalists too, since they're all empiricists, but I wouldn't be surprised if some pragmatists denied nominalism. (All you have to think is that all the evidence isn't in yet about whether we need numbers to be real for science to work, for instance.) 

Although consciousness "implies" intentionality, the reverse is not necessarily valid. A more "stringent" definition of consciousness would be, the capability and ability to make choices! Before making a choice, the subject matter may be evaluated and compared (or not), and a choice made (good or bad). With this requirement, a plant following the sun would not be conscious because it cannot choose to not follow the sun. With regard to evolution, it is correct to regard it as entirely unintentional. Evolution is a process, and as such, it is incapable of consciousness (intent). 

If I interpret "I am" to mean "I exist," then the conclusion is false. The reason for this, is that if you don't exist, then thinking or not thinking is not applicable. If you do exist, then it is irrelevant whether you are capable of thinking or not - you already exist! 

This question is off topic here, but I happen to know the answer. Early Christian thinkers divided the laws and commands of the Old Testament into three categories: the moral, the civil and the ceremonial. Moral commands are those expressing general rules about conduct "thou shalt not commit adultery" and these remain in force, even under Christianity. The civil commands were the laws of the nation of Israel that God set up for their good in their particular place and time. The command to release all debts every seven years is an example. These do not remain in effect, since the Chrostian kingdoms were conscious of themselves living in a new time and a new place and needing therefore new laws adapted to their situation---although analogies could be drawn between civil laws of the Old Testament to justify new policies. See the debates about the divine right of kings. Finally the ceremonial laws of the OT were those having to do specifically with the priestly sacrificial system of the OT, like laws describing which garments the Levites were supposed to wear. These laws don't remain in effect, for Chrisitians, precisely because that sacrificial system has been abolished and replace with the Church, with a new set of customs and ceremonies, such as the Eucharist. 

For statement #2, the math is correct. Also, the passage of time is required for causal behavior. You are being misled by your statement, "they (photons) appear to behave causally." I believe this is caused by you not differentiating between "photon causality" and "observer causality." Even if the photon had a "brain," it would not be "aware" of causing anything (time is zero, motion is zero). It is the observer (moving at a speed < c) that is/becomes aware of any photon causality. 

The short answer, is that double negation is not valid for all logic implementations. For example, although it is true/valid for Boolean logic, it is not true/valid for Intuitionistic Logic. Therefore, intuitionists are justified in rejecting double negation, as valid. 

"Can something come out of nothing"? It certainly is a possibility for the Creator, since that is one of His powers. However, even the Creator did not "abuse" His powers and created "something from nothing." He created the Universe from His "essence". Since the Universe was created from His essence, it is eternal. Only the form of the Universe had a beginning. Just like ice, even though its form has a beginning, it is still the same water molecules that existed before becoming ice. In conclusion - no, something can not come out of nothing!