Like love, patience, solidarity, peace etc, truth is essential in modern society. If we ignore truth we will have to face more problems. Like chain reaction, these problems will multiply and will create a great disparity in the society. [The decay of Dharma causes problems in the world ... shows the Mahabharata. The Gita says (18.47): "It is better to do one’s own dharma, even though imperfectly. than to do another’s dharma, even though perfectly." So, when dealing dharma, even some lies become a part of dharma.] 

If one's world-view and analysis are always right, it means he knows the ultimate truth. Or you can say, truth is coming out through him without any interruption. Otherwise you can confirm that his is a wrong world-view and analysis. All those who realized the ultimate truth, (in your words, "those who knew solution for our world view and analysis") are developed not by a particular science. Instead, they tried to look into themselves (self realization). If our science is for nurturing the ego in us, that science would never be be a good solution. But some wise men who have found out the word in themselves have used their own method for eliminating their ego. Sometimes we wouldn't find any science in them. If you wouldn't call it a pseudo-science, the answer to your question is, "it is a good solution". I mean science, if it is capable in eliminating the ego in us, is really a good solution. I wouldn't say it is the best, because people in this world follow different paths for this. Actually their body becomes a medium for that. Many people could do that without our science (what we call science). Such people had said that everything was done by the Lord. If I say science is the only world-view we have in analyzing our world, that means truth seldom comes out from those who are ignorant about science. And it also means that the world-view of the people who know science is often right. From our daily experience we can understand this is nonsense. Modern science is developing day by day. Yet people's world view and analysis haven't developed more than our ancestors had. Truth is passing through everybody (or, is there in everybody even in a sinner). Our ego is the main obstacle in creating a good world-view and analysis. 

philosophy is defined as the study of the fundamental nature of knowledge, reality, and existence, especially when considered as an academic discipline. Different philosophies examine how we should live our lives, including how we should structure our laws. Democracy, on the other hand is defined as a system of government by the whole population or all the eligible members of a state, typically through elected representatives. Do the actions of the populace in agreeing to live (usually) peaceably in a democratic society and the problems associated with the system count as a type of philosophical statement (even if it's not a conscious choice of the people so involved) 

How do we really know that we (and everything else) wasn't created an instant ago, and everything we remember from the past is an illusion, a figment of our imagination to comfort ourselves from seeing and remembering the truth that all is not as it seems? 

Treating people as end in themselves, rather than means, simply means to have an objective with an end goal involving the person. A fine example would the distinction between slavery and labour. In case of slavery, the slave is merely means to an end of making profits. However, with a labourer, the owner of the company may have another end, i.e., paying the labourer, his fair share. In both the cases, the universal principle is profit maximisation. However, in the first case, other humans are disposable tools towards that end. By presence of a second principle that "people should get their fair share", some ways to maximise profit can be dismissed. "never merely as a means to an end" does not suggest that humans should never be used as means, but the means in which they are treated should be subject to the first principle ("Categorical Imperative"), in which their perspective is an end in itself. 

Take for instance you are able to go back in time and have one of the worst leaders in history killed him/ her before they came into power, thus eliminating the atrocities they committed. Or see atrocities being committed, kill them to stop them. The fact that you did this evil thing (killing) becomes a good thing. On the other hand can something be so overwhelmingly good/ perfect, but implemented or enacted in such a way that it is evil? At day's end are these labels of good and evil just manifestations of our own viewpoint? How do we know the difference? 

In this day and age with modern medicine, the line between life and death are blurred, as the brain dead may act as if it's alive, and the alive, due to being comatose may be reposed as if dead. What does physicalism say about this blurred line of life and death? 

SUMMARY It might be hard to correctly say what is a metaphor and what isn't. But there can be justifications given as to why a piece of text is considered metaphor and this decision is not arbitrary. I just scratched the surface of the debate that happens among Christians over it. You can easily find in-depth analyses on the net. However, your question is hardly a concern because even if large parts are deemed metaphorical while keeping smaller parts as literal, it does mean that the parts that are found to be metaphorical are not exactly true and accepted to be as such. So if a person is not deliberately (and arbitrarily) classifying some parts as literal and others as metaphor, it should not be viewed as dishonesty because he is not claiming that to be true what he knows to be false. It should be viewed at best (or worst) as a frantic attempt at shielding core beliefs which is not different than refining a scientific theory by chipping away parts that are unconvincing. 

If what I heard is true, Swami Rama Tirtha, an Indian Sanyasin was one such philosopher. Read more about him from this link:$URL$ Once I have read his visions connecting Philosophy and Mathematics. Here is a quote from $URL$ 

Normally these types of indifferences are inadmissible. One issue you mentioned in your question can't be solved by a single person alone if he has no power to do that. Did you notice that? 

Your argument might be true in some cases. Here you considered 2 persons only. We all know that decision of good and bad are not made by 2 or 3 persons in almost all cases. By analyzing the immediate results also one can't say whether an action is good or bad for a particular person. We can say the probability of getting Head or Tail of a coin very easily. But all actions are not as accurate as this. We can't give great importance to probability in most of our life situations. E.g.: B is going to apply for a job to C. But A discourages him since C is supposed to be a rude fellow. Some heart-touching words of B led to a positive result. Here what would you say about the use of probability? So, your argument cannot be taken as a general truth. Some unseen parameters may change the scenario completely. Now, your main question: 

Harris is contradicting himself. That is perhaps because he is an admirer of Buddhism and while Buddhism, in some sense, allows materialism to hold within its philosophy, the spiritual aspect of it often leads to contradictions like Harris espouses. He wants to hold to materialism and non-religious, non-theistic spirituality and does not know how to do it. 

This is for same reason as St. Augustine writes. Just like something that might be considered a "metaphor" might be recognised as a fact, if it is found that the thing said is true, it might also be that a statement that is found to be false was just a metaphor by the author if that statement is not essential to the belief and the purpose of the author was not to pass information about that matter but for example, lead people to salvation. 

You can search for Collective Consciousness, Idealism, Jungian archetypes, Animism, etc. to know what philosophers think aout the ideas that resemble some beliefs of Neo Pagans. And if you look in it, polytheism, animism etc., are generally easier to explain by anthropology etc. than beliefs of major non neo-pagan religions and thus have gone out of favour. It is hard to approach these beliefs from modern Science and they do not even have a clear epistemic justification based on other fields like history etc. You can say that materialism and naturalism made it hard for them to survive in academic circles. 

All living things are Earth's parasites. But the question is what we can give in return for the wellbeing of coming generations. Humans are the only living being that can find the value of each thing in terms of money. You will find some useful information in Indian Philosophy. For e.g. see this: Science is developing amazingly and it seems it is for each human to stand on his own feet ignoring the basics of ecology. Material pleasire would be for a short period only. Actually day by day we are becoming a mere thinking animal. Ego, if it has developed as a complex, it will create problems. Too much of anything is bad. Human life has aims; considering him as an animal and as a being that has the highest potentiality. If people were aware of their own Dharma and had lived accordingly, many problems we are facing now could have been eliminated. These descriptions are just for the enrichment of your ideas. You will certainly find valuable information in Indian philosophy as well as in other philosophies. The basis of creation is described in Bhagavad Gita: See Chapter 3.10 Try to know about Tri Rinas (Deva Rina, Pitru Rina and Rishi Rina) $URL$ Many ancient scripts in India known as Puranas, have great significance in our daily life. [The word 'Purana' is derived from 'purana' meaning ancient and 'nava' meaning new. That implies the things (way of life) mentioned in them is applicable now also.] So 

This comes close to committing a form of category mistake. Jo Wehler is just committing that, it looks, it is hard to say though, as he does not specify any reasoning in that answer. 

The argument, as you present, certainly does not add up. NA is contradicting his own epistemological stance. NA's acceptance of (1) makes him accept criticism of P (as in 3) by default. NA also makes an appeal to ridicule, conflating tooth-fairy and spaghetti monster to God, and making an implicit assumption that all have equal amount of evidence. 

If the text is assumed to be factual from the time of author, it is probably not a metaphor, as author did not try to clarify as such nor was successful in making people understand the purpose and content of text. If the text is widely popular during that time, then it probably would have undergone this criticism. This might appear dishonest but actually whether text is right or not is good way of determining whether it is a metaphor. "With the scriptures it is a matter of treating about the faith. For that reason, as I have noted repeatedly, if anyone, not understanding the mode of divine eloquence, should find something about these matters [about the physical universe] in our books, or hear of the same from those books, of such a kind that it seems to be at variance with the perceptions of his own rational faculties, let him believe that these other things are in no way necessary to the admonitions or accounts or predictions of the scriptures. In short, it must be said that our authors knew the truth about the nature of the skies, but it was not the intention of the Spirit of God, who spoke through them, to teach men anything that would not be of use to them for their salvation." (St. Augustine - De Genesi ad literam, 2:9) 

Oftentimes when doing research and I need a specific term, I use a dictionary definition to "set the groundwork" for the entire paper. Google "what is a person" (with or without quotation marks) comes up with some results. Filter for your use. 

A renaissance man is a person whose interest is in everything. According to Encyclopedia Britannica it is a 

Logically, if the only proof of existence we have is what we can see, hear, smell, touch, taste, and feel the movement of, why do many philosophies deal with issues outside the physical? Due to these scientific limitations of not being able to prove anything nonphysical (not limited to entities/ concepts surrounding spirituality and religion[s]) exists in any concrete way that affects our daily lives in ways that WE OURSELVES don't choose it to, why doesn't philosophy eliminate these concepts? 

In the code of Hammurabi, one of the first laws put forth was "an eye for an eye." We've come a long way since those times both as a society, and in terms of making laws - as well as the ability to provide justice, yet, the idea(s) of equal punishment for a crime still is seen as a valid point. Why?