Consult a lawyer on this as I'm not a lawyer and wouldn't consider this legal advice in any way, shape or form. There could also be tax implications that make consulting a tax specialist also a good idea. 

While I'm not a lawyer, here are a few points to ponder: You do realize that if you are viewing your Facebook wall on a company computer that you could be contributing to a "hostile work environment" that could be grounds for various legal action, right? I mean you wouldn't put up a Playboy calendar in your cubicle and this is possibly in the same ballpark if you are posting what could be construed as hate speech. Thus, be careful what kind of battleground you want to start here. The point here is the question of do you know what the bounds of the office are, what may or may not be seen as crossing the line though if your computer at work is what you are using to post from that is dangerous territory as the company may monitor what you post. Edit: There is also something to be said for what constitutes the office as I remember at one workplace they would say that even if you were on your personal cellphone, if it was at a company event, that could still be considered the workplace even if the event was at a bar or other public venue. Thus, you may be under a false sense of what is private and what isn't. That workplace was in Alberta, Canada which may or may not be your jurisdiction. 25 Facebook Posts That Have Gotten People Fired lists various stories that you may be next as there is also that question of whether or not you are at an "at-will" employer where they may not need to have grounds to terminate you. Lastly, on the point of free speech, consider how you don't have the right to go into a crowded movie theater and yell, "Fire!" without consequences. Similarly, if you yell "Rape!" there is a good chance people may expect you to be in a special kind of situation and that could lead to stuff so the freedom of speech doesn't mean you can say anything, anywhere, anytime. 

My suggestion would be to review a few different routes that may get you where you want to be: 1) If you have friends or family in that different country, it may be worth asking them if they know companies that are looking for workers in your field and would be willing to sponsor a foreigner in for the job. Your current employer and co-workers may also be useful here to consider. The idea here being about working around bureaucracy. 2) Consider what networks may have connections of jobs in those places. In my own case, I went from Canada to the US because of a job posted in my university's career services section. What schools, associations or other organizations may be able to help you apply for what positions? 3) International recruiters. This can work if you have the experience with a specific skill set that is highly sought. Part of this comes from posting your resume on various large sites within that country and then seeing recruiters call you so that they come to you rather than you go to them. Something to keep in mind is that you will have to have some kind of story for the, "Why would you want to move to X?" that could well be asked since some companies may question why you want to make this move. 

What are the projects you have done in your life? What was the budget in terms of money and time on those projects? These are the questions you'll have if you want to say that you have project management experience. While you have read about it for one month, are there specific projects in your life you carried out successfully? Have you actually used Kanban? Have you done projects that involved friends? These are points to note as if you spent a month running volunteer projects for a local non-profit where projects coordinated a dozen people with a six figure budget then you may have some experience to discuss but at this point it looks rather hypothetical. Listing what could be used but that you don't have direct experience may well be playing with fire to my mind. After all, if you get asked about planning poker and velocities how well are you prepared to answer those questions and go further down the rabbit hole. 

The blank is there because you have to figure out what term you want to use there as that would be the gap to resolve. Something to consider is having a specific task, a specific pair of perspectives and then a resolution in the story as the point is more about what do you do when things aren't working well here: Do you freak out? Do you check out? etc. Granted that few people would give an honest answer, the point is to remember to answer the question while giving sufficient background and being overly negative in the process. 

Depending on your job role, this can vary from quite important to not at all important. If you want to claim to be a social media expert then it may be quite important to have a profile on LinkedIn(LI) as it can often be seen as a professional version of Facebook. On the other hand, there may be some people that have worked for a number of years in a field where their work tends to be viewed as classified and thus there may not be much they could into a profile on LinkedIn. Government spies could have trouble with making a profile on LinkedIn if 99% of their work is top secret and not for the public to know. I doubt that I'd say this replaced the need to apply specifically in a company as various places will have protocols. However, LI does have capabilities to send your profile as a resume that could be quite useful for some situations. LinkedIn was launched on May 5, 2003 so in a way it isn't that new of a site. There are a few ways one can use LinkedIn that may be worth noting here: 

While this is a start, I'd be tempted to consider the question of how well could you take someone new and get them up to speed on what you do if your company wanted to promote you into a new position? That is what I'd see as a way to know that you are moving up the chain rather than merely surviving. 

I've seen this in lots of professional and personal interactions. This falls under surviving in the world where one has to have relationships with other people. 

While they may influence how you handle future interviews, I'm not sure I'd see that as enough motivation for them to stay in contact with you. In wanting to build this relationship, what are you giving to them other than some of your time? Consider what are you offering, what do they want, and how well can you match these as while I can understand how such a relationship benefits you, how does it benefit them? That's the part I don't see at the moment and is the part that you have to resolve as that is the heart of your message in communicating them. For example, you could send an e-mail like: 

Depending on the level of proficiency you've stated, what the company is expecting and what you said in the interview itself, this could vary from a huge deal to being rather trivial. You could have done manual tests of walking through the code to verify functionality which could have caught some of the errors. Did you ever state anything about the quality of the code you were producing? If so, then that would be where you may have issues. For example, if you claimed the code to be flawless and perfect then you could have problems as the company may question your ability to be honest. While it took you less than 3 minutes to fix it, does the company know this? Did you send a follow-up thank you message with this in the notes? If you did then you're relying on the company to see that you can admit errors and value this. On the other hand, the company may view verifying a Sudoku solution as something that is easy to verify where errors tend to be things that may be hard to overcome. 

While you disagree, there is something to be said for how well do you know the whole story here. Could there be more here than what you've described here? Could he have some political alliances that may make any conflict not worth doing? After all, others under this person have left so there is the potential that he knows how to handle office politics but not necessarily get a lot of work done. 

In a small company, one may wear multiple hats in which case, I'd ask your supervisor how much into being a BA are you expected to be here as it may be that this is what is being asked of you indirectly. The key is to consider that you are going to be expert in terms of how from the user's perspective the software works. User experience(UX) would be another phrase you may hear about this for another term to note.