How you should react totally depends on what your specific medical diagnosis is, which we can't speak to. However in a (perhaps?) similar situation, what worked was a drastic temporary reduction in shoulder lifting volume and a less-drastic reduction in overall training volume. This gave my shoulder time to de-inflame so I could gradually work back up. Reducing the volume and working rotator cuff exercises prolonged the issue, since my rotator cuff was plenty strong. The problem was less-than-optimal mobility of the shoulder joint plus an inflamed shoulder. Exercises that didn't hurt, like pull-ups, were fine. However, in my case, it was important not to replace the problematic exercises with an equal or greater amount of substitute work. Part of what helped heal was just doing less for a little while. 

Practice the front rack position without using a power clean to get there. Do a few front squats, not for strength, but just to feel how the bar sits there. 

Personally I would do the rehab exercises exactly as prescribed, perhaps after warming up and before the StrongLifts workout on days when I have that scheduled. I'd then do StrongLifts as prescribed for the lower body, but reduce the upper-body progressions to add weight every two weeks instead of every workout. Therefore my barbell row, bench press, and overhead press would take a long time to get heavy. Don't be afraid to go slow with your shoulder, or even take a break or deload if you're feeling something wrong in the shoulder . A number of times I've had overuse injuries where a voluntary week-long break would've prevented a much longer involuntary injury layoff. 

You can't always do both high intensity and high volume for the same reason that you can't always work on getting better at everything: your body can only recover from so much. It's possible to combine the two, but you should be careful. There are programs that combine intensity and volume in the same session, notably 5/3/1 Boring But Big's programming of 3x5, 3x3, or sets of 5, 3, then 1, followed by plus 5 sets of 10. 

(Source is nearly verbatim from Mark Rippetoe and Lon Kilgore's Practical Programming for Strength Training, 2nd edition, page 57) If a particular sport engages two different metabolic methods, A) how does that interaction work, and B) how does one condition for it? For example, many running-centric team sports like soccer are clearly in the third category (running for twenty minutes to maintain positional control of the field). Those same sports occasionally require intense spurts that would clearly fall in the first category (sprinting on a breakaway). Is sport-specific training (e.g. scrimmaging) best for training this interaction between the two pathways? Is training each pathway individually (e.g. sled drags in one workout, distance running in another) sufficient? Does conditioning have to be combined in the same specific manner that mimics lower-intensity work interspersed with bursts of hard effort (e.g. Indian runs)? Update: to be clear, I am looking for an explanation of the physical or physiological phenomena going on here. I am not looking for advice on a training regimen, unless it specifically explains why and how it is most effective, using either science or competition. 

Joint rotations first Only 5 minutes cardio next, making sure to do trunk twists and air squats along the way Arm and leg swings Sport-specific warm-up. In your case, this is exactly what you're doing: light weight at first, then heavier for the work sets. 

Your question is not really about the structure of the abdominal muscle. Your question is about the "lower part [that] still has a little bulge". You seem to be subscribing to the Spot Reduction Myth. Belief in spot reduction means that you think exercising your arms/abs/thighs/butt will specifically reduce the amount of fat on that area of your body. This is a misunderstanding. As exrx.net describes: 

You have no good reason to alternate your grip. Use a double overhand hook grip with chalk. You are jerking the bar off the floor. That's an advanced technique. Instead, squeeeeeeeze the bar off the floor after you're already tight. You're letting the bar get in your head. Walk up to it with PURPOSE. Get your feet set, your grip set, your back set, take a big breath, lock everything tight in place, and squeeze the bar up your legs. Accept no rounding. 

Cutting-edge research shows that curls are not the only exercise. Consider the addition of other movements, like overhead presses, Turkish get-ups, or "skullcrusher" tricep extensions. 

All exercises have an element of both cardio and strength. What differentiates them is how much resistance is used (or can be used) and how much of it you do. A one-rep-maximum bench press is extremely 'strengthy' even though you'll probably break a sweat in the few seconds it takes to execute. Walking, despite being one of the easiest forms of exercise, is still resistance training against gravity. It's at the far easy end of the strength scale but it's still there. A strength workout can be made more 'cardio-y' by removing highly skill-dependent and risky exercises, reducing rest periods and weights, and increasing reps. So if your strength workout looks something like: 

According to exrx.net the barbell split squat primarily targets the glutes and utilizes other hip and leg muscles as synergists. They show that the common form of the back squat, using a high-bar placement, targets the quads primarily, using the glutes as synergists. However, using a powerlifting-style low-bar just-past-parallel back squat targets the glutes. Mark Rippetoe espouses this version of the technique in his Starting Strength lifting program because it allows the lifter to put more weight on the bar. Since you say you're going "butt to the ground" in your squat, so it's possible that you are using a variation of an Olympic-style squat (you could also be doing this with a high-bar back-squat variation with the same effect) and thereby avoiding some of the glute activation. If you're looking for the exercise that most efficiently works the glutes, see this list and consider the Barbell Hip Thrust (aka Barbell Hip Heist). As an aside, I also must recommend reading about the drawbacks and potential pitfalls of using the Smith machine instead of free weights. 

I don't know about blood pooling or all that jibber-jabber. I do know that if I sit down right after sprints, barbell squats, deadlifts, kettlebell work, or judo, then my back and hamstrings will (without fail) get tight, lose flexibility, and possibly cramp up. I do not know the method, but I can vouch for the phenomenon. 

The Paleo framework starts from the perspective that most people will find that grains, legumes, dairy, being anti-social, getting no sunlight or exercise, and eating too many carbs for their exercise level will be problematic, for genetic and epigenetic reasons. That being said, here's the Paleo test at its most bare: 

There are benefits to both, although any form of lay-back should be used judiciously since it is easier to injure oneself using that method. In general, pressing strictly is good because it ensures that you're properly using all the muscles involved and not relying on momentum or other tricks. However, simply lifting more weight can make you stronger than if you refuse to use methods such as the lay-back. Personally I allow some lay-back when I'm first mastering a heavier weight, but my goal is to gradually remove that lay-back for the same weight. 

Don't program dips and pull-ups like barbell or dumbbell presses, with a set number of reps. Instead, do a predetermined number of sets (e.g. 3 or 5 or 6) to failure. If that doesn't give you very many total reps, pick a target number of total reps (e.g. 50) and take as many sets as necessary to get there. Use negatives if you have to, but I recommend nixing the bands too. Sometimes they help too much in the wrong portion of the exercise. I'd also consider not putting dips after shoulder presses. They're very similar movements and picking one or the other would probably allow for better progress. 

Other novice progressions (like GreySkull LP) focus more on the upper body, but that wouldn't make sense for someone interested in running. The specifics aren't terribly important; the core idea is a small number of full-range-of-motion compound barbell exercises done heavy for a few reps, increasing in weight each workout for as long as possible. 

I went from Lots of Meat & Cheese & Carbs (think meatball parm sub, cheesesteaks...) to A Medium Amount of Meat and Veggies (steak & salad, chili, chicken with broccoli) helped a ton. Eating food from home > going out for lunch. Either I make double portions for dinner the night before, or on Sunday night I make a huge batch of soup or wraps or whatever that'll last the whole week. 

Anderson Silva, who is what one could conservatively call one of the most successful counter-punchers in modern mixed martial arts, includes two elements in his training that I would say are vital to that success: 

The muscles of the lower back play a critical role in posture, weightlifting (the specific sport), and lifting weights (generally). They keep your torso erect, making them helpful during just about every physical activity that involves running, bearing a load, or jumping. A strong lower back makes back pain and back injury less likely and aids in sports performance of all kinds. So yes, it's kind of a good idea to strengthen the lower back. 

I recommend against extensive conditioning or additional lifting on rest days, but if you have time and energy, active rest can be very beneficial. When I have time to really do it right, a rest day can involve leisurely medium-distance walks, stretching, a brief morning warm-up or yoga session, or mobility work with a band. 

This "ladder" approach may help if you have a dumbbell that is challenging but not impossible for you. But all of this doesn't matter. Training hard, training consistently, and eating well are what matter. If your workout is a doable challenge, in the grand scheme of things you're fine. Tweaks Ideally you'd start with a brief whole-body workout, like a jog, dynamic stretching, or joint rotations. The pushups and situps should be easy enough to count as warm-up. Over time, try to eliminate the break after them. Another thing to consider is tacking a quick 5- or 10-minute all-out conditioning session at the end. Or you could do sprints, either in a separate workout or interspersed with the lifting. (Dan John, Robb Wolf and Greg Glassman are big on lift-plus-sprint couplet workouts.) Long-term issues The primary problem with this plan is that the weight will very quickly stop being "heavy" to you. With even a couple weeks of training, most humans get very good at squatting and deadlifting much heavier weights than they can curl or press. It's likely that you'll stop challenging yourself on the lower-body exercises fairly quickly. At that point, you'll probably want to research Pavel's material as noted above, or look into pistols (one-leg squats), jump squats, single-leg deadlifts, Romanian dumbbell deadlifts, and other ways of continuing to challenge your squat and "hinge" (deadlift) strength. Maybe you'll move to barbell, kettlebell, Olympic, or gymnastic work. 

Personally, if I did it once a day for a week and I felt fine, I'd feel okay with doing two-a-days. But I sure wouldn't dive into two or three a day without ramping up slowly. Also, because strength training is so productive in a variety of ways, you might consider supplementing your exercise-bike Tabatas with strength training. 

First, let's get some terminology out of the way. In order to be a kettlebell, I would require the tool to be one solid piece of metal. Adjustable kettlebell substitutes are apparently called "T-handles" instead. The model pictured above has an actual handle, whereas homemade versions may just be designed to grab on to a straight stick of pipe. They work for swings, but I wouldn't use any of these "non-kettlebell kettlebells" for, say, snatches. Many people make these adjustable kettlebell T-handles themselves. The model pictured above has an actual handle, whereas homemade versions may just be designed to grab on to a straight stick of pipe. Here is a quick demo video of the T-handle creation process. Dave Draper has detailed instructions, with a link to Ross Enamait demoing his variation of the equipment (he adds a homemade collar and recommends swinging from blocks to avoid hitting the ground with heavy loads). 

The relevant training variables for focusing on strength rather than bodybuilding are the weight used and the number of repetitions. I am not convinced by the idea that time under tension or energy systems are the relevant variable instead of rep ranges. Controlling the rep range to focus purely on strength rather than metabolic conditioning, endurance, or hypertrophy just means that you should do all-out sets using weights or exercises for which you can only do five or fewer reps. I don't think that's going to be enough training stimulus with bodyweight work, even if you manage to find the exact exercise that is exactly hard enough without being too hard. If you want to try this approach, I would first notice that nearly all the exercises in the recommended programs on Baye's site are weighted, not bodyweight. That's because a large number of bodyweight exercises make it difficult to get enough training stimulus for continued increases in strength and size with just one set. That said, one set to failure (while maintaining impeccable form) work strike me as sufficient and productive with deadlifts and pull-ups. I would be wary of this approach with one-arm chin-ups, handstand work, and one-arm push-ups. Those exercises involve some skill work and stabilization effort, which mean a significant degree of injury risk when doing sets to failure. 

If the amount you have been able to lift over time has been going down, and you're interested in muscle gain for aesthetics, I think you should do one of two things: 

3 sets of five can help you get bigger. Ten sets of 10 will too, if you can handle it and don't overtrain. 100 heavy reps is an extremely high workload. Make sure your diet, sleep, and so on are dialed in if you're on this program. 

Back squats, low-bar or not, are preferred to front squats because they allow heavier loads. Some say that back squats use more hamstrings and glutes than the front squat, but I've found this isn't a major concern. Front squats are a fine exercise and I'm sure that they'll work almost as well as back squats. You won't advance quite as quickly, but I doubt you'll be able to notice. Right now I'm substituting front squats for back squats due to flexibility issues in my back, shoulders, and hips. That's OK. But avoiding the back squat forever because it's a lot of work to fix those issues is not a great idea, and not part of my plan. I absolutely plan on back squatting again, and am working on regaining that ability, because avoiding an exercise due to a fixable issue is not a productive way to live.