To activate your abdominals you need to make sure your torso is bending. As other people have said, with hanging leg lifts its likely that you are working your hip flexors. Also, from what you say, it sounds as if you have fairly strong abs anyway. So it may be time to move to more advanced moves. Have you tried crunches on a Swiss ball? Adding in the stabalising factor will make the same exercises harder. Here is a website with sample exercises you can try $URL$ There are many others. Hope that helps 

If you are going out to buy shoes I would definitely go for walking shoes. For the following reasons:- They are more supportive all round. They will last longer They will keep your foot drier in a downpour. 

If you can do a standard plank for 1 minute. It's time to make it harder. Move to a Swiss ball. Put your feet on an upside down bosu. Lots of options... 

Don't be dis-heartened, you may have started to tone, and may of actually started to lose inches, so you should take measurements as well as using the scales. I often find that clients have lost no weight, yet they have lost 2 inches around their waist. As per previous comments, a week is a very short time to see a difference. When you exercise more your body requires more calories just to maintain weight. Therefore, if you exercise more and eat the same you will loose weight. Good luck with your journey 

Many years ago I had a similar problem to this. I was a marathon runner, and was used to pushing my body hard. I had some blood tests done. Nothing showed up re iron or the normal things they test for, but the white blood count was low which meant my immune system was suppressed. I found it really hard to step back from training, but training hard just makes the situation worse, and prolongs the problem. I would suggest reducing training significantly for a few months. And have at least one days rest between training days, also take a tonic to try and help with your recovery. @Berin loritsch suggests changing your program which I think is a good suggestion. Also, as Berin said, do be aware that other things causing stress in your life will suppress your immune system. Good luck on your recovery 

I hadn't previously considered upright row to be dangerous, but I guess if you are using heavy weights and you don't have good technique, impingement could be a consideration. There are so many option when exercising muscles, it's easy to avoid 1 exercise - you could do Reverse flye, shrugs, bent over row, they will all work the same muscle. If you are concerned with protecting your shoulders it would be advisable to incorporate some work on your rotary cuff muscles. These are small muscles that help to stabalise the shoulder and will definitely help to reduce injury risk 

I may be able to throw some light on the calves, but not the upper body. It is possible that when you are running, that as your foot comes through, you are kicking your other calf. I do this myself sometimes. If the bruises are always on the inside of the calves. I think this could be your answer. You wouldn't necessarily be aware that you are doing it, as it's lots of small kicks over the period of the run. Since I've known I do it, I am sometimes aware of it when I run, but normally not. Although, I'm not sure about the ones on your arms. 

I would suggest that 2 seconds up, 2 seconds down is good technique, and should be followed in most exercises. If you need momentum to complete the set or to do the exercise then the weight should be reduced, as this is not good form. In regards to whether it's for muscle gain or endurance, good form should be for both. To look at muscle growth/endurance you need to look at the number of reps and weights 

I would start with stretching as @usedtobefat suggested, then I'd try swimming. This should help loosen everything up, then hopefully you should be good to run. I'd try swimming over running as its non weight bearing, and there is no jaring, so hopefully will be kinder so a sore back. Don't get caught up in, "it's on the schedule I have to do it". Listen to your body, and hopefully you'll be back to running in no time. 

If you are skinny. It's possible to have defined abs, as usually it's the layer of fat that causes the problem. You need to make sure all ab muscles are worked. The plank works the transverse abdominus. Leg raises and crunches the rectus abdominus. You could do with adding something for obliques, depending on your level I would go for a russian twist, side plank or lateral crunches. It would also be worth adding some back raises to make sure you are working the whole of your truck and don't become unbalanced. Hope that helps 

I can see why this sounds confusing, but most runners record there training in miles or kilometres per week. So if you were to take 10-15% of your weeks running miles, I would think that's what it means. However, if your target is to improve your 10k, you may be better to do 10-15% high intensity running. Personally, I would think this will be more specific to your goal. Although, obviously if you were looking to work your whole body HIT may suit your needs Sessions you could try for high intensity running:- warm up 5-10 jog (run fast for 1 min/jog 1 minute) - repeat up to 10 times then 5-10 minutes jog. You could also try fartlek, select a route (maybe 5-6 miles), start with a jog warmup, then run faster as you feel. Efforts can be anything from 20 seconds up to a couple of minutes. You can run the hills hard. It's up to you. a great session to do with a training partner. These kind of training will make you fitter and faster for running. Good luck for your 10K 

Joshua, I think doing some weights a couple of times a week would be fine. My concern would be if you are lifting heavy weights every day and you bulk up too much. For gymnastics/Parkour you need to be strong, agile and flexible. Being too big will reduce your flexibility(range of movement) which could affect your agility. Having said that done in moderation, it will help with strength. You also need to take care, as at 17 you are still growing. So in answer to your question, mix it up. Some body weight exercises, some weights. Do what you enjoy, but keep an eye on why you are doing it, and keep it in moderation. Hope that helps 

I would say 2 consecutive days would be fine, but don't be surprised if the second day feels much harder. If you are doing 30 minutes the first day, do 20 the next. Make sure the following day you rest. I would say the most important thing here is to listen to your body. Beginner runners often get injured in the first 6 months due to over doing it, and not giving the body time to adapt. So do be careful. 

The first question is why are your calves getting so tight? You say you have increased your runs, by how much quickly? Was the injury also calf related? It might be worth checking your trainers, do they need changing? How many miles have you done in them and did you get have your gait analysis done at a specialist running shop when you purchased them? If you are happy that your trainers are fine, there are a number of things you can try. An ice bath after your run, will help reduce soreness. Foam roller after all runs. You could try running in compression socks, which would help with blood flow and aid recovery. If none of the above work, I would suggest you either ease off and increase again more slowly, or see a sports physio 

You are correct that speed walking and running are both working your heart and lungs. However, the muscles used are slightly different. I see you say you find running difficult whatever the pace, but what I would suggest, is for you to start the transition slowly. Run a lamp post then walk a lamp post. Then run 2 walk 1 etc. the other thing you could try is the Couch to 5k app. As you are pretty fit, I'm sure you will move through the stages rapidly. Also, if none of the above works, and you are getting tightness in your chest, as Sean said get yourself checked out for asthma 

There are a couple of things here that are worth looking at further. Firstly, obviously, you are very keen on working out. I am pleased to see that you are having a day off a week. However, if you have been working out day in, day out over a long period, it maybe that you need a few days off. Any decent training program will have hard easy weeks, and even hard easy months. Have you heard of periodisation?(regarding training plans) You may find this interesting $URL$ So I would start with having 2-3 days off. Next I would look at your diet - you say you have stress in your life at the moment. Is it causing you not to eat so well? Remember food is fuel - 2 hours is a longtime to workout if you are not eating properly. If after a few days off, and checking your diet, things still haven't improved, I would consider a trip to the doctor for a blood test. It could simply be that you are low in iron. (you didn't mention if you eat red meat?). As to the energy drinks, I personally would not suggest you go down this route. You need to find the cause of your problem, and not mask the problems. 

As others have said, you can't do a marathon on half marathon training. But if the marathon is say 3 months after, you could use the half as part of your build up to the marathon. You need to teach your body to use fat for fuel,which is learnt during the long training runs. Your body cannot store enough energy through carbohydrates for the duration of the marathon. The marathon is to be respected, don't do it until you have trained specifically for it. 

You just need to build it up gradually, and not start too fast. Start by running from one lamp post to the next. Then walking the next one. When you can manage that ok, run 2 lamp posts and walk one. Try to start at a pace that feels easy, that you can maintain for the distance. There is an app you can get for iPhones called couch to 5k which is very good. A run/walk program. Start slowly, with a run walk program and I'm sure you will see progress fairly quickly. Good luck on your journey 

This is asking a bit much! Question is also a bit vague.... You need to specify how much you are prepared to spend, and what activities are the most important to you. You won't find a gadget that will be really good at all of them. However, the 2 that spring to mind are:- A Fitbit - measures sleep and counts number of steps. It comes with software, not sure if you could manually enter other activities? A Garmin - will measure distance covered, and I believe if you get the right one you can use for bike and in the pool, jogging and non sport activities. It will record distance covered and pace. You can upload data to garmin software and manually input the rest. However, it will not record sleep. 

It's difficult to say for sure without watching you, but it sounds as if you could be stiff in the lumber spine. You are keeping your heels down and sitting back, but because you are stiff in the lumber spine, you need to lean your shoulders further forward than you should be. Continue to work on your form. Try not to lean so far forward, and work on your flexibility. 

Like you, I have been running a number of years and have tried various brands. In my opinion there are a couple of reasons you won't be offered Nike running shoes in a running shop. I'm sure someone will correct me if I'm wrong, but sometimes with big brands like Nike they can be very fussy about where their shoes are sold. They may say to shops they they will only take an order from them if they spend a certain amount of money(a large amount). Given that most Running Shops are small independant shops rather than a chain. I suspect most can't afford to do this. In my early days of running I used Air Pegusus(an entry level shoe that is still around now), but I do also feel that a lot of their shoes are aimed more at the fashion market, more than specialised running. 

Don't stop. It's not unusual to have one side of your body to be slightly stronger than the other. This is likely to be true, even if you don't workout. Think about it, if you are right haned, you will automatically use your right hand for most tasks you do. Therefore you are likely to be slightly stronger on that side of the body. When working out, always use the same weight for both sides of your body. Ie don't use a heavier weight for your stronger arm. Always work at the weight level of the weaker arm, and hopefully things will level out a bit. 

If he's playing at that level, getting an X-ray done shouldn't be an issue, and would be worth doing in the first instance, best to be sure. Other than the normal advice of ice, and taking anti inflamatories. If you have assess to a floatation belt, running in water is great, especially if used along with a heart rate monitor to keep the heart rate up. It will really help to maintain fitness without stressing the injury. 

Treadmill running is much easier, unless it it one of the running road, and would be the reason for the difference in pace. The reason I say this, is because the treadmill does all of the work. All you are doing is keeping up with it. The other reason, is outside the gradient naturally changes even under foot. Your body has to work more to move in a forward direction than on a treadmill. (ouside is like working on an unstable base in the gym - its harder) you also have the weather to contend with. Even a flat route outside would greatly use more muscles and effort. Personally, I would only use a treadmill to warm up, or for a run when the outside option was not available.