If a let was considered a valid serve, would professional tennis players be able to accurately hit the net cord and have the ball drop into the service box, often enough to make it worth while? Would it at least be a commonly attempted on a first serve, with players opting for the usual safer second serve if they hit the net? Or would the risk outweigh the benefits? Would players continue to serve as they do already, with a let being nothing but a lucky bonus? 

In ice hockey, when a team is losing by a goal in the last few minutes, the coach usually pulls the goalie and replaces them with another player, leaving the net empty, but this doesn't matter since goal difference isn't as important as it is in a sport like football. If they are losing by 2 goals (sometimes 3 in a playoffs game) they usually pull the goalie with about 2-3 minutes remaining. If they are losing by 1 goal, they usually pull the goalie with about 90 seconds remaining. However, I've seen in some situations, a team is losing by 1 goal, so they pull the goalie, but then the other team scores an empty net goal. Now the team is down by 2 goals, but where they would usually pull the goalie when losing by 2, they actually put the goalie back in. Why is this done? Is it just because the empty net goal demoralizes the team? Or they think they have no chance of coming back from being 2 goals down with only a minute or so left (as opposed to the usual 2-3 minutes)? Note: There are cases where the above doesn't apply, like yesterday Colorado were losing 1-0 against Detroit when Patrick Roy pulled the goalie with 3 minutes left (he often pulls the goalie very early) and the other team scored an empty net goal just after, but they kept the goalie pulled even though they were now 2-0 down (and the other team actually scored another empty net goal after that making it 3-0). 

The team who loans a player from another team doesn't own them, but they usually pay his wages. Often teams will loan out players who are too young/inexperienced to play for their main team, since they can gain experience and they don't have to pay their wages. If Team A sign a player, but he's too young/inexperienced to play for them, they will often him out to other teams on loan. So say they loan him out to Team B, this means Team A still own the rights to him, but while he's on loan, they don't have to pay the wages because Team B will pay the wages. Although, the case of Torres is a little different. Torres was on loan from Chelsea since the start of the season, however in the mid-season transfer window, Milan got Torres on a free transfer deal, so Milan are now the owners of him. As soon as the deal was completed, they loaned Torres to Atletico Madrid, in exchange for Alessio Cerci. Unusually in this situation however, instead of Milan paying the wages of Cerci, and Atletico paying the wages of Torres, as is fairly usual for a loan deal, Milan are paying the wages of Torres, and Atletico are paying the wages of Cerci. Torres gets paid £4m/year and Cerci gets paid £2.5m/year 

"Easy choice" is a stroke of your choosing at an easy pace. The rhythm of the program is hard/easy/hard/easy but only the first hard is with a specific stroke. 

Hitting in roller derby (using the Women's Flat Track Derby Association rule set) sounds similar. You can hit people from above mid-thigh to the tops of the shoulder to their fronts or sides. You can not hit people below mid thigh or their backs (between the bra straps). If you are initiating the contact, you can not make contact with your arms, elbows, hands or from below mid-thigh. The point is to make pushing and tripping illegal. Traditionally hitting was from the sides like a side tackle in football/soccer or a check in hockey. More recently contact is front to front with one skater facing the "wrong" way. Here's a great clip of one girl doing repeated checks. $URL$ 

You may (probably will) find that your body is up to a faster pace than your breathing allows at first. If you focus on form, particularly rotation, rather than speed the breathing becomes more natural. I found that a kick buoy helps so that I can focus on the upper body. Rotating in one direction only for several laps helps too, that means turning your face to the same side to breathe in. After a few laps always turning in one direction, switch and rotate to the other. Rotating in one direction will feel natural and the other will feel weird, but that makes the rotation even so work on both. 

Generically speaking (rather than you specifically), socks are optional. Barefoot skating is a pretty common question in skating specific forums like $URL$ or $URL$ or $URL$ Skaters say they can feel the surface better and the grip is better especially with custom fitted boots. There is the same risk for infections as there would be for other sporting gear and shoes that touch sweaty skin. There is discussion that one's skates stink more if one skates barefoot, but I skate with socks (albeit real thin ones) and my skates stink pretty bad. 

Of shoes designed for running (as opposed to "athletic shoes" generally), the superior shoe is the one that fits your foot and stride best which of course is completely subjective to you. The first point is fit: narrow versus wide verus wedge shaped. Arch height is in there too: low versus high. The "best" shoe is the one that is designed for what you happen to have. the second point relates to stability. Some people pronate more or less than average. $URL$ Where your heel strikes is a part of your stride that is partially separate from pronation. Other features to evaluate relate to the surface on which you run, your weight, your sex, your weekly mileage, cushioning you might want or need. All of those features interact to affect the shoe weight and construction. For example, a shoe with serious stability to limit over-pronation will be heavier than a shoe with less stability. If you are not willing to wear the heavier shoe, a lighter version with some stability will not last as long because you will be pronating in the shoe somewhat. That does not mean one shoe is "better" than the other. A petite (lighter-weight) runner can use a lighter a shoe in general because the shoe has to hold up less weight even if he or she requires lots of stability. Going back to fit, Saucony shoes have wider toe boxes and narrower heels than Brooks which are more uniform in width. Others are known for being narrow. (I mention Saucony because they fit my female, wedge foot. I do not know how their shoes for males fit.) To answer your question, the best way to choose a good pair of running shoes is to go to a store that specializes in running shoes. The staff there are trained in fitting new runners by evaluating their strides and are familiar with the fit and construction of the different brands. This little doodad $URL$ goes through many of the features that relate to evaluating, but I still would prefer a fit specialist for at least my first pair. If you go through the process, you'll see that one of the options is finding a pair that fit like the ones you have. 

In hockey, they often challenge penalty calls, goals, etc. Sometimes a goal is called back, sometimes it's awarded. Are you allowed to challenge everything? Why don't they often challenge offside calls? What stops a coach challenging every call against his team, just in case it gets called back? 

I saw some highlights from an NFL game the other day (I think it was Detroit's 22-21 comeback win against Atlanta) and the presenter said they won the game with a field goal. Their first attempt at scoring the field goal was wide, however there was a flag on the field, due to an offensive foul (delay of game) and they would replay the down with a 5 yard penalty. Of course they then had another attempt at the field goal and scored it. Now, I know it is possible (only in certain situations?) to decline a penalty in the NFL, so since it's an offensive penalty, why couldn't the Falcons decline this penalty, counting the missed field goal as a failed attempt and ending the game? 

You can see the coefficient rankings here Spain and Germany are first and second, while England is third. However, Spain and Germany only have 7 places available, but England has eight. Why is this? 

How is it that a bookmaker can offer a basketball game with say a +10.5 handicap on Team A, and the game finishes 110-100 or 101-90? The same thing seems to happen with the point total, they'll set the line at over/under 198.5 and it often finishes 100-98 or 100-99 How would you even start to calculate what the final total or point difference will be? 

For example, the current transfer window for most leagues in Europe ends tomorrow. Manchester United bought Depay from PSV this window. Could they sell him tomorrow if they wanted? Or do they need to wait until the mid-season transfer window at least? 

It was called the "70's line" because of the jersey numbers Jeff Carter is 77 Tyler Tiffoli is 73 Tanner Pearson is 70 

In Baseball, why do the batters waiting to go and bat have some kind of cover on their bat? It's not a full cover, it just seems to be something that goes around the thick part of the bat. It looks like a knee/elbow protector that someone has slid over their bat. He wasn't even swinging at balls or anything, just swinging at air. It seemed almost like he was trying to cover up what was on the bat (like a picture or text) 

Anyone can become a goalkeeper, but if you are talking about going on to play professionally then just take a look at some stats. Brian Holt is currently the shortest goalkeeper in the MLS, at a height of 5'8" (172cm) The shortest goalkeepers in the English Premier League (Michael Vorn/Mike Bunn) are 6'0" (183cm) The shortest goalkeeper in the 2014 World Cup was Ivory Coast's Boubacar Barry at 5'11 (180cm) So you can see that the top leagues/competitions are dominated by taller goalkeepers, and this is simply because the taller they are, the longer reach they have and the better chance they have of keeping shots out. This also commonly applies to defenders since they have a greater chance of winning headers. A shorter player would be best suited in a winger role, like Emanuele Giaccherini (5'6", 167cm) or Aaron Lennon (5'5", 165cm). Lionel Messi and Sebastian Giovinco play as forwards and are 5'7" (170cm) 

The short answer is edges. The blade on an ice skate actually has two edges: one on the inside and one on the outside. Having your weight on one versus the other causes your skate to turn. For example: Line up your feet so the left foot is front of the right. Have the weight of your left leg on the outside edge and the weight of your right leg on the inside edge. Your skates will automatically turn left. That's the basics. When you crossover you add momentum to that dynamic. Here's a picture I found that shows the basic idea. The skates are inlines, but the edges and pushing are labeled. $URL$ If you don't get a feel for your edges you won't be able to advance because all skating is edge work. 

In a nutshell, the trick to longer distance races is to train at those distances. To run a 10 k race, work your way up to 8 or 9 k regularly before your race. The same holds true for longer distance races. To successfully run a half-marathon, train so that your training runs have increased to 15 to 18 k in month or so before the race. When training for marathons, the longest training run is about 40 km. That run takes place four to six weeks before the race. Most training plans take into account the fact that most of us have jobs. Distances are between 5 and 15 k during the week with the long run (working up to 40 k) on the weekend. Speed doesn't play a whole lot into it except in learning how to regulate it. Consistency in pacing is more important. Being outside is great, but unless your race is hilly training on a treadmill is fine especially for the weekday runs. Make use of the incline. I really, really like Hal Higdon. Here's his beginner novice plan for a marathon. You can see how the distances increase. The plans for more advanced runners presume you are already running substantially longer distances. $URL$ And good luck. 

Focus on exhaling. For a set number of laps focus just on breathing. Make it a goal to blow out as much breath as possible. Do not miss a month. Seriously. Practice makes permanent. You have to swim regularly until your muscles remember what to do without your brain. There is no shortcut here. You will get there. It is good to work on all strokes rather than just one, but that does mean that the time devoted to each stroke is less than if you focused on just one. 

Exhaling. Begin exhaling while your face is still in the water and blow out as much air as possible. Your goal is to have your lungs empty so that when your mouth and nose break the surface your body is really wanting to breathe in. Your pace dictates how long your face is out of the water. Your body is rotating on the long axis and your face breaks the surface as a result of that rotation. If you find that period of time is too quick to get in a decent breath, then slow your arms down and exaggerate the rotation. Breathe in as is most natural for you: nose only or nose and mouth. If you want to force using your mouth, there are nose clips available.