In wrestling we used water weight loss for quick weight loss. Yes it isn't permanent and it isn't particularly healthy. It was not unusual for me to lose 5 to 7 pounds (2-3 kg) in water weight per workout before the weigh-in. 

My answer to this for me was the warm-up. My warm-up is a 5 mile bike sprint from home to the gym. On the way home, I dog it as part of my cool down. 

There is more than one way to measure exercise. Yes the number of calories is low and to increase the number of calories would take a whole lot of climbing. The low level cardio and the psychological values of the exercise can far outdo the pure caloric count. Add to that the alternative of taking the elevator which will give you far less. What I'm saying is that you should take the stairs whenever possible, but don't use it as a primary exercise. Every little bit helps. 

Spot Reducing fact is not possible. There is no controversy. Many youtube videos and journals on this. See here Blood Flow and lyposis.. Fat is not converted into muscle. Beginner weightlifters can loose fat, and gain muscle at the same time. Generally after six months this is not possible by 99.99% of the population, unless incredible genetics are present. The idea after losing your "noob gains" (The fact that you are able to gain muscle and lose fat at the same time during your first several months of lifting), is one of the following 

There are a bunch of factors. Most of the ones I know are already well covered. I need to add that what is right for someone else may not be right for you. For instance, I find I am sluggish if I sleep more than 7 hours a night. I have found that the older I get, the more important it becomes to stay with a schedule. I have been a lifetime believer in supplements and exercise and I have found that my needs change over time and that it is highly cyclical. When I was in college, I ran into an idea that I have used ever since. "Your body will tell you what it needs." There is more than 40 years of listening to my body behind that and what I get from it changes all the time. There is also a bunch of learning and studying behind it. For instance, my mother spent a lifetime with very soft nails which I inherited. By taking vitamin D3 at the appropriate dosage level, for me that is 6000 units on top of the standard daily vitamins, I no longer have such soft nails. What this is all saying is, stay with your current regimen and you will see benefits in the future. You're going to have ups and downs and over time you will get more ups than downs. 

To gain weight by maintaining a caloric surplus. A caloric surplus is generally the only way to gain muscle after the first several months of training. There are other more advanced methods involving recomposition, but this is generally what happens. Note that lifters can expect to gain muscle, and gain fat at the same time, depending on the caloric surplus To lose fat, but expect to lose slight amounts of muscle while loosing fat. I.e caloric deficit 

Most studies have shown meal timing isn't relevant in terms of weight gain. At the end of the day of course- it just matters on the calories from the specific macronutrients you are eating. That being the case, its probably better to eat the majority of your food during a time you are generally active, or right after a workout, just so you get the energy from the food. The reason you are losing weight is because you aren't eating enough, it has nothing to do with when you eat. Do not worry about your meal timing, just make sure you are eating enough for whatever goals you have in mind ( losing weight, gaining weight). Try to schedule some meals around the times you will workout or do something relatively active, since it might give you a boost of energy. Edit: See $URL$ $URL$ The idea that increased meal frequency contributes to any noticeable caloric loss and thus leading to potential extra weight loss has been debunked and has never been proven by any scientific studies. Please feel free to comment a study that says otherwise, however please make sure it has references. 

The most important thing with eating right before exercise is the strain it places on your heart. The bloodflow to your digestive tract is significantly increased for a while after eating. Forcing your heart to keep up that bloodflow and increase bloodflow to your muscles can cause a heart attack (depending on normal risk factors and everything else) as well as just plain decrease your performance if your heart can't keep up. Of course, if you want an "easy" way to raise your heart rate this might be a good thing, but you should definitely be careful and I would caution against it. 

Rotate your exercises. Don't do the same muscle group two days in a row. Your muscles need 48 to 72 hours rest time. "Stop doing the daily lifting?" is exactly right. 

Tough question because it wide open. I use different setups for different muscle groups. Each setup has it's own set of standards according to what you're trying to work. On the flip side of that, I did run into some generic things not to do. When you're attempting to slim, don't use an incline board. do them on the flat. 

This is a static stretch Heres another good hip movement which is great for flexibility. I'm actually not too sure what this is exactly called, but I and several other athletes generally do this at the end of the workout ( this is a static stretch) 

This could be considered a stretch ,or may not be, but most lifters generally use this machine called the hip abduction. You can find on how to use this machine on youtube. 

In short You cant spot reduce fat. You can lose fat. You can gain muscle. But they don't convert into one another. 

A small factor is rounding error. There is probably not exactly 60 g of protein any more than there is exactly 9 calories per gram of every single type of fat. Another may be over-estimation. The could just be rounding up to 300 to provide a nice number or cover themselves, since some chicken breasts may be larger or fattier than others. Finally is how calories are measured. They put the chicken breast in a calorimeter and burn it, and see how much heat it generates. This is not a perfect process and, also, some things that burn aren't used as energy by your body. (One example would be fiber, although there's none of that in chicken). So the number of calories is just an estimate of how many calories are provided to your body, and the estimate is not actually based on some sort of human study or model. Some food companies might skip the calorimeter and just add up the numbers like you did, though. 

If you have no access to a gym (get a membership!) you can try the exercise in the picture below. This will work as the same effect, but make sure you are pausing at the highest point of the abduction. If you are new to this you probably can't raise your legs too high. 

Here is an actual exercise, but I recommend to do it with no weight at all so it actually becomes a dynamic stretch really. The important thing here is that you have to go ALL the way down, and when you come up, push your hips out during the squat. This is probably hands down the best way to improve hip mobility. At first you want be able to squat all the way down that low, but trust me if you practice you will be extremely flexible and the squat transfers well into running sports.