One additional point for the reluctance to show a failure would be the first steps of the European Consortium Airbus starting at the same time, finally disputing the US-dominated market of commercial airliners (at the time with McDonnel-Douglas DC9/10 and Boeing 727/737s). As both BAC (British) and Aérospatiale (French) were manufacturers highly involved in the construction and marketing of new airliners such as the A300, it was in their interest to be have the Concorde as a success story. Concord was an icon for the British/French capacity to make airplanes, playing as free publicity: "If a company can make the fastest commercial airliner in the world, it can also be trusted to make medium-range aircraft." Having a failure in the Concorde project could affect the market for other models like the A300 and the new A310 at the time, endangering the whole European aircraft industry in France and Britain. By the way, Vox made a 10-min documentary on the history of the concorde. Not necessarily academic, but interesting and a lead for more sources. 

In the case of Animal products, you can see in the chart that the corresponding yellow bar is quite small (1,3% of the visual space). It starts at 228B and finishes at 231B, thus ~3B is the amount of animal exports. These stacked bars charts help to understand visually the contribution of each sector in the economy. Each line should be read as "How much is this sector adding to the GDP?" It helps to imagine that you would get all the money from the exports, wrap it in different colours and stack it up in a room - the end result would look like this chart. 

So is management science (the scientific research that is published in journals like this) a separate science, similar to the way economics uses Mathematics? What is the view of economists on this? 

Because they are different markets, which trade at different hours, leading to different results. There is also the effect of variations of variations in the USD/EUR rates. 

The companies who engage in these sort of mechanisms expect the token to have a variable price which remains accessible and fair for the product in question, and also keep some tokens for themselves which can be used to influence the. In case the price rises beyond intended, some companies reserve large amounts of initial tokens to sell in the market (sell high volumes of tokens to keep the price low), or they even reserve the right to produce new tokens. However, these companies also benefit from a high valuation of the token, which creates a speculative risk, benefiting the company but not necessarily consumers. See the long example/explanation below. Example: Amusement park tokens The situation can be illustrated as an amusement park who requires tokens to access and use the rides. Instead of selling the tokens themselves, the park sells lots of tokens before being built (similar to an ICO). Consider they sell it for €1 instead of the typical €2 or €3 on other amusement parks. You can then go to the park and try to sell the tokens to anyone. The logic is any visitor would still pay 2 or 3€ for the tokens, since he/she is a casual visitor. If it is a regular visitor, maybe he or she would try to save some money by buying the early tokens, but once those were used, the rides are still fairly priced at €2 or €3. However, if the tokens are in too much demand, their price would climb to, for instance €10. When this happens, people would stop buying until the price lowers again until an acceptable value. If this doesn't happen due to whatever reason (e.g. speculation) the amusement park could sell some reserve tokens at the intended price (2€). Some amusement parks would even say they can produce new tokens at any time, to avoid this risk. However, remember that the amusement park benefits from selling reserve or new tokens for high prices at any time, and this would be a profit without delivering any value or product. Research and further reading on ICOs Please note that this is a very new area and very few studies have been performed yet on this field. I've recently read one paper on "Red Flags for ICOs", and another one is the economics of ICOs, if you want to learn more. 

From Convention Limiting the Hours of Work in Industrial Undertakings to Eight in the Day and Forty-eight in the Week (ILO, 1919) This meant that generally workers would work 8h/day as a maximum, with 1 day of rest per week. 52 countries have ratified this convention, although not immediately. The change for the 40h week came in 1935, with another ILO convention, which explains the motivations in its preamble: 

The shareholder system is a way of distributing the ownership of the company - each shareholder owns a certain part of the company. Shareholders are the owners of the company, in several company legal forms, such as an LLC. They exist before and after an IPO (Initial public offer), meaning that both public (traded) and private companies may have shareholders. The shareholders can fire and hire the Management team (CEO/CFO/ etc), which answers your questions 2 and 3. They usually signal the Management team which actions they expect the company to take to maximize the company value, reflected by the share value. If the shareholders have a short-term gain objective, this might harm the long-term sustainability of the company - a case where the management team and the shareholders might have different perspectives. Raising funds through the sale of shares is attractive for companies because it is interest free, and might give you access to much more funds than you would ever be able to get from bonds - depending on how a company communicates its future potential. However, this comes with a loss of ownership. There is only so much unsecured debt one can sell - and debt is always paid back with interest. 

This adds to the other good answers already posted: Different prices in different countries are a result of complex factors, which are hard to explain in one, simple way. An example: the housing prices in Sydney are extremely high compared to Frankfurt, with the reason being the high demand of housing vs housing supply, and the lack of adequate public transportation. This is not connected with the salary you might earn in Sydney, but rather with the housing market itself. The same applies to eggs, as highlighted by mootmoot. If you want to compare costs of living, there are some nice tools like Numbeo that compare a basket of goods between different cities. 

The approach you take depends from what makes more sense for your business. In this case, I would take the approach 2, which also makes it more intuitive to understand that I making long rides will cover the fixed costs with less rides. If you have a positive contribution margin in a product, you should only stop producing it if you can produce and sell more of another product with the same resources and a higher margin. You can also use approach 2 and continuously verify the results of approach 1 for the previous month. 

The point of economics is agreed by most to be finding the universal laws of economic behaviors. Given that most real-life situations are very complex, there are often competing views and theories on what the outcome will be. This is rooted in a series of issues: Logic and Math over empirical proof Several models, particularly the classics, have been created from mathematical and logical thinking, before the availability of data. These theories and models are logically and mathematically very sound. The issue here is the applicability to solve real-life problems, which becomes a topic for disagreement between economists. One of the examples is Ricardo's theory of comparative advantage, which is used as a basis for major consensus in the economics profession, and a key driver of the free trade movement, was prepared before the existence of large scale trade data. Nowadays, we have several empirical studies that disprove the applicability of comparative advantage theories for international development: African countries with free trade have not developed near as fast as Asian countries with import tariffs and export subsidies (Piketty 2014, Galbraith 2008) The theory of comparative advantage is so broadly accepted that one could compare it to a "law" in economics, but other sciences would reject any law which is, at least once, proven to be wrong. Piketty describes this issue very elegantly: 

Consumers are paying for the possibility to have the product available in the future. They now that paying zero will lead the producer to be bankrupt, but paying what they want will make them buy a product at surplus (price Consumers receive a negative social value from stealing, and paying zero = stealing. It is intuitive that most of us does not want to harm others, and when you translate that into a neoclassical model, this would represent a negative utility that outweighs the value of the good. Knowing this, the producer can be confident that the consumers will always pay more than zero. The expected price could be, for instance, the value of the cheapest comparable product, perhaps with a discount of ~20% (this is what I used to pay in PWYW restaurants). 

In the US and in the Eurozone, a lot of the money doesn't physically exist - this graph illustrates it quite nicely. In Europe, only 1,1B of the 10B Euro in circulation are cash (source) - all the remainder is electronic. When banks need money from the Fed, there is an electronic transaction from the Fed to the bank. Cash is introduced in the economy through banks, through their request to the central bank for cash, provided upon need and perhaps against a fee. 

According to the news there wasn't shortage or bankruptcy concerns in the Hurrican Irma. The straight answer for that question is it depends on the impact of the damages. About functioning as normal: they will probably increase the premiums, as stated above, and might implement lower compensation limits for future losses, or exemptions for certain kinds of damage (e.g. most insurances stopped covering terrorist attacks after the 9/11, or priced it extremely high). 

If a refusal to state a preference or indifference would be the violation of the axiom, then you can use the example of a couple that refuses to answer to their family if they will marry or not. They are not saying yes, no, or that they are indifferent - they are refusing to discuss the topic. However, you can always say that this is indifference. That's what Tassos Patokos wrote in his book Internal Game Theory (pages 33-34). 

Your supervisor might want for you to come up with a research question yourself, maybe because that's part of the assignment. At the thesis, you should be able to demonstrate independent thinking rather than being told what to do for an assignment, and your supervisor might want you to do some more research on your own. However, it is also part of his/her job to give you guidance on the relevant fields where s/he considers your skills fit best. Since you want to research on macro, check which papers were part of the recommended readings for that subject and ask your supervisor if s/he would recommend you to start there. Another way to get ideas is to scout the papers in economics search engines. The IDEAS/RePEc can be a good starting point. You can look for topics and sort by citations. Elsevier also has a list of most cited work in economics since 2013. Keep in mind that importance in academic terms is usually often measured by number of citations. If you want a more mainstream reading, I'm sure a google search will also help you find articles like this list of 2017's most important researches. 

To complement the answers from Dan and Waitakere, protecionism is often justified by strategic interest. Regardless of the gains of comparative advantage, a country or region might want to retain certain industries. Usual explanations are to avoid external dependence or to retain jobs. This kind of thinking is one of the justifications for the high levels of protection that the EU has on its agricultural industry: the losses in jobs and the risk with external dependence wouldn't be offset by the gains of lower food costs. This paper talks about it, if you want to read more. 

Recycling credits are put in place assuming that the pollution after the consumption of a good is a negative externality. This negative externality affects everyone, when you have a newspaper in the streets this reduces the utility of the street for you, creating a social inefficiency. The government puts in place a mandatory correction system to correct the inefficiency: the recycling credits. In your case, the newspaper company is producing a good that, after its consumption, will most likely be trashed. The company might very well transfer the costs of the recycling credits to consumers, increasing the price (similar to the effect of a tax in microeconomics). However, the newspapers that are not sold will also be trashed - old news dont sell. So why do they force the producer to pay the recycling? Two key reasons. First, if the producer has higher costs, it will produce less, therefore pollute less. Second, pratically it is much easier to make one agent pay on a easily verifiable ammount, than charge thousands of consumers very small amounts. So at the end of the day both consumrs and producer end up paying and being responsible for recycling, even if the producer is the agent paying initially for the recycling credits. 

Problem of Aggregation Conclusions taken for one single individual cannot always be translated to aggregate terms (multiple individuals). This means that microeconomic results are not necessarily transferable to macro terms, and this can create disagreement among economists. Preston (1959) makes a good overview of the problem in the first page, or check the wikipedia page. Researcher bias Economics research is highly vulnerable to bias. Even if methodologically the studies can be well grounded in logic and data, the point of view of the researcher can be influenced by one's own ideology or by political influence. A recent study on 159 economic literatures found "half of the research areas have nearly 90% of their results under‐powered" and "nearly 80% of the reported effects in these empirical economics literatures are exaggerated"(Ioannidis, Stanley, Doucouliagos 2017) Henry Farrell wrote an interesting model on the disagreement between economists based on things such as political influence and level of consensus. More like Pharma, less like Physics Although the predictive power is often expected to be as advanced as Physics, Economics is a relatively recent science compared to most natural sciences. I like to think of it closer to Pharmaceutical studies than physics: there is a lot of experimentation, and we slowly learn what effects certain things have in the system, but we often only realize the secondary effects much later. Pharma is a subsection of Chemistry, and in the same way, I see Economics as a subsection of Sociology. 

Fixed costs can be attributed to each ride (a "weight", as you mentioned). I would distribute by each of the ~1000 rides I make per month, so I know that for every trip I need to discount (300$/1000 customers=)30 cent, in average for fixed costs. Of course, this only works when you can estimate +/- accurately your sales for a given month. Knowing that I will have 300\$ of fixed costs, I will keep an eye at my contribution margins and know that I need to make at least 300\$ every month to cover it. Simplifying, I can make short rides for 5\$, with a margin of 3\$, or long rides for 10\$, with a margin of 5$. This means I need to make 100 short rides or 60 long rides just to cover my fixed costs. 

There are already 3 good answers to this question, but I'll try to complement it a bit further with the issues that make Economists disagree. What is the purpose of economics? Does it have predictive power? Economics as a social science is grounded in the positivism paradigm, best described according to Gunter (2000): 

In your example there would be no growth, because you are playing a zero sum game, which is a flawed assumption. You assume that households are purely composed of paid employees, which happen to hold a sterile amount of raw materials. In reality, the raw materials (milk, sugar, cocoa) keep growing from nature with time passing by, which is the first source of growth. Countries are rarely isolated from the markets (examples today are North Korea and a few other countries). By participating in the international trade, nations (as a whole) get a chance to grow faster. Using your example, some countries would produce the raw materials and export them, while others transform it in chocolate, and export it back. Reading Ricardian trade theory on international comparative advantage is a good start, if you want to learn more.