Proving the negative is impossible in many paradigms, especially in science. In particular, any philosophy which derives from Empiricism runs into trouble proving a negative because one would have to experience everything in the universe to prove that something is not there. Consider that it was "impossible" to violate Bell's inequalities until Quantum Physics experimentally proved that you could.* If one wishes to prove the negative, it often calls for ontological truths which go beyond empiricism, such as those religions often contain. Just off hand, "there is no way to the father except through me" from Christianity comes to mind, but there's examples in every religion. The best success I have had is taking a slightly different tack. Instead of arguing "Bigfoot does not exist," I argue that acting on the belief that Bigfoot exists is counterproductive. By adding a layer of action on top of the belief, there is room to make arguments that would be impossible if I simply targeted the belief itself. Best of all, never once do I need to argue against the belief, which is often a deeply held belief. Instead, they are free to keep the belief as long as they please, but I seek to gain agreement on what behaviors should or should not come from it. It is remarkably hard to argue that I should care about anything beyond that. From there, I let them wrestle with the belief themselves. 

trb456 has the first part of the answer: you have to have a definition for the word "infinity" before you can determine and justify that something is infinite. Mathematics provides the most agreed upon definitions. In fact, it provides several infinities, the most prominent being the countable infinity (the end point of the series 1, 2, 3, 4...) and uncountable infinities (such as the continuum, which is the number of distinct number on the real number line). However, when it comes to things in physics, such as your rope, you can never "determine" that anything is infinite. Unless your rope is of such a mathematically regular structure that you can prove its structure repeats forever, you never know if at some point the rope ends. What you can determine is that the length of the rope is indistinguishable from infinity. If you have no test which can determine the length of the rope with an error bound that excludes the possibility of an infinitely long rope, you can often simplify your world on the assumption that the rope is infinite, whether it is infinite or not, but you cannot "prove" it. This can work perfectly up until the day a test becomes able to determine the length of the rope with sufficient precision as to exclude the possibility of an infinite rope. At that time, you have to re-analyze all of your work which assumed the rope was infinite, and see if that work is still valid under this new very-long rope. 

This is mathematics! We can define anything we bloody well want! A FribbleMoose may be a neat definition to work with. However, it is him electing to call it a "straight line" that suggests that this mathematical definition may have real life implications. This implication is not material to the definition. If it turned out that all of society agreed that Euclid's wording was a poor one, it would at least still have at least as much meaning as a FribbleMoose had, although people may complain about his deceitful naming scheme. What makes Euclid's straight line interesting is that it is highly effective at making predictions about how our world works. Euclid claims the sum of the angles of a triangle add up to 180 degrees. In 2300 years, nobody has been able to make a triangle with a different sum of angles (without "cheating"), so we're pretty sure that Euclid's definition of straight lines is useful enough to warrant teaching children. Now I mention cheating. You mentioned alternate topologies on which we may define a "straight line" to have behaviors different from Euclid's. This is just a linguistic issue. If Euclid had called it a FribbleMoose, we'd probably invent a new term for the concept in other topologies. But "straight line" still has an intuitive appeal." You're an engineer. You're familiar with computing. If you are working as part of a shoestring-budget startup, and you hear someone say "we need more computing power," it has a meaning. It typically means breaking the piggy bank to scrounge together a few GHz worth of processors to do the work. However, if you're working on a BlueGene/Q, and you hear someone say "we need more computing power," it has a different meaning. If you tried to solve their problem by walking in with a few Windows 10 boxen, they'd look at you funny (but the startup might have drooled, and wondered where you got them). In natural languages, the meaning of words often shifts with contexts. For most contexts, Euclid's definition is good enough. For general relativity questions, the term straight-line has another meaning. In fact, it becomes so different in nature that people tend to call the GR version "geodesics!" So, as a fellow engineer, I think this is where the overthink is happening. The focus of the underbelly of mathematics is coming up with definitions to build all of the rest of mathematics on. It is easier to convey these concepts to non-mathematicians if they have real life implications, so real life terminology leaks in. It also gives mathematicians a great myriad of intuition checks. If something doesn't pass the intuition check, it's worth double checking to see if the meaning of a word has shifted along the way. Or you can just relabel everything FribbleMoose, and find out whether FribbleMoose or PathosDingbat or any other random word choice you please is applicable to your scenario. However, if it "happens to be" a straight line, that sure as heck makes the rest of our jobs easier! 

One issue with utilitarian principles is a bullet in your question: the estimation of utility. What do you do when the estimation of the utility has a very poor bound? What do you do if the best result you can come up with is "it's either the most important thing we've found in the world, or utterly devoid of utility, and we don't really get a better bound by spending more time on estimation?" This becomes important around chaotic systems. Because of the tremendous sensitivity of chaotic systems to initial inputs, the utility of their output is tremendously difficult to predict without actually doing the action. This forces a utilitarian to seek to avoid chaotic systems in their life, because it isn't worth the time to estimate them. Unfortunately for that utilitarian, life is notoriously chaotic. This means a utilitarian has to be very careful with how they talk about estimating utility, because a casual definition can quickly lead to a utilitarian being forced to divorce themselves from life because their utility is "maximized" that way. Your discussion of shape/spread fits into this category of thought. Two major extremes occur. One defines a shape, and then follow it regardless of how unhappy they may feel about it. This leads to utility monsters. The other extreme is to define a goal for the shape, and extend the shape until those goals are achieved. This leads to paralysis in difficult to estimate scenarios. The interesting middle ground is trying to define enough of a shape to avoid paralysis, enough goal to be flexible in difficult situations, and to be able to use partial information from your estimation as you go. 

I recently began looking at languages from a mathematical perspective. From a mathematical perspective a formal language is the widest definition of a language I have found. However, there is a caveat in the wikipedia article: 

All four make statements about "...the nature of being, becoming, existence or reality as well as the basic categories of being and their relations." In that sense they are similar. You could also say the statements are metaphysical, another similarity. Of course, the class of statements that are ontological are quite wide and diverse. "My wife is beautiful" is also an ontological claim, though not of the same grandeur as the phrases you chose (though I'd also hope that I could argue that that claim was empirical as well, rather than just ontological). If I were to be claiming similarities between "math" and "god(s)," I would want to generate a more complete argument. The direction of that argument may vary, depending on who I was trying to convince. If I was talking to a pastor, I might try to divine an argument that the properties of mathematics encourage kindness to all. If I was talking to a militant atheist, I might dig at the uncertainty in the heart of science using mathematical terminology, and draw relationships to that of the uncertainty of existence of deities. It's also possible to extend the arguments to show the differences between math and the god(s) instead, though I would leave that to an exercise for the reader.