You misunderstood when you thought you can be right or wrong, the unity can't have that, so it does not matter the kinds of unity, they are just a way to explain it, you have to understand that every logic created is not the unity, it is a dualistic ilusion. So if it is rational, words saying something inside, it is not unity, it is "wrong", and the truth is beyong inner words to describe it, because words can only bring keys to your own inner doors to reach that metaphysical unity, not making the realization of it, only by practicing the "critica total da razão" you cant reach it. The thing is that Kant is studied by people (not saying it about you, but maybe your teachers) so that they can say: "look at how smart I am, I read Kant", but Kant is keys to self understanding, for later on understanding the world with the eyes of unity. And people just looking for intelectual fame just "Kan't" understand that. Peace! 

"Kind'a", if you reach unity you can understand that evil just exists because you put good on your lens. What is good or bad? What you want and don't want? Or what you like or don't like? You see that it is relative, like suffering is bad, but it is good, because it made me see things like this, beyond good or evil. Anything can be good if you have the thought that it is good about it: You see a wall, and your ego generates the idea that the wall is pretty, so you think it is good, but it is blocking you vision beyond the wall. 

Clearly, this set is contradictory. In fact, it's plainly so. The fact it's plainly so should be a hint that this is an incorrect reading of someone's philosophical position. Simply put B-theorists about God's relationship to time reject claim 3. For them, to know something in the case of God is dissimilar to knowing in the human case. For humans (and temporal beings), knowledge has a feature of coming to know, but there's no reason why this is necessary. For the B-theorist, God has instant knowledge of everything throughout eternity as if it were a single moment. To give an analogy using a movie's physical film, temporal beings have an A-theory experience of time wherein each frame happens in sequence and there are frames before the current frame and after the current frame. There are things we come to know in future frames, etc. Similarly, we come into and out of the film and experience all sorts of states (sinus infections, births of children, etc). Conversely, a B-theory God sees every frame of the entire movie all at once as if in a single instant. This God doesn't experience any of this as passage. It all just is. In other words, that person Q has a sinus infection at moment 33331 is part of the knowledge for b-theory God but b-theory God has no moments and does not pass through time. For a person in time, the sinus infection begins at say moment 33330 and ends at 33338. The basic idea is that God knows from eternity (here understood as neither before, during, nor after events) what happens at each moment of time regardless of whether we as temporal beings see these as "past", "present", or "future." For more, you can read $URL$ 

Power can be interpreted in many ways, you have to look at power not like political or monetary power, but power of beeing. Nietzsche is drunk by several oriental ancient philosofy. So if you see some political powerfull faker talking to a humble wise man that has no followers, you see who is true power by the words they speak, truth of freedom is power, freedom of beeing, at first it was the verb, and the verb was it. This is amor fati my friend, beyond all ideals, who has "it" has the true power, and it is right in front of us, but most people do not have the eyes to see it yet. Let's make some eyes drops with "I don't know's", because what we know limits ourselfs, the think is: What we say reflect our internal trash or internal diamont, polish your innerself, take out the trash, to be powerfull like the diamond, that I learned not just from Nietzsche... If it doesnt kill me.... 

It is not a lie if you understand that he was asking for a spare cigarette, you had only one for yourself, so you did not have cigarettes for him. But it is a lie in a logical sense that you did have a cigarette, but did not have the balls to explain you have only one for you and you can't share it. So it is up to you to say, you are a lyer or a smoker? I think you are more of a smoker, in a way that you are questioning your own moral attitude here in the community. 

This makes logical sense if and only if you maintain that saying that the will is not free doesn't necessarily imply that one has no freedom at all over their will. It would thus be wise to modify that part of your speech to include this disclaimer. 

This depends on the definition of "foundation" at hand. If one uses this term to refer to the historical development of both fields, then both have helped and contributed to each other hand-in-hand, at which point your question becomes equivalent to that of the chicken and the egg. If, on the other hand, one uses this term to refer to the inclusion of one in the second, where the second "builds upon" the first, so to speak, then since there are aspects of one not in the other, neither is included in the other, so the answer to your question is neither. 

The quotation means the following. From the workmen's perspective, the quality with which one does something extends beyond traditional notions of quality, and may involve the pursuing of other actions which may promote an immoderate desire for the possession of things. 

Pleasure is good. Therefore drinking is good. (assuming it produces pleasure) Thus, drinking more = better... (maximal pursuit of pleasure) But hangovers are very unpleasant = bad. Drinking + hangover is pretty bad and seems worse than not drinking in the first place. 

Depending on which work you are looking at in Kant's moral philosophy, the basis of the claim that we are free is different. Critique of Pure Reason -> An antinomy shows that we cannot know we are free, but we live that we are free. Reason is free and distinct from understanding. Groundwork -> Part III is an argument that we are somehow free (not well-accepted or understood) Critique of [Pure] Practical Reason -> we are understood to be free as a fact of reason. Metaphysics of Moral: Doctrine of Virtue -> we are free as a condition for a just world. Religion within the Bounds of Reason Alone -> we are free at least insofar as we make a sort of root decision that impacts our later ability to be free. Notably, it moves from an argument in the first two works to an assertion in the latter three. 

You can't argument against infinity and expect to win. Because it is the truth of life, and everything else is false. You see, the universe we know is not infinite, but it is that way because we believe in principle, a big bang that created it some time, but what generated the Big Bang? What made the dark matter? It is eternal, everlasting and evershifting and perfect, we are just portions of eternity using temporary dualistic minds that rotulate with time and adjectives and all kinds of descriptions. So to see it and argument against infinity you have to be infinity, have to overcome yourself with your own transcendental essence that is infinity. How can there be finity or infinity if there is no time? There is just now, time is a tool. If the past passed, how can I know if it passed since i'm only here and now? Only a memory of past time, or a dream of ideal future. But non exist, only infinity, that is the present moment and all the infinite dimensions that are here and we don't see yet. Sorry for bad english, but you can understand it beyong the laws of grammar and whatever. 

Some general thoughts. If you see a conditional as your goal, then usually you will want a conditional proof. Otherwise it's a pain to get a conditional back in there. Also, what you're proving is called "contraposition" so there should be lots of proofs for it. If you're coming from truth tables, you can somewhat translate what you learned there into proofs especially if you learned how to short-circuit the table (in that case, each step can generally become a step in a proof). 

I take the purpose of the wax argument to be a little different than you're specifying. I take the point of the wax argument to be that what gives physical things their consistency on Descartes' view is an application of a judgment of mind that some given physical object is an instance of an idea (this is highly important to his arguments in the subsequent meditations including his argument about how error works). Regarding your 3, 4, and 5, I think you may be effectively misunderstanding Descartes. Starting with your comment after five, Descartes does not describe to the "primary qualities" language you are using. In fact, in large part, his point in the entire argument is that "wax" as a category is a category of mind. When you say "Hence, the conception of wax is derived not from the senses", this seems infelicitous as a wording, because for Descartes what is going on ins the mind's conception (that is judgement) of a particular physical thing as wax. And the mind can maintain this judgment over and against changes in the physical thing. When he speaks of imagination being insufficient, it is that imagination can generate an infinite number of extensions and shapes for the wax, but these do not make something wax. Your 7 speaks of "ordinary language", but I don't think that is of great concern to Descartes. His point instead is that we should realize "wax" is an idea of the mind that we in judgment apply to physical things. In other words, he thinks that it is wax is not a matter of perception or imagination but the use of a mental faculty. His point here is to establish the absolute necessity and power of mind for knowledge, i.e., judgments about things we perceive. In other words, something being wax is not a question of what we see but of making a type of judgment relative to thing, and this is the power of mind. 

A "belief in God" refers simply to the adoption of a set of assumptions involving a "God", whereas "gambling with the truth" is a statement involving a system, relative to a definition of "truth", which is another system. The first refers to a description of a single structure, the second refers to the relationship between two structures. 

One such basis is to reduce the world around us to a finite number of indivisible pieces, which is more manageable than a continuous infinitely divisible structure. 

This depends on the definition of "enjoyment" at hand, which is ambiguous. One can define this term to cause both equality and inequality in "life fulfillment". 

"Logic" varying does not mean that it is unreliable. What we have seen in the question is that there are different forms of logic which correspond to different mathematical structures. Contradictions only arise when one attempts to identify one with the other. Mathematics is thus universal in describing these structures unambiguously and finding their links. 

Recall that forces are just mathematical structures that we have created as a convenience to help explain the behavior of the world around us; they do not define the behaviour of the world around us, but merely define the behaviour of a model which we apply to the world around us. Hence you are not "a force of nature", but there are useful models within which you are represented as a "force of nature". 

The Answer if You are Doing Formal Semantics (please upvote the answer by Badrinath if this is what you were seeking) Note that if you are referring to Tarskian model-theoretic semantics and some other advanced contemporary approaches to logic that this no longer obtains -- because validity and invalidity only apply to models, and models only occur when: 

I think you're doing something interesting here, but you need to be more careful to distinguish between moral epistemology and moral metaphysics. And the word "objective" is not always your friend in making this distinction. Let's go through it piece by piece: 

Kant's theory of action vs. a common contemporary one. The problem of "maxim shopping" with the partial response -- it's the reasons for which we actually undertake our actions plus the problem of description. 

Coherence theory is relativistic, holding ideas are cultural and being truthful is just being good at moving these concepts around. Correspondence theory is inherently realist at its core. If you want a view that incorporates cultural differences but still accepts that there are matters of fact, then you're not advocating a coherence theory by force of the definition. Instead, you'er advocating some nuanced correspondence view. You could also believe there's facts (i.e. correspondence-possibility) in certain domains but not in others. Interestingly, this is basically the view the advocates who used the term "correspondence theory" under that name wound up with. 

Recall that without assumptions there can be no conclusions. Hence, knowing that a belief in something requires assumptions, one can go all the way and assume this as an axiom. However, what you were probably looking for was the minimal possible set of assumptions from which one could deduce this conclusion. In this case, you are faced with the problem of defining unambiguously exactly what consciousness is. In the absence of such a definition, your two possible conclusions above become equivalent. 

Here, the logical meaning is not "produced" by the adverb. The phrase "only if" is to be regarded as a single lexical item with an accepted meaning, the one you mention in your question. 

You can always assign positive values to such roles, by using a function from the set of roles to the set of positive real numbers. 

Noting that mathematics is, at its core, the study of structure, the study of systems is thus called mathematics. 

This, from the outset, assumes the existence of a "present reality", which undermines the rest of the argument. 

Descartes regards his cogito ergo sum argument as a premise (i.e. an assumption), rather than a proof or a conclusion. Hence, to Descartes, for an object, the quality of being conceived is strictly less general than the quality of existing. Thus, to Descartes, there might be unconceivable objects which exist, but there are no conceivable objects which do not exist. 

To understand how Sartre could ever say something like this, we need to look at an important pair of German philosophers and one Dane (actually we could probably find many more important people in this transition) and their effect on how we think. I assume by classical definition of essence with reference to Aristotle, you're thinking that each natural kind has an essence, and that defines what the thing is. Thomas Nagel makes the point vividly in talking about giraffes in Amelie Rorty (ed.) Essays on Aristotle's Ethics. And Aristotle derives his account of human ethics in Nicomachean Ethics in part from this idea. So far so good. But as time passes, the word essence (which of course can't be Aristotle's word since it's latinate) gets tied up in a debate about whether or not essences follow something like Plato's ideas, Aristotle's "that what it is to be" --> essence, or something that comes from our heads. (Moving through the middle ages at a very rapid clip, we have Augustine sounding Platonic about this, Aquinas sounding Aristotelian, and Ockham and Buridan sounding very "in our heads" about essences). Then we get to modernity. The rationalists following Descartes and then Kant present what is largely a dualistic account where what it means to be human has little to do with the embodied essence that Aristotle suggests and much to do with our use of reason. Looking just at Descartes, we could say that the human essence is rationality. And For Kant (in his ethics), humanity and rationality are synonyms. This takes us to Hegel who makes an interesting claim that the fundamental nature of humans is not just reason but also will. In other words, what makes us human is that we impose categories and distinctions on the world we encounter (and generate?). Kierkegaard, too, emphasizes the sense in which humans are beings that relate differently to the world. In the beginning of Sickness unto Death, he suggests that what makes us different from animals is that we can despair and that we have choices about how we relate to the world. Sartre is largely building on Hegel and Kierkegaard (there are strong reasons to believe he had read both). And the idea he's proposing is that rather than having a set pattern of life like a giraffe, we have the power to choose how we set our lives. This is what he means by "essence" and the suggestion that humans are in a unique position to pick their essence. I will try to make that more practical. A squirrel does not have a choice in figuring out how to live squirrely. It does not (as far as I can tell) ever have to decide "well, what does it mean to be a squirrel? what are the interests that squirrels ought to have? how well am I doing in achieving squirrelish excellence?" All of these question are truncated in the immediate mission to collect and bury nuts. Conversely, humans do have a choice about their vision of ideal humanity. Thus, we can debate whether it makes sense to be monogamous and form marriages, to be heterosexual, to be obese or at an "ideal weight," to pursue higher goods and intellectual achievements, to pursue justice. In other words, I could decide my ideal life is just like the squirrels and try to live that out -- living in a tree, hopping around, collecting nuts, eating them raw with my teeth. Both other squirrels and other humans might find it odd, but it's within my power to try to choose my essence. This is not to say that there cannot be answer, but in part that we have a further task of rightly picking that answer (it also does not rule out that there is no answer). (The squirrelish life doesn't seem well suited to us, because we don't have teeth that regenerate, there aren't tree holes the right size for us, etc. etc.) tl;dr - when Sartre says we pick our "essence", we can reword that as him believing we have a choice in selecting what we believe our essence to be. And in the absence of this choice, we don't have an essence that we know about ourselves. The above serves as an answer to your question. You can source a lot of it to Existenialism is a Humanism, but you can find a much more robust and difficult to read account that handles objections better in Being and Nothingness. The latter account is largely parallel to Hegel's but skeptical in places where Hegel is hopeful about our capacity for really comprehending things. Regarding question 2, I think Sartre is using the term in a way that's different from Aristotle and by reason of the history of the term doesn't find himself to be committed to a contradiction. In large part, this is because the Hegelian frame emphasizes that we are the ones putting categories that we decide into the world. Regarding questions 3 and 4, Sartre's argument (granting it the most leeway) would apply to creatures who create and manage their own concepts of world. This needn't just be humans, but it would not apply to the sort of animals and plants that don't frame and dice their world according to their own concepts. To use, Heidegger's language, many animals are world-poor. Sticking with our squirrel, he doesn't ever seem to contemplate whether life is all about nuts and chasing female squirrels. That's just life, so his essence is set. (at least as far as I can perceive). If there's a being that asks, "what am I here for?" and can make choices about that, then the "existence precedes essence" dictum would apply.