Actually robots will never replace humans in a lot of jobs: nurses, teachers, and other social based jobs will always require human contact or that 'touch'. maybe a mix of terminator-paranoia and humans being social animals so they can't just stay in their houses doing nothing, they need to make social groups. 

We're talking about a late-middle age civilization. Actually magic is a thing in this world (pretty powerful magic). This magic works almost as low reality manipulation using your life force (most of the times). Since some people have amazing magical affinity but low prana runes are almost always used and sometimes life force can be damaged if you don't take care of it. People have different talents (as the 7 types of intelligence) so a person who's bad in alchemy probably can be an excellent healer. These are the magic types of my world: 

While some of the answers have rightfully pointed out the difficulties of a Bronze Age civilization to use this “gift” properly to their advantage, I have a slightly more optimistic outlook and like to focus on the best possible course of action the civilization can take. Note that I will assume some additional information missing in your question. It will make a huge difference whether or not the Bronze Age people stumbling over the remnant of a modern city is a small clan living in a nearby village or one of the early civilizations with a large population and infrastructure of their own. 

On earth there can be hours where the moon is up during the same time the sun is in the sky (daytime moon) due to the combined rotation of earth and orbit of the moon. I would like to have an earth-like planet which never has the moon and the sun visible in the sky at the same time from any point of the planets surface. Is this possible without too much interference with the earth-like state of the planet? Ideally the reason for the lack of simultaneous visibility does not effect the stabilising function of the moon for the planet's hability as well as has no significant effects on the planets seasons and day and night cycle. In general consider the planet, the moon and the whole solar system to be the same than ours. EDIT for clarification: Ideally the planet has a 

So a magical mutation can be differentiated from a normal mutation if the parents of the child are magic users. 

Janna, a champion from League of Legends, was a human but eventually the magical pollution made her look like an elf 

All swords are good against unarmored enemies. Totally depends of the numbers and how durable are they, but against an unarmored opponent my best choice would be a rapier. They're light, fast, you can deal fatal wounds against unarmored enemies and have enough range to take down enemies due of thrusting. Almost one handed so the person can carry a shield or a small axe. 

In League of Legends there's a champion called Rek'sai. She's a voidborn (an alien from a different realm) and can 'swin' in the ground. She makes the ground vibrate enough to move freely through solid terrain but she also creates portals to travel faster. She's more like a cricket mole but she moves like a shark in the ground. She's a feared monster in Shurima's desert who can eat expeditions like nothing: $URL$ 

Jump starting the agriculture is the first thing your “primitives” will be interested in. If they find one or more of the aforementioned children’ books on farming, they will get some interesting ideas how to advance their farming techniques. Finding pictures of modern plows drawn by a tractor will give them a massive head start. The plough was first used in Egypt around 5,000 BC (give or take). Having access to much better plows will greatly help farming, increasing yield and taking less time. While tractors will likely not be used by the primitives, they can use oxen to draw the plough. They will also find hints to modern irrigation techniques. Even better for them are the modern domesticated species. While around 5,000 BC the Neolithic Revolution already had happened, the much better “optimized” farm animals of our modern age will provide an immense multiplier to food yields be it milk, eggs, crops or meat. This requires of course, that seeds and animal herds have also been left for the primitives. Another very important domesticated plant is cotton, which would also come with a significant advancement in the timeline. 

As @Dent7777 stated, materials like oil are organic based so it's almost impossible to find in other celestial bodies. If you're talking about an inorganic material then I feel like the 'planetoid from an unknown solar system composed of X material crashed with the planet in its early years' like the Theia hypothesis would work. 

How can a medieval civilization create an educational system that allows the monarchy to use these mages in the battlefield? Something I missed. Almost all are young (12-18 years old, when prana starts to activate) 

While biological mutations are almost random, the practice of centain magic increase the probability of specific mutations. Maybe the children of blood mages develope sharp fangs, or the healing mages would have children with sharped ears, etc. As a result of the magical mutations, this children have higher affinity with magic and the spiritual world compared to other children (like the indigo children thing). 

Considering all this I think that you could easily shave off between 1,000 and 4,000 years of development. That would still mean a pretty long time to advance to the point where we are today, but it could skip a pretty long time of very slow developments, between around 5,000 BC and 1,000 BC. It should be noted though that this requires no huge losses of knowledge through other interferences besides natural degradation. War between the “primitives” or further advanced tribes or natural disasters could lead to the same destruction of knowledge and stalled development we experienced for example after the fall of Rome or the Bronze Age collapse. 

EDIT 2: For the sake of this question "visible" means visible to the naked human eye and/or technology available in the late medieval period of our world (ca. 15th century). A solution using atmospheric conditions are perfectly fine as long as this does not infringe on the habitability of the planet and these conditions are the same from any point of the planet. EDIT 3: There are no restrictions on the perceived colour of the moon in the sky. It can be any colour, as long as it stays visible in the night and still give some light during the night. You can postulate any changes to our system that have no or marginal effects like described above and achieve the desired result. If this effect is not achievable with the restrictions declared above, please state why.