How important is the surangama sutra in contemporary Mahayana Buddhism? As far as I know there's never been any "school" which based itself on its interpretations, unlike the Mahaparinirvana, hua-yen, lotus, etc. Where can I find out about its historical and contemporary use? 

I posted the identikit question to Christianity stackexchange, and was met with dumb silence. Which, really, I was shocked by. E.g. the parable of the good samaratin: 

Is it possible to attain happiness without support, through art, not overt meditation? I'm not really an expert on any art, but take the question (somewhat) seriously. 

Did Pudgalavada Buddhists claim the the "person" existed between lives and / or in one life? The Pudgalavadins were an old school of Buddhists who thought there was a person. I'm currently unclear whether that is ultimately, in the sense that Theravada and Mahayana Buddhists use the term 'ultimate'. They debated about this with e.g. the Vibhajyavada sect, which I think later became Theravada Buddhism. You can read about the canonical dismissal of it in Theravada Buddhism in the 1st chapter of their Kathavatthu. 

Do Buddhas have precognition? Do they know what events are going to happen before they do? Obviously, the Buddha knows that he will not be reborn, and he knows what will generate a good rebirth, and what a bad. Are any of these destinies both assured and knowable? According to Early Buddhism and the Bhagavadgita, By Kashi Nath Upadhyaya, p84, the Buddha "seems" to have claimed that he does not have "unlimited" knowledge of the future. But I wondered if Buddhas had any certain knowledge of the future, aside from their not being reborn. Or perhaps, though the future is not fully predetermined (ibid), they can have certain knowledge of events aside from not being reborn. 

If it is nihilism then it isn't IMVHO degenerate passive nihilism of so called "western buddhism" (schopenhauer - i think). 

As the perfect teaching merely integrates the three truths of the separate teaching (see above quote) it only teaches: 

Going out on a limb here, but I think even if you're right and the Buddha does not experience nirvana, and we assume that there can be no rebirth into painful realms, your inference, that only what we experience can be of any value may be mistaken. But I can quite easily imagine an awful scenario occurring and it still being awful even if I don't know about it. Likewise all my wishes coming true. I agree that maybe there is something galling and depressing about the claim that pleasure isn't really valuable. But who says that the meaning of life is obvious? 

Supposing mahayana nirvana is permanent (and I believe it is called this) does it have substance? I'm just asking due to some completely trivial insights: it seems that a quality of my experience of time doesn't change, perhaps even arise or end. And I'm wondering what that permanent quality is, or might be. 

Why do Buddhists argue that nirvana is nothing in addition to the skandhas? I found this, and I hope it suffices to demonstrate that's what the Buddha taught: 

There's different answers, and different people even will tell you different things, let alone different texts. I have two answers. The 1st is that, because of meditation and good teachers, sentient beings can have faith in their Buddha Nature, and work to fully realise that, like anyone can work at their ideals, without fully understanding them. Also maybe parinirvana (the complete extinction of the skandhas) may have some value. 

I'm just clinging to this notion that the small death (of prthagjanas) is never reversible, and never incomplete. Leaving aside the notion of "karma" and "rebirth" and "continuity", what does the Pali canon say about "death"? 

I know that the standard Mahayana claim about the Theravada canon is that he needed to teach it for those who were not ready to accept the Mahayana. But do all Buddhas have to teach the four noble truths, etc., as they appear in Theravada? Or will / have some Buddhas taught only (their own) enlightenment? 

Are Buddhists hypnotists? I'm being a little facetious, but not entirely. Hypnotism is a strange mental phenomena, and I wondered how much interaction, in any tradition, is based in similar mental phenomena, to hypnotism. I have no theory, about how that might involve rebirth, or the annulment of annihilationism (which I cling to a little). 

I don't want to sound Vulcan, but I mean self sacrifice which is out of proportion, what do Buddhists say about it? So as an example, going on a dangerous hunger strike, in order that your well fed friend has another loaf of bread. I got thinking about this via dying for the "one you love", but obviously that sort of thinking is off in Buddhism. 

I'm not very impressed with your argument. I think the mistake you make is that the Buddha simply taught and realised "insights in oneself". The Buddha was meant to be a Bodhisattva, on the path to Buddhahood, for millions if not billions of years, and prior to this had been wandering the rounds of rebirth for a vast and incalculable length of time. 

Aside from taking a poll of monks or devout Buddhists, is there a means to test whether we have made any progress? 

I am not sure if I am asking about Original Enlightenment, but suppose that a sentient being doesn't (really) know they are a Buddha. Are they really in e.g. a human or animal realm, or are they in a Buddha realm but experiencing obstructions to their awareness of that? 

for the separate teaching, the mundane truth does not contain anything of the absolute, and is only its negation. 

I'm going to answer the question in the title. Let's suppose we can claim that the Buddha has realised the Truth based on 

Is the emptiness of persons an emptiness of their essence, which (I think) would be a defining characteristic, like how "fire" is always "hot", or just substance? Do any Buddhist texts say no? 

Is there a Buddhist term for a lack of self identity? I don't (of course) mean a radical acceptance of the anatta doctrine, but whether the Buddha or any Buddhist scholar or writer, talks explicitly about being unable to take one's own personal identity seriously enough: even to the extent of becoming quite thirsty for one. Thank you for your compassion :-) 

The Mahayana accepts the Tripitaka (I believe that in the Taisho, the 20th century record of every canonical text in Chinese Buddhism, they use the Sarvastavadin Tripitaka, not the Theravadin) but adds: 

The Buddha achieved nirvana, yes. I think all Buddhists would agree. Supposing that you definitely mean "Guatama" to refer not to a person but a sequence of conditioned phenomema, I suppose you can say that, though it might imply something like buddha nature, that his enlightened nature existed before it was attained. Just a note to add: 

Lots of questions on stream entry here. I have practiced Mahayana Buddhism without a huge success - for sure. But still, I was of the opinion that such attainment as stream entry was rare in the extreme. Perhaps 1/1000 monks, and much less even in the devout laity. How common is it? I have a somewhat devout Theravadin friend, is he a saint :o ! 

Anyway I probably disagree. I personally believe that after final nirvana the Buddha still has knowledge of emptiness, just not conceptually. I wouldn't call it an experience, let alone pleasure, but likely think this says more about the limitations of our categories and thinking, than it being a tangible goal. And anyway, death is no bed of roses in atheism either. 

Is Buddha nature active or passive? Would anyone say that enlightenment means we can suffer (frustration) in an active way? 

I'm going to answer based on a hunch. Swanson notes, in his translation of the Mo-Ho-Chih-Kuan, that 

One of the questions / answers recently posted here was about "storing" mental states for later. Of course this isn't Buddhist, in the sense that it does not literally describe a selfless person. But it could be metaphorical, couldn't it? The idea that the mind is like a computer, even though there are dis-analogous elements to that term, there are overlaps - like the way that persons have access to the past in memory, as if they were "stored". So my question is: are any of the Buddhas actual teachings only metaphorical? 

Yeah I too doubt that there's any science of rebirth in the sense of a flame lighting another torch. I would actually find it quite depressing if there were. It's a much better metaphor on the gradualism of enlightenment IMHO. I wouldn't be that surprised if there something on a sort of inheriting of characteristics, that isn't explicable in our normal world view - causal processes that we haven't yet identified in science. Still minds are unaffected by mental events so maybe their effects go elsewhere; maybe this even works however the mediator is behaving. I mean It seems obvious to me that habits can have physical or real manifestations that have effects even without them creating any actual dispositions in the actor so the question is just: can meditation change our habits without changing our dispositions. If so then that's a real change that leaves us completely unchanged - so must change someone else. And if meditators can have effects on others independent of action, then why not everyone. This is only some kind of crazy mind reading if it is deliberate or rule based. 

Tientai also claims that "illusory existence is empty and non-empty" for some strands of Buddhism, while characterising the "mundane truth" of Madhyamaka (which Chi-Tsang called non-emptiness), as just "illusory existence". In this sense it seems "non-emptiness" is empty and non-empty. I can't tell whether for Tientai "identifying illusory existence as empty of substantial Being" should ever be completely denied, the denial being one sense of "non-emptiness". If it should (or can) be completely denied, this non-emptiness would not be empty, because then nothing is empty. 

Zhiyi claimed that teaching rebrith was the 1st teaching, even before meditation. I think he called it the teaching of the inferior herbal grass. This does not mean it is not true. 

In tendai, can the 1st (huayen) and 5th (lotus) teachings be called "potentiality" and "possible", respectively? I know the word "potential" from Heidegger's Being and Time, who has appeared in comparative studies. The most eye catching phrase, being "my ownmost potentiality for being", that amounting to death therein. By possibility, I just mean the not "necessary" or "actual", in the standard analytic philosophical terms. I won't go into why I might suppose that could be a viable interpretation, though I'm intrigued by a recent idea I had, that possible intentional concrete things can't be tensed. 

How do perception and discrimination relate? I remember thinking (when reading) that they were near synonyms 

I often struggle with feelings of despair about not so much that I will die but my mortality, my insignificance in a time as time never ends. But it also occurred to me that actually everyone is in the same boat (so to speak) and so as long as we don't let things define our value, then maybe life has meaning and value. Is that anything to do with emptiness, or is emptiness more an ontological doctrine than anything about value and meaningfulness ? 

These are discussed in a number of places, but the English language translator of Kihwa's (Korean) commentary on the Sutra of Perfect Enlightenment, seems to associate them with the Awakening of Faith in Mahayana. See e.g. p157 of that book. What I'm wondering, is how this works, how does the meditator go about "eliminating its mistaken function" (presumably -- see them to be empty), if there are no entities to be found in the first place? i.e. do they study the mark of cessation, then study the mark of change, etc., as if each mark inhered on some identical object? Or is the mark of change just another way of looking at the mark of cessation, without any thought really bearing the four? 

How can we know what is mundane? Mundane life contains many components that superficially overlap with the Buddhist path: 

The word for the Buddhist Pali (i.e,. Theravada) canon (and it is huge, too big to be put in one book) is the Tripitaka, the three baskets. Somewhat unsurprisingly, it has three sections: 

Can anyone explain how 'stimulus / response' appears in Chinese or Japanese Buddhism? I'm especially interested in how it fits with other concepts / etc., so an idea of its importance to Buddhists, now or in the past, would also be helpful. I cannot recall anything about it. 

I may have synesthesia (I asked a scientist and he says that it sounds like it, anyway). When I e.g. get more tired, the colours and shapes get more vivid, more like the real thing (though very rarely quite the same). I suggest that you treat them like anything else which comes up in meditation, be that a belief, a thought, or whatever... PS I suffered from psychosis. 

Nagarjuna's Madhyamaka: A Philosophical Introduction. By Jan Westerhoff So, if right, then Buddhists were able to limit, narrow down, the meaning of 'svabhava'. 

Are there any vampires in any living or dead (hah!) buddhist tradition? I read that there were kinda vampires in Tibetan Bon? Not sure why I'm asking, probably spiritual ressentiment :) Peace... 

Given that all the sutras are skillful means, one would imagine the heart sutra is popular because it works, or at least gives the impression of doing so. I like it. Buddhist philosophy isn't, and doesn't need to be, an analytic argument, because it is there to be realised in meditation, not (just) studied and unpacked. So instead of trying to unpack it, why not ask what the rest of the canon has that it lacks? Given that it mentions, as you say, the basic terms of buddhism (emptiness, the noble truths), perhaps it can encapsulate those teachings, by denying them. I think the key phrases are