The is not recollection issue, but persistence and centralization one. You should have it at your fingertips (and not need to recollect it). Ideally, it should be something that you could throw a quick look over, when going to a meeting, in the middle of a discussion (or meeting) and when you are on the phone. 

It sounds to me like it's bad work-work balance (bad balance between tasks) and no organized focus on quality. These bring their own stress with them. 

If nothing burned and a manager decided "I cant change the estimates now" for some unrealistic estimates, I would do my best in the time I gave to the company. Your contract with the company is there to specify what the company can ask of you (does it specify overtime? in what terms?). If the deadline would not be met, that would be management problem (i.e. not mine to solve), and the responsibility would be the manager's. Your responsibility in this is to do what you realistically can (keeping in mind that it is unrealistic for the company to expect free work from you) and communicate the delays and issues to your manager. From then on, it's his problem. Edit in bold. 

You should not mention money in a resume, unless it mentions public figures related to the project, not you. Example: "I successfully completed ACME project on time, within budget (large, high risk 3 year public project, with a budget of over XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX.XXX EUR/USD/10 karat rubies)". Consider if you were to say this (not in your CV, but in a negotiation, after an employer looked at your CV and called you): 

This is not necessarily blackmail (though it seems to me to be a thin line to cross from this point) but simply adding pressure (though that doesn't make it "OK"). This will go on as long as you allow it to. Just say no (actually saying "no" could be bad, but you can go with "we will need more resources for that", or "we can put all effort into this part, but then the other two tasks will have to have their deadlines shifted two weeks back" and so on and so forth). It sounds like your manager is putting you in a difficult situation by not acknowledging what you require to finish your tasks. This can mean: 

This happens: priorities change, managers need to have enough people in office to be able to handle unexpected events, etc. A manager should know that while approving your holiday, just as he should expect that asking you to reschedule, may incur sunken costs for you, or pushing you to cancel other made commitments. 

You have a relationship with the company, where you provide expertise and effort and they provide money in return. This is not a relationship managed by your coleagues, but by you and the management of the company. Similarly, Joe has a business relationship with the company, decided upon by Joe, and the management of the company (that is, not "Joe, the management of the company, and you). It's not your business, so stay out of it. As I understand it, this could affect Joe very negatively (destroy his perspectives in the company) and it would be at least partially your fault if that happens (and you can be sued for it). 

... or someone who doesn't know what they want / with little ambition. They could also see you as someone who doesn't care about money and skip you on promotions, bonuses and so on (and give those to those who do care about money). 

Ensure decisions are written, centralized and managed. The "I don't remember that" issue should always be solved by opening the latest spec (what you decided earlier). Conversely, the latest spec should be public and centralized and easily accessible to everyone required. In my last position, this meant a wiki (trac wiki) where there were instructions, decisions, how-tos and so on. 

This is risky, and a bad idea overall: it doesn't sound like a big think, but it is fraud (you are stating there is a cost for you, which is not there). Also, if they offer - for example - to move the reservations for you, or to pay for new ones - you may get caught (and if they offer to pay you the money, do so, then find out there was no cost at all, you will at least damage your profesional image - but you may also be accused of fraud). Another aspect in this, is that by explaining why you cannot cancel your free time, you are putting yourself at a disadvantage, and transmitting a wrong image (regardless if you really had any reservations or not). You do not owe him (or anyone else in the company) any explanation ( unless your boss is also your wife/husband ;) ). Stating that you cannot come is enough. The wrong image you are transmitting is that if it weren't for the reason you have (the commitment you want to mention cancelling or not) you would be perfectly fine with canceling your time off. This is not true and should not be true. If you do this, next time your manager has to choose between cancelling your time off and compromising on what the team can deliver, he may just go "it's no big deal to get user3497 to office on this Sunday and he will take care of it). Your manager may do this, assuming that there is no reservation to hold you back this time. It is easier to make a generic statement that implies you have costs (which may not be necessarily monetary) associated with canceling: "I'm sorry but it is difficult to cancel my plans" / "I have already made commitments to be that require me to be out of town on Friday". You can also point out that the management was perfectly aware of the situation when they approved the original request. 

You made sure something that was an issue, became a non-issue as far as your managers were concerned. Next time it will be more difficult to convince them it is an issue (because "it wasn't in the past"). 

Not necessarily. This depends on the company and their needs (not on your salary). In a large corporation for example, your start date will depend on them making available whatever resources you need for your job (desktop, design table, etc). 

I used to make those, both in writing code and in other tasks. You need to pass over your work multiple times; make your own quality control, based on tests that are easy to verify, even if they are difficult to perform. For example, checking that your percentages in an excel file add up to 100% is easy, even though computing them int the first place was difficult). 

It is only crossing a line if you cannot say "no" in the first place. In most situations where this happened to me, it involved saying "no" to requests for overtime. 

Example, for writing a report for your customers. "report should be: clear, concise, have no grammar mistakes, less than 5 pages long and contain: progress of the status of the update and the update of the status of the progress and the status of the progress of the update" [paraphrasing Dilbert]. For this, at the end of your task, you check that the report is easily understandable, concise etc. If you do this, you will get used (in a while) to consider the output of your work as draft-quality only, and the output of your own verification process as "public results". Remember to asssign extra time for your verification process. One more thing: you should definitely tell your boss you are doing this (it will notify him you are aware of your problem and working to solve it). 

If the other commitments are for company interests, have your managers decide your schedule. If they are for your own interests, decide for yourself (and once you get a confirmation that it is OK to get time off, that means it is OK to get time off - no matter what happens in the company). 

Asking for such a switch also asks for administrator time for installations, configuration, and ongoing maintenance. Basically, expect a lot of hidden costs. A professional way to ask for such a change, would include a well argued list of bennefits comming from the switch (provided to your manager) and an acknowledgement of the costs involved and why they are worth it. Your personal preference should not enter into it, unless you addressed this in the interview (as in "please keep in mind that my main expertise is Mac development and I have no Windows experience at all" - and they accepted this when you were hired). 

Yes, it is reasonable for him to ask, if he needs you in office. It is equally reasonable for you to say no to such a request, and your manager should expect that (if he needs you in office, all he can do is ask - and you can say "yes" or "no"). It is probable he was simply proposing it to you, and half expected you to say "no" to his request. Once you did say "yes" (you made a commitment - no matter how fuzzy phrased it was), saying "no" is more difficult since it affects your professional image. 

Is this a Windows project? If so, then asking for a Mac or Linux will be unprofessional, because developing on a Mac (or Linux) for windows platform, is a bad professional choice (it introduces difficulties in the process that should simply not be there). Asking for a Mac/Linux for compiling a WinAPI project for example, will show you have no idea of the project in general ( compiling WinAPI on a Mac will be ... difficult :) ). On the other hand, if it's a cross-platform project and half the team uses Linux, then you can probably ask for one as well, without appearing unprofessional. If you use any specialized tools (IDE, source control, etc), making them run on the new platform may be costly or impossible (e.g. if everybody uses projects for Visual Studio and you edit using vim on Linux), you can edit project files manually (and possibly screw them up) or you can duplicate a lot of the team's effort, by maintaining you own development environment sparately. Then, you get to security and availability: development environment may require special access (different accounts and domains for example), resources that are optimized for windows-only access, Windows-only tools (like TFS) and so on. There are also some problems with cost and licensing: 

I will try to complete @akton's answer. Regarding meetings and business decisions, if it is not written down, it is not a decision but an opinion. You cannot take business decisions on opinions. Here are things that work: 

This way, you have brought the issues to your manager's attention, and it is up to them to take a decision (or not). If you provide a written assessment, it is more difficult to ignore, and in case something happens, you are legally covered (your manager cannot say afterwards "but you're the security expert - it was your job to make sure this didn't happen). 

Sorry for repeating that so many times, but you accepted an answer that states that "You have done the right thing by talking to your manager". This is bad advice all over. 

This is going to be one of those "not what you wanted to hear" anwers. Short version: nothing. Long version: your company got you with a price. Even though some steps may have been missing or implicit, they evaluated for how much they could get your services, then offered you that much, when you were hired. The only way they will agree to pay you more, is if they can no longer get your services (or others of similar quality) for the same price. This means that if you tell your boss "I would like to to earn more" (no matter how you word it), his default answer is likely to be "so would I" or similar (I actually got that answer in a salary negociation :( ). If insteadm you are prepared to tell your boss "I need more and am beginning to search for it in another place", then your boss is faced with the possibility of not getting your services any more (i.e. he doesn't have the option of saying "deal with it" unless it costs him your services). This won't work unless you are really prepared to leave (as in "you decided, you searched for alternatives and you found another offer and whether your boss gives you a raise is the deciding factor on leaving or not). There are also many companies where they don't pay at market value, but at how low they can get away with paying (usually hiring students, people with little experience, and whoever they can convince to work for low wages). If you are in such a place, leave. You will be glad you did, 3-4 weeks after finding something else (no matter how hard leaving in the first place actually is).