Assuming this to be the case, all you've really done is to increase the value of gold by a considerable margin. A parallel is diamonds: once industry figured out how to use ugly diamonds for their incredible hardness, diamond mining increased, because it was no longer simply a luxury item. The same goes for platinum. Now that you have greatly increased the value of gold, I would think the obvious shift in currency is away from a single-resource standard. You say that the gold has become ubiquitous, so it's going to be pretty widely distributed (again, cf. platinum and its use in things like catalytic converters). This makes it problematic to use gold as a currency standard. So everyone just starts moving off the gold standard, leaving your currency basis something a lot more like what you see today. The Wikipedia article on the gold standard is an excellent beginning resource, discussing varieties, history, advantages, and disadvantages. A careful perusal might help you to develop your currency issues effectively. 

Bear in mind that the prophet or sibyl is a mouthpiece for an utterly alien, inhuman intelligence. This has several implications: 

To summarize, the majority of answers are of the form, “If it’s real, it can be studied by science.” These answers are non-answers, as they disregard the givens of the question. Proposal: Thorsten S. made an excellent point, having to do with the number and nature of factors or variables. In essence, if there are too many factors, and the factors themselves vanish or alter as soon as they are perceived, experimentation is likely to fail. This got a lot of nasty answers, but Thorsten was quite right. We can think about this in two ways. First, we might simply suppose that a magical phenomenon is a dual-ended chaotic system. As Edward Lorenz put it, “the present determines the future, but the approximate present does not approximately determine the future.” So let’s define our spell as follows: 

There are a few additional points specific to blades made of real-life materials, however, that may be of value in thinking out what your superlative weapon can and cannot do. Terminology To do this clearly, we need some basic terminology. Edge: The edge is formed where the two bevels meet. Bevel: The bevels are the flat parts that extend directly back from the edge at an angle. Centerline: If you a draw a line from the edge to the spine, this forms a single line. The angle of a bevel is measured from the centerline with the vertex at the edge. Flat: The portion of a blade that runs more or less parallel to the centerline, often incorrectly called a bevel (or, in reverse, bevels are mislabeled as flats). Friction is an issue along the edge while dragging, and along the bevels and flats when deep into a cut. Teeth All blades have teeth, like saws. These can be large or small, evenly or irregularly spaced, consistently or inconsistently sized. They can be perfectly in a line, splayed, or in multiple parallel lines. When you try to cut something, you normally slide somewhat along the teeth. This is much the most efficient method. Each tooth penetrates in sequence, splitting the gap further open as you go along. Because obsidian is volcanic glass, the teeth may or may not be parallel or in a line. Because the material has to be napped, the teeth will tend to be irregular in size, shape, and spacing. This means that if the blade was originally just traditionally-napped obsidian your cuts will always be jagged. No matter what you do, your blade is always going to act like a serrated bread-knife or steak-knife. Shape (Profile) With a real knife, if you had ultra-tough-and-hard materials, you'd polish the edge to bring all your teeth to a highly regular pattern of consistent size, but this blade can't be sharpened. And that's a problem. If you have materials that just won't break, the obvious thing is to grind the bevels to as narrow a total included angle (the angle of both bevels added together) as you can manage, then refine and polish the teeth until they're super-small and perfectly even. This is how a razor is made, for instance. Normally, you don't do this with a weapon, because as soon as you hit something it'll crush, but that's not a problem here. This pattern is ideal, because your knife won't wedge. That is, it has very narrow shoulders, because the bevels are extremely thin. When you cut, the friction of the cut material against the bevels is a significant part of what stops you from sliding through easily. Unfortunately, you can't sharpen this thing. Since it's impossible to break, it's impossible to abrade. So you're stuck with whatever profile you started with. Cutting Once you focus on the fact that your blade is always a saw, you'll realize that the usual smash-with-the-edge approach we associate with swords is grossly inefficient. The best thing is to drag the edge as you hit. So how well will your obsidian weapon cut? The more regularly-spaced, narrow-beveled, and small the teeth--and the more they are all precisely in line along the centerline--the better it will cut. If nothing can crack those teeth despite a gross lack of supporting material (very narrow bevels), then the thickness of the blade at the spine can be ridiculously thin. This will dramatically reduce friction. It will also make your blade weigh far less. Normally weight in swords is a serious problem, since steel is very heavy, but a very thin blade won't have this problem. Conclusions You need first to decide what this thing looks like. Does it look like a thin, elegant sort of straight katana, but black as night? Or is it a massive, primitive chunk of death, with big irregular fangs? That will tell you what the tooth pattern should be. Next, decide how heavy it is. Obsidian's volumetric mass is about 1/3 that of steel, for comparison. Bear in mind, if you make comparisons to extant swords, that many swords are not solid steel precisely because it's so darn heavy (katana are the most obvious example here). From a rough weight--say, that of a baseball bat?--you can work out the volume of the blade. Once you know that, you can decide how thick you want the blade to be at the flat, and how wide you want it from edge to spine (or if it's two-edged, from edge to edge across the spine). With all that in hand, you can work out quite easily how the thing is most efficiently used. Probably the best is going to be to hit somewhere around the lower third of the blade and then, while continuing to press as hard as possible, to drag the haft backwards. If the teeth are small and regular, it'll glide through anything; if they're large and irregular, it'll go clunk-clunk-clunk and make a nasty gash. If the bevels are narrow and the spine thin, it'll soon be a very, very deep cut; if wide and thick, not so much. 

Magicians can create gold, silver, gems, etc. These products are indistinguishable from their mundane counterparts. These goods are held to be valuable as currency. 

Since the aliens appear not to have a clue about how decent people behave (they don't eat nicely, and they smell funny, and the men don't wear proper gear around their crotches, etc.), it seems unfair to assume they're people like us. If they were, they'd be savage barbarian criminals. And since the aliens haven't done anything really awful, let's be polite and assume they're not monsters. OK, so they're the gods. Thing is, this means that the aliens have to behave by the (rather less restrictive) guidelines appropriate to those gods. Gods, after all, do have a tendency to act rather oddly, and this is interesting to us, which is one reason we don't mind the gods showing up and being a pain now and then. So, fair enough. But when the aliens, thinking, "hey, I'm a god, I can do what I want," do something that contravenes the rules on gods, what then? Well, now they're either barbarians or monsters, and it may well be a principally political battle as to which interpretation holds (e.g., the chief wants them to be barbarians dealt with under a civil-legal code, his territory, and the shamans want them to be monsters dealt with under a cultic code, their territory). Could be that either way the result is an attempt to kill the aliens, but it'll matter to the natives. The point of this little just-so story isn't that you have to accept such a plot twist in any way. It's to set up an alternative to the much-belabored and basically racist notion of the savages who think the aliens must be gods because of guns. 

Ritual sacrifice is nearly universal in religious history, and human sacrifice quite common. Nothing whatever prevents its occurrence, even as a common phenomenon, among "developed" societies, unless one jury-rigs the question by defining "developed" to exclude human sacrifice. As a first approach, one ought to conceive of human sacrifice as a passage-rite, or rite de passage, as Arnold van Gennep indelibly termed them. Passage-rites transition the subject from one recognized social state to another, by way of a mediating third phase in which highly-valued cultural conceptions and norms are manifested to all concerned during a delimited focal event. For example, girls' pubertal rites transition the subjects from "girl" to "woman" by way of a mediating "liminal" phase in which many of the culture's deepest notions of what women are -- their roles, their bodies, their meanings, their functions -- are proposed to the ritual subjects for consideration. The mode of such presentation varies widely, but (at least Victor Turner's analyses) usually balance freedom -- the freedom to discuss and/or think about the presented norms and ideals without ordinary restrictions (you can't talk about those things in public, it's wrong or dirty or blasphemous; you can't question those things, they're just true because that's the way the world is; etc.) -- and constraint -- the constraint imposed by the structure of the rite such that the neophytes emerge having accepted the near-absolute value and validity of those cultural norms. In other words, a passage-rite 

A good deal of the question strikes me as unanswerable, in the sense that there simply isn't any way to surmise, from the given information, how either side will interpret the other. We can say with enormous confidence that there must have been instances of such stranding or abandonment, all things considered, but that doesn't really help us much with the question. The best one can do, I think, is to recognize the range of possibilities. First of all, the two sides' responses have little to do with one another, at least initially. So let's take them separately. The Aliens The crucial issue here is what these people think of less technologically-advanced people in general, and what they think of non-"us" lifeforms. If they're modern Western humans, for instance, they'll likely figure that the natives are stupid, easily deceived and overawed, and basically animals anyway. But on the other hand these aliens might be aware that there is no strong correlation between technology and other kinds of cultural development, that people who don't look like "us" might be even more intelligent, and so forth. With such a small sample of the population, there's no way to guess in general terms; it sounds as though you, as author, want to deal with these aliens as individual personalities anyway. The Tribe Now here we can at least draw from ethnology. Based on the complexity and back-story you describe, the population size you propose is ludicrously small -- multiply the total population by at least 10. What else? "Peaceful": does this mean people don't kill each other on a regular basis, or that there aren't any threatening foreign tribes around, or what? Assuming the former, why not? People do have bad habits, after all. What happens when people do murder one another... say, domestic violence, hot blood, etc. Who deals with this? Who administers the legal system? If the ultimate outcome is not execution (and it may very well not be), what do these people consider a more appropriate way of dealing with violence? The crucial point is this: they understand their way of doing things to be one that privileges peaceful over violent methods. "10 Tribes": you say that at some time in the past, 10 peoples bonded together for social stability or something of the kind. A simple way to handle this is to suppose that there are still 10 super-clans predominant, probably divided into two or four moieties. Assuming these people are exogamous, this ensures that the clans (formerly tribes) exchange people and goods with one another constantly, and binds them together in a relationship of perpetual mutual support. Bear in mind that if this joining happened more than 3-4 generations in the past, chances are all we really know is that they say 10 tribes joined; for all we really know, they actually split up a large homogeneous mass. It doesn't make any difference, except for this point: they consider it important that they are a collaboration of multiple peoples. That is remarkable, and bears strongly on the question at hand. One could go on, but already we begin to sense a pattern. The tribe, on confronting the aliens, probably assumes as a starting-point that the appropriate behaviors are peaceful and move toward mutual collaboration. They likely defer the initial conversations to certain elders designated to deal with the foreign. Based on your proposal of a shamanic religious complex, senior shamans may well be important to such a mission, as the whole point of shamans is to deal with that-which-is-beyond, as it were. (Incidentally, if everyone gets initiated come puberty, you're looking at something so radically unlike any form of shamanism known as to be deep into alien territory. Shamans bridge between Us and The Other because they're chosen by The Other and transformed -- usually painfully -- into half-beings, to put it simplistically.) The next questions are entirely points of plot, as I see it. Your aliens will take one or more approaches, and the natives will be somewhat surprised. Assume that any responses are slow, careful, and measured, but that the natives will also make very dramatic moves that can seem utterly surprising to the aliens (who after all don't understand the underpinnings of the systems at stake). Anything is perfectly possible here. A Just-So Story Let's suppose, to take an all-too-common boring trope, that the natives inform the aliens that they (the aliens) must be the gods come down to earth. Your reader now thinks, "aha, the natives are stupid, and they see the alien technology, and so, blah blah, Clarke's Third Law, etc." Not at all. Perhaps "the gods" includes a specific sub-group, well-established, that could in a sense match the little group of aliens (one nasty, one female, one tall, one with no hair, whatever). After much discussion, perhaps the elder shamans have concluded that the aliens are one of the following: