That leads me to believe that them having mounts isn't that far fetched. I mean, think about it. Underground CITIES with those short legs? They'd either need mechanical transportation, or draught animals to haul the rock, ore and coal up from the depths--they certainly won't be doing that themselves. And travelling long distances? No proud warrior would do that if they can tame a beast to do it for them while they sit high upon their perch and leer down on lesser beings (being dramatic, but every race will have an a-hole that thinks like that). Now, I've googled Dwarven Mounts. I've seen pretty much what I'd expect: goats (mountain rams), bears, wolves, and mechanical transport. Goats/Rams living high in the mountains without too much trouble, so they are a logical choice. They'd just need to be selectively bred for size and back strength. Bears need to be selective bred for tameness (unless they enjoy breaking a bear or just riding them wild--which I seriously doubt). Wolves are more of a problem--they'd need to be bred for size and tameness, which would make them a lesser choice. Then again, Dwarves are stubborn folk. Give them a mountain, they'll make you a city. So give them the wildlife of their home range, and trust that they'll make something of that sad lot, you mark my words ;) 

But operant conditioning is such a basic form of behaviour that even insects can do it. Humans without it would indeed struggle to survive let alone develop technology. Instead, I think a better definition would be that hypotheticals requires abstract reasoning, the sort that requires formal education for most people to attain. We have good examples from real life of how these people think; they are very uncomfortable with dealing in pure hypotheticals and have very concrete reasoning. The Soviet psychologist Alexander Luria once interviewed Russian peasants about 100 years ago, giving them the kind of abstract reasoning questions typical in IQ tests, this is how it went: 

First, I'd like to use a narrower definition of "hypothetical". Many answers are interpreting it very widely, going as far as including operant conditioning as requiring hypotheticals: 

Make your inhabitants see more wavelengths Why not cheat a little, in the name of creativity? The human vision system is, although more advanced than many terrestrial creatures, rather limited in the grand scheme of things. This is the size of the visible light spectrum compared to the entire known EM spectrum: 

There's a blog post here: $URL$ which includes many more images as well as a video slide show. Note that many animals can see further into the infra-red and ultra-violet ranges, so even without the benefit of fantasy/magic, you can plausibly explain this, for example your inhabitants evolved from nocturnal ancestors. 

Ascending too quickly even while exhaling. When you free dive, you generally are going to try to come up as quickly as possible when you're done (in part so that you can go down again sooner). This is a good recipe for getting decompression sickness (the bends). 

Your question is built upon the premise that such a protomolecule could actually exist. However, that premise is not well founded. 

The apocalypse has happened, but humanity survives. People still remember the technology they had, but too many of the people who really understood how it worked and how to make it have died, leading to many modern technologies being lost. The survivors want to rebuild civilization and hope to be able to recover the lost tech in time, but first they have to survive. A lot of medical technology is lost, too, and this is going to be a problem. General knowledge about healthcare (wash your hands, don't sneeze on people, basic germ theory, etc.) isn't lost so we can expect results won't be as bad as in previous centuries, but it's not going to be nearly as good as it is today. If you look at infant and child mortality, it was way higher in the past. In the 16th and 17th centuries, 60% of all live births would not survive past the age of 16. Combine this with adults who die due to disease, accidents, etc., and it's clear that in order for society to simply survive, you need to have a lot of children being born. As you can imagine, this can easily present a problem for women in society. They'll need to spend a significant amount of their fertile years being pregnant and/or taking care of an infant who still needs to breastfeed. So, as a matter of simple survival the majority of women will need to fulfill a role that, in modern society, is often viewed as being a lesser role. The survivors of the apocalypse want to avoid women becoming second-class citizens in their society. They also know that they are not going to live to see the rebirth of modern society—it will take quite a few generations to rebuild humanity's numbers and recover the lost technologies. How should the survivors of the apocalypse set up their society and culture in such a way as to prevent women from becoming second-class citizens? Note that though this is important to the survivors, their first priority is for humanity to survive (second-class > dead). Their next priority is to place humanity on track to recover modern society. They aren't going to put these priorities at risk in order to prevent misogyny—women have won the fight for equality once, they can do it again if they need to. 

Your problems would be manyfold. So, assuming you don't want the problem to come back, you'll have to get to the root. First up: The crime problem. You didn't necessarily say this is your core problem, but the lower the crime rate, the less need there would be for weapons, the less weapons get used. There is no easy solution to this, but typically the reason people go into crime circles (syndicates, etc), is either: 

Don't jump to conclusions and start going off on how they're stabilized lazers. By this definition, Lightsabers fit: 

Well, this wouldn't be a sudden change. Robots aren't free -- and likely aren't cheap. So this is something that we can easily assume would take years, if not decades or generations to really happen. Based on this assumption I offer you my thoughts (hypothesis) on a plausible progression. It would start in factories where there is currently a high(er) error occurrence or low(er) error tolerance. Think welding, assembly and such (many of which are already being done by machines today, but not unanimously). These are jobs that (usually) require quite some training, but are fairly low-entry. Then it would take over the construction industry (starting with high-risk, such as high-rise buildings), but slowly working its way into all niches of the construction industry. Farmers would soon start considering buying a few robots. Starting with the bigger farms, because they have bigger budgets. Slowly, all the jobs usually offered to those with lower educational backgrounds, will no longer need them. So those with learning disabilities, low socio-economical backgrounds, and yes immigrants, will slowly be phased out of the workforce. They will be forced to start getting more and more creative over time, because everything they can do, a robot can do better, for longer, and over long periods will be done cheaper. This will start a period of social unrest. People with higher positions will start getting nervous, people will start complaining. This happens with all forms of change, but especially now because robots seem to be everywhere. Suddenly you'll start noticing robots in restaurants, replacing waitresses. Customers (especially those who've felt the sting of being replaced) will complain about the 'trash compactor' that brought the wrong order (or purposely giving them the wrong order just to make them look bad). There might even be those who find it funny (kids especially, but plenty of adults) that will start talking funny just to throw off the robots' speech recognition software. It's around this point in the transition that society would have to make a decision. After all, more and more people are starting to file for unemployment. More and more small business owners that can't afford to buy robots will file for bankruptcy because they can no longer compete. The government might start an initiative to offer financial aid to small businesses to help they buy a robot, or there might be a tax cut offered to those who hire unemployed people. Maybe both. Slowly, people who don't want to starve or become homeless will be forced to go back to school. I'm sure the government would have to offer some kind of financial aid in this, or risk entire social groups being unable to do anything but collect unemployment. So, over the course of a few generations, more and more people would have to work their way up from 'low social classes', to middle class or preferably upper middle class. This hypothesis is based on what happened during the industrial revolution, though extrapolated slightly because of the more socially geared society we (seem to) live in. Take away the 'easy road', and people will be forced to work themselves up, or risk starving in the long run. Let alone the risk of no longer being a 'viable mate' by their preferred gender (should they have one). Social pressure is a hell of a motivator, but this is only one plausible route. You could go for a more dystopian route, where the lower classes are systematically sabotaged and slowly start to either die out (not likely) or find other means of survival. It could even go so far as to develop a fringe society, tribal almost. They'd be forced to either steal to survive, or the more prideful of them would develop new means of farming. Most would find a balance between the two. 

We give them a place to land and set up a temporary base We give them (or help them get) the resources they need We get to observe at least some of their tech in action We get to see what kinds of resources they use We gain the knowledge that FTL is possible and can be practical We get a massive head start in developing similar technology, with the chance that we could reverse engineer some of their tech within a short period of time. 

Scientists have made a breakthrough! They've discovered a subplane of our reality that consists of what can only be described of as the essence of luck. There's also a reasonably easy way to tap into this plane and use this essence! You can also decide how much luck you want to use with a reasonable degree of precision. Using this essence makes you lucky — if you were to use enough of it while buying a lottery ticket, for example, you'd certainly hit the jackpot! However, there is a catch. Luck essence, like matter and energy, is conserved. Unlike matter and energy it doesn't need to be conserved at a specific point in time, so you can draw good luck now and pay it back later. It's best to pay it in advance, though — a luck surplus is quite stable regardless of how large your surplus is and will be available whenever you need it, but luck debt is more and more unstable the larger it is and has a tendency to unexpectedly pay itself back. This luck also can't be transferred. There's no way to have someone else give you their good luck, or take your bad luck. Of course, you're probably wondering what happens when you use luck at the same time as someone else. The simplest way to describe it is that using luck makes your situation better than it would have been, while storing or paying back luck makes your situation worse than it would have been. Using the lottery example again, you'll still hit the jackpot when you otherwise would not have, but with 1000 other people doing the same thing your winnings are going to much less. Unfortunately even though your result isn't as good as it would have been had others not used their luck, you use just as much luck either way. It's possible to have your good luck help someone else too, and it won't even give them a luck debt. This means you can safely use luck as you attempt to cook the best Thanksgiving dinner ever. On the other hand, your bad luck also can't give anyone a luck surplus, so foolishly choosing to pay back luck while driving a car won't be of any benefit to the other people involved in the subsequent wreck. Also, you can't control exactly what effect the (good or bad) luck will have other than by context of where you are and what you're doing at the time, but your luck will have some effect. Trying to pay back luck while buying a lottery ticket is rather risky because there's a good chance that you wouldn't have won anything anyway, so the payback will likely take another form (like someone accidentally kicking you in the groin on your way out). A PLAN FOR LUCK: When they announce their discovery, the scientists also propose a plan (and secretly use some luck to make sure it is well-received). Economies and innovations are not a zero-sum game — if I give you something you value (such as money) for something that I value (food), then we are both better off than before. Innovation is particularly good at this — many of the world's problems could be solved with the help of a discovery of working cold fusion or some other cheap, clean, and efficient energy source. As such, it is in the interest of governments around the world to try to make as much good luck as possible available to as many people as they can. This would maximize the chance of someone stumbling across the next world-changing invention. However, the scientists don't know what the best way to give everyone luck is. One way would be to have a cheap lottery with a good chance of winning at least a small amount. You'd be able to afford to buy a large number of tickets, meaning that you'd be all but guaranteed to have some winning tickets if you were not storing up luck. However, with the tickets being cheap and the prizes not being great (otherwise people would just decide they don't need to use luck essence in order to be lucky), you'll only be able to store up a little luck at a time. So given the resources of Earth's current governments, what would be the best way to help as many people store up as much luck as possible without incurring significant risk as they do so? Note: When you store luck something will go worse than it would have, with how much worse being proportional to how much luck you're storing. So in order to be effective, in whatever system the government sets up there has to be some way for storing luck to make your personal outcome worse, otherwise you're going to have some other kind of misfortune come your way (for example, if you stored quite a bit more luck than the system could accommodate you could get a heart attack and die). Also, you have to decide ahead of time how much luck you'll store — in a normal lottery if everyone who played decided to store enough luck to not get the jackpot, any person who would have won the jackpot will simply not win anything, but the people who would not have won the jackpot anyway are in for a bad time (i.e likely gonna die). 

Keep in mind your focus should be psychological and sociological in nature. So working out 18 hours a day, though arguably does keep you busy, it isn't the solution you think it is. So. Recap. You need to travel alone (for reasons, and working for someone else to save money isn't the point), and each trip takes weeks to months at a time. How do you keep yourself sane within the offered constraints? 

You absorb the energy and use that to power something else. Think of it like a fridge. The chemicals are absorbing the heat and transporting it outside. So you transport that energy to power up something you don't need or want anyone else to know about (your own personal McGuffin (tm)) You bend light around the area you want darkened. This is going to cost energy, but it gets the effect you want. 

In case this hasn't been apparent yet, I'm a dark fantasy writer. So expect the 'bad guy' point of view in this answer. Your starting point: a leader. No rebellion, no revolution, no nothing ever starts without a 'visionary'. Someone with a silver tongue, that knows how to sway people -- the masses, preferably. This person will know the hardships of the people they want fighting alongside them. They'd need a compelling story to really stoke the fires of the people -- though not necessarily a verifiable one. Example. Amon, from Legend of Korra. Or frankly, Trump. Bad examples, with arguably dark intentions, but people that speak to the paranoia of the people all the same. Your rallying point: a common goal. This part comes in two parts, true to history. 

It's hard to really care about people outside of your monkeysphere. This is where Communism runs into problems. As Cracked puts it: 

It might help if you understand more about what proteins actually do in the body. For reference, check out Wikipedia: 

For a creature to be hurt by any light, this is very unrealistic. Think about it - a large flashlight is typically powered by a couple batteries. If you had a flashlight that used 4 D-cell batteries in series, that gets you 6 Volts. You can (though I'd suggest watching a video of someone else doing it rather than trying it yourself) put a 9 volt battery on your tongue without serious harm. Why would transforming that energy into another form suddenly make it considerably more dangerous? Given that not much energy is being delivered by such light, in order for the light to be harmful the creature's skin would have to be highly reactive to light. However, if it's highly reactive to any light that means the chemicals must be quite unstable, meaning they'd decay much faster and require a lot more energy to maintain. It's possible that you could contrive some situation in which this would actually be an evolutionary advantage, but it would have to be a very unusual situation. 

I think Jackie Chan has taught us that anything can be a weapon. But, more to the specifics. How to weaponise hair? 

Evolution is a process of seeing what works best in the subject's environment. Though this is a process that takes thousands-to-millions of years, there are times when this process is sped up considerably: a population bottle-neck. This is when it's easiest to see what little changes are the most beneficial. Then the fastest runner, or the longest runner, or the one that carries the most weight wins out--should any of those traits be seen as desirable to a mate. But you're talking about humans. Humans no longer follow 'survival of the fittest'. Now it's the one with the cute backside, or the highest intellect. That creates a problem, because if you cannot predict what the 'desirable trait' is, you cannot saw how evolution will pan out. So, I guess it's anyone's guess--but I hope the first part helped somewhat 8-) 

The hidden goal. This doesn't always have to be bad, it could be simple lust for power. Or it could be something noble -- i.e. true freedom from oppression. But every movement has one. Even if it's as mundane as no longer wanting to work the fields anymore. 

Worldbuilding is hard work, as we all know. When you want to write a story, or use a setting for a game, or just as inspiration for some creation (art, music), there is a strong incentive to reuse an existing world, or heavily derive from it. The world building has been done for you - the logic holes filled, the possibilities mapped and explored, the implications accounted for. I don't need to prove this, just look at all the fanfics out there. However, if you do this with a well-known franchise, you infringe on intellectual rights, which limits how you can distribute or use your derived creation. Similar to how open source and free culture licenses allow software and art to be reused and derived, are there any free (as in libre) world settings that are available for use? To limit the scope a bit, let's go for a typical, near-future science fiction setting: lasers, spaceships, aliens etc. A good world setting would contain a bit more information than a standalone story; this is necessary for other authors/creators to extend and derive. It may contain the following: 

In other words, these humans would think exactly like us, if we were illiterate peasants. So what kind of society can these humans achieve? They would have the same level of general intelligence as us, just as those illiterate peasants are as intelligent as us, except without the benefit of education. If you plop one of them into our world, they are fully capable of surviving and integrating, only that they cannot perform cognitively demanding professions. But a world comprised fully of such humans won't be able to transform into our world, as so much of it depends on modern science which requires abstract reasoning skills. They would still be able to develop a lot of technology, although at a much slower rate. Some would be entirely out of their reach; for example they can be like Edison and repeat thousands of experiments to invent things like light bulb filaments or alkaline batteries, but they can't be like Tesla who invented AC motors, which requires understanding advanced mathematics. It would be hard to precisely define what their world would look like, since we've had abstract thinkers from the beginning. They would have superstitions and very basic myths but no religion like the ones we do. They will have very skilled crafts and traditions, but no philosophers, no scientists, no mathematicians. Such a society should be capable of accumulating a large body of technology, although their development rate would be severely hampered. I can easily imagine their society matching some of our nomadic cultures in sophistication. However, they will hit a developmental wall somewhere around the pre-industrial level, as that's when you need modern sciences like chemistry, physics or advanced engineering to get breakthroughs. 

Hmm. This is an interesting one. Unfortunately, my best offer is speculation, at best, but I'll try to give some very real scenarios where this could play out. If you were to take the flying fish ($URL$ and over time they find more and more evolutionary reason to spend more time out of water. Say, for example, there's a more robust source of food in the air (insects, small birds, etc), there might well be reason for any strains that show adaptation to prolonged time in the air (breathing air without gills). Or perhaps their normal food source is depleted, for whatever reason? Then the only option is to get food from above water. Then they either adapt or die. Another, and in my opinion far more likely option, would be if (for example) dolphins or orcas (far more likely for dolphins in this instance, purely based on weight and size) were to have a subspecies evolve from their numbers with elongated, or at least more pronounced, pectoral fins which could, in time, evolve into more wing-like appendages, should there be an evolutionary advantage to this. It really all depends on how the environment changes, and how the species changes to survive that.