I'm not sure what you mean by implied here - if they accused you of this, they are accusing you of misconduct, and this webpage may have more information for you. If they didn't say it outright and it is your interpretation then we need a little bit more information as to exactly what they said. 

Not exceptional, but certainly above the mean of 4.7 days off. According to the ONS, "minor illnesses (such as coughs and colds) were the most common reason for sickness absence in 2016, accounting for approximately 24.8% of the total days lost". 

It sounds like they are using the Bradford factor. The formula is S2 x D which for you with 4 absences and 5 days is 80. This is in the typical "Consider Issuing a Verbal Warning" threshold. I expect this is why they are harsher. 

This means your bradford factor is now 150. This falls into the typical threshold for "Consider Issuing a First Written Warning", so when you come back expect an even more serious response. 

Yes - you've had a lot of absence, across many occasions, which is disruptive to your work and to the work of others. This can cost them a significant amount of money and time. In addition, they are following internal guidelines (the Bradford factor seems to be part of this). If they aren't consistent, they open themselves up to discrimination. If they are always relaxed about absence then someone will start to take advantage of this. 

I just went through this myself. Not everyone really wants advancement and the more responsibility and pressure that goes with it. It is great for such things to be available, but as long as they are still useful to the organization, and retained, some people are happy without it. In my case, when the new growth path was added, the first thing many team members asked was if it was a job requirement? Would they be punished or even replaced if they chose not to pursue it? That took some in management by surprise as this was presented as an opportunity, but many expressed that to them, the added responsibility was not worth it to them, while others jumped at the chance. If the individual will still be a viable employee without taking that route, then repeated pushing will start to feel to them like you are forcing it, and that without it they will not be welcome to stay. I would suggest that you talk, tell them you are not pressuring, only trying to make sure they know it is available, then somewhat back off, unless it really is true that they need to do it. 

Fixed cost contracts bugs are on you, they are paying for the job, not your time. If the job is a billed hours job, then generally, the hours worked are the hours worked. Bug correction is part of all development. Bugs found by the client during acceptance, well, then it becomes kind of a professionalism question to me. I should have found that before I said we were good to go if it is truly a bug, so that would often be on me to fix, but legally, it would depend on how the contract was written. I personally would not stick my client for my error which I should have caught. That all said, those general guides might blur depending on the size or nature of the bug. If caused by my own failure to understand or correctly implement the task, then at least a part of that burden should probably fall on me and I should eat at least a portion of the hours. If however the fix was required due to complexities of the base code or the task requirements, then that is an integration issue, not a bug, and should be relayed as such. If the issue is caused by client changing requirements, then they issue is a change in scope and even a fixed price client may well be expected to pay for that for changing the task and extending the project in doing so. As GrayCygnus stated, wording is important, even with a client you feel comfortable with, especially if they are non-technical. All clients, when they hear "bug" hear "you made a mistake" and will not be overly happy about paying for your mistakes. But an integration challenge is a normal development step and scope change is always on them. I would however tend to agree with a comment, if a client accuses you, or even really hints at saying you have cheated them, then you need to clear the air, finish current contracts with them, and in all probability move on without further bids to that client. 

I (personally) consider this to be the biggest issue. Working with a cold, while unpleasant, is not catastrophe. Your work will still be of a reasonable quality. However, infecting other people is unbelievably antisocial. I have a cold right now, and I have a fairly good idea of exactly who gave it to me. There is still an attitude of "suck it up" attitude to illness - unless you're missing a limb you should be in work. This is a damaging attitude, but your situation is not a good place to be challenging societal norms. 

Yes, as the link you gave says, "If you fall ill, you are entitled to take time off work until you recover". They have to allow this. 

I do see this argument, and it's not a bad one but the average cost of you missing a day is quite possibly higher than you realise - depending on your role, your absence can have a large impact on the work others can do. 

As other answers have said, the national average includes long term sickness which massively drags the average up. I expect you're quite a long way above the average. 

I am trying to email certain companies with requests of donations (physical products, not money) to my organisation. However, my organisation has not had many real discussions about any of this, and therefore I don't want to come across as representing the organisation I attend. I just want to inquire as to whether or not there is a possibility of a donation before I suggest an idea that will probably fail to my organisation. How can I write a disclaimer that gets this point across - are there example of disclaimers to fit certain situations? 

I think the first question is, as Christopher asked, is there any upside? Everything it traceable as has been pointed out. If you make the comments, especially soon after leaving, if anyone bother looking there is a good chance they will know it was you. If they are bothered by your comments, there are ways to research it. Next, how many people do you know that actually use services like Glassdoor? I know people who do, to laugh at comments. I know few who actually use it as a resource. In my circle, it is general considered a gripe board for disgruntled employees that has no real coloration to actual feelings of the average employee at that company. But former employees go there to vent. Doing so makes them feel better, but how does it really accomplish anything else? If I were to go, read a bunch of glowing reviews, I see that as paid employees trying to make their employer look good. If I see venting, I see just that, venting. I personally do not see it as constructive. You may disagree. 

Any interview code I have either asked for or given has been to show knowledge of the language and program structure and was reviewed for that, not function or relevance. People tend to want to see that you follow standards, reasonable naming conventions, document, use structure, know what a unit is, etc. If appropriate, include unit testing. If java, use java doc standards, etc. Usually, but not a certainty. If unsure that is what they want, it is usually better to ask than guess wrong.