"History is written by victors" may itself be an example of history written by the losers! While the quote is commonly misattributed to Winston Churchill, it's origins are unknown and it might be inspired by Hermann Göring's quote: 

At paragraph 184 Herodotus describes the two armies, Ephialtes is first mentioned in paragraph 213, and the last stand is described in paragraph 225: 

Jordan's borders today are roughly the same with the borders of the Emirate of Transjordan. Transjordan's borders were first officially formalized in November 1925, with the Hadda Agreement between the United Kingdom and Ibn Saud. They were slightly redefined in 1965 with bilateral agreements between Jordan and Saudi Arabia. The unusual shape of the borders (sometimes referred to as Winston's Hiccup) served to stop Wahhabi expansion to the west, by blocking Saudi Arabia's land corridors to Syria, Palestine and Egypt. 

De re publica is an excellent read, I strongly urge you to read the full text. Just for completeness sake, here's another quote that I think is a beautiful answer to your question: 

I've found several other sources that discuss scientific racism in ancient Greece, however they either revolve around the aforementioned quote, or don't provide any references at all. Are there any other prominent examples of scientific racism in ancient Greece? I'd appreciate answers with references to scientific writings of the time, and if possible by authors we know were influential during their lifetime (e.g. Aristotle, Plato, etc). 

The word "byblus" (βύβλος/βίβλος) was the common Greek name of the papyrus plant and its use supports Herodotus story of Phoenician traders introducing the plant and other Egyptian commodities to the Greeks as it comes from the Greek name of the Phoenician city Gebal, the oldest continuously inhabited city in the world. Theophrastus in Enquiry into Plants used the word "papuros" when referring to the plant used as foodstuff. In all probability, papyrus was imported from Egypt and not grown in Greece, all authors that mention the plant, including Theophrastus and Pliny the Elder, note that it was grown in Egypt. Nevertheless, Demosthenes, in Against Dionysodorus, mentions that paper (i.e. papyrus) in 4th century BC Athens was relatively cheap and in common use: 

There is another example from Flos in the source of my first quote, but unfortunately without Fibonacci's solution. Perhaps you would like to try and solve it on your own? ;) Further reading: 

The earliest mention of deafness and otology can be found in the Ebers Papyrus (1550 BC), a list of medical remedies and spells against common ailments. The Ancient Egyptians of the era treated various ear diseases, including the "Ear-that-Hears-Badly", by injecting olive oil, red lead, ant eggs, bat wings and goat urine into the ears1. In general, the Ancient Egyptians were tolerant of people with disabilities, a quote from the Instruction of Amenemopet stands out2: 

I have no idea why jet engine manufacturing (or lack of) would be connected to WW2, at least in the way you seem to imply. In any case, several companies that are based in the losing side of WW2 are key players in aerospace and if they build rockets, satellites and space station components, who cares if they are building jet engines or not. 

Apparently, Poosball was an indoor game similar to basketball. It was also known as center ball and captain ball. According to Volume 30 of Mind and Body (1923) it was invented by Dr. E. A. Poos in 1890 while at the Woodward High School in Cincinnati. Dr Poos wrote a booklet about the game, but I don't have access to its contents. The game is also mentioned in: 

Strabo, who was in Egypt from 24 to 19 BC and gave us detailed accounts of the Museum, claims the inspiration for the Library's organization - at least initially - was Aristotle (emphasis mine): 

As for illegal resident spies, the KGB's tendency to recruit locals is almost as old as the agency itself. The more infamous example is Aldrich Ames, a US national and CIA officer and analyst. Another example is the Cambridge Five. Although the Five operated mainly in the 1950s, the fifth member has not been conclusively identified and may have operated for as late as the late 1970s - early 1980s. None of them were or ever became ranked officers of the KGB. Other examples that show KGB's preference in foreign nationals as spies abroad are: 

On a (perhaps) more serious note, the aftermath of the Fall of Constantinople (1453) is a prime example of history written by the losers. A wave of Greek scholars emigrated to the west after the event that essentially marked the end of the Byzantine Empire, bringing with them extremely biased accounts of Ottoman brutality. The vilification of the Ottomans was the prevalent opinion in the Western world for centuries and served as propaganda material as late as 1832, when the Greek War of Independence ended. Even modern attempts at identifying the historical truth of the era, such as the 2011 "1821" documentary, are met with controversy in Greece. A more recent example would be the American Civil War and the Lost Cause movement, a term borrowed from Edward Pollard's 1866 book The Lost Cause: A New Southern History of the War of the Confederates : Comprising a Full and Authentic Account of the Rise and Progress of the Late Southern Confederacy--the Campaigns, Battles, Incidents, and Adventures of the Most Gigantic Struggle of the World's History. Lastly, a (perhaps controversial) example of history written by the losers is the account of the Vietnam War. Although whether the US lost the war is debatable they certainly didn't win it, still the overwhelming majority of historical documentation for the war comes from the US. Further reading: 

Initial dating puts the finds at the end of the palace style period, the 14th or 13th century BC, an era when the Mycenaeans had moved into Crete. While there are certainly several evidence that suggest animals were regularly sacrificed in the courtyard, I'm afraid we can't yet conclusively answer if the human remains also belong to a victim of sacrifice. Sources: 

The next earlier example is Solon's use of hellebore to poison the wells of Kirrha, during the First Sacred War (595 BC-585 BC). Further reading: 

Wigs became almost instantly fashionable after Louis XIII started wearing one in 1624 to hide his baldness, and were almost universal for European upper & middle class men by the beginning of the 18th century. Their main purpose was to mask receding or graying hair, and as a fashion item. One excellent source is the very detailed diary of Samuel Pepys (1633 - 1703), where he mentions his and others' wigs several times: 

The atypical and clandestine nature of the work essentially means that ranks don't make much sense for spies. KGB operatives, especially those operating outside the USSR, would need a diverse set of skills, of which rank would be the least important. Skills like general familiarity with the country they would operate in, good or even expert knowledge of the foreign language, at least some vague physical resemblance with the natives. Anything that would help them blend in and not get noticed, really. KGB's modus operandi abroad would typically involve a legal and an illegal resident spy. The legal resident would be a member of the consular staff, thus having diplomatic immunity, and the illegal resident would be as difficult to connect with the KGB as possible. This sometimes meant the KGB would recruit a local, or at least a non Soviet national, who obviously would have no military rank. And if the illegal resident spy was a Soviet national and a KGB officer, then it would make sense for them to be low ranking. Advancing in rank tends to produce a paper trail, and an illegal resident spy would need to have as low a profile as possible (even within the USSR). On the contrary, legal residents would typically be high ranking, as for their placement in critical consular positions to not raise any red flags. To make matters even more complicated, other than the typical military ranks (the KGB was a military service after all), there were several central and local offices, directorates and units. Foreign operations operatives would mostly be affiliated with the First Chief Directorate, and their position within the directorate was probably more important than their military rank. Unsurprisingly, there are extremely little information in the wild, but from what I've managed to gather there seems to be a very wild variation in ranks when it comes to agents operating abroad. Some examples: 

The original text uses "ἐνεὸς" and "κωφὸς" (=deaf), the same words Aristotle used in On Sense and the Sensible, suggesting both Plato and Aristotle distinguished between muteness and deafness. A more accurate translation of the above quote would be: 

The speech gives us a pretty good idea of how established the trade route was, with several financial and logistical details, suggesting that, at the time, it was a common route. Dionysodorus cargo was grain, but it's not hard to imagine that papyrus would reach Athens and Greece in general from a similar, or even the same, route. 

Plimpton 322 was indeed found in Senkereh, a site near the ancient city of Larsa, that's also known as Tell es-Senkereh, Tell as-Senkereh, Tell Senkereh, Sankarah, and Senkerah. Wikipedia says it was written about 1800 BC, the Rare Book and Manuscript Library of Columbia University is a lot less specific, dating the tablet between 1900 and 1600 BC, and Sherlock Holmes in Babylon asserts that the tablet's style suggests a 1600 BC origin (page 340), so the 2000 BC figure doesn't quite fit. The 1854 figure is also bit problematic, but it roughly coincides with William Loftus' excavations in the area. Loftus discovered a few tablets, but his work in the area was rushed and under-documented, and as Edgar Banks (who later sold the tablet to George Arthur Plimpton) noted the findings were looted by locals. Without a solid record and with the tablets changing hands, I'm afraid a conclusive answer would be extremely difficult. Another candidate would be AO 8865, a six sided prism with tables of squares, inverse squares and inverse cubes: 

Richard Grafton's A Chronicle at Large (1568) mentions currors several times, but doesn't explicitly describe their role. However, from the following passages it's clear that they weren't specific to the English army, contradicting the Wikipedia article: 

Suleiman the Magnificent died a year after the Great Siege and was succeeded by Selim II. The change in leadership also brought a change of focus. Selim decided to move against the equally strategically positioned Mediterranean island of Cyprus. The War of Cyprus started only five years after the Great Siege, and although the Ottomans ultimately prevailed, the bulk of their fleet was destroyed in the Battle of Lepanto. This was the first naval defeat for the Ottomans since the 15th century, and although they quickly replaced their lost ships, the ~20,000 experienced seamen lost in the battle weren't as easy to replace. Despite this, the Ottomans captured Tunis with relative ease only three years later, and only a year after they secured Cyprus. Their attention turned away from the Mediterranean, and towards Austria (Long War) and Poland (First & Second Polish-Ottoman War) in the West and Safavid Persia in the East (1578–90 & 1603–18). The following years, a very long series of minor internal and external conflicts demanded immediate attention and resources; the Empire had already entered its stagnation phase. It could be argued that the main reason the Ottomans never tried to besiege Malta again was that after 1565 they never actually stopped being engaged in one war or another. At the same time though, up until the 1630s their dominance in the Mediterranean was undeniable, even with the bulk of their fleet engaged elsewhere (or rotting in Istanbul). They managed to capture Madeira (1617), raid western England and reach as far as the shores of Sweden, with little - if any - resistance. Malta's position turned out to be quite less significant than both the Europeans and the Ottomans thought in 1565. Furthermore, sympathy - and gold - poured into Malta from all over Europe after the Hospitallers' sensational stand against the Ottomans. Fort Saint Elmo was not only rebuilt, but integrated to a fortified city; Valletta. If it had taken a month for the fort to fall in 1565, with the new fortifications it would be a nearly impossible task for any assailant. The Ottomans had already suffered two humbling defeats, in Malta and in Lepanto, besieging the reinforced island that was proving in practice to be tactically insignificant simply didn't make sense.