Here is an example of another very complex appointment process. Angelo N. Ancheta in his paper "Redistricting Reform and the California Citizens Redistricting Commission" described the process of selecting commissioners thus: 

Jang Jin-Sung appears to be the first author to describe a coercive transition from Kim Il-Sung to Kim Jong-Il. Rather than being common knowledge, his claim is a newly well-known story told by a single source. Whether he is a credible source is harder to assess. 38north.org has not written about him. Mr. Jang was also responsible for some other sensational, unsubstantiated claims previously reported by VICE. Whatever his goals are, he leverages dramatic storytelling in Western media as a means of generating publicity and book sales. The Washington Post wrote about his transition claim that "documentary proof is likely to be unavailable until the Kim dynasty collapses". The opaque nature of the North Korean state prevents independent verification, so his claim cannot yet be proved nor disproved: additional information would be news. 

Mexico had a Provisional Government in 1823-1824, after the end of the First Mexican Empire. Guadalupe Victoria, a member of the governing triumvirate and the subsequent president, received an especial political mandate to run Veracruz, and during this period: 

You can find measures of personal income and disposable income in the 1989 CIA paper, USSR: Estimates of Personal Incomes and Savings (I had to look in the Wayback Machine to access the paper). The tables there cover the period 1967-1987. 

Iceland was economically isolated by its almost complete lack of trees for wood and pitch. Once the ships involved in the Landsnam operation had worn out -- this is the immigration period to which you referred -- only Norwegian-owned ships visited Iceland, and then only for occasional commerce (these visits required staying the whole winter). Through several centuries of this isolation, combined with a completely rural population distribution, it may be no surprise that mainland Scandinavian speech developed in ways that did not affect, or barely affected, Icelandic speech. 

A large number of Russian American Company employees and colonists were Creoles, or the product of an ethnic Russian father with a native (Aleut, Tlingit, etc.) mother. They were established as a distinct estate (social class), with different rights and responsibilities than the groups to which their parents belonged. Admixture had already occurred across Siberia, resulting in Creoles of Yakut and Kamchadal origin who voluntarily entered Company service rather than being born in the colonies. Did they receive the same treatment as mixed children born in the American settlements? 

The historian Richard Pierce quoted in his citation-free "Biographical Dictionary" from certain "recollections of California in 1848" (presumably not a work title) by one James G. Ward. The recollection in question begins: "A Russian acquaintance in Santa Cruz started for the mines in an ox-drawn wagon." James Ward of California is a difficult name to Google. Who was this person and what did he write? 

The Panama Canal Railway, which crosses the Isthmus, was built by U.S. interests in what became the Panama Canal Zone, an "unincorporated territory of the United States". 

The Russian-American Company and the Russian Imperial Navy, deeply connected shipbuilding and seafaring organizations, both employed lots of foreign captains. In Richard A. Pierce's translation, K.T. Khlebnikov wrote in "Baranov" that the Company's chief manager hired "the American Vozdvit [?] giving the latter command of the Il'mena". In "Colonial Russian America" Khlebnikov tells nearly the same story though the translators here render the name "Vosdwit". He reports that the Il'mena sailed to Hawaii after visiting California. Pierce, apparently following the historian Okun, suggests an original spelling of "Wadsworth", but I can't find his given name or origin. Captain Vodzvit is not named in the 1818 "Correspondence of the Governors" nor in "the Khlebnikov Archive", so he may not have stayed in Company employ for very long. Who was Vozdvit's real name and where was he from? 

This poster shows a hopping European party of a few centuries back. Unfortunately there's no attribution or date on this old print. The text resembles German and refers to the second chapter of the gospel of John, which is when Jesus changed water into wine, and drove the moneychangers out of the temple. This looks more like the former, but if Jesus is in the image, I don't recognize him. Where did this party happen and what was it celebrating? 

I can only imagine that the prison was inside the fort. It would have been a wooden building, possibly sharing a wall with the fort itself, and possibly the ground floor of a tower. The fort shown is a different one, but illustrates the type of construction involved: 

There are wild potatoes in Mexico, but eating potatoes are generally cultivars imported from the Andes. They became popular elsewhere after Europeans with sailing ships took them around the world. Today they are readily available in Mexico, and on my last visit I was served a slice of raw potato on top of sushi. The article "La papa: Apuntes sobre sus orígenes y su domesticación" says that the article "The domestication of roots and tubers in the American tropics" says that potatoes arrived in Mexico subsequent to Europeans, in 1519. According to fao.org, "some evidence suggests cultivated varieties were brought [to Mexico] by Spanish conquerors during the 1500s." The book "Strangers on Familiar Soil" describes La Pérouse bringing potatoes from Chile to California in 1786. What does the evidence show? Is there a date by which Andean potatoes were definitely present in Mexico? 

Technologies called "suspensions" support the comfort of passengers in wheeled vehicles. In the era of draft animals, carriage suspensions apparently started with hanging the passenger compartment by iron chains; then replacing the chains with less noisy leather straps; then mounting the same on an iron elliptical leaf spring; then stacking several leaf springs; and today's standard for passenger vehicles is coil springs. When were these advances developed and popularized? 

Catholicism, whose liturgical language is Latin, is prevalent in Bavaria, so as long as there have been priests and parishioners there, Bavaria has had a population of Latin speakers, for example in the Seminarium Internationale Sancti Petri. 

The Alta California missions built in the Spanish period were initially run by Franciscans, then secularized in the 1830s, becoming regular parish churches. Some lay people officially served to "administer" the mission property after secularization; for example, Ynocente Garcia was administrator of Mission San Juan Bautista. What were the job responsibilies of the administrator? Who appointed them and who paid them? 

Those inconsistencies are exactly when historiography becomes crucial to historical understanding. Disagreement between sources raises questions about the quality of the sources and those who reported them. The risk of not addressing these issues is that erroneous information can become accepted, and must then be recast in light of the qualities of the sources. For example, in the late 1800s when the historian H. H. Bancroft was working on his monumental Histories of California and Alaska, he employed a Russian-speaking researcher and translator named Ivan Petrov. This fellow discovered a number of archival documents about the Russian-American Company that Bancroft cited. Years passed and many other authors cited Bancroft. Much later, historians discovered that Petrov was the author of several fraudulent documents. Bancroft's credulity allowed his work to be tainted by clever fictions, and caused generations of confusion. Now, the only responsible means of using or understanding Bancroft's text is to incorporate the story of Petrov's deceit. Rather than ignoring or denying or emphasizing it, we simply regard it as a key aspect of the works it affected. Sorry I have no citations, as I am not well-read in historiography. 

In California's Spanish and Mexican eras there was not much formal education. The nearest university was that of Guadalajara, founded in 1792. The Híjar-Padrés colony of 1834 brought teachers who might have been the province's first permanent residents to hold professional qualifications. Richard Henry Dana Jr. visited that same year on leave from Harvard College. In 1846 the U.S. acquired California. The University of California, whose creation became more urgent as more native sons were born, graduated its first class in 1873. I want to know about the first person or persons from California that went away to university, or studied at one of the University of California's predecessor institutions. The sons of established businessmen like Hartnell, Larkin, and Stearns seem like candidates. Perhaps some brainy kid was even sent to Guadalajara decades before. 

The Russian Empire's expansion towards the east and south meant conquering lots of local tribes along the way (Buryats, Yakuts, Kuriles, etc.). These peoples unwillingly became ethnic minorities in Russia. Which group put up the best fight defending its territory from Russian incursion, in terms of the time or cost taken to subjugate it? 

They weren't fired for an individual, but according to George Lensen's The Russian Push Toward Japan (pp. 148) the Dutch in Japan made salutes of 150 guns: 

Of course it depends whose months you look at. Part of the decimalization project in revolutionary France was Claude Boniface Collignon's proposals for decimalizing time. He called for ten "solar months" per year, each of 36.5 days. See page 168 of his Decouverte d'etalons justes, naturels, invariables et universels. I think his long months only exist conceptually and never became national law. 

After the death of his wife Betty Shabazz, the New York Public Library acquired Malcolm X's library. This included "22 archival boxes and binders of photographs, slides and negatives", now called The Malcolm X photograph collection. The photographs depict, besides the man himself, many events and places he visited, people he worked with, members of his family, etc. The identity of the photographers appears to mostly not be known. While many of the images were clearly not taken by Malcolm X, those he did take are almost certainly in there too. 

The Itelmen or Kamchadal were the native inhabitants of the southern part of Kamchatka while the Koryaks lived at the northern end. The presence of the isolated southern tribe suggests to me that land routes were once in use. There is more documentation of access during the Russian era, though. Before the first successful sea voyage from Okhotsk to Kamchatka in 1717, land travel from Yakutsk to Kamchatka entered the peninsula from Anadyrsk to the north. According to James Gibson's "Feeding the Russian Fur Trade", the route skirted either of the two bays on each side of the peninsula (rather than go to higher elevation on the mountainous ridge). Russian travelers on this route suffered attacks by both Koryak and Chukchi people. Absent navigable rivers, travel options of the time were principally dogsleds (in winter) and riding reindeer. 

There were three distinct components to mail latency between the imperial and the viceregal capitals: road travel to and from the ports, the sea voyage, and most variably, the wait for a mail ship to depart. I estimate travel times here in a worst case, an average case for the late imperial period, and a best case. These figures only apply to mail that actually arrived; some of it is still on the ocean floor! According to Ignacio Rivas Ibáñez, Spanish royal mail in the peninsula traveled at 105 miles per day, which would require several changes of horse along the way. According to Google, the present road distance from Madrid to Cadiz is 404 miles and from Veracruz to Mexico City, 246 miles. Let's presume these roads are of similar length to those in use in the imperial period and that the same kind of inland messenger system was used on both sides of the Atlantic; rounding up, the land transits took about 4 and 3 days. Because the horse and road components were pretty constant, they would not have varied much over time. Carlos Venegas attributes to Chaunu the finding that mail ships in the 1504-1650 period took an average of 75 days to cross from Cádiz to Veracruz, including stops (outbound: Santo Domingo and San Juan; inbound: La Habana). These were relatively light and long ships, built for speed rather than capacity. I intuit that a variability of 50% is reasonable, so these early voyages would have taken from 60 to 90 days. Towards the end of the imperial period, technology and routes had improved a bit, reducing these figures by, let's say, 10%: 54 to 81 days, the mean being 68 days. The wait for the next departure of a mail ship is the only factor that increased investment could substantially speed up. When there were eight imperial mail ships (also according to Ibáñez), four were on the New Spain route. Presume that one was in maintenance at a given time, putting three in service. Worst case, the crossings took 90 days and with three days in each port, the whole circuit could take 186 days. Presuming that these three ships were kept more or less evenly timed, a departure would take place about every 62 days. According to H.H. Bancroft, after the 1730s departures happened monthly, making the average wait in the late imperial period about 15 days.