So it looks like the modern Jack-o'-lantern was a minor evolution from multiple very similar folk traditions already existing in the British Isles. The final evolution probably happened in North America, where all these traditions had a chance to intermix among the common settlers, along with a conveniently large native gourd. However, it didn't take very long for the entire activity (pumpkins excluded due to lack of availability) to be attested in the Scottish Highlands on Halloween, so the exact location can't be pinned with any certainty. 

The Middle Ages reduced innovation in the Middle Ages. If anything, the Church was the only thing keeping Western Europe literate during that time (and even then, just barely). The fact that any books from earlier times survived at all we have Church scribes to thank for. Knowledge and the dissemination of knowledge is the lifeblood of what you would call "innovation". They were certianly repressive about a lot of things, and certianly could have been more free and open about information, but without the Catholic Church all literary activity in Europe, including the preservation of old knowledge, would have ceased completely. 

I read through a lot of reviews, and the only thing I could find hinting at any inaccuracy at all was his own narrative voice. It turns out he had a life-long battle with depression (before and after the camp). I'm not sure why that particular reviewer thought that fact ought to have been more obvious from the reading, but they did.* I can't find any inkling of someone suggesting the basic facts may be off, and several reviewers claiming historical expertise saying they jibe with what they know independently. So unless something pops up, it seems fair to treat it as historically accurate. Of course there really are no dearth of first-hand accounts floating around, so it would be trivial to insulate yourself from any inaccuracies in one by reading some of the others too. * I have three such people in my family, an there's only one its really obvious when they are suffering 

In a small way, yes it did. However, the deleterious effects of this incident would have been almost entirely isolated to the southern plantation colonies of Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia. Not only are those only four of the 13 colonies, but they happen to have been some of the rebelling colonies in which Royalists (colonists against the revolution and for staying part of England) were the strongest. For a while during the war, Georgia and South Carolina were under Royalist administration and were fighting on the side of the British. Due to the necessity of correspondence in the trans-Atlantic communications involved in the dispute, the slide of the American colonies from loyalty into open rebellion is probably one of the better documented eras in history. I recently got a compilation of such correspondence. From what I've seen, probably the best written and most comprehensive list of colonial grievances is the one laid out by Benjamin Franklin in late 1773, in his sarcastic piece Rules by Which a Great Empire May Be Reduced To a Small One. Note that there is a mention in there of "Stock-Jobbers", but it is one of nearly a hundred things. Being 1773, it misses the last 3 years of activity before the final breach, but if you imagine England doubling down on the behavior mentioned rather than retarding it, you'll get the idea. There appears to have been a fundamental dispute of power between the British Parliament and the colonies. The colonists felt like they should be free British citizens, with all the attendant rights and privileges they would enjoy if they resided on the home island. One thing I'm finding is that the concepts of man's natural freedom expressed in the USA's founding documents were not original there. Rather they are just a concise expression of the rights free men in England already enjoyed. So the issue wasn't that Americans had a radically different conception of a citizen's rights than existed in England, but rather that they felt they ought to still possess them even outside the borders of that island. Parliament's position seems to have been that the colonies, including all the property held within, were simply a Crown possession. As the official Government of England, they could make any law they liked governing the property and people inside an English colony. Any loyal British citizen must comply, and any failure to do so must be punished or it would just encourage such behavior worldwide. So it is certainly fair to say that "stock-jobbers" like the tobacco lords had their hand in the revolt. However, they were just one of a cast of thousands. The root issue was a dispute over who had the right to legislate over the colonists. Nearly all the other problems flowed out of that. 

The best I could find with a fair bit of searching was your same Schmitt reference from 1988. It was introduced there as "was heard to exclaim". The implication there is that this wasn't a prepared remark, but rather a conversational one. If the part about it being something she said in a conversation is accurate, there can never really be a definitive source (or even form) for the quote. It was not said in a venue where one would expect it to have been authoritatively recorded. So it seems quite likely that is the best you are going to find. And then of course there's the likelyhood it isn't accurate. Schmitt was just using it as a colorful anecdote, not as a central part of his argument that had to rely on bulletproof sourcing. At the time it would have been said, Schmitt was an executive at GE (or before that, a researcher), so it seems unlikely he was moving in the kind of social circles to have even heard this second-hand. On the other hand, as director of the GE R&D Center until 1986, it seems quite likely he was exposed to the Unix "fortune" program. The 1987 "fortune" find shows the other form of the quote was at least co-existent with Schmitt's. So in the absence of any other earlier written source he could have gotten it from, it seems most likely Schmitt read it from "fortune", and inserted "computers" because he was using one of those newfangled computer thingies when he read it, so he assumed that's what she was talking about. 

Baron Acton lived in a "world" completely dominated by what we'd now call "Western Culture". He wasn't trying to talk about linguistics or genetics here, but about culture: Literature, The Arts, Science, Math, etc. Moreoever, as a royalist, one would expect the man to be even more dismissive than the typical person of both non-european and popular culture. Still, change "this world" with "Western Civilization", and perhaps insert the word "Culture" after "Greek", and you'd have a statement many people would be quite willing to defend today. All the things I listed above, while much more advanced today, came down to Western culture with at least a large influence from the Ancient Greeks. 

Yes, the USA has frankly engaged in unilateral military action so many times, it would be serious work just to count them all. Just among declared wars, three of the five (a bare majority) were one-on-one wars that the USA declared first. Amongst non-declared wars, this has been a common scenario. Presidents Regan and Bush in the 1980's engaged in 3 of them that I can think of off the top of my head (Grenada, Panama, and the Libyan bombing). Interestingly the official Marine hymn mentions two such military actions in the first line: The Mexican/American War, and the First Barbary War. 

OK. I've looked into this as best I can. And I'll preface this by saying Indian history is my weakest point, so I didn't really have an opinion on this going in. First off, for a tribal people like the Iranians/Aryians there really isn't a dime's worth of difference between a "migration" and an "invasion". All of Eurasia was settled by this time, so when a tribe moves into a new area, the old inhabitants have to be pushed out somehow. You could try to picture some kind of peaceful coexistance and absorption if you want, but that would certianly fly in the face of the historical record we have for these same Iranian peoples' arrival at the same time in the near east. They pretty much wiped out the Elamite poeple in Persia, and the Akkadians in Mesopotamia. They weren't using all those chariots for circuses. So now let's follow your link, like you suggested. Any time I see an interesting book on Amazon I like to read the favorable reviews and the unfavorable ones. Often the unfavorable ones contain the most information. Here's the one for the book you linked. I won't quote it here because it is both too long, and to detail-filled to really cull parts of it. Still, this is just one guy. So the next step is to hit the Wikipedia page for the author. This should give us a good idea of how accepted his theories are among historians. Well, there we find out that this is one in a series of books by this same author that reinterpret history in a rather unusual (and Hindu-nationalist) manner. 

From a link @jfrankcarr posted in the comments, I discovered there is actually a medal awarded in the UK to animals for service in wartime: The Dickin Medal. However, most of them seem to have been awarded to pigeons for delivering important messages, and most of the rest to dogs for helping with search and/or rescue operations. I didn't see any instance in there of a dog going Buck wild on the enemy. However, there was the dog Sam, who was awarded the medal for taking down an armed gunman, and later for helping hold out against a riot. 

There seems to be a discernable common (although not universal) style to a lot of the art produced by the WPA during its history (1935-1943). I'd characterize it as more simplistic than realistic, with pastel colors and socialistic themes (usually depicting working men and women, rather than famous people or leaders). Examples (from Connecticut, Ohio, and New York): 

How Europeans got involved was that the Portuguese, during the process of their exploration and circumnavigation of Africa, discovered a fairly lucrative existing slave trade in west Africa (with "raw material" supplied by negro tribes raiding nearby villagers), and decided to simply take it over for themselves. When the New World was discovered, ships were then able to make their entire round trip paying, as they could deliver the slaves to plantations in the New World, and then take the raw materials back to Europe. Then they could take enough finished European goods back to Africa to trade with the coastal negro tribes for more slaves. 

Fairly early in the war Lincoln (actually one of his generals, but he endorsed the measure) took the position that human "property" in a rebellious state could be confiscated by Federal forces upon command, essentially as spoils of war. If the Federal government chose to employ these slaves as labor to help the army, or free them, that was the Federal Government's business. The Emancipation Proclamation legally was viewed as an extension of this principle. It only applied to slaves in the states that were revolting (thus it didn't apply to Union slave states like West Virginia, Maryland, and Kentucky). Of course the states in question didn't recognize Federal authority at the time, so in practice this just meant that if the South were to lose the war eventually, all their slaves would be freed. Effectively, it officially made the war a war to end slavery in the South. But it has often been remarked that the proclamation itself didn't free a single slave. At least not initially. 

Mostly it is true, yes. The only issue is that electoral votes are tallied by state, not by person. That means it would be difficult to enforce this, unless the state passes a law to make sure they know, or unless the entire state delegation was "faithless", or the guilty party admitted to it. This actually happened in 2004. 

Its important to start talking about copyright by explaining what it is. In the USA, it is not an artist's natural right to his own work, or somesuch. It is not a property right. It is instead a bargain. We (the public) allow someone to have a temporary monopoly on reproduction of a work, and we gain (eventually) more Public Domain works. So you may now find yourself asking how it is that we are now just giving big companies quasi-perpetual copy monopolies, for no apparent benifit to ourselves? That's a pretty crappy bargain on the public's part, isn't it? The basic answer here is that there's a lot of money in a (very) few old copyrights, which makes those few copyright holders both rich and motivated to spend some of that money to keep their copyrights. It may be true that there'd be more value (even monetary) to society in allowing more stuff into the Public Domain. However, that money doesn't exist yet, and would be much more spread out over all of society. So there really isn't anybody nearly as highly motivated to shorten copyright durations. Pit these two groups together, and its pretty clear which direction the political pressure will push things. It isn't (as some people claim) all about Disney. However, they make a very good example. They are a company who has made tons of money off of Public Domain stories (fairy tales), and then fight like tigers to keep anything from entering the Public Domain ever again. 

The Magnetic North Pole actually moves around rather a lot. Generally over the last 150 years or so it has been in Canadian territory, but often it is on dry (well...frozen) land. 

There's been a lot of debate about the Exodus over the last several decades. Its obviously a touchy subject for religious reasons, but the balance of the current scholarly opinion currently appears to be that there's no good evidence that such an event actually occurred. The Book of Exodus appears to have been written and molded over a 200 year period starting around 600 BC. However, the setting is 600 to 1000 years prior to that. During all that time it would have had to have been an oral tradition. There are some obvious errors in it too (eg: mention of cities that didn't exist yet, a given population for the Hebrews almost greater than that of all of Egypt, etc.) Nothing you wouldn't expect of course from a oral tradition that had been passed down for at least 30+ generations. Note that the authorship date of 600 BC is actually very significant in Jewish history, as it is the start of the Babylonian Exile. However true it may or may not be, having a story about how your people managed to escape captivity and return to their land seems like it would be a very useful thing for keeping together a people who were now in captivity away from their homeland. Egyptians would have also been very convenient bad guys who their Babylonian oppressors couldn't complain about. If we look at the linguistic evidence, we get a slightly different story. Phoenician, Canaanite, and Hebrew are very closely related languages. Not only are they all Semitic, but they are all Central Semitic. Not only are they all Central Semitic, but they are all Northwest Semitic. Not only are they all Northwest Semitic, but they are all Canaanite. What this implies is that there was a point when the Phoenicians, Hebrews, and other Canaanites were all one people. Linguists figure the time of this "Proto-Canaanite" to be from 1500 to 1100 BC. Given the geography of these languages (see below) the Phoenicians, Hebrews, and other Canaanites all likely differentiated from each other in-situ. So as near as we can tell historically, around the end of the third millennium BC central Semitic people were living in the area from Syria to the Arabian peninsula. By the late second the Proto-Canaanites had evolved their separate identity in their historical area. By the start of the first millennium the Phoenicians and their various relatives in the hinterlands had evolved separate languages. There's no real evidence that the Jews specifically ever left this area and then came back. Essentially, the Jews were just the Phoenicians' country cousins back off the coast. 

This is probably a very debatable question, but I think I can make the argument, with good historical backing, that it was the non-violent protests that were most effective in what progress was made in the Civil Rights movement. Firstly I make this argument in deference to the leaders on the ground. A reading of Freedom Summer, by Bruce Watson* shows that the leadership of SNCC had extended, passionate discussions about whether to use "self-defence" or entirely passive resistance tactics. Stokely Carmichael, future leader of the Black Panthers, unsurprisingly was the lead voice for self-defense. This leadership was strongly southern blacks (unlike Carmichael), who knew exactly what kind of a buzzsaw they were walking into. That they settled on the tactic they did has to at least show that this was what they saw as the most effective tactic at that time. All of these people were in a far better position to judge that than any modern person who has not lived through what they did. Secondly, lets look what happened with a pure self-defense approach. We can't look at that in isolation in 1964, but we can in 1921. On May 31st of that year, in response to an imminent lynching action, a similar discussion went on the black community of (north) Tulsa. In this case, the case of those arguing for active resistance and self-defense won the day. Guns were gathered, and volunteers set off for the jailhouse to offer their help to the Sheriff. There they dispersed a mob of 1,000 whites besieging the sheriff. So far so good. The angry mob of whites put out the word that armed black folk were taking over town, the armory was raided, and soon the black community found itself in a pitched battle over the railroad tracks separating the two communities. The north Tulsa community fought bravely, but they just didn't have the numbers. At about 5 AM the tracks were overrun, and the white mob stormed into North Tulsa, and burned it to the ground. By the time the National Guard restored order the next day, hundreds were dead, over a thousand injured, six thousand "interned", and here's what the richest African-American district in the nation looked like the next day: