You need axioms to feed the computer with. Finding which axioms are the more interesting is not a matter of computation, but of understanding. That is precisely the role of philosophy. Arguably, important milestones are achieved when new fruitful axiomatic systems (theories) are discovered which are fruitful and apply well to the world, but that cannot be achieved by computation alone. Stated in a kuhnian vocabulary: computation is helpful for normal science, but not for paradigm change or scientific revolutions. So I would say no important milestone can ever be reached through computation alone. 

In the first exercice, you have to use natural deduction rules (elimination of quantifiers) to go from the premises to the conclusion. Hint: it helps, sometimes, to start from the end. For example, to prove the negation of a proposition, assume the proposition itself and try to derive a contradiction (1a). To prove a universal proposition, assume a new random variable and deduce the proposition for it. And so on recursively if needed (1b). In the second exercice, perhaps try to feel the difference in meaning between the two sentences, and try to translate that difference in a formal language. Hint: it has to do with the scope of quantifiers. I suppose you learned how to translate "there are two X" in formal language? 

A function in mathematics is often said to take inputs and give outputs. A function is a more restrictive concept than a general relation between two domains: it will map only one value in the output domain to each value of the input domain (it's a many-to-one relation). This is also a definite characteristic of functions in a functional programming language. A mathematical function is not strictly speaking a programming function, but based on these similarities, it is a useful abstraction to address the latter (contrarily to imperative languages where some functions can return different values at different times, for example when they use state variables or external inputs such as clock). In any case there are strong relations between mathematics and algorithmic. Both have the same logico-mathematical foundations. The programmer can expect a direct correspondance between the code and the compiled program. Each implemented operation will be performed as such. Perhaps they will be optimized, but the result is guaranted to be the same by the compiler. Otherwise programs would not be reliable. In other words, a programmer can reliably reason "as if" the computer were actually reading the code at execution time and applying mathematical functions as a mathematician would do. Optimizations at compilation time result in less reliability as for duration expectations (only result is guaranted), but in most cases, getting the same result will amount to do the same operations and an estimation of durations based on the code will give approximatively good result. I think the general structure of the program is generally reflected in the compiled program. In imperative programming languages there are technics to get more accurate duration measures at runtime, which are used for profiling (improving the efficiency of the program). I don't know if they exist for functional languages. 

"Unless" conveys much more meaning than a logical "or" as natural language conjunctions generally do. Even "or" in natural language is often not strictly a logical "or". The best way to understand logical operators is through truth tables. Trying to equate natural language "unless" with natural language "or" would be misleading: all they share is their truth table when "translated" into first order logic. Your use yourself truth tables, not natural language intuitions, to show that "if not" and "or" have the same logical structure. The best I can do for you is draw on an example: "I'll miss my train unless I run" and "either I run, or I'll miss my train" have similar meanings. 

That's an interesting argument, but it seems that you're merely resisting the idea of calculating p(N|n) on the ground that p(n|N) would not make sense if there are many futures. However you should be careful about the interpretation of probabilities you are assuming. Some authors (Deutsch and Wallace) have argued that the best interpretation of probabilities in the context of MWI is one based on rational decision theory. In this context, calculating p(N/n) makes sense: it amounts to "bet" on the set of futures with a specific N. And it seems to me that you can still arrive at the conclusion of the doomsday argument. Or to say it differently, I'm not sure it's true that in MWI "our position n is not correlated with any particular future with a particular value of N" because all future branches have a different weight, hence different probabilities given the present. 

The term "analytic philosophy" comes from the logical empiricists who thought (with Wittgenstein) that philosophy is pure a-priori language analysis whereas science is about confronting claims to the world a-posteriori. Following this framework there is no such thing as "a posteriori analysis" because you need to be clear about what you mean before testing a claim empirically, so the analysis part has to be done a priori. Furthermore you don't need any empirical data to do language analysis and clarify what you mean. Anyway, today this clearcut distinction between science and philosophy, or between a priori analysis and a posteriori synthesis, is often rejected (following Quine's critics, notably). Things are more complex. 

This probably has to do with the so-called "linguistic turn": during the 20th century it has been considered (Wittgenstein, logical empiricists, ...) that the role of philosophy is not answering big questions, but only clarifying what we mean, analysing our language, in contrast with science whose role is to test our claims empirically. That was the beginning of analytic philosophy. Following this view, philosophy of language certainly plays a central role. Note that Quine famously denied that factual (synthetic) and linguistic (analytic) components can be so well distinguished, but he did so by appealing to arguments in the philosophy of language. Another related way to express the importance of philosophy of language is that arguably, language is at the foudation of any kind of knowledge or representation of the world. For example the content of a scientific theory is expressed by mean of language. It follows that many deep philosophical questions (whether our scientific theory describe reality or are mere predictive instruments, whether they reduce to claims about the observable or not, whether there are natural kinds in the world) can be reframed in the philosophy of language: how language relates to the world, or what is the meaning of meaning. For example, the reduction of one scientific theory to another can be expressed as the mapping between different vocabularies. Another (still related) issue can be found in the work of Frege, or Tarski and others, which bridges logic, mathematics and semantic. 

I would say "with my mind" applies to an action, such as feeling or seeing, while "in my mind" applies to an object, which in the examples given is the object of the action. Moore is implying that for something to be "in my mind", it must be the object of an action that is performed "with my mind". 

There is also probably a confusion on what you can expect from scientific institutions. Institutions do not follow explicit methodological rules. Philosophers (and sometimes scientists) reflect on the methodologies which happen to be succesful but nothing obliges an institution to perform a specific test. If you think your test deserves consideration, you should try to convince others by publishing an article to defend this view in a scientific journal. Or you should integrate a university departement (e.g. make a PhD) and attempts to get funds for your experiment. 

"If there are licorns then there are horses with horns" does not entail that there are licorns. Equivalently in logic, "(∃x)(Lx) ⊃(∃x)(Hx)" does not entail "(∃x)(Lx)". The existentials cannot be directly instantiated because they are nested in a more complex logical form. The assumption (3) is used to derive a contradiction. Then we can say that the assumption was false: (18) is the negation of (3). If we assume (11) instead we will not prove (18) but the negation of (11) which is not what we're looking for. 

If it has rained, the floor is wet. If the floor isn't wet, it hasn't rained. Equivalences with conditional 

Emergence is the opposite of reduction. Holism is the opposite of separability. The difference is subtle, but emergence and reduction are concerned with concepts, properties, types of phenomena, being deducible from other (lower level) ones, while holism is concerned with the behaviour of parts being independent from relational aspects, or their pertaining to a whole. Following holism, the whole system should be considered, not only its parts and their interactions. A typical example is entanglement in quantum mechanics. That does not mean that new irreducible higher level concepts have to be used to address the whole system. Following emergence, new properties appear at some level which cannot be deduced from the lower level and the arrangement of parts. This supposes some form of holism, since only the whole system has the property, yet the system could be separable with regards to its lower level properties. Typical (but controversial) examples could be biological and psychological concepts. One cannot necessarily say something is a gene from its molecular structure alone, because it could depend on the cellular context (respectively, a psychological character and a social context). Being a gene is emergent. Yet the gene could be separable into parts at the chemical level. Also note that the concepts of emergence and reductionism are sometimes used loosely by scientists. Sometimes emergence refers to a higher level property which is actually reducible to the arrangement of lower level ones, and sometimes reductionism is implicitely used to refer to separability. EDIT In the brain example: 

There are different versions of realism, and some would only accept sparse properties in their ontology: all complex properties would be specific combinations of a basic set of natural properties. This could be the case of "Ming" and "expansive" so long as they can be defined in terms of other properties or relations. Other theorists might well bite the bullet and accept all kinds of properties in their ontology. 

Most arguments are kind-of semantic. We use moral talk everyday, we often discuss moral issues and try hard to convince each others of our moral judgements by appeal to reason and facts, just as if something objective is at stake. A good meta-ethical theory must account for this aspect of common language. Perhaps the best and simplest explanation is moral realism: there are indeed moral facts, there are things one objectively ought to do in such or such situation, and that's exactly what we are talking about when discussing moral issues. Alternative explanations to moral talk, such as expressivism (the idea that moral judgments are mere expression of feelings, emotions or desires rather than fact statements) can be demanding. One challenge for expressivism is the Frege-Geach problem. If really moral judgements are only expressions, or attitudes, how is it that they can be combined into logical structures such as "If it is wrong to tell lies, then it is wrong to get your little brother to lie" ? Another alternative to moral realism is an error-theory: we do pretend to make objective, factual judgments about what one ought to do in some situations, but we are actually plain wrong, there is no such fact of the matter. This position is against our common-sense intuitions, and does not by itself provide an explanation to why we keep on having moral discussions. Note that moral realism does not mean that moral facts (things one ought to do) do not reduce to something else, such as social acceptability or utility. It only means that moral judgments express potentially true facts rather than nonsense or mere attitudes. 

If it has rained, the floor is wet. It's not the case that it has rained and the floor is not wet. De morgan laws 

I think there is no such epistemic principle, but given that there are always many possible explanations to a given observation (including hallucination or dream), if the fact that something happens by mere coincidence is highly improbable, then there is always a chance that one of the alternative explanations will get more credence. Perhaps there is a point where the hypothesis that an observation arrives by mere coincidence should be given less credit than the laws of physics themselves, which raises interesting questions: this coincidence can be considered strictly impossible because we'd revise our physics rather than believe it. However it seems possible, at least in principle, to be more and more confident in our physics (in its completeness, in our perfect control of the observed situation, etc) to the point that we'd accept that it couldn't be anything but a coincidence. Now in everyday situations we are very far from this level of control. Note that I can think of a third way in your example: remaining agnostic regarding the right explanation. 

Option (1) seems fatalist: it looks as if Johnny cannot reflect on his own character and change it for the better, and as if although you can feel sympathy for him he himself wouldn't feel any sympathy for you if you told him how his behaviour makes you feel. Then judging negatively Johnny could have no positive effect indeed. But if Johnny is capable of reflection and sympathy, even though his behaviour can be explained by his education, and even if you feel sympathetic with his situation, simply accepting his behaviour is not the right thing to do. Telling him it is wrong won't necessarily make his life harder in the long run. It could make him a better person and change his future positively (especially if you tell him gently what you think and how you feel, so as to make him reflect on his behaviour, assuming he is capable of such reflection, rather than judging the person he is as if he couldn't change. I.e. if you attempts to minimise the immediate negativity and maximise the long run positivity). The best way to show respect to a friend is to consider him/her as a person capable of self reflection, not as a thing completely determined by his education. 

In complement to the other answer, I would say that there's indeed a circularity if you think of the semantics as some kind of exhaustive definition for the terms "possible" and "necessary". But you can also think of it as an exposition of the structure associated with these terms, without thinking that this structure exhaust the meaning of these terms. It just make these terms more "graspable" by indicating the rules that govern their use. You could have the same difficulty with most fundamental mathematical concepts. For example, it's not clear that a model of natural numbers in set theory is an exhaustive definition of "natural number" rather than an exposition of their structure. In principle, something else could have the same structure, which would indicate that there's a one-to-one mapping with natural numbers, not that they're numbers. Intuitively speaking, I would be tempted to say that something else is required for a structure to actually represent natural numbers, or modalities, which has to do with how the structure is practically applied (counting...). But in this respect, there are different kinds of numbers (Cardinal/ordinal) just as there are different kinds of modalities (logical, epistemic, metaphysical...) which all imply different meanings of "possible"and "necessary", even though the semantics is the same. In the case of metaphysical modalities, some philosophers solve this issue by assuming that either "possible" or "necessary" is a primitive, non-analysable term. 

A collection of atoms is something that can be captured by our intellect. According to Kant, the thing in itself is the thing as it exists before being captured by our intellect. The collection of atoms won't do, nor any scientific theory. Sellars' distinction between the 'manifest image' and the 'scientific image' of the world better express the dichotomy you are referring at. For Kant, mathematics correspond to the prerequisite of understanding. Mathematics is the tool which allow us to put phenomena into shape so our intellect can capture it. Saying that the 'things in itself' is mathematical is thus far from Kant's philosophy. 

The idea that we, conscious observers, collapse the wave function is a specific interpretation of quantum mechanics (proposed for a time by Wigner) and not the most consensual one, because it implies dualism and is close to anti-realism (it's not very far from saying that all reality is mental). If this interpretation were true, then everything outside our past light cone would be in a superposition of state, unless there are other conscious observers at other places in the universe. Even if unobserved particles interacted with observed one in the past, they would have evolved into superpositions since then. 

"Bachelor are unmarried men" is an analytic proposition given the contemporary meaning of "bachelor" and "married". Words had different meanings at different times but it only follows that the same sentence was expressing a different proposition, not that the proposition that it expresses today is not analytic. Since formal logic is concerned by propositions, not sentences, it doesn't have to bother with this issue.