There are different ways depending on how you swim, take photo/film, etc. A head mounted approach is easiest and shows people your POV (point of view), bubbles can be an issue depending on your reg and swimming position. But greater risk in losing it of your head. Some people hard mount it on a plastic type helmet (cycle/caving/construction) and then attach the helmet over their hood. Some people like chest mounted straps as this is more secure, but you need to swim less streamlined else you only see the ground below you, which can be great depending on where you diving. The other more versatile option is to place it on your wrist and then you swim with wrist pointing at what you want to film, also easy to remove and put on a stick if you want to get close-ups. Each method will need some practice to aim correctly, but best is to try all three and find the method that gives you the best results. 

There are many discussions going on around this. Just remember the decompression models are theoretical mathematical models, backed by practical dives/research. We implement some rules for safety, like slower ascend rates, deep stops, safety stops, deep dives first, etc. Remember many factors determine your ability to on and off gas from day to day. The big problem is that we are still collecting data to compare theory with practical, and as more data is analysed and more research is done we understand decompression better. So basically doing a deeper dive after a shallower dive or doing two deep dives on same day is not a problem. But it might be if coupled with other factors like for example, if you are dehydrated, ascend rates where very fast, you dived to the limits, short surface intervals, lots of body fat, etc. My advice, do not always push the limits. :) And do not stress if you once in a while do deeper dives after shallow dives. Computers work the same for everyone but not everyone is the same. that is why on a dive 10 people may have no symptoms of DCS and the 11th person might. 

I think the best bet for a person without arms (assuming we aren't talking rough water/offshore use) is a type 2 life jacket. Specifically the type that look like an oversized bib. 

In all honesty the breakage pro/con isn't a big deal as long as you take care of your gear. The shot weights are pretty hardy and are further protected by the pouches when in use. Another thing that isn't a big deal even though I called it out is precise weight placement. While this is true, in my experience having the right amount of weight is much more important than exact placement of the weight assuming you're generally balanced. Same thing with weights shifting. While I've felt it before while skin diving the only time I think it could be a factor is in heavier surf. Of course heavier surf generally means low visibility so you probably aren't diving in it anyway. The last caveat I have is in regards to coated vs uncoated weights. I don't believe uncoated weights have a significant affect on the environment while diving, but I added it for people who are concerned. Even though the pro/con list looks unbalanced, my general impression is shot weights are more convenient and comfortable so if you're investing in a new system you might as well go that route. This is doubly true since you've had problems with solid weights. On the other hand, if you're looking for something hard wearing, possibly more environmentally friendly, utilitarian, and/or cheap go for the solid lead weights. Personally I have solid lead weights on my dive belt. This is mostly because they were most common when I started diving and I have never felt like I had a reason to switch to shot weights. I do have a belt though with a single pouch for shot weights that I use when snorkeling and spear fishing (free diving). I went that route for the comfort factor, and the ability easily adjust my weight depending on if I'm wearing a wet suit or not. 

Map scales are decided by the cartographer based on what they think is the the best scale for the map they're producing. This is naturally a judgment call sort of like the projection of the map. If you feel like the cartographer's choice is unbearable then I'd suggest you find a different map that covers the same territory. I believe you can find complete topo maps for all or virtually all of the lower 48 United States offered by the Bureau of Land Management offices. These maps are more general purpose maps so their scales and projections are going to be fairly standard. Also this is a big source of maps so the scales and projections they support will be broadly supported by tooling. After a little bit of web searching I wasn't able to locate a 1:18,000 UTM corner rule. I did find a company that offers a broad variety of UTM corner rules including one at 1:35,000. This is a kilometer scale, but you should be able to easily convert that to miles if needed. 

Black silicon blocks out all light except that which comes in through the lenses of the mask, leading to less light from peripheral. Spear fishermen, technical divers, free divers tend to prefer this. Clear silicon tends to discolour especially when stored with black rubber. But as far as true visibility goes the black or clear silicon does not make a difference. Visibility can be improved by getting as low profile mask as can comfortably fit you. This will mean less air space in mask that needs to be equalized and greater visibility arc. 

For scuba diving this practice has no use. as you will be under water for a while and will be breathing compressed air from your cylinder. In the old days people used this for free diving / skin diving /snorkeling to be able to hold breath for longer. I do not want to go into long discussions why this works, but in layman's terms it suppresses the bodies urge to breath by lowering the Carbon dioxide in the blood, which is the main trigger for breathing. Hyperventilation is no longer considered safe even for free divers. 

Batteries lasts at least 25% - 50% longer than your average dive time It uses standard batteries (AA, C or D) and rechargeable versions of standard batteries It uses LED lights (less power usage for more lumen and light tends to be white rather than yellow) Adjustable Strength - some dive lights have 2 or 3 settings so you can increase/decrease power as you need it Narrow beam, better to focus on what you are looking at 

Diving is first and foremost a PRACTICAL skill so the best way to practise is to do it. Yes you can read through the books to refresh your theory, but this will not refresh your ability to dive. But it can be helpful in reminding you about small things you may have forgotten. Practising hand signals can be good, but these we always confirm before dives as different divers from different places and different organizations might do dive signs a bit different. My suggestion is that you go for your first dive with a Divemaster/Instructor or very experienced diver on a nice easy shallow dive so you can just work through setting up gear, getting used to the feel of the gear as you swim (achieving Neutral buoyancy), breathing slowly and deeply in and out without holding your breath. Also remember to practise things like mask clearing, regulator recovery and clearing as these are things that happen more often and should be easy and effortless to do. If you been out of diving for a long time with very few dives it is worthwhile to do a whole refresher course with a qualified instructor to refresh all the skills you learned. This should be done in a pool (or very clear, calm, shallow ocean) followed up by a nice easy ocean dive. On the theory side I would recommend going through those adventure dives that you might be interested in doing and that have a bit more to them to think about: DEEP, NIGHT, WRECK, etc.