It makes more sense if we consider mermaids to be the origin for the siren legend. In this legend sirens/mermaids called to sailors and fooled them into wrecking their boats on reefs or cliffs. Presumably, the sailors then become food for the mermaids. In order for this deception to work, they have to look like beautiful women, and beautiful women have long hair. (At least, that is the easiest way to look beautiful from a distance) 

For a different perspective, consider the Earth in the year 10000. 300 generations or so has passed since today and in every generation, people has moved to different parts of the Earth until the connection between location and genes has been lost. The variation will still be there, but it will be spread out all over the place. Nobody will be talking about races anymore. Historians will know about them, but most people will not. Now, send these people to a planet like today's Earth. They will be surprised at a) Most people with certain skin colour will be collected in a certain place. and b) these primitive people think that skin colour is important. Optionally, you could throw in a period where gengineering your kids was the norm. Almost everybody make their kids look like whatever the fashion was, and this change would be inheritable. A few generations later everybody looks the same. In this case they would also be surprised at the variation of the primitives. 

Ultimately, it would all depend on what you want for your fictional world. Is this some Amazonian island in a male-dominated world, or is female-army the worldwide norm? Is the female birthrate something that society engineers, or something natural? If the Amazonian army wins and starts to take over the world, do they dominate the gene pool or do the Amazonian genes become watered down? 

However, whatever colorations are favored, those colors will inherently depend on what pigments are present in the organism's skin. Technically, it could alternatively depend on other phenomena (like the irridescence of butterfly wings) but simply assuming pigment==color is probably the easiest way to go, conceptually. For humans (and lots of other creatures for that matter) the primary pigment is melanin (of which there are actually a few varieties). Biologically speaking, melanin is a pretty simple pigment made up of a few tyrosine molecules oxidised and strung together. These tend to absorb light from a variety of wavelengths, resulting in the mostly brown shades we associate with it for human hair and skin colors. Evolutionary, we all are starting from more or less the same melanin-producing ancestors, so even with a melanin mutation here and there over the eons that mostly just results in different shades of brown- maybe some more rust-colored here or blonde there, but generally from a similar color pallet. Melanin, as a pigment, isn't likely to mutate any blue or green hues anytime soon. On the other hand, another well-known pigment, chlorophyll is a structurally rather different molecule that does a very similar job (although plants take things a step further, utilizing sunlight rather than just blocking it). At the forefront of the chlorophyll molecule is the Chlorin ring which is like a cage around a single metal ion. In plants, Magnesium is typically found at the center of this ring and that helps to make chlorophyll green. Porphyrin rings are very similar: one natural example is hemoglobin, the red pigment in blood, which cages an iron ion; and a second example is Phthalocyanine which is a bright blue commercially-used pigment which cages a copper ion. The reactions that actually trap the metal ion in the "cage" are typically pretty well selective at putting iron in hemoglobin and magnesium in chlorophyll. Things like altered pH conditions and/or mineral deficiencies, however, can sometimes throw the occasional odd metal into some of these cages- thereby altering the color. It is not too far fetched to think that some alien species may have evolved from an ancestor that had porphyrin-based pigments rather than melanin-based pigments. Furthermore, just as melanin mutations can lead to various hair colors, mutations could lead to preferential uptake of different metal ions and leading to different colors. Aliens don't need to be plants to have chlorophyll-based pigments. (Bonus points: if pH and/or mineral intake can adjust color expression, then there's a high probability that well-to-do aliens might alter their diet to look more fashionable/appealing.) 

Build up You would want to build up anyway since there is so much more room up there. But building up also allows you putting things like heavily reinforced concrete in the enemy's path. Of course, even the heaviest concrete can be breached, but it will take time and be very noticeable. One might think that building a concrete floor under your entire country is not feasible, but in a hyperbolic universe it turns out you can. That is, if you aren't too hung up on the idea of defending the original surface area. Instead you put down a thick and strong concrete slab on a few square kilometers. Then you build a few hundred meters up from that and suddenly you have room for everything and everyone you want. Let the enemy have the rest of your old country, you don't need it anymore. 

At first, the US will think that Helios is a Russian operation while Russia will think it is a western operation (USA/EU). China will think something similar. The mayor powers will come together and talk things over. I hope they will agree that it is at least possible that Helios is in fact independent. However, they will all need reassurance that this is so. So they will insist, very forcefully, that Helios allow observers from all the powers to ensure that the station is not armed and not spying on Earth. If Helios says no, things could turn very ugly. At the very least the moon base would not receive any more supplies. At the most, boom. So, Helios says yes, and observers arrive to discover that Helios is indeed just a research station. While world politician now know this, some of them will still claim that it is a plot by their enemy, for political reasons. If taken too far, this too could turn ugly. 

Different Male/Female Birthrates Biologically speaking, humans have roughly one child per gestation (twins, triples, etc. being relatively rare don't bump the average up by much) and the odds of male:female birth are basically 50:50. If the ratio were skewed such that female babies were much more common than males, then society as a whole would view females as much more expendable for war than we ever have in the past. (i.e. if only 1-in-100 children born were male, then "men and boys first" would make much more sense than "women and children first" in disaster/survival situations.) The societal roles, expectations, values, etc. could all change very little or quite significantly depending on the ratios involved and their causes/prevalence. Most of those changes can be plausibly tweaked for your fictional setting, however. You can assume a matriarchal society could be a perfect war-free utopia, or you could assume that the womenfolk would be the ones to take up arms. 

Global Warming Doesn't Work Like That The problem with global warming isn't that carbon dioxide or methane in the atmosphere "warms up easily" but rather that it absorbs too much of the infrared energy that Earth emits back to space. Therefore, we have as much solar energy coming in as always, but now not enough of Earth's infrared emissions are escaping to space before being reabsorbed. That excess of reabsorbed infrared is why we're accumulating heat. To counteract the effect of greenhouse gasses like carbon dioxide you'd either have to either make the atmosphere reflect away more incoming solar energy, or have it emit more of the Earth's excess infrared. Neither of these involve the kind of cold-feeling heat-absorbing material you imagine. 

You have fungi species called cordyceps that parasite insects and change their behaviour drastically. For the case of ants, once the fungus finds its way into an ant, the ant will tend to leave the colony and find a nice place for the fungus to grow (if possible above an ant colony to help the spread of the fungus). There is also toxoplasma gondii, a parasite that makes the host attracted to felines. For example, mice infected by this parasite will not fear cats and will be somehow attracted to them until the cat basically kills and eats them. This is due to the fact the this parasite only multiplies once in a felid's body. By the way, this parasite is transmitted from the mother to the foetus. Both of these parasites alter the host's behaviour in a somewhat drastic way. I'd suggest you invent a reason for the parasite to make the host violent, some way that would benefit the parasite. 

You could do it with one hand on the blade and the other on the hilt (aka Half-swording), but doing with with both hands on the blade would not work. You would not have enough grip to hold the blade firmly and it would just slip off your hands. That's why cross-guards were made, so you can have a point of contact when you thrust. That part gives superior grip and prevents the hand from slipping on the blade. Even if you had a good grip, the damage would be superficial, you would only "scratch" your opponent, no serious injury. In fact, you might hurt yourself more than you hurt your opponent if you lack hand protection. 

Ideology, to terraform or not. These colonies are approaching the point where they can turn Mars into Earth version 2. Native life is discovered somewhere. Terraforming will kill this life. Now two sides form, that roughly corresponds to the two companies: 

Mages need to sleep. Scouts from the capitol have been keeping watch over the zombie army several days walk away from the capitol. They notice that at night the zombies seems to be extra stupid, and correctly deduce that the mage is sleeping. The last night before the army would have reached the capitol, a group of trained night fighters sneak into the army camp and (re)kill everybody. (Let us not use the ugly word assassin, shall we?) Now, the zombies themselves won't be sleeping, but they might as well be since they are so stupid. They will have some standing orders like "attack anybody who is alive." but they will not be smart enough to coordinate those attacks. And uncoordinated attacks are easily dodgeable. When the mage wakes up, the battle is already over. 

Bureaucrats needed. Ruling and administrating the galaxy is such a chore! Why can't somebody else do it? Hm, over there is a planet full of beings that actually like ruling! Odd things, but useful. Let's educate them so they can take over the job. 

So, you are locked up in a small metal box with a number of other people, some of whom you can't stand. You are going to be there for ten years. One of them is starting to tell the joke. The only joke they know. You have heard it 123 times before. Wouldn't you take any excuse to step out for a bit? Sure, it is make-work, but it also keeps the crew sane. Saneish. 

Xenobiology Since this question is tagged with "Xenobiology" and "science-based" it is best to keep in mind that possible solutions don't equate with plausible solutions and that using real science terms to explain unplausible science-fiction doesn't really do anything to help with suspension of disbelief. (e.g. saying "the alien vision relies on entangled neutrinos" isn't much less hand-wavey than "the alien vision relies on flubulated tachyons".) Making aliens extremely unique in their biology in order to avoid inventing more fictional aliens that "look like us" is a good habit, as assuming that all aliens (especially the sentient ones) are humanoid bipeds is a laughably anthropocentric of us. However, it is possible to overshoot the mark and make aliens too weird to exist by all logical accounts of what we do thus far know about physics and biology. 

There are numerous ways that evolution can select for specific traits. Evolutionary biologists often describe these sorts of pressures as The Four F's: fighting, fleeing, feeding, and... reproducing. Others have already mentioned a number of situations describing these pressures in action. Camouflage is likely to be a defensive strategy (i.e. fleeing) though a well-hidden hunter might also find it useful (i.e. feeding). Meanwhile bright plumage might promote social status and/or attract mates (i.e. reproducing). If you have a desired color in mind, simply imagine a scenario where this coloration would help that creature survive and have offspring by improving it's chances according to one of the Four F's.