Buddhism is not an abstract view of society. It does not put forward any grand vision of what an ideal society should be. But within a society (a real one), it offers useful principles to guide human affairs. The utility of these are always within the theme of decreasing suffering of people. 

...using the pāli suttas as references: Right View (sammā diṭṭhi) There are many formulations of Right View in the suttas. Here's one, described as "the doctrine of affirmation" (MN 60), sometimes known as "mundane right view". 

An addendum to this would be when the authors of rude language and idle talk or gossip are buddhist themselves committed to the practice. In that case, with the above in mind, one may, at his/her discretion, chose to bring their attention to this, so as to help them steer back to their practice. Of course, one certainly may chose to intervene in the case of non-buddhists, but since they may not be committed to not perform these kinds of speech, raising the matter can make things worse -- that's when taking responsibility for being timely and beneficial applies specially to ourselves, specifically: 

The goal encompasses seeing this fundamental characteristic unfolding in every bit of our experience. 

I believe we are taught to "breath naturally" to avoid any creativeness and excess on our part while breathing. In reality, we do need to intervene in the breathing process to make it calmer. Otherwise, it will just be our "everyday breathing" and it won't get calm. But we can't be excessive -- in fact, very little force is usually too much force already. One does not force it into tranquility, but one does apply some control, mostly, avoiding gross in-out breaths and relaxing "micro tensions" wherever one identifies them. Some people teach students to make a resolution to be calm before meditation (by expecting the mind to "take the inclination hint" and do the calming without conscious intervention). Others teach something like zazen, or an open ended observation of sensations, so one gets familiar with the subtlest things that makes the body and mind a bit calmer or a bit upset. Once one understands how to observe, one can actively drive the breathing, body and mind to a calm state. 

"Are there any branches of Buddhism that believes in existence of soul?" I've read about some old schools that did so (but not without going through some philosophical hoops to avoid clash with the suttas and inspiring rebuttals from other schools), however I don't quite remember and one has to dig a little to see who they were and what was their doctrine (whose texts may not have survived to this day). I don't know of any current school who advocate atma doctrine. 

Similarly, in another sutta, the Buddha explains how a wise man considers the teachers that advocated nihilism. By understanding that after death there is no consequences for their actions, these teachers apparently felt themselves free to do whatever they wanted, including evil things. 

Buddha disagreed not only with Brahmins, but with all the other sramanas whose teachings were not in agreement with the Buddha's teachings. These encounters, philosophical disputes and criticisms are massively documented in the buddhist canon. 

To extinguish every illusion that impair one's life and creates suffering. Not to extinguish everything. 

He also emphasized the development of equanimity when dealing with angry people, and instructed the monks to remain in healthy distance so as to not obstruct their own practice: 

Also, the Buddha describes five types of persons (AN 5.142), and ascribe a practice for each of them [so they become as the fifth]: 

I hardly think so. I don't think it is possible to not establish preferences. And, if you understand judgement to be "discernment", I also don't think that is possible either. Or beneficial. On the other hand, it is another "central idea" to watch and understand how these "preferences" and "judgements" unfolds in their minutia. With that practice, then, another process (which is often referred to as "judgement") would hopefully be clearer: that of allowing our minds to fill in details about something (from our fears, or fantasies) and reacting to this mixture, instead of seeing the actual thing. And that seems much more the process behind something we know by another name: pre-judgement (prejudice, preconception, preconceived idea, etc). 

I have never seeing this term as a concept in Buddhism nor Zen. To the best of my knowledge, the closest formulation of something in that vein are the specific instructions to practice samadhi in the Vishuddhimagga targeted at people with distinct temperaments -- which is kind of a compilation of pedagogical strategies developed at the time. Example: 

Thus, we seeks delight in the impermanent pleasures of the senses hoping to find final rest to suffering. However any rest found from suffering in what is impermanent is always temporary at best. Therefore, desiring for things that are impermanent is not only bound to never bring ultimate satisfaction, but is also bound to constantly put oneself in danger of suffering, for one cannot make what is impermanent to be always and constantly pleasing forever. 

(*) "relaxing of thought-fabrication", per Thanissaro Bhikku (**) "crush his mind with his awarenes", per Thanissaro Bhikku (***) "crush unwholesome states of mind with wholesome states of mind", per Majjhima Nikāya Atthakathā 

In the canon there is little more than that about that intermediary stage. So, grossly speaking, the example is assuming that: 

That sounds more like shikantaza/zazen. Vipassanā means insight into reality: seeing the three marks of existence dukkha, anicca, anatta. The practice is described in suttas such as Satipatthana and Anapanasati. So, the actual goal is not "letting go of control & judement" -- however, "letting go" is a useful tip at some points in the practice. 

"Isn't there a story where the Buddha accosts a monk who's bleeding from performing walking meditation for too long, and tells him practice must be like a Veena's string - not too tight, not too loose? i.e the middle way" The string story is in AN 6.55. "Yet, I remember a story in the Dhammapada (Verse 1) about a monk who refused to take his eye medicine because he had vowed to not lie down for three months and remain practicing full time. Since the medicine wasn't effective unless taken lying down, he lost his eyes. The text says he simultaneously lost his vision and gained his vision - i.e. he became an arahant by practicing so arduously." It seems this story is not described in Dhammapada, but in a commentary? I could not find a full text of it. "The Buddha peeks into his past lives, and says Karma dictates that he must lose his eyes in this lifetime for sins of the past." I've never found this kind of wording in any sutta: "karma dictates" or "because of karma, he must". Describing karma in this way is not only at odds with the actual karma doctrine taught by the Buddha, but he also criticized the idea that "karma dictates": it would be impossible to anyone to live the holy life, become an arahant, become a Buddha, if that was the case. "Leaving everything to Karma has me confused - because if that is so, then why practice, even enlightenment if it is in our karma will be obtained without effort. Gautama the Buddha was certainly going to become a Buddha, his Buddhahood had been foretold, so why did he practice?" The questioning above is similar to the way the Buddha often debunked this very idea.