This is a tip. I'm terrible at waking up so when I lift at 6am coffee or pre workout does wonders for me. Also stretching is very neccesary when lifting and running in the morning. Save yourself alot of injury and grief. 

Some men carry fat in their lower chest as body fat goes up(this applies to myself). So I notice I lose alot of lower pec definition when I'm bulking. You might fall into the same category. I like wider grip dips to get that lower contraction. You could set up something like that at home with some chairs. 

In my personal opinion, I think you get a better contraction when you arch your back and activate more back muscles. To add to this post, another big mistake is to start swinging the bar down when you go up in weight. 

Look up Pitbull from strength cartel. He competes at 160 weight class and moves unbelievable amounts of weight. He's probably just as strong as Rich Piana. If you want to get strong, You should look into power lifting routines instead. I know you mentioned Rich Piana who is a bodybuilder. His goals aren't to get strong but to get big. Calorie surplus does help ALOT too. 

Malnutrition happen even if your calorie count is right if you don't eat all the things you need, and malnutrition will not only make you prone to storing more fat, it'll make you ill. 

Don't buy things to binge, shop for your daily needs every day if you must. Pointers on coming back to eating from heavy starvation Setting your psychological issues aside, when you have been starving yourself it is a natural reaction to binge and "fill up the reserves". Even if you eat normally for a +-0 effect on your weight, you will still gain weight. You have to accept that fact and wait it out. After about a month you can on top of eating normally begin to do some kind of exercise for at least 30 min/day. You need to increase the exercise, not decrease the food intake if you eat normally. Taking your psychological issues into account, you have to remember that it's not the end of the world when you have an episode. Just keep at your dietary plan and exercise routine and remember to praise yourself whenever you resist temptation or just for being strong enough to have gone another day without binging. You can't make excuses for yourself, but you can praise yourself for what you do well. General tips to conquer the "huger" 

This is a loaded question. First off, Everyone's body responds differently to different rep ranges. I'm going to give your a broad answer and say all rep ranges are good. The reason is because you never want to let your muscles get into a routine. Another point to be made is that heavier weight recruits more of the muscle to perform the movement. So doing 6x5 is technically better for building muscle than 4x12. I like heavier weight and lower reps on compound movements like bench press and rows, but I add more reps on isolated movements like bumbell flies for inner chest and preacher curls. 

I think the rate of muscle loss would be most affected by diet. The body would have to stay catabolic to decrease the amount of muscle loss. This is such a great question. I think to really find the answer to this, you would have to look at the cellular level of the muscle fibers and see if there are any differences between muscle composition in professional powerlifters and bodybuilders. 

Your protein levels are usually low after a work out. same with everything else. So your body absorbs pretty much everything(almost everything) your put in it. Look up post work out meals and nutrition. Optimum Nutrition makes a protein specifically for after workout shake. It's called Hydrolized Whey. When your protein levels are low your body can go into a catabolic state so it's important to re fuel to stay anabolic. 

The long answer Burning calories is very individual and one's metabolism can't be guessed by those sites. Heart-rate does give a somewhat good indication of how hard you're working out, but it still doesn't tell us how your metabolism actually work. Why GPS and Maps may be bad First and foremost; GPS is not very accurate and thus the route can be very different from what you actually run (the more expensive the GPS the more accurate the result) and the GPS doesn't know if you're running on a flat, inclined or declined surface. You could run up a mountain and the GPS wouldn't know. Maps may also be the same as the GPS on the point that it may not account for the hills, and the distance can thus also be distorted, though it is my opinion that maps are more accurate than GPS. Why heart-rate monitoring is good You could run X km in XX time, but depending on your level of fitness, you will work differently hard and burn differently many calories. Tracking your heart-rate as far as I know the best way of measuring how much you're burning since it measures how intensely you're working out. You can then make an assumption based on the average person and perhaps modify the calorie count according to your metabolism. If you have a fast one you may wanna add a few calories and subtract a few from the norm if your metabolism is slow. 

Your optimal grip is that perfect medium between to close and too wide. You'll know it's the right grip because you'll feel a dominant chest contraction. If your grip is too close you'll feel it in your arms. If your grip is too wide you'll feel it in your front delts. Close grip bench press is great for triceps. It works well with the incline variation too. Wide grip bench press is very dangerous. It puts too much direct tension on the front delts that don't have alot of strength in the bench position. This can cause a tear in the delt or a rotator cuff injury. This is a very serious injury that you don't want to ever deal with. SO.... depending on what muscle you want to target, inter change a regular grip and close grip. You'll know when your grip is too wide when you start feeling pain in the shoulders. 

Break up your muscle groups up and do legs on Friday so you'll have a couple days to recover before you hit the court on Tuesday. Playing volleyball with sore quads sounds like torture. 

My dear friend, it sounds like you are suffering from bulimia. Even if you are not, you will need to steer up your mind. Breaking habits require a lot of self discipline, which will be near impossible when you're already weak from your other psychological issues. This is not criticism, it's just how things are, and when the mind isn't well, neither is the body, and a body that isn't well won't function as it should. You should look into a dieting program that involves mental training; where they help you build yourself and deal with why you're so weak to food. There are a lot of small tips to treat hunger or "hunger" as it isn't actual hunger you feel when you've already eaten yet still crave more, but they will be useless if you don't have the mental strength, which is why I recommend one of those dieting programs with mental training. 

The short answer Neither site is very reliable for how many calories you actually burned since none tracks your heart rate and their methods of measuring distance are not necessarily reliable. You will have to guess based on how hard you felt you worked out. It's probably closer to what runkeeper gave you, if I were to guess without knowing your level of fitness. 

There's a lot of weight training movements that can improve hamstring strength. I think a great one to get your legs back into condition collectively would be barbell squats and leg presses. Proper form is KEY if you want to activate your hamstrings. Make sure you keep all your weight in your heels and off your toes. 

If your trying to move up in weight, try this. 15 reps at 10 lbs(This is your warm up set to get your form straight and wake up the muscles ) 10 reps at 15 lbs (This set adds a little more resistance but still light enough to maintain form) 6 reps at 25 (go all out on this one and see try and maintain form. ) If you did the last set ok, repeat the 6 reps at 25 lbs. The point of these rep ratios is to get your muscles in tune with good form. Once your muscles are warmed up you can start really lifting hard. keep adding to the reps on the last set and soon you'll be doing 25 lbs for ten reps. 

I had a similar problem with elliptical machines for cardio training. My leg muscles became very used to the movement so it became hard for me increase my heart rate. I realized that there are two points of power to make the elliptical spin: from your legs pushing on the pedals, and from your arms pushing and pulling on the handles. I was very dominant with my legs so I tried to focus more energy on pulling and pushing from the arm handles. This definitely changed the dynamics for endurance resulting in my heart rate jumping in a short amount of time which was my goal. In short, you can adjust the amount of energy you are using from your legs to your arms or vise versa to add difficulty depending on your current strengths.