Many companies in the US do not freeze hiring. 1. Well -of course- hiring varies by industry and arena: You don't really think that construction is busy hiring in December, or retail sales in March, do you? Take a look here for historical numbers by month: $URL$ The differences are easy to spot when you look at, say, Jan 2012 vs Sept 2012, even though the general patterns are similar. There's a nice analysis on monster: $URL$ 

The intent of your contract is to keep your work efforts solely focused on your job, even if it's off-hours. That way, there is no question that anything you develop, during that period of employment, no matter what day or time it may have been done, belongs to the company. You can volunteer, part-time, elsewhere, as long as you aren't given a regular job role. You can play sports and even be captain of the team, as long as you're not paid for it and you don't hold a business-related position in the organization. It's not all that fuzzy. If you want to sell your hobbycrafts on the side, you're breaking your contract as that is a side business. It's not about how -small- the business is, it's that you've agreed that you will have only one job, one occupation, and work for only one business. Period. And even if others get away with breaking their contract, you still would be risking your job if you do the same, and violating the terms to which you agreed. Here is an example from some slightly clearer language in a standard contract; it allows one area of exception that your contract may not spell out: $URL$ 

This is not "discrimination based on personal belief", so your question is moot. Companies are allowed to try to find the best fit for their organization, and one way they do so is to assess whether they think the candidate is a good fit with their company philosophies. Even if your friend had said exactly what they wanted to hear, you have no way to know if he would've actually been hired. It's perfectly legal and acceptable (and normal) for the interviewers to prefer candidates with whom they feel a good "mesh". This is often about personality, but it can extend to interests, philosophies, and any other areas that might affect day-to-day interactions. Virtually nobody is hired purely on technical skills alone. If they were, most in-person interviews would be unnecessary. 

You don't have to tell where you heard it, just that you heard about it and you were curious of what were the plans for you (unless, off course, he asks where you heard it). Be prepared for a change, and be ready to adapt. 

The correct etiquette here is to apply for the job if it seems of interest to you and if you feel you fit the description or nearly fit the description. Your skills and your experience should be visible on your CV. If the hiring responsible find them a good fit for the job, you'll receive an answer. They'll ask further question if needed before considering you. In all case, sending a CV sounds more assertive (because you know you could do the job) than asking :) Sounding assertive is good when looking for a job. Keep in mind: they're paid to browse through CVs. You're not paid at all, so you have nothing to loose in applying. 

From what I've seen around me, you will not move up the ladder in the same company. You'll have to prove your skills in another field to another company. If you can work and make demos of what you can achieve as personal projects, you can start at the bottom of the ladder as a developer at companies who seek new employees. The fact that you have experience as a tester will look nice on your CV, but it will be used only to increase your chances of having a job as a dev, it will not help the salary. Aside from a developer's job, you might consider management as well. There are challenges there, and it's not un-common for former testers to get management roles. 

Aside from what's being said already by @kevincline, telling someone that they'll be laid off, then asking them to train other employees to do their job is quite absurd, they'll just tell you to screw you. In fact, asking them to do anything productive will be most likely be met anger. There is really no valid point in keeping an employee that you have laid off. And for an employee, there is absolutely no valid point to stay at work once they know they'll be laid off. 

I have never been required to show the actual paper proving I have completed a degree in an interview. Now, you still should not lie on your CV, and the same should be applied to job interviews. So the advice is: be honest. On your CV you can formulate it to say that you completed all the requirements for Master X, and that you've passed all the classes in the programme for Master Y. HR and recruiters are not dumb and will notice the difference in the formulation on your CV, so, during the interview, explain the situation. Depending on the job and on the degree(s), the paper proving that you completed a master might not be important, and your application for a job could still be considered. (For instance, where I live, the title 'engineer' is ruled by laws; you must absolutely prove that you have completed an engineering degree, so you would not be allowed to have a job that would make you an engineer. On the other hand, if the job you're seeking is for a programmer job, generally, your skills will be considered, and not whether you fully completed a Master's degree.) 

No, it is not common. But the reason for it is that it costs the company money to put together an offer, and they have to also inform other candidates that they have chosen someone else. The purpose is primarily to cut their risk. I'm not sure I'd be too thrilled with a company that played that particular game, though, unless they had at least outlined the potential offer to me ahead of time, so I could compare it with others and decide if they really -were- my first choice. 

No, you should not bring this up. You are correct that it could be an issue, a liability, but it's never good form to be intruding into your co-workers' habits. You don't know if he has an arrangement that allows for this, and you are not his boss. It's offensive when employees try to clock other employees. It's never productive, and it puts you in the position of judging someone else's work habits. Unless it -directly- affects you, stop watching the other guy, and just make sure you do what you are supposed to do. 

Another way to look at it is to consider whether that activity might be something you'd want treated as a business if it's profitable. You can't deduct your hobbycrafts costs if it's just a hobby, despite being required to report the income; if you want to deduct the costs from the income, then you have to define it as a business. The same applies for those selling on Amazon: to deduct the costs of doing business from the income produced, you must file the very form that acknowledges it's a business. When working for others (such as a non-profit) as a volunteer, it becomes an "occupation" if you have identified responsibilities, a consistent role, or any of many other aspects that show that you function as regular employee (even if unpaid and part-time.) But when in doubt: Ask the other party. They might even give you permission to do something outside of the contract terms. 

Your odds of getting a job that would bring you to the US are pretty low. But if you are already in the US, you have a few options. First, I'd suggest substitute teaching; it doesn't pay great, but technical types are always needed badly, and it would give you an entry point. Second, internship or entry-level jobs may work out if they're for an organization that will eventually have a paying job up your alley. Third, you really need to get back to school and refresh your background, if you can possibly afford it. There may even be special scholarships or funding for someone returning to school at this point in life. The most important thing I'd stress is that you need to show that you are keeping up with the times and are eager to learn. I'm older than you, but I get along with my highly-technical colleagues because instead of thinking "I'm too old to learn all that", I am eager to learn the latest technologies and hone my expertise. The hard part for you, I suspect, is that what you did academically is irrelevant, as is the last 20 years. It's going to be all about what you can do now, what you can contribute and what you can learn to do well that is relevant to today's world. Use all your energy to get started on it right away. If you need to go into a new field, well, there are a number of areas of software engineering that are always short of capable people; there are especially areas of web development that involve programming that's in demand. But don't go to a community college for "web design"; that will be useless. Instead, find a way to develop websites, even if you have to do it for free for a while, just to show off skills, and focus on programming -- Java first, PHP, Ruby on Rails, etc. -- see what's in demand. Thanks to the fear that companies have about discrimination lawsuits, if you can actually do the job, you are likely to land an interview if only as an "alternate" candidate. But you can't do it based on your past; you have to become a "now" person who is useful in 2013. Short of that, you probably could get a job at McDonald's, or something even less desireable. 

Here is a couple of thoughts: Asking an employee about his/her mood on a daily basis is, IMHO, very intrusive to their private life. Theoretically, a persons mood should not affect the work. It's not the case in practice, but a lot of people just don't want that to affect their work and thus make big efforts to not display bad moods and let these affect their work. These persons would probably consider the application irrelevant and would chose the first/default value. Also, you don't mention what kind of App, but if my boss were to force me to install an app on my phone, I would again find that very intrusive, and I would probably find all the reasons in the world to postpone the installation and set up, and then I would probably try to find another job. 

That's life, and that's the workplace. It might not have been intentional, he might have reasons for it. In any case, you won't certainly change him. But keep in mind that when it'll be your turn to retire, will you do the same? You'll have the chance to pass it on the next generation ;) 

If they see employees as an investment instead of an expense, they'll probably take the extra mile to define their needs, and write a job description accordingly. IMHO, if they don't do that, and you feel they should, maybe the company's values are not in line with yours. Job hunting is a serious activity, if they're not serious about it, you should not take their offers seriously. Asking for a job description is reasonable (dude, what have I got myself into??), and if you smell something fishy, there is probably something fishy. 

Clean up your Facebook/LiknedIn/Twitter/Instagram/Younameit public profiles. This means don't make public that you're part of groups that share common points of interest (e.g. your disability), your comments or posts about it, and if it's visible on your profile picture, change it so that it's not visible (you could go to the extent of posting a picture of your cat instead). Employers will look at it and will judge you on that. Applying for a job with a name that is not exactly yours can cause trouble down the line (for instance: an employer might frown and start to be suspicious "Why didn't you write your real name on the job application?"). Exceptions such as if your real name is Robert-Henry-George-Albert Smith, and you just write Robert Smith because that's how others call you, are legitimate. For the disability, you don't have to mention it at all if it's not to hinder your ability to perform the job you're applying for. 

Your contract makes it clear: no other "occupation or business". Having a garage sale is not a business; even the IRS says so. Selling regularly on Amazon is likely to be a business; selling one used item is not. The IRS says, at $URL$ 

There is not as much to expose as you think there is. You are too close to the situation to see it in a detached way. "Whistleblowing" is all about companies doing illegal and/or dangerous things; this is about the simple art of deception, which many people feel is part of being a manager. The press is not going to be interested. Even your co-workers in other departments aren't going to pay attention to it. They will all assume that it's just "sour grapes" for you, and part of being in the business world. The reality, anyway, is that it's all about who you're listening to, who is making the statements you suggest were made. That's not the "company", it's individual managers who clearly can't be trusted. But you don't even know what pressures those manager were under to cut the people they cut; all you do know, at this point, is that they said they were sure that certain people would be retained who were not, in fact, retained. You don't even know for sure whether they believed themselves what they said at that point. For your own sake, just let it go and start looking for another job. No job is safe at that company, from what you describe; even your boss's boss may end up being replaced in such times. Get your mind off it and get your life away from there, because clearly anyone could be let go, and if the company is possibly on the verge of shutdown, it's going to be one of those that doesn't say so, that you'll find out on the day you come to work and all the doors are locked. 

You'll also have to consider the company's arena and their fiscal year; for example, a company that survives through online sales is likely to add staff some months before the holiday sales hit, to tweak their site for the reality that most retail-type sales occur during the 6-week holiday period (this year, it's down to less than 4 weeks, though, which should make for possible poor retail performance. Companies will also hire for the coming fiscal year, which often means that opening are approved in December -- but so few people are in the office in December that the hiring usually starts at the first of the year. In addition, it's very likely -- but not guaranteed -- that when a company is adding jobs in one area, they're adding in another; i.e. expanding IT jobs will usually suggest expanding accounting, sales, marketing, etc. More to the point, though, you're going to find that this isn't consistent even with a given company; it depends on more factors than can be generalized. But you can view a few years' worth of job creation history, by segment, at $URL$ ========= 2. I suggest you do not send your resume during a hiring freeze. Resumes tend to get "stale" and once they have open positions, they will tend to look at the new resumes first. There are some exceptions where companies will enter resumes into a database, and actually search the database when they have open positions; however, that's not as common as you might hope, and almost all new positions are going to be advertised in some way. If you do submit your resume to a company rather than for a targeted job, do so during the start of one of the more likely hiring periods ... i.e, the first few weeks of January, and right after Labor Day, can work well if new jobs are being created. After Labor Day, you'll also have the advantage of any summer hires going back to school, leaving openings in companies that hire students and new grads. Oh, and while you're waiting for that optimal time to submit your resume, look for specific job openings, and get your on-line info up-to-date and appealing; as a contract worker, I get a lot of contacts from linkedin and careerbuilder, without much extra effort, mostly because my particular work experience contains the right keywords.