So to round up, even though your two cultures speak the same language, their naming conventions could be completely (or partially) different. It would make sense to try to apply the naming convention of Culture B to the people of Culture A if they are interacting in Culture B and are from the weaker culture. Here's some examples for you: Norse -> Arabic: Karl Magnusson -> Karl ibn Magnus Arabic -> Nore: Hafiz ibn Rashid -> Hafiz Rashidson (sounds a bit weird, but that's what bastardising is all about) Arabic -> Anglo: Hafiz ibn Rashid -> Hafiz Rashid (most likely just drop the ibn) Hebrew -> Arabic: Simon ben Gabriel -> Simon ibn Gabriel (note both cultures are semitic, so the similarity is not surprising) EDIT: since you mention the word believable, I'll add this. Believable isn't always about people thinking it's realistic. Get your characters to alight on the weird bastardisation of names from one culture to the other even though they speak the same language. This provides audience with the needed level of believability because their subconscious concerns are shown to have been considered by the author as well. And on the reason why lineage is the most common now, it's possibly to do with number of social interactions. More people you meet, the higher the probability of meeting someone else with the same name. Therefore the lineage concept comes to mind as a quantifier. This is Bob & that is Bob, but this is Bob son of Greg and that is Bob son of Dave. 

Plato's story of Atlantis invokes all four. It existed 9000 years before Plato, it was located somewhere in the uncharted atlantic, on a single island, that sank into the ocean. To answer your question, the choice of time period in your own story will then depend both on how exotic the forgotten civilization is and to what degree you invoke techniques two, three and four. The updates to the Atlantis myth also reflects this, by locating it in more and more remote locations [3]. In 1623, only some fifteen years after the Jamestown Colony was founded but with Atlantic crossings to south and central american colonies already routine, Francis Bacon chose to place Atlantis off the west coast of North America. In 1934, when most of the world was well chartered, the italian Julius Evola placed Atlantis on the North Pole [2]. The pole had first been visited only 8 years earlier, by Roald Amundsen in an airship. In the 60's and 70's, when exploration of the sea-floor was well established, Erich Von Däniken and others proposed that Atlantis was instead beneath the ice sheet of Antarctica [1]. [1] $URL$ [2] The american William Fairfield Warren had also proposed the North Pole Atlantis in 1885. [3] A notable exception is Professor Olaus Rudbeck at Uppsala University, Sweden, who in 1679 proposed that Atlantis was in fact Sweden and that the capital of Atlantis was his own Uppsala. For this he was widely ridiculed. 

Amerindians (perhaps this is a stereotype) traditionally use the 3rd option. They are given names that have no bearing on who their parents are or which community they come from. The Occupational convention was prevalent in early medieval England, which gave us surnames such as Thatcher, Cooper, Shearer, Baker, Miller etc. The lineage convention (most prevalent), has been around as long as any others. It consists of adding an extra name to a person's given name to define their heritage. A simple example of this is by taking your father's surname as your own surname. The Second Layer Once the convention has been chosen, we would need to know how to apply it. Let's work with lineage here because it has the most variables. First define lineage. 

Standard Anglo-cultures use the direct adoption method. I take my father's surname, as he took his father's surname etc. Just to note; traditionally, Anglo-culture is patrilineal, which is why we take our father's surname. In modern times there is the accepted practice of ambilineal naming, wherein we apply a double-barrel surname (mother's & father's combined with a hyphen). Traditional Norse, Hebrew & Arabic cultures make use of the gender classification method. Here are some examples: Norse: father's given name + -son, -dottir appended. (Still used in Iceland I believe) Karl Magnusson. Hebrew: father's given name + ben prepended. Simon ben Gabriel Arabic: father;s given name + ibn prepended. Ahmed ibn Mohammed 

I take it you want a plausible "physical" explanation for what the magic does, while keeping the magic magical. Kindof like how all of Superman's powers can be explained by an ability to change the momentum of matter. In the case of hard light, we could propose that magic is changing the vacuum energy in nearby space. The energy of the vacuum is increased and then guided into a spontaneous symmetry breaking. We get a new vacuum state where the Higgs field now couples to the photons, giving them mass. This vacuum, having a higher energy than our normal vacuum, is unstable and decays into normal vacuum when the magic is paused or the light travels outside the magicians's sphere of influence. Scientifically speaking, the magician is creating a local false vacuum. Simply speaking, the laws of nature have changed in some small area around the magician. WARNING: Care should be taken when altering the vacuum. If a vacuum with a lower energy state is created, it can cause a cascade effect where the rest of our universe drops into the same low vacuum state. The laws of nature in this new vacuum can be very different from our own. There may even exist vacuum states where (gasp!) magic no longer works! 

The simple answer is to determine which is the stronger of the two cultures, and bastardise the names from the weaker into the stronger. The theory here is that people from the weaker culture will feel the need to assimilate into the stronger to survive, which will probably require them to change their names to fit in with the acceptable concepts of naming convention. How do you Anglicise the Hungarian name Istvan? Steven (Stephen). Sharing the same language doesn't mean they share the same culture. Language and culture are completely different things. Language is a communication tool, culture is an expression of communal identity. Naming conventions themselves are pretty fascinating. There's generally 3 known conventions, of which one is now pretty much universally used in modern societies. It's important to understand that a naming convention is how we determine someone's name. There is a second layer to them which I will explain in a bit. 

Let the signals simply reflect off other planets, moons and shiny objects In so-called Radar Astronomy, scientists send microwave signals as far away as to Mercury and Venus and are able to measure the signal reflected back at us! You may also have heard that a laser is bounced off a reflective plate on the Moon, left there by apollo astronauts. What this goes to show, is that your civilization does not need a relay station around the sun, they only need a reflective object. A "mirror" in orbit would do fine, perhaps a chunk of ice further out, a polished comet? Or perhaps mirrors strewn around Mercury, it having no atmosphere. There is some precedent to this in Earth orbit. In 1960, the US launched Echo 1 a highly reflective inflated satellite that allowed people on earth to communicate by bouncing radio signals off it. Below is a picture of Echo 1 being tested at NASA and of LAGEOS 1, which was launched in 1971. The LAGEOS satellite reflects laser light and was not intended as a communication relay. Instead it is used to measure distances. And as background for a scifi story perhaps? You see, the LAGEOS satellite is still orbiting earth but is expected to crash into our atmosphere in 8 million years. It contains a plaque designed by Carl Sagan, meant to be understood by any intelligent creatures living on the planet at that time. Will it be understood? 

If you live in a village in Saxon Britain you are all three of those definitions, but you don't define yourself as Saxon when aliens invade, and defining yourself as human when the Vikings come along won't do you much good because they're human too. 

I think you're indirectly asking about scope. Any world deals with levels of encapsulation. The lower down the levels the bigger the frequency. As with anything the higher the frequency of something the more time it takes to develop it so therefore the more likely a person is to create quick methods of applying detail to it. Lucas vs. Tolkien The model for each franchise is identical, the scope is not. Lucas' top-level encapsulation is a universe, Tolkien chose a planet. Lucas' universe has many planets, Tolkien's planet has many regions. Lucas' universe has swamp planets, Tolkien's planet has swamp regions. It all comes down to how many examples of a specific level of encapsulation you have. If you're doing a universe like Lucas, you most likely don't have the time to describe all of your planets to the same level of detail as Tolkien did with Arda. 

A few weeks seems likely, but a lot of artistic license can be allowed If the person can breathe, she will not need an "iron lung", which did not come into widespread use until after 1928. However, if the person cannot swallow food, she cannot swallow saliva either, nor cough, which is another voluntary movement that locked-in people lose. Gradually, fluid and bits of food would fill the lungs and the patient develops pneumonia if she does not drown first. Pneumonia can develop rapidly for some patients and our locked-in person may also suffer from complications related to blood-cloths and urinary tract infection, which are two conditions that may develop from the prolonged immobilization of locked-in persons. Even today, locked-in syndrome is deadly. Acute LIS of a "vascular origin" has an almost 90% mortality in the first 4 months [2], although those who remain alive and learn to communicate has an 80% survival rate over the next 10 years. [3] [1] As an aside, Pneumonia may also occur in a similar way in normal people who are taking cough-suppressant medicine, or where brain surgery has damaged the cough reflex. [2] $URL$ [3] $URL$ 

Define what their collective enemy is. Every person places themselves into a myriad of different categories at different times to help identify themselves. Different situations require them to define themselves in these different ways. Examples: 

That depends on how close to the time of the split you are asking from. The closer to the time, the more likely it is to be visible. Once a river finds a new route it will flow in that direction. Over time the majority of water will continue on this new route eroding more material, making it even easier for more water to choose the new route. Eventually the new route of the river would be made deep enough to accommodate the full watershed making the original route obsolete. It would become a dry-river bed. Think about gorges or creeks in this regard. It is very unlikely that both possible routes for the river to reach the sea will erode material at similar enough speeds to keep them completely equal. EDIT: To answer more fully, the speed of the shift from one route to another depends on the comparison of the erodibility of the material that the two routes flow through/over. Old route stone vs. new route stone the process will be slower. Old route stone vs. new route clay the process will be much quicker. 

So much for how the orbits work. Now how about eclipses? For a solar or lunar eclipse here on earth, you need the sun, the earth and the moon to all lie on a straight line. The special cases you describe sound like the case of 4 objects on a straight line. As far as I can see, an observer on the ground would only observe "ordinary" lunar and solar eclipses. The only special thing would be that after observing say, a solar eclipse, the observer could later read in the news that a lunar eclipse had taken place simultaneously on the other side of his planet. 

There are a lot of good counter-arguments here, but plotwise it might work having the waves separated by ice ages. 

Carbon dating is problematic, as you need to know level of Carbon 14 in the atmosphere at the time the animal or plant you are studying died. But there are other radiometric dating methods which might work. The simplest thing would perhaps be if they found a machine similar to a radioisotope thermoelectric generator, which is a device that uses a radioactive substance to create electricity. It is today used to power interplanetary probes, among other things. If the protagonists find a device powered by say plutonium-238, they can look at the ratio of plutonium, uranium and lead to infer the number of years since the plutonium was refined. This is similar to uranium-lead dating which is a dating method that can determine the age of rocks that are from a million year old to several billion. The base may also have a derelict nuclear reactor, similar to that of nuclear-powered submarines today. You can have the protagonists do a similar analysis here. Edit: A generator using Americum-241 makes for more straightforward dating, see discussion below