A key feature of elasticity is that it is a unit-free measure. Suppose we are considering the price-elasticity of demand for apples which is $\frac{{\triangle}y/y}{{\triangle}x/x}$ where $y$ is quantity demanded and $x$ is price. The elasticity will be the same whether apples are measured in pounds (lb) or kilograms (kg) because both $\triangle y$ and $y$ will be in the same units. Similarly it will not matter in which currency price is measured, because $\triangle x$ and $x$ will be in the same currency units. This makes comparisons of elasticities, between goods measured in different units, or between countries with different currencies, much more meaningful than comparisons of slopes. 

No, the idea of wealth as something to be created did not originate in the United States. It was part of the mercantilist approach to national economic policy that was widely adopted in Europe in the 16th to 18th centuries. Mercantilism involved a range of policies, many of which were designed to increase the wealth of one country at the expense of others and probably reduced wealth overall, eg restrictions on international trade, and warfare to gain control over sources of goods. However, it also involved policies that were not at the expense of other countries, including promoting industry via research or subsidies, maximising the use of domestic resources, and (see under France in the link above) decreasing internal barriers to trade, reducing internal tariffs, and improving infrastructure. 

One common definition of a non-rival good (see here and (A)) is a good for which the consumption of additional units involves zero marginal social costs of production. On this definition the service provided by a fire service would always be rival, because (even with plenty of capacity in terms of fire engines and staff) each visit to attend a fire involves some extra cost (eg vehicle fuel). More loosely, a good may be said to be rival if consumption by one person prevents simultaneous consumption by others (this can also be found here), implying that a good is non-rival where that is not the case. In this looser sense, infrastructure such as highways and services such as the fire service might be held to be non-rival in circumstances where capacity is large enough that consumption by some rarely prevents or interferes with consumption by others. For those who adopt this looser definition, the difference between a highway network and a fire service, which may lead to the former but not the latter being characterised as a rival good, relates I think to the likely level of supply or capacity. Given high levels of vehicle use with peaks at certain times (rush hours), and given the costs of road-building and other demands on land use, it isn't likely to be practicable to provide enough highways in the right places to make traffic jams a rarity. On the other hand, given that a fire at any one location is a rare event, and given normally a high degree of independence between fires at different locations, it should be possible to provide sufficient capacity in a fire service that the scenario of fewer fire engines than fires will rarely occur. Reference (A) Nicholson W (9th edn 2005) Microeconomic Theory: Basic principles & Extensions p 596. 

The diagrams below showing demand for goods X1 and X2 are adapted from Johansson P-O (1991) An Introduction to Modern Welfare Economics (p 43). Demand for each good is assumed to be a function of its own price and the price of the other good. At the initial price P2i of X2, demand for X1 is D1i, and at the final price P2f of X2, demand for X1 is D1f. Similarly, demand for X2 increases from D2i to D2f when the price of X1 falls from P1i to P1f. (Thus the goods seem to be complements, but that’s incidental). 

The tax and the cap both reduce production of fossil fuel and emissions. It is not a case of separate policies to achieve separate objectives. The cap provides certainty that emissions will not exceed a pre-determined level (whereas a carbon tax alone cannot give this certainty because its effect depends on the position of the demand curve which cannot be known with certainty). The tax provides certainty that there will be some reduction in emissions, as compared with their level in the absence of policy (whereas cap-and-trade alone cannot give certainty in this respect because of the risk that poor forecasting or industry lobbying will result in the cap being set at too high a level, ie above $Q_A$). In this respect the combination of policies overcomes limitations of either policy alone. If a firm has to buy its permits at the market price, as well as bear a share of the burden of the tax, it might be perceived that it is subject to double taxation. However, the effects of the tax and the permit price are additive, so that the total cost to the firm, for a given reduction in emissions, is no more than the cost under either policy alone. With a fixed cap in place, gradual escalation of the tax rate will not normally produce further reductions in production or emissions. It will move $Q_B$ gradually towards $Q_C$, increasing the share of emissions reduction due to the tax and reducing the share due to cap-and-trade, but will not shift $Q_C$. Only if the tax rate were so high, or the cap so lenient, that $Q_B$ were below $Q_C$ (in which case the cap would have no effect) would escalation reduce production and emissions. To achieve further progressive reductions in emissions within this policy framework, it would be essential gradually to reduce the cap. 

Very rarely will a non-economist suggest that a trade deficit has anything to do with levels of saving and investment. Note that saving and investment here include those of both the private and the government sectors. So one implication of the above is that a government deficit, unless offset by private sector net saving, will be associated with a trade deficit (just 'associated' because the direction of causation is a further question). 

A hint for part 2. To obtain an approximate answer, it's convenient to use the rule that the doubling time $D$ in years of a quantity growing exponentially at a constant annual rate $r$ is given approximately by the rule of 72: $$D = \frac{72}{r}$$ Given the assumptions in your question the numbers work out very neatly.