It avoids the risk (to them) of your being reclassified (by the CRA) to be their employee and for them being liable retroactively to pay the employer portion of payroll taxes (plus interest and maybe penalties). You could also demand pay in lieu of notice, vacation pay etc. if you decided to call yourself an employee. You need to talk to a Quebec-based tax accountant familiar with your kind of business about all the ramifications of this. You should not enter into this too lightly, the paperwork overhead is significant, the T2 returns are designed for professional accountants, not individuals (the guide is 120+ pages), and paying someone to do them for you will probably cost $2K per year minimum, plus you'll have to remit withholding taxes (employer and employee portions) monthly and collect and remit the Quebec version of HST at least quarterly. If you're late on any of the the ~20 payments and filings per year, there are significant penalties, and even if they screw up something (allocations to the wrong year is a popular one) it will take your time to straighten it out. Winding it down will cost more time and probably money. Edit: Quebec is one of the two provinces (Alberta is the other) where the Feds do not administer the corporate tax returns for the province, so there may be an additional annual filing for the province, with potentially different rules and language. This hassle was eliminated in Ontario years ago. Again, talk to a tax accountant. Since payments and filings are separate transactions in general, you're looking at roughly one such item per week, but the bulk of the work will be the quarterly and annual ones (eg. T4A summaries, corporate tax return, prov tax return, QST returns). I can't really think how this would protect you, since you're unlikely to be granted major credit or be able to take on other liabilities without a personal guarantee of some kind, and if you do take on liability then big clients will often insist on proof of adequate insurance (maybe $5M or more). There can be some compensating advantages, but it's up to your accountant and you to figure out if it is worth it. 

I'll present a contrarian view here, even though I agree with most of the comments if the OPs question is taken at face value. No decent manager would deliberately take that tactic. There's a unfortunate culture of entitlement and the building up of unjustified self-esteem in young folks these days, and, sadly, some uncomfortable (on everyone's part) attitude readjustment is going to have to happen when they enter the workforce, especially in the first year or two. They probably feel they're being picked on, but really it's the system that has inflated their grades and never demanded true excellence of them that is to blame. The management techniques I'm familiar with are more aimed at the opposite- to retain employees and maximize productivity by creating a positive environment which may be seen to compensate for the less exciting projects and the middling pay. But that doesn't mean overlooking a 'C+' outcome when an 'A' job is required for fear of the consequences of pointing out areas for improvement (after going over what went right, naturally). 

This sounds to me like a somewhat clumsy attempt at negotiation- the manager thinks you benefit personally from the conference, and the co-worker presumably would too. It might be the kind of misunderstanding that would have been dispelled almost instantly by non-verbal cues were it to have been an in-person discussion by the proverbial water cooler. So he or she has enough budget for two conference fees but not lodging. A win-win from their point of view would be if you could host this person- two get to go to the conference and there is potentially some bonding with a remote employee which might help with perceived issues related to not having a co-located team member. Obviously (from the question) that's not going to be acceptable to you. So be it, not everyone is very empathetic- there are some folks that think nothing of hosting visitors- enjoy it in fact- and there are others who never host anyone who is not a close relative, if that. So you could outright refuse with indignation. Or, perhaps you could make a deal with the co-worker where they pay their own lodging (perhaps with Airbnb or whatever- if they are young they might even entertain the idea of couchsurfing with a stranger), or perhaps you could contribute if you think the conference has some value to you and you won't otherwise have the expenses reimbursed. I can't imagine this sort of thing has been well thought out- there are all sorts of potential liabilities for the company, but maybe you can turn it to your advantage and gently let your manager know that it was not an acceptable arrangement without rubbing their face in it. 

I have been told it's not really a problem, but that is from women who were fairly well established before getting married, so the papers and so on that they were associated with still contributed to their reputation after one (or two) name changes. One wrote some documents that were used as the basis for legislation that is still in force years later, so when people make the connection, it's like "of course it's you". When you announce the name change, it acts as an attention-getter for you personally as well. Social media such as Linkedin should allow you to be searched by your maiden name. Linkedin, in particular, has a spot for it. If you're listed elsewhere, you should add it elsewhere in your profile to allow searching. Of course you have the option of keeping your maiden name, and many women do that (especially those from other cultures such as Chinese), and not always for positive reasons. 

If you were shortlisted you were seen as meeting some of the requirements for the offer of a position. If you know why they eventually hired someone else, then you might have a way to discriminate whether it's possible to be successful or not. If they eventually hired the other person because they were slightly more suited for the position, were willing to accept a bit less pay, or because they interviewed a bit better, then you should have a good chance. If they hired the other person because they discovered your resume was full of lies, including omission of your lengthy jail term for workplace violence and sexual harassment, then you would likely be wasting your time applying. Chances are your situation is much closer to the first situation and you're not wasting your time. Unless you know of a good reason not to re-apply, I don't see much downside. An internal recommendation can be a powerful thing to have on your side. 

If it does not come up that they want you to start more-or-less immediately, this perhaps can be left for a later stage of negotiations, though two months is a bit long, and certainly if there is even an indirect indication that you'd be required (say they mention a project that kicks off in four weeks) you should give them some idea of the approximate time frame you have in mind. I would suggest simply indicating that you wish to be responsible in the notice you give your current employer. Most potential employers will appreciate that- nobody likes being left in the lurch. You don't need to justify the time other than that, unless you are willing to negotiate a shorter time in return for earlier vacation at your new job or something of that sort (which might get messy). You could ask them about their vacation policy to get an idea of how it works at the new company, and leave things unsaid if it looks like you won't be getting vacation for another year at the new company (presumably you'll be getting the vacation pay from your old job). 

Send them a registered letter (snail mail) demanding proper payment, with a reasonable deadline. The amount is about US$40 so you can only do so much, and it sounds like they are robbing Prajwal to pay Padam. Do not go there alone and confront them, if they manage to provoke you or if they lie that you acted belligerent you will have no recourse and they may have multiple witnesses who claim to have felt threatened.