This book is fairly geopolitically significant, because it describes a lot of the recent events in the world as driven by Russia and Russian disinformation campaigns. I'm looking for an English copy of this book in order to read it myself, but as of yet, I've been entirely unable to find a reliable one. There is one on Amazon, but it doesn't seem like it's particularly reliable, and doesn't even list a translator. The text is also extremely poor quality, and is broken in many places. Does a reliably translated copy of this text exist anywhere? 

Pinocchio's self-portrayal to the world is already dishonest, and his inability to claim ownership over the bad he does is shown to be the central problem. And the story has barely even started. Pinocchio is born dishonest, a liar in a literal sense. Thankfully, Collodi does a great job of pointing this out to us at every turn: 

The Odyssey began as oral tradition, and was later transcribed by someone we now call "Homer." Disregarding the Homeric Question concerning the identity of the person who transcribed these works, it recently occurred to me... Since The Odyssey began as oral tradition, it must naturally have evolved over time. Transcription of oral tradition is an imperfect process, and having been passed by memory and by oral education, small changes are bound to accrue. Additionally, any specific player/orator has control over their performance, and individual changes as an individual deemed necessary are also likely. It also seems plausible that multiple copies of at least parts of The Odyssey should exist: that "Homer" and Homer alone should feel the need to write them down seems counter-intuitive and inexplicable. It would be surprising to me to learn that only Homer bothered to write any portion of The Odyssey down. At a minimum, if multiple people had versions of The Odyssey in their memory that differed from Homer's, I'd expect to find an account of that somewhere. There are a great number of ways that changes and differences could have been recorded and retained; that none of them seem to be mentioned anywhere confuses me. Are there different copies of parts of The Odyssey, or is Homer's version the only known evidence of this oral tradition? If so, are there major differences between them, or are written versions largely consistent with the one presented by Homer? 

Before diving into the history of haiku, there's a precursor step. The Japanese language is broken up into symbols that are what we'd typically write in English as digraphs. Most sounds in Japanese consists of a consonant and a vowel combined. To illustrate this, have a haiku: 

I'm going to start with a minor framing correction, before I go on to actually answer your question. The Iliad and The Odyssey aren't texts written by Homer. They're actually oral traditions. It's even debatable whether anyone named "Homer" even existed at all, but if they did, certainly all they did was transcribe a purely verbal story that was passed down for generations. So, the major correction to your question is: The Iliad and The Odyssey are a part of Greek mythology. They didn't arise from Greek mythology (any more than mythology arises from itself), because in oral tradition mythology, story and history quickly blend together. Stories like these may have traced real events, but they were educational tools about good manners, how to treat guests, marks of cultural significance, and just generally how the gods affect peoples' lives. These stories get told and re-told; they accrue variations, adopt easily memorizable rhythms, and underwent significant changes as time went on. 

This all is a slight simplification, though. Japanese has digraphs, like きょ, which we write as trigraphs in English: kyo, as in Kyoto. But these still count as one phonetic unit (called "on" in Japanese), and that's what notation like "5-7-5" counts. (Haiku tends to be written with kanji, anyway, which changes the raw symbol count. But writing it like I did above serves to show clearly where the on are.) 

Simmons' prologue seems to take something of a different turn than the poem. It opens with the Consul receiving a message from Meina Gladstone. Unless we're supposed to view the Consul as connected to a deposed Saturn, and Meina as the sister/wife to Hyperion, I find this to be an unlikely comparison. While under some lines of thought Meina could be analogous to a Titan, the Consul is certainly not portrayed in the manner of a deposed god. I'd suggest that the prologue isn't intended to make a parallel to Keats' poem. The first chapter, however, follows exactly what's happening in that section. The Consul wakes up from cryogenic sleep. Het Masteen is there, and informs him that the other pilgrims are aboard the Yggdrasil. I'm not sure how that could possibly be a closer parallel. The first "chapter" of Simmons' novel does also appear to actually end "[focusing on Hyperion]," in a tone "apprehensive and suffering from premonitions of death and disaster." Recall that Hoyt's story ends with a discussion of continuous resurrection and crucifixion on a Tesla tree - something that is, in and of itself, foreshadowing. This suggests that maybe we're not supposed to consider the prologue in the story as part of the parallel to Keats' Hyperion. So at this point, I'd consider the question of "who is Saturn, and who are the Titans?" to be somewhat unanswered. But the possibility for a parallel in the generic is there. I also think it's more likely that no single specific person or group was intended to represent any specific person or figure in the poem, and that facets of the Pilgrims and facets of the people in the stories told are supposed to present comparative ideas only. 

I'm fairly confident that the parallels are present, intentional, and real. Some portions, however, are about as clear as mud. You'll have to decide for yourself what exactly these parallels are and what they mean. I imagine writing that out would take a Hyperion-length book, and the only true answer would be one by the author. Thinking about this at all starts with a structural consideration: Hyperion (Simmons) is written in the style of the Canterbury Tales, whereas Hyperion (Keats), although a fragment, seems to be written as a relatively linear tale, dotted with encomia and philosophical considerations. This difference alone might give reason to be skeptical of a total structural parallel. However, the structure of Simmons' story seems to permit some deeper connection. Simmons' Hyperion follows a pattern where there's a non-narrative sequence of events, and then it delves into a story. Hyperion the poem seems to go down a related path: each book starts with a section that sets the scene, and then people very often tell stories or discover history together. (Rather than write much of the Keats summary myself, I'm going to quote from this page about Keats' poem, all emphasis mine. I also feel the need to note at this point that it's been a couple years since I read either book or poem in significant detail, and I'd encourage you to draw your own conclusions.) 

Sure, I can take a crack at this. I took some time to familiarize with the terminology as I was reading this book. My caveat is that I'm not as knowledgeable on the topic as I really could be to answer this in total confidence, so take what I say with a grain of salt. I used a number of sources during the course of my own research, but it seems the book "X-kit Lit Series Fet: a Grain of Wheat" (ISBN 9781770254978) actually contains a relatively complete list of terms. I suggest using this as a starting point for any research. 

To me, all of these things seem like loose threads suggesting that some part of this book either was controversial, or was expected to be controversial - both to Muslim cultures and to Western ones. But nobody really seems to want to talk about why. Was there some sort of controversy surrounding this book, either in Muslim countries, "Western" countries, or both? If so, who took issue with it, and what, exactly, were the issues taken? Also, if I'm reading this correctly, why, then, do the translators go to such great lengths to highlight how controversial this book is, without explaining anything about what's controversial in it? 

I've noticed that the word "diegesis" is an important term when discussing literature and literary value. Where does it come from, and what does it mean? 

I'm looking to read A Grain of Wheat, by Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o. However, I'm very unfamiliar with the history and culture of Kenya, to the point where I know practically nothing about it. But I do know this: that the history of Kenya is long and complicated, and the culture of Kenya is, well, a culture. Absorbing it all before reading this book seems a little unnecessary, bordering on impossible. My question, then, is: what should I already know (or familiarize myself with) before going into this book? Do I need geopolitical context? What key elements of Kenyan culture and history should I read about before I pick up this book? 

Yeah, you've basically got it. They're syllabic stress indicators. Comics are pretty text-light for how information-dense they need to be. So, tricks like this are used to highlight tonal shifts where they might not otherwise be immediately obvious. There's even a TVTropes page about this. Especially when trying to convey emphasis, even in such a high quality print as the Sandman series, just italicizing words isn't going to cut it. When you're talking about a part of a word rather than the whole thing, this problem only gets worse. So partial bolding is used instead to indicate stress. 

Bilbo picked up the ring, pocketed it, and forgot about it. He didn't really even spare a moment's thought to it. Quoting directly from the Hobbit: 

I have no idea which of these it is. The book as written is absolutely satire - the author denotes it as this; it's intended to remark on late Victorian-era societal structure. However, parentheticals sometimes include remarks and comparisons that we're intended to accept and gloss over, which has the effect of implying they're simply true without challenging them in any way (end of chapter 3):