I plan to completely strip and repaint the frame. However, I'm wondering what to do about the cable housing guides. I don't know if the original cable housing guides are worth saving (I'm not sure it's even possible to save them), but I don't have the tools or experience necessary to braze a new set onto the frame. I would like to avoid having a shop braze on a new set for me, unless it costs me less than, say, $50. (Aside: I don't even know if any of the bike shops in my area still do braze-ons.) Aesthetically and functionally, I think braze-ons are the best choice, but I'm open to other solutions. I have found some clip-on, clamp-on, and stick-on housing guides. I've dealt with the plastic clamp-on variety on another bike, and I found them to be absolutely worthless (they readily move around and rotate, so the cable never stays put). I've never tried clip-on or stick-on guides, but I'm wary of what could be a similar lack of permanence-- I don't want to have to repeatedly reposition my cables because the housing guides are wiggly. In summary, I see these possible ways to approach this (I would welcome any additional suggestions): 

Inside your rear wheel is what is called a free hub. It has a ratcheting mechanism that allows you to pedal backwards while conversely engaging when you pedal forward so to transfer pedal force to the wheel. I've been stuck on a trail more than once due to a free hub failing to engage. Unfortunately your free hub is generally not servicable. Depending on the quality of the wheel, it is sometimes cheaper to just buy a new wheel vs paying someone to re lace your existing one. Other than a broken chain, which would be obvious, I don't know of anything else that would cause your wheel not to move when you pedal forward. Cheers. 

If I read Google correctly, it isn't that a century necessarily means 100-years and a bike event borrowed from that. Instead, they are peers of one another. The Latin root, centum or centuria simply means 100. In a more generic sense, it can simply refer to any collection of 100 definition. Thus, a century in time is a collection of a common unit of time (year) and a century in biking is a collection commonly used units of distance (miles) or (km) for a metric century. The are both likely derived from the same Latin, not the later from the former. 

I don't have a kickstand on my "light" bike because I only ride it on roads (as opposed to trails) and I don't stop often, so it would be unnecessary. I don't have one on one other bike I own because it refuses to cooperate with a cheap kickstand I have laying around-- it's just my "beater" bike, so I never bothered to get a properly-fitted one. My third bike does have a kickstand, but I don't use it a whole lot for locking up. Usually if I'm using the kind of rack with vertical slots, as you described, the kickstand won't touch the ground anyway, so it's kind of pointless there. (If I swing the frame sideways a bit, the kickstand will touch the ground, but that blocks half the rack.) At other racks, I usually use the kickstand, but I don't think it's always necessary. I have on many an occasion done without the kickstand due to crowded racks, tight spots, etc., and never come back to a tipped bike. Whether the bike will stay upright depends on what kind of lock you use, how you use it, and what kind of rack(s) you have access to. If you only lock the frame, as moz mentioned, you might come back to find it tipped over, especially if you use a cable lock with a lot of slack. I would have to imagine a u-lock through the rear wheel and frame and around a solid object would be hard to tip over either accidentally by passerby or by forces of nature. A cable lock through both wheels and the frame will be reasonably tip-proof if there's not much slack left in the cable (which is already the point anyway if you use a cable lock). 

I've seen this issue in the past and the culprit was the axle (not the skewer) in the hub had snapped. Fortunately, the bike was still rideable to a certain extent, as the QR skewer was holding the two broken sections of axle in place. Note that even when the wheel was removed from the frame, it still wasn't immediately obvious that the axle had snapped, until the skewer was removed from the hub. However the whole wheel was replaced ASAP for safety reasons. Due to the age of the wheel (15-20 years), it was more economically viable to replace the wheel than to rebuild the old wheel with a new hub. 

I've just picked myself up a Specialized Allez Sport 2014 road bike from Evans Cycles (UK). I test rode the bike and I'm happy with the bike, but when I got home, and flipped the bike over to make a note of the serial number (for insurance) and I noticed that the derailleur cables cross over on the underside of the down tube. 

Generally I think people use "pannier" to refer to just one bag on a rack of the bike. It can be on either the rear or front rack. If there is a set of two or more bags, panniers is used to refer to the whole set, but again, one bag on its own is just a pannier, regardless of whether it's a part of a set. There are other types of bags (not hung on racks) that I have never heard anyone refer to as panniers. These include: 

The main advantage, in my view, is that you can more easily add/remove battery-powered lights. Why this may be desirable: 

I own a 1988 Schwinn Le Tour. It's beginning to show its age-- the original paint is chipped in many places and the frame is rusting underneath. The worst areas, by far, are around the rear brake cable housing guides on the top tube, which I believe are brazed on. 

The groupset on the bike is Shimano Sora, installed by the workshop at the Evans store, before I test rode it. Full specs can be found here: $URL$ The is the first road bike I've owned with a Shimano groupset < 105 and I wanted to know if this is the normal way to route derailleur cables with Sora shifters? I have owned a 105 groupset equipped bike in the past with externally routed cables and the cables weren't crossed over on that. My current race bike has internally routed cables, so I can't even check against that. The potential issue I'm concerned about with the cables crossed over is that through rubbing against each other, they will wear more than they would normally. I'm also worried that the cables will be more likely to rub against the downtube, but I could just be being paranoid... UPDATE: It looks like I'm not the only person to ask this question: $URL$ It would seem (from the above discussion, at least) that this is not uncommon for Specialised bikes to cross over. Still doesn't sit right with me though... 

I'm not sure if you intend to replace the axles themselves, but AFAIK, most nutted axles are not hollow, which means they can't accommodate QR skewers. If this is true in your case, you will need to replace the axles outright in order to use QR skewers. QR axles for modern hubs do come in a few "standard" sizes, but you will nevertheless want to measure the dimensions of your frame and hubs anyway, in case they are not standard. You mentioned your bike is second-hand, which indicates it might be older, in which case this is doubly so. There are three dimensions to check: 

Hub spacing - This is the distance from the inside of one dropout to the other. You can measure this by removing the wheels from the frame and sticking a ruler in the dropouts. To replace the axles, you will need to find QR axles and skewers to match your hub spacing. Otherwise, the QR may be too short or too long for the hub. With non-QR axles, an axle that is too long is not a problem (the nuts will still go on fine, and if you need to, you can cut the excess axle), but with a QR axle, you can't really trim the axle, because the QR skewer can't be trimmed. Typically, hub spacing on modern bikes is 100 mm (front) and between 120 and 130 mm (rear). Again, you should measure this yourself-- I'm just giving you an idea of what these numbers should be. Axle diameter - The QR axles you get should match the diameter of the existing axles so you can re-use the existing cups and locknuts (unless you were planning on replacing those, too). Common axle diameters are between 8 to 10 mm, or 5/16", or 3/8". Thread pitch - This is basically the angle of the threads on the axle. Like the diameter, this will need to match the existing axle if you want to re-use the cups. According to The Sheldon, thread pitch is measured in either threads per inch or millimeters per thread, with a 1 mm/thread pitch being equivalent to 25.4 TPI. Common thread pitches include 1 mm/thread, 26 TPI, and (rarely) 24 TPI. 

Think about what is going on with shifting from a derailleur point of view, all you have to ultimately do is get the guide pulley in the correct place and the derailed arm straight. You can do this with a $20 dr. Some of the best shifting bikes I have had are cheap ones. However, what you are paying for is durability and weight, and they are often inverses. Generally the most durable shifter is the entry level of the high end line. After that, you are paying for less weight. That tends to make for a less durable product. Now, a good cassette and chain will make a difference as you go up in quality. Spend your money there instead. 

I've got a relatively new (~ 3 months old) road bike and whilst I'm riding I can hear a clicking noise coming from the bike. It seems to be when I apply pressure to the left crank. The bike is a Specialized Allez 2016, shown here. Rotating the pedals on the cranks by hand, there doesn't appear to be any grinding from dust/grit ingress. Applying pressure to the pedals whilst the bike is stationary, there doesn't appear to any noises. There's no play in the crank arms when 'rocked' side to side. Rotating the cranks by hand whilst the bike is stationary, I can't hear the noise. I've removed by stem wiped and reinstalled along with the headset bolt, making sure not to over tighten the headset bolt. Bottle cages and frame pump bracket are secure on the bike, too. I'm running out of ideas other than it being a bearing issue with the bottom bracket or the bearings in the pedals, but after such a short period of time, I find it hard to believe that they could have gone already - I've only done coming up to 600 miles on the bike. I'm not sure how I can ascertain whether or not the noise if coming from the BB or pedals if I can't hear it when the pedals and/or cranks are rotated whilst stationary. Anyone any ideas what I might have missed or more importantly how to troubleshoot further? 

Last year I did my first double century, and have subsequently done a few centuries. Before that, I was primarily a short distance rider - perhaps I can provide some insight as to my Personal experience. First, and perhaps the most controversial, I didn't (and still don't) find it necessary to do a lot of long training rides in preparation. I find that if I stay in good shape and make my shorter rides count (i.e. push hard), I'll be just fine strength wise. I recommend at least one long ride before the event, just so you know what it feels like and are not surprised. Otherwise, I generally finish in the top 20% in centuries and rarely train distances greater than 30 miles (but my 30 miles are on hills pushing hard). The three things that I had to learn about distance riding were 1) moderating my pace and 2) keep fueled and 3) comfort matters. 1) Pace: If you are used to shorter rides, you know that you can get away with pushing hard. For a long ride, you should never push your legs to the point of feeling a burning sensation. In your training, practice climbing hills in an easier gear and spinning faster. Learn ways to push faster without necessarily pushing harder. 2) Fuel: You can get by with no or little food in a short ride, not so with a long one. Teach yourself to eat consistently while riding. Get yourself used to drinking something other than water (energy drink, chocolate milk, etc), and drink often. You want to be used to your favorite riding food before your long ride and have your stomach used to digesting food during a ride. I can't tell you how many riders fail due to an upset stomach when trying new foods for the first time during a ride. 3) Comfort: After a few hours in the saddle, especially on the second day, little things start to matter. Your hands hurt, your butt hurts, your back and shoulder hurts. Get good gloves, high quality padded shorts, and good bar tape - and break all these in before your ride. If you haven't already, get a professional bike fit - it will make a big difference on your knees. Do not underestimate how much mental drain the small aches and pains put on you. In reality, though, 200km in two days isn't really that far. Lots of people do more in a single day. Get out on your bike, ride hills, do sprints, and ride regularly and you should be just fine.