One way to make sense of these oracular statements is to seek different senses, and this means looking at these statements through normal logic predicated on the law of non-contradiction. Another way, is to take the doctrine of the unity of opposites seriously, as in: 

This doesn't mean that linguistics can be depsychologised; but that we ask what can we know about language if we are prohibited from utilising our knowledge of sociology and psychology; in this sense it has some commonality with Skinners Behaviouralism; and the object-orientation of Category Theory. Levi-strauss applied this platonic theory to Anthropology; to understanding the structures of myth without understanding what these myths signified to the clan or tribe. Thus its myths are signs, and made up of further signs. addendum One has to be deeply read in either linguistics or anthropology, I suspect, for the structural approach to begin to make sense; I can't speak for structuralism in the afore-mentioned subject, but certainly its true that structuralism in mathematics, which I do know something about, only begins to make sense when one has completed an undergraduate course - at least for a typical student - there are of course atypical ones, which tends to happen more with mathematics because of its subject matter than the humanities. 

Where omega is the completion of the foregoing. That this is so, is shown by the direct adoption of this axiom in both intuitionistic and constructive set theory where the notion of potential infinity is more strictly adhered to. Even in the standard ZFC there is a certain unease about the use of completed infinities, and this is often signalled by high-lighting the axiom of choice in text-books where this notion is most prominent; the axiom states I can make a completed infinity of choices, and not just a finite one; this was not felt to be as 'self-evident' as the other axioms. Actually, this axiom in an indirect way was the cause of one of Feynmans 'jokes' on his mathematical friends where he pointed out to them that one of their theorems they were getting excited about (the Banach-Tarski Paradox) couldn't be true, he traced it to their use of infinite divisibility, saying this was physically impossible; in fact, he was stricter, saying that you can make a large number of cuts but not an arbitrarily high one, never mind a completed infinity of cuts. Mathematically speaking, it's a form of ultra-finitism, as for example written about by the Russian mathematician Esenin-Volpin. 

What is Art? Art is that which trained artists do, apparently said in all seriousness by the art-critic Danto. Following this, and anecdotally, the physicist Isham when asked what is good mathematics, answered what good mathematicians do. Circular? True - but somehow coherent 

First, it's useful to point out an interpretation of QM that brings it closer to classical mechanics; and this is the Bohmian Model in which particles move in a random walk; this is directly comparable to the Lucretian view that particles move randomly in themselves and not due to impacts ie the clinamen. In Euclid one recalls that his definition of a point is 

The labour theory of value is not just Marxist; it's also classical - Adam Smith for example uses it. Fetishism of commodities, in a way, could only have occurred after the Industrial Revolution, this is when the concept of the commodity was understood; and it's concrete manufacture seen. This is still an ongoing situation; securitisation in the financial markets for example is broadly speaking a commodification of bundles securities. 

There's also Rubensteins Worlds without End an intellectual genealogy of the concept of the mutiverse. 

I recall reading somewhere that Om has a certain significance in Indian philosophy; is this due to it being the first vowel in the Sanskrit alphabet (which in Sanskrit is also the first letter, as all vowels are usually placed first)? Or is the significance part of a religious praxis? And does it also have anything to do with breath, or prana? (A parallel in Hebrew might be the sentence 'I am the alpha...' (in Revelations); but it may be a common enough parallel in languages that use or have the notion of an alphabet). 

Here, though the word 'is' is called a verb, it isn't fulfilling a verbal function, in the sense of describing change, it is describing state - hence its called a copula; in essence its function here is adjectival - and there is no object. We could alternatively have said: 

He invokes the unrequited passion of Gastara Stampa for the young Lord of Treviso, inverting the protagonists of the traditional Islamic tale of Majnun & Layla; this tale of romance is often invoked in Islamic mysticism for the unrequited desire to lose oneself in the Infinite. He asks have we remembered her - that is remembered her passion; but is this 'sufficient' remembrance when we do not remember her dying? He asks should you 'become like her' - in her living or in her dying. Rilke, asks "should not these ancient sufferings be finally fruitful for us"; ancient as they date from the discovery of the Infinite by the nomads of grassy steppes of the Eurasian landmass under the infinite sky; suffering and unfruitful as unrequited. He asks should we not turn away and 'free ourselves' from the love of the impossible, the unattainable beloved (the beloved being the symbol of Allah in sufi poetry) to that of the possible; not agape but eros; and being eros - fruitful. Thus to be thrown upon (as Heidegger later would put it) and 'endure' the world as arrow endures the bow; and by living authentically - that is in our flight, our trajectory of living - we become something more than what we were when we were 'trembling' in the knowledge of our impermenance ('staying is nowhere') Trembling of course is one half of the title of Kierkegaards philosophical book Fear and Trembling - his meditation on the Abrahams covenant. He is considered as the main precursor to European Existentialism. Is this sufficient evidence to claim, at least in this stanza, that Rilke invokes Existentialism as a solution to the problems of living (or loving)? 

Hence the pessimism; however he held that there were three main ways in which the individual intellect - the man or woman - broke free of this; one of which is: 

This is bound since x must be a cat that is in Europe. Now the first-order calculus introduces the quantifiers 'for all' & 'there exists', and for these to make any sense we also must have variables (there are none in the propositional calculus) and one can distinguish sentences in which all variables are bound to a quantifier and those that are not. Now, we can distinguish two further cases: 

In a non-theological context there are three philosophical terms that are closely related - Naturalism, Materialism & Physicalism; Naturalism is posited against a theological or mythological description of the world; in Western Europe that would be against the Abrahamic religions with the World as being the creation of God; and the soul being the essence of Man in the singular. Another possibility, first argued by the Milesian materialists is to argue that everything is matter - this is the broad position of Materialism - wherein one finds the Atomism of Democritus; for example they took souls as being real; but thought there was such a thing as soul atoms. This position is closely related to the physicalism; which posits that the world is best described and only described by physics; this being the root description of matter; one cannot posit a pure theory of matter; as forces are immaterial. Thus to deny consciousness is physical one can deny physicalism or materialism but still assert that it is a natural thing. 

If alienation is to mean anything, then it must prevent both from reaching their full nature; man as he is for himself, and man as he is in his second nature - society as spiritualised substance; both are conditioned by and are expressions of freedom; the freedom of the spirit made concrete. As the Communist state is the ideal state in which both of these ideals are attained as closely as possible, anything less is less free for the man in himself and in society; so both political communism & capitalism are both correct in calling each other a regime of the unfree - or collectivist; neccessity is imposed by others enmasse and not as a 'second nature'; they are perhaps less correct in not being self-critical - or perhaps this side, being more reflective, and less bruited about is simply less visible. 

I don't think without more specific context one can say which of the two is emergent. What is emergent may also be historically contingent too. Discreteness and continuity are implicated in each other. Take the real line, it is made of discrete points. Now of course we say that the real line has a topology, the topology just given is the discrete topology - but in fact this doesn't reproduce the geometric properties of the real line as we understand them - we require instead the interval topology. Of course the points of the line remain there as the set-theortic substrate; but in so-called pointless topology we can get rid of this substrate and consider only the topology (technically this theory is called the theory of locales). It may appear that we have gotten ridden of discreteness; but this loss is only apparent. We have gotten ridden of discreteness when considered as points; but not as discreteness when considered as the elements of the topology. What we have done, in this perspective, is to expand the notion of discreteness so that it is not synonymous with the notion of point. But when we consider the line in euclidean geometry (synthetic geometry) we see that it is not made of points, the line is a given. However where two lines cross we have a point marked on each line. This is the beginning of analytic or cartesian geometry. Here discreteness emerges out of the continuous. Or the analytic out of the synthetic. Rather than say one is prior to the other, and the other emerges out of it; its better to say that either can emerge from the other; and neither are prior.