Let's ask some related questions: What if, back circa 1900, one company invented the airplane, a fabulous new method of transportation that revolutionized world travel. Let's call this imaginary company, the "Wright Flyer Company". What would stop them from ruling the world? What if, in the early 20th century, one company invented television. What would stop them from taking over the world? What if, in the late 20th century, one company invented the cell phone. What would stop them from taking over the world? Or more brutally, what if one nation invented the crossbow, or gunpowder, or the tank, or the atom bomb. What would stop them from taking over the world? One could go on and on with these analogies. Okay, presumably an "eternal youth" formula would be more valuable than a television or a cell phone. But still, in real life, the problem is almost never, "What will stop an inventor from creating a monopoly and accumulating excessive amounts of wealth and power with his invention?" Most countries in the world go to considerable trouble to create patent offices and enforce patent law, to protect inventors, so that they get SOME reward for their work and creativity before a million other companies start manufacturing knock-off versions of their product. If a company really invented such a drug, they would surely find themselves tied up in patent fights with competitors for years. Someone would find a way to steal the formula. Other inventors would develop similar formulas. The secret would likely be out long before they could get FDA approval to sell the drug in the United States. 

My first thought is: The question is almost impossible to answer, because we have no idea what technology will exist. Suppose you asked someone in 1492 what the maximum range was at which naval ships in 1900 would engage. Even if he was imaginative enough to consider radical advances in technology, it would be awfully difficult to predict what would actually come about. That said, a few random thoughts: A guided missile should be useful at ranges comparable to the range of your star ships. If you have ships that can travel hundreds of light-years without refueling, then it seems likely you could make a guided missile that would do the same. Laser weapons (or phasers or whatever equivalents) would be limited by the dissipation of the beam. By definition lasers are highly focused, and presumably in the future they would be more focused still. But they must have SOME spread over distance, and eventually this will result in the beam having too little energy per square meter to be effective. Are there theoretical limits to how tightly focused a laser beam can be? At long enough distances, aiming a laser would be an issue. If it takes minutes (or hours) for the beam to reach the target, then a ship could just make random evasive maneuvers to render beam weapons worthless. I say random maneuvers because, if your laser beam travels as fast as any signals from a sensor, there would be no way to detect the laser beam before it hit. In 21st century combat, a missile travels a whole lot slower than light or radar waves, so you can bounce a signal off a missile and detect that it's coming. But how would you do that with a laser? Even if you could bounce some sort of signal off a laser beam, that signal would have to be faster than the laser or you wouldn't get the signal that the laser was coming until the same instant it hit, which wouldn't help much. As to stealth ... the way modern stealth aircraft work is by, (a) reducing the amount of heat they give off, (b) being made of materials that absorb radar waves, and (c) having shapes that bounce radar waves off in directions other than back to the radar transmitter. I'd think similar things would work in space. Of course it all depends on how their sensors work. But if they're transmitting a beam that gets reflected back when it hits something, then presumably you could have technologies that absorb that beam or reflect it in a different direction. If they have passive sensors that detect heat or other emissions, you could have techniques that reduce those emissions to the point where they are below the sensitivity of the sensors. It's difficult to say how hard that would be to do without knowing how the sensors work, and what sort of equipment has to be aboard the space ships for them to operate. Additional thought Several folks on here have stressed the difficulty of hiding a spaceship's heat. But that all depends on how hot the spaceship is, how sensitive the other guy's sensors are, and how far apart you are. If someone put a nuclear reactor in orbit around the Sun at the same distance as Pluto, how difficult would that be to detect from Earth? I don't think there is any detection device that exists today that could sweep the sky and instantly find such an object. I suspect it would take a long and meticulous search. Even if there was no attempt to hide the reactor at all, the amount of energy from that reactor that would reach detectors on Earth from such a distance would be tiny. Ah, here's a way to think of it. Energy received is going to fall off with the square of the distance. So if the energy from your spaceship divided by the square of the distance is less than energy being received from stars divided by the square of the distance, then your ship would not stand out against the background noise of the stars. How much heat would a spaceship put out compared to a star? If it was, just to make up a number, 1/10,000 as much, then if the ship is more than 1/100 of the distance away as the star, the sensor would receive the same amount of energy from each. That wouldn't make it undetectable, I suppose: You could have a map of all the stars and any other known energy source and have a computer search for anomalies. But even a very hot spaceship would not stand out brightly. 

I suppose the answer depends on what assumptions you're making about the civilization's technology. Barring some radical new technology, like teleportation, it takes a great deal of energy to get something from the ground to space. So ground transportation would almost surely be more efficient than launching into orbit, circling the globe, and then dropping back down. Whatever economic system you suppose they have, energy will still cost something, because it takes natural resources, human time, etc. Perhaps the society is so rich that this cost is negligible. For some trips, the time required to go into orbit and come back down would be more than the time it takes to travel on the surface. Like, today we have airplanes, but people still routinely use cars. Why? Because travel by air is more expensive than travel by car. And for short trips -- like a few miles -- you can get there faster by car. If somehow this civilization has made space travel very cheap, and there are only a few isolated outposts of civilization, I could believe that it's cheaper and easier to travel between them by spacecraft than to have trains. For example if there are only two cities, and they are on opposite sides of the globe, the cost of going to orbit and coming back down might be less than the cost of maintaining a railroad that goes around the world but only has two stops. 

If it doesn't crash in a public place, if it's out in the desert or the jungle somewhere, the government of whatever country it's in might try to keep it secret so that they can take advantage of it. But this will fail, as other countries have seen it on radar and know something happened, and in any case governments are notoriously bad at keeping secrets for a long time. (Somehow the subject of UFO conspiracy theories once came up at work, and one of my co-workers said, "If I believed that the government was capable of keeping a secret like this for 50 years, with all the people who would have to be involved, it would make me proud to be an American.") We'd have to wonder what the civilization that built this ship is doing. Are they sending a rescue party? I've seen lots of movies where aliens land and people promptly take them prisoner, maybe even kill them so they can dissect the bodies. This would be incredibly stupid. You KNOW that these aliens have technology well beyond our own -- they can travel between stars. Who knows what weapons they have. Would you really want to make enemies of them? Not to say that people don't do stupid things, but, etc. I'd be very careful about doing anything to the corpses or the crash sight until I know whether these aliens have friends coming after them, and what they consider acceptable treatment of their property and especially of their dead. Maybe they, like us, have religious or cultural rules about the treatment of dead bodies. Maybe they want to salvage the ship and would be mad if we took it apart. Maybe they don't want primitive societies like ours stealing their technology. Etc. If I was in charge, my recommendation would be to quarantine the site until the aliens' friends arrive. Assuming we don't care about any of that or the aliens indicate they don't care about the wreckage, people could study the wreckage and maybe learn advanced technology. It's hard to say what you could figure out. If they're too far ahead of us, it may be incomprehensible. If you dropped a modern computer on a society with 1960s technology, smart people would study it and probably figure it out. Drop a modern computer on a society with 1860s or 1760s technology, and, well, I think it's an interesting question how much they'd figure out. There'd be people saying how this totally changes our view of the universe and how society will never be the same and so on. But unless it leads to interstellar travel -- we figure it out from studying the wreckage or the aliens' friends come and give us access to their ships or technology -- then I think in the long run most people wouldn't much care. It would be big news for a few months, until it was overtaken by the latest celebrity sex scandal or whatever. It wouldn't change most people's daily lives. Compare it to the Moon landings. I remember at the time lots of people said how the fact that men had walked on the Moon changed our view of the universe, etc. But in practice, how does this change your life? How often do you even think about it? And anyone reading this is likely someone interested in such subjects. To most people, "Wow, there is alien life! How interesting! And did you see that football game last night?! ..." Atheists would say that this proves all religions to be false. (I say that confidently because I've often heard atheists say that when we meet aliens, this will disprove religion, though the reason why has never clear to me.) Some religious people would have to adjust their beliefs and theories, While some people say that they doubt the existence of aliens on religious grounds, no major religion holds non-existence of aliens as a doctrinal point, so it's unlikely to shake anyone's faith seriously.