I can access $URL$ and $URL$ fine from the server. Monit lists Monitoring mode for Apache as active. Server is running CentOS 5.4. PID file is correct for parent httpd server: 

I created a script to do this using PowerShell. Comments appreciated, and if anyone has a better way, I'd really like to know. 

All the settings currently available to you via Group Policy are listed on the Chromium site. You can block all extensions, then allow certain ones via a whitelist, but I don't see anything in there that does specifically what you want. In terms of blocking access to extensions, they will have access to whatever the user running Chrome has access to. Since the extension can access the content after it has been downloaded by the browser, there is no way the server can control this access. So your choices seem to be maintaining an approved list of extensions you aren't worried about, or making a custom version of Chrome (Chromium is Open Source) to distribute to users that includes the functionality you are looking for. Reading the Chrome Extensions Developer Guide section on Content Scripts, particularly the sections on Execution Environment, Communication with the Embedding Page and Security Considerations, will give you a better understanding of how Chrome Extensions work, and may suggest where you have opportunities either working with Chromium, or customising extensions. Or set up some sophisticated deep packet inspection firewall that can identify content you don't want to leak, which would have the additional benefit of covering all applications - but be rather expensive :-) 

The simplest solution would probably be to buy another Cisco ASA 5505 for the remote office you are connecting from, and do a Site to Site (or EasyVPN) connection for the whole office LAN. Will be a lot easier to support, and more effective use of your bandwidth. 

You can set up a quick and functional network condition simulator by installing m0n0wall on a computer with two network cards. This computer then acts as a router. m0n0wall has a traffic shaping feature which allows you to limit bandwidth in both directions, add latency and drop packets for any computer on the inside of the m0n0wall's network - this is enough for basic simulation of different network conditions, and it will not cost a great deal. 

By default, when trying to send an email, Ubuntu will look up the MX record for the address domain, and try and send directly to that. You have two options: 

You can dump the schema of an existing database using with the option and then use this to create new databases using a simple script that creates each database and then populates it from the output of mysqldump. 

You can't transfer the files within the VMDK to the datastore directly, or to your hard drive. You may be able to mount a copy of the VMDK file in Windows to access the files using the VMware Disk Mount Utility. 

Make sure to cover google searches to find the commands they need to achieve specific tasks, and then so they have a hope of figuring out how to use the commands. 

It can be quite hard to tell because a lot of models marketed as a switch will have routing functions included, and you could also have cases where routers are being used like switches - i.e. they aren't routing traffic. So even if you can figure out the capability of a device, you really want to know its function in your network. You might have a lot of devices, but you probably don't have that many different models, so manually parsing the output of may be enough to figure out what your devices can do. Unless you are just trying to populate an asset database, you are going to have to look at the configurations and figure out what each device is actually configured to do. 

Are you trying to do some kind of hot copy, or are you shutting down the VMs before taking the image? I think the converter may work best on machines that are shutdown, so it isn't having to snapshot memroy etc. Also, check any snapshots you might have of those VMs. That may make the process more complex. It is possible that converting to VMWare Server is working as it isn't trying to convert any ESXi specific features. 

If you have your smtp server configured correctly, and you see a message saying the message was queued after typing the above, then you should see a file appear in the folder you are watching. If Sharepoint is configured to check this folder correctly, after a few minutes you should see the message disappear from the folder and appear in the Document Library. The only time I have seen messages disappear from the drop folder, and not appear in the Doc Library, it has been when sending messages with nothing in the body. Sharepoint seems to discard these, even if there is an attachment. I also had issues where Sharepoint was creating contacts in AD with the wrong email address - check these are created as you would expect otherwise Exchange may discard mail coming in from outside. 

Another useful troubleshooting step is to connect a console cable to the ASA, get a console session up, and watch the output when booting - the ASA will report errors during the boot process, but you won't see them if you ssh in. Many errors will result in an ASA that functions, just not as expected. You could also view the logs, but I prefer the above, as it shows you the errors that occur during boot, as they occur. 

If you don't want to receive any emails, then you don't necessarily need postfix. You can just run a mail client configured to use a specified smtp server - for example you can configure the mail command using a .mailrc file. However, if for some reason you really do need to install Postfix or any other MTA, the easiest way to prevent it receiving mail is to just block incoming traffic on port 25 in iptables: 

If I am running an IPSEC tunnel over an ADSL connection with bandwidth limits 2mbps down and 1mbps up is the bandwidth over the tunnel limited to 1mbps in both directions or is it also asynchronous? Update: The answers so far haven't helped, so maybe I should give some more info of why I am asking the question. Currently all of our resources are located at our data center, and clients in remote offices access these resources via IPSEC - each office has an ASA 5505 that has a VPN link to an ASA 5510 at the data centre. We use split tunnelling so that traffic not destined for the data center does not have to go over the IPSEC tunnel. Many of our offices are on asynchronous connections (ADSL and VSAT for example) where the upload bandwidth is typically half the download bandwidth. We are currently looking at the option of moving our file storage to a cloud provider, in which case the clients would access the files via HTTPS, rather than over the VPN. One of the possible cases supporting the change would be a performance benefit. It has been suggested to me that users in asynchronously connected offices may potentially see a doubling of download speeds because traffic down an IPSEC tunnel in either direction is limited by the slowest direction. Is this true? 

Check the gateway address on your host machine - is it what you expect? Check that you don't have wireless switched on in case you are unwittingly connecting to the internet through someone else's connection. 

I'm looking to do this too. See Cisco Forums for a discussion how how someone else got this working (I'm guess you saw this too). Editing the DefaultRAGroup seems a bit nasty. There is some discussion that AnyConnect will work in future because of a Cisco Android project (Cius), but the licensing costs for AnyConnect are a bit high compared to IPSEC. I'm holding out for a IPSEC/L2TP or pure IPSEC solution. 

I have a number of remote sites connecting back to head office via Cisco ASA 5505s and Cisco PIX 506es. At head office we have an old Cisco 3000 VPN Concentrator, and a new Cisco ASA 5510. The remote sites use Easy VPN to connect (so they show up as Remote Access sessions, not Lan2Lan). I am in the process of migrating the remote devices to connect to the new 5510. I can have multiple VPN Servers in the config for failover, so I am adding the VPN Concentrator there. However, at the head office end, we currently have static routes set up to direct traffic for our remote subnets to either the 5510 or VPN Concentrator. This means that in a failover situation, manual intervention would be required to update the routes at head office. We have Dell PowerConnect 6248s as core switches at head office - all the routing is configured on there at present. I'd like to get some kind of failover routing in place so if I take the ASA 5510 down for any reason, the connections still work. The endpoints can handle this failover, but the routing is currently all static. How can I achieve this? 

I'd stick with whatever the current memory is. Don't mix and match. ECC registered means it is buffered. I think you might find the Crucial memory is the same spec. Of course, depending on what the servers are actually doing, you might not want to compromise on the quality of the components, which might turn out to be the cost differential here, rather than features. 

I am building a new vSphere cluster from scratch. I have installed ESXi on the first host, and built a vCenter server on a VM residing on that host (storage is on the local hard drive, although we have iSCSI targets which I can reach from the host). The cluster is configured for HA. When I try and add the host to the cluster, I get an error at the point where HA is configured - Cannot complete the . I have stripped the network configuration of the host down to the most basic - a single NIC attached to a single vSwitch - this is running the VMKernel Port on VLAN 8 - that is our Management VLAN. The vCenter server will have a network address on this VLAN, so I also set the initial Virtual Machine Port Group to this VLAN, and connected the vCenter server NIC to this port group. I understand I can't connect the vCenter server to the VMkernel port group, but shouldn't I be able to connect the vCenter server to a Port Group in the same VLAN? If not, do I need to create a VLAN specifically for VMKernel Port Group? I plan to set up another port group for vMotion with a dedicated and isolated VLAN (i.e. VLAN isn't routed) so this wouldn't allow vCenter to communicate. Does anyone have any suggestions, or other ideas for what might be causing the problem. I've read through the documentation, but it isn't giving me any pointers, and the error message isn't helping me beyond telling me something is wrong with my network config. 

You are on the right track. I've used the method detailed on the page you link to, and detailed exactly how on my blog. It works for me using PuTTY from a windows box, and also SSH from one CentOS server to another. If it isn't working for you, and you are sure you got the syntax correct, it could be down to your SSH client. 

I was contacted by a copyright troll after a site I had hosted used a copyrighted image. Annoyingly the site was no longer active, only visible through the holding URL I had set up during the initial development of the site some years before. Google was crawling that site allowing discovery by the troller, and then they got my contact details from WHOIS. They had no legal recourse but they harrassed me for months. I will never ever put my own details in any WHOIS record ever again. Lessons also learnt about holding URLs and disclaimers on 404 pages... I can't say what is the value for having a private registration, but there is definitely considerable value in not having your own personal contact information available via WHOIS. Also, everywhere I have ever worked, and personally, I have received through the mail dodgy "renewal" notices that obtained address details through WHOIS records for domains we own. It is definitely abused for both spam and snail junk mail. It would be pretty interesting to do some kind of audit using honey-trap addresses for both email and physical addresses in WHOIS. 

Better than that of course would be to drop traffic to all ports, then only accept the ones you need, leaving port 25 as one of the ones that is closed. 

This method allows you to keep ownership of the files, allow group members to edit, but you don't have to allow all users to be able to change all files. If you don't have access to your webserver to create groups, you probably don't have much choice but to give global write access to the specific files you want to update through the wordpress interface. That means setting the files to 777 permissions, which isn't great in a shared web hosting environment! It would be nice if web hosts set up a group with the webserver in, so you could assign group ownership of files that the webserver needs to edit. 

nslookup ip_address will do a reverse DNS lookup, but it will only return an entry if there is a PTR record available for the IP address. This will not necessarily return all the domain names that are linked to the IP address. 

You can edit the local hosts file to point specific names to 127.0.0.1 to prevent access. This works because (in most cases) the lookup will check the local hosts file before the DNS servers - and if a value is returned it won't look any further. However, verifying this using nslookup on Windows won't work, as nslookup queries the nameserver (hence the name). You can check using ping on the hostname - ping does a normal lookup. 

VMware (and other virtualisation technologies) share resources (memory, processor time, I/O of various kinds) between VMs according to various algorithms. It is posssible to overcommit resources, because not all VMs will be using all the processing, memory or I/O that they need all the time. VMware's resource management guide is probably the best place to read up on what is possible in ESXi. You can also manage the effect of the algorithms by weighting different VMs for different resources - e.g. you might give an application server VM a higher weighting for processor than a file server VM. However, the out of the box settings will handle most requirements very well. In some cases, doing some configuration here is enough to placate managers who don't quite get it, but of course be careful and read the docs for your version of VMware and understand what you are doing. If your manager doesn't need further placation, then just use the defaults. Note that overcommitment isn't necessarily always a good idea, particularly if you have virtualised on a single server. You should monitor your use of resources in your ESXi estate, and if necessary add additional hosts/resources if you are frequently consuming all of any one or more resources. 

When our Sharepoint was migrated from Sharepoint 2003 to Sharepoint 2007 (both fully paid versions), the consultants who carried it out extended each web app into two IIS sites/zones (e.g. the original Web App was $URL$ then $URL$ and $URL$ would be created for Sharepoint 2007 - each with its own IIS site). The idea was that during the migration period we would set up DNS to point the old url to SP2003 servers and the new one to SP2007, then once the migration was complete, do a DNS change so the SP2007 would recieve the requests to the $URL$ type URLs. Unfortunately the contractors did not tidy up the application extensions and IIS sites after the migration, and for some time both URLs were in use, resulting in many document links pointing to the $URL$ type URLs. This means I need to maintain these URLs. Due to a rejig of organisation structure we now need to relocate some Sharepoint sites, and I'd like to use the RDA Collaboration Sharepoint URL Redirector feature. However a limitation of this is that it doesn't work for Web Applications which have been extended into multiple zones. So I have a need to tidy up the situation that our consultants left behind. I think the right thing to do is use the "Remove Sharepoint from IIS Web Site" page in Central Admin to remove the zone for the newintranet type sites, and select the option to also delete the IIS site. That should result in having no IIS sites listening for $URL$ type URLs. Is this the right procedure? Once I have done that I need to set up Sharepoint to receive requests sent to the $URL$ type URLs so they will continue to work. I am not sure if I should do this: