Furthermore, if the 7% number was correct, a $20,000 car after 6 years (a standard financing period for cars in the US would leave the car at 

There are a whole bunch of other claims listed on that page but I'm interested in the claim at the top of the page in particular. Did a Paul Ryan aligned SuperPAC help elect Democrat Conor Lamb? And if so, is there a reason besides what is proposed in the linked article? Edit: DJClayworth raised a valid point that SuperPACs, by definition, cannot be controlled by politicians. However, while SuperPACs aren't controlled, they are often linked to a specific politician. In the Congressional Leadership Fund's case they are considered to be linked to Paul Ryan. 

Links on pinterest are unsourced and are commonly found alongside other image macros about conspiracy theories; most prominent are the Free Energy Suppression Conspiracy Theories From your third source on Quora, involving a question entitled "Do you agree with Einstein that Tesla was the smartest human being on the planet?", the top answer 

The IRS supposedly was communicating with Mr. Hess via mail. However, despite paper records of this correspondence, there seems to be no proof offered besides the word of Mr. Hess. The IRS never told Mr. Hess that he "no longer would be permitted to possess money" With the attached IRS form above, the IRS is not permitted to put a lien on 100% of a person's income, and written correspondence would be proof of this threat. There is no discussion detailed in the book where Mr. Hess tells the IRS "without money he could not buy food and would soon die". The whole incident was started because Mr. Hess decided he did not want to pay taxes anymore after being audited. Mr. Hess, in the book, believed that he was audited in retaliation for "his service to a losing presidential candidate." Note that Mr. Hess was not an advisor, or a close aide, but a speechwriter for Barry Goldwater. Also note that the audit rate around that time, according to this article, was 5.6% of all Americans. There is no indication that, even if all of the above were true, that the IRS actually garnished 100% of his wages. 

The one lawsuit I could find was from 2004, Roy E. DISNEY, Plaintiff, v. The WALT DISNEY COMPANY, Defendant. 

Again, no evidence that anyone was killed in the attack. Even the most critical of sources provided at the top (CBN) only claims that 

The general consensus was the Olympic class ships were "practically" unsinkable, or "virtually" unsinkable, or various other qualifiers that most members of the travelling public tended to ignore. In the worst case it was believed these ships would take days to sink, plenty of time for a safe evacuation. For example, according to Walter Lord's first Titanic book, A Night To Remember, A 1911 edition of the magazine Shipbuilder stated that: 

Given that the British Board of Trade regulations (which had last been revised in 1906 when the 20,000 ton Adriatic was fitting out) made it legal for steamers over 10,000 Tons to vastly under-provision lifeboat places, it would seem that few people in 1912 seriously believed that any modern ship would sink before other ships reached her. If a ship did sink the expectation was that it would take days to happen, and other ships would arrive and loan their lifeboats to the stricken vessel to make up the shortfall in boat capacity. Indeed, this is exactly what happened when the 15,000 ton RMS Republic sank. That ship took over a day to sink and aside from those killed in the initial collision, everybody got off safely and were transferred to rescue ships long before that happened. 

(In his second Titanic book, The Night Lives On, he attributes the above quotation to The Irish News and The Belfast Morning News article, TITANIC DESCRIBED, but also states that the Shipbuilder's article has words to the same effect) But at the time people thought most modern ships were practically unsinkable so it wasn't really outstanding for Titanic to share that label too. Also mentioned in A Night To Remember, Captain Smith granted an interview to an unnamed New York newspaper after completing the maiden voyage of the RMS Adriatic (the last of the "Big Four" that were the predecessors of the Olympic class) in 1907: 

Like Titanic, Republic was a White Star ship, and had been built by Harland and Wolff. While considerably smaller, she would have employed similar construction techniques and general layout of safety features of her larger successor. And like her successor, she was also considered "practically unsinkable". On a personal note, I can't help feeling sometimes that you almost have to admire the innocent optimistic arrogance of the Edwardians. It's charmingly quaint. UPDATE: I now have a primary source for the claim that the Titanic was expected to remain buoyant for a long time after an accident so I'm updating my answer to include it. Ruth Blanchard's mother was apparently nervous about sailing on the Titanic, due to it being a new, untested ship. The purser reassured her that should the ship be damaged, her watertight compartments were certain to keep her afloat until help arrived. This is an interesting remark because it supports the "unsinkable with caveats" view that appeared to be common at the time. 

The article links to this datasheet provided by the IRS which details "an individual's income that is exempt from a notice of levy used to collect delinquent tax" for 2017. Note that these protections have been in place since at least 1977. 

Note that, even with these numbers, it is still a significant concern of the international community. Quoted from Wikipedia 

A cursory reading of the CDC report on uranium says, simply, the toxicity will kill you before the radiation does. So any possible consumption of uranium on the part of Mr. Winsor must have natually been low enough that he did not poison himself chemically, as evidenced by the fact that he was still alive to record the video. 

The main problem with statistics like these is that there is no one definition of "mass shooting" and thus, by adjusting your parameters, can make the number be whatever you want to fit a narrative. 

They then cite the collapse of the Soviet Union as proof that the population will collapse to the levels they predict, but contain the important caveat that 

Personal Exemptions Under current tax law, filers are allowed to deduct $4,050 for themselves, their spouse, and each of their dependents. Under both proposed laws, this would be eliminated from the tax code. Donald Trump previously would have been able to claim this exemption for himself, his wife Melania, and his youngest son Barron. This repeal will slightly increase the tax burden for President Trump. 

While the numbers provided by the sources seem to be strictly correct, they are lacking a significant amount of context. Once this context is injected into the discussion, the manufacture of Wind Turbines does not create as much radiation as Nuclear waste. 

Pass-Through Business Tax A Pass-Through Business is a business structure where, instead of paying corporate tax rates, the profits of the business are passed through to the owners of the business, who then pay tax on these profits. The House plan proposes to lower this rate from 39.6% to 25%, while the Senate plan intends to allow filers to have an increase (23% from 17.4%) in the amount that is tax exempt. According to Donald Trump's own lawyers, most of his 500 companies he holds are sole proprietorships, and are pass-through companies. The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities described this tax break as the "Trump Loophole". 

Yes, he literally said those words, although the quote is severely edited and is taken out of context. The quote comes from Strategic Air Warfare: An Interview with Generals (1988). The full quote is provided here, but in the link, it is on page 100 in the PDF File (bold are parts of the full statement that were lifted for the quote).